port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ opposition leader louis dejoie was summoned to court next week for a hearing apparently related to his arrest on charges of inciting the public to revolt, a dejoie aide said friday
aide philippe stevenson said dejoie's lawyer had mistakenly informed him that the hearing was friday
stevenson said that dejoie went to the palace of justice friday morning, but was informed by court officials that his hearing was not until thursday
i think it will be just to close his case since he was officially in provisional liberty,'' stevenson said
neither dejoie's lawyer, georges leger, nor dejoie could be reached at their homes for comment
dejoie was arrested jan. 20 when he returned from a monthlong trip to the united states, canada and the west indies. during the trip he called for an economic boycott of haiti to protest the aborted nov. 29 election and government-run elections jan. 17
dejoie was charged with inciting the public to riot and held for two days before his release
the nov. 27 elections, which were run by an independent electoral council, were canceled after thugs killed 34 people and wounded 76. witnesses said the army did not stop the violence and in some cases participated in it
president leslie manigat won a jan. 17 election that was boycotted by the major candidates from the nov. 27 balloting. turnout was low and there was no secret ballot
six cuban prisoners became unruly during a cell transfer friday, and three officers and an inmate suffered minor injuries in the fracas, authorities said
the six began ``ranting and raving and throwing things,'' said sheriff aubrey cole. he said the inmates were not trying to escape
the prisoners, who are being housed by the county for the immigration and naturalization service, were being taken to separate cells when they jumped some jailers and officers, cole said
when they opened the cell and moved them out into the hallway they began to fight the officers,'' cole said
dispatcher david weaver, deputy jack myers, and jailer eddie johnson suffered minor injuries, cole said. an inmate also was bruised. no medical treatment was needed, cole said
all six prisoners will be charged with assault on peace officers and will be returned to the custody of the ins, cole said
cole said the sheriff's department called the jasper police department for help
a subsequent search of the prisoners' cell uncovered two homemade weapons that had been fashioned from metal electrical switch plates taken from the walls, sharpened and wrapped at one end with cloth, cole said
five cuban nationals escaped from the jail in october. all five were later apprehended
stage director yuri lyubimov, who has been called the soviet union's greatest theatrical figure, says he misses his homeland but welcomes the changes going on there since he was exiled four years ago
i miss my theater, my friends and my relatives, but if i want snow i can always go to canada or chicago or call on solzhenitsyn in vermont,'' he said in an interview at the royal opera house, covent garden
i also miss the unique soviet audiences who hunger for something spiritual,'' said lyubimov, among the world's outstanding directors
lyubimov, a youthful 70, this year became a citizen of israel. he lives in jerusalem with his hungarian wife, katalin, and son, peter. another son, nikita, is in moscow
lyubimov talked to the associated press on wednesday night at the stage door after an applauded revival of his production of ``jenufa'' by czech composer leos janacek
jenufa'' was first produced in 1904 and is a dark tale of peasant life, murder and penance
lyuibmov ran moscow's defiant taganka theater and was on a london visit to direct a play in march 1984 when he became came under criticism from then-leader konstantin chernenko
i was told i wouldn't be allowed to return home _ chernenko was half alive at the time and dead 12 months later,'' the director recalled, speaking through an interpreter
lyubimov said he's hopeful that soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policies of greater openness on selected subjects will last
a lot of things once forbidden are now being seen in the soviet union _ films, plays and books,'' he said. ``it would be a terrible tragedy if all this will be reversed, like it was once before when (nikita) khrushchev was deposed
but people coming from russia tell me they really believe the change is irreversible and i hope all people of good will in the west will help,'' he said
the director said his name, in oblivion after his exile, has been restored by public demand to the taganka theater's programs for revivals of his celebrated productions
lyubimov said the soviet and israeli political climates are ``very different and i'm trying to reconcile them.''
the royal opera disclosed it has lyubimov working on a new production of richard wagner's demanding four-opera ``ring'' cycle for opening in september
wagner, a german composer of genius, is anathema to many jews who regard him as an anti-semite. wagner's music has been shouted down at concerts in israel
wagner is also little performed in the soviet union,'' lyubimov said. ``i once wanted to to use the march from (wagner's) `twilight of the gods' in a festival music program, but it was forbidden.''
the ``ring'' is performed in a variety of costumes these days, from viking style to modern evening dress. lyubimov, when asked if his version will be traditional or modern, replied: ``i'm keeping that a secret, but i will try to use different kinds of symbolism and psychological concepts to bring wagner closer to the people.''
he said he was glad to be working on it with bernard haitink, the royal opera's recently appointed music director from holland
wagner's world is difficult to penetrate as he sought unity of all the forms, music and drama, and wrote a lot about it. the hard part about producing wagner is that what you see on the stage must not destroy what you hear,'' the director said
with a beretta pistol in her lap, tzip haetzni pulled her car out of this hilltop community and joined a convoy of jewish settlers on patrol under the stars
her husband, eliakim, an attorney, sat beside her, also armed
after nine weeks of unrest in the occupied territories and two serious attacks on jewish settlers, residents of kiryat arba, 20 miles south of jerusalem, have begun nightly patrols
we shall not be chased from this place,'' haetzni, 62, vowed as his wife steered the car past an arab refugee camp. ``we shall meet the danger. we will fight darkness by lighting up the night.''
but these tactics, while carried out by only a minority of the west bank's 65,000 jewish settlers, have triggered panic and sometimes fueled new violence
in the arab village of beit ummar this week, a report of approaching settlers sounded from a mosque loudspeaker. it was a false report, but hundreds of palestinians fearing a vigilante attack rushed to the village outskirts, armed with sticks and stones
israeli soldiers who knew nothing of the false report tried to force the arabs back. three villagers were killed in the clash, the army said
in other arab towns and refugee camps, palestinians patrol their neighborhoods through the night, looking for vigilantes
the arab inciters have begun shouting, `the settlers are coming! the settlers are coming!' to get everyone stirred up,'' said mrs. haetzni, 60
but the rumors are false,'' she said. ``we want to make our presence felt on the road. we want the arabs to know we are here. but most of us are happy to let the army do the fighting.''
nevertheless, kiryat arba residents say some of their men entered the nearby village o hebron one night and smashed windows of arab-owned cars. some settlers have also distributed leaflets in arab villages threatening retaliation against inciters of violence
still, the relationship between most israeli soldiers and settlers is better than ever
with more than 100 troops stationed round-the-clock along the road from kiryat arba to jerusalem and a spotlight sweeping continuously over a nearby refugee camp, many settlers feel the army is finally doing its job
before, it was like a toy army here, so we had to protect ourselves,'' haetzni said. ``we never would have reached this stage if the army had been stronger earlier. but at least they are acting now.''
in an effort to help cement their new relationship, the settlers' three-car convoy took coffee, cake and sunflower seeds to troops guarding the road overnight
the convoy stopped outside the nearby village of beit ummar, a closed military area, where two dozen soldiers stood outside a palestinian home while arab children peered from the window above
one soldier wore a checkered arab headdress wrapped around his face for warmth
pvt. rafi, who would give only his first name in keeping with military regulations, said the army has warmed to the presence of the settlers in the area
we don't mind if they patrol the roads,'' he said. ``we and they are the same people, even if we don't always see eye-to-eye politically.''
not all israelis agree. some say the settlers are a source of provocation, not protection. defense minister yitzhak rabin has called them ``a heavy burden.''
the appearance of armed settler patrols alongside israeli army forces creates the impression that the state of israel is encouraging jews in a war against the arabs,'' the daily haaretz wrote this week
the israeli army does not operate according to jewish tribal feelings, and the farther it distances itself (from the settlers) ... the better.''
but haetzni argues: ``those israelis who don't understand our presence here also don't understand the arab mentality.''
haetzni came to israel from germany at the age of 13. he built a lucrative law practice in tel aviv and then gave it up to move to kiryat arab 16 years ago
he recalls being beaten up as a boy in germany because he was jewish and says, ``it helped make me a better, more realistic zionist today.''
what israelis don't realize is the arabs do not want a state on this side of the green line,'' he said, referring to the pre-1967 border of israel. ``they want a state that extends all the way to the blue line,'' the mediterranean sea. germany</head>
a drab lutheran church in east berlin has become the headquarters of a grassroots movement aimed at forcing reform upon the country's aging and authoritarian communist leadership
but unlike dissident movements of the past, the lutheran movement has found itself looking more east than west for inspiration on how to change eastern europe's most industrialized country
we want to change the system from within. we need to get some glasnost here,'' a leading church member hans mayer said in reference to soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's policy of openness and reform
you can only get democracy when you fight for it,'' said mayer, who used an alias to protect himself from official reprisals
while the zion church is the headquarters and focal point for the reform movement, other lutheran churches in east berlin also have become rallying places for young adults seeking change
dissidents were thrust into international attention after an official rally led by east german leader erich honecker on jan. 17 to honor german communist party founders rosa luxemburg and karl liebknecht
members of the zion church tried to join the rally in a protest action against the nation's leadership
at least 100 dissidents were arrested, and more than 60 of them have since been expelled to west germany. the rest have also been released from east german jails
the zion church, which is located only about two blocks from the berlin wall, turned into a magnet of dissent last year when its outspoken followers, mostly between the ages of 20 to 35, began calling for more human rights and democracy in east germany
there are no official estimates on the number of active dissidents gathering in east berlin's 90 lutheran churches, but informed sources put the number at several thousand
another of the churches is the church of faith located near east germany's secret police headquarters
although the movement has been gaining strength since at least 1983, it was galvanized by two events in the soviet union _ gorbachev's rise to power in 1985 and the chernobyl nuclear fire in 1986
gorbachev's policies which call for some decentralization of economic and political life have been hailed by east german dissidents as the first good thing to come from the soviet union in decades
while an international disaster, the april, 1986 chernobyl fire has also had its political uses _ alllowing those concerned with ecological issues to rally around an issue
chernobyl was the biggest boost for the movement,'' said karl wegner, another church member who also used an alias to avoid police harassment
people interested in ecological questions started to go to meetings in church basements, because they soon found out the church reacted to their demand for a room,'' he said
incidents in east germany have further aided the movement
on oct. 17, a group of about 20 ``skinheads'' _ disenchanted rightist youths _ raided a rock concert in the zion church and beat up concert-goers with bicycle chains and clubs
some sources say east german authorities fomented the attack, while east germany claims provocateurs from west berlin were involved
after the battle of zion things really got hot here,'' said mayer, speeking in the sleet near the 115-year-old church
but things could get hotter
party leader honecker indicated friday that east germany won't copy reforms being implemented in the soviet union
of course we follow developments in the soviet union and the other socialist countries very closely,'' honecker said in a speech to party officials carried on the state-run news agency adn. ``but that does not necessarily mean we intend to copy them.''
such a lack of tolerance could mean more crackdowns
mayer says millions of east germans watching west german televiion have followed the progress of the dissident movement. that's led to an inundation of queries from people who simply want to leave and are looking for advice
but mayer said his group does not want to become too involved with those people. his concern is with those who have to stay
at the zion church, the movement's resources are meager: a 10-foot-by-14-foot room in a parish building and a basement ``ecology library.''
about 1,000 books line the shelves of the small windowless library. next to joseph stalin's ``thoughts on leninism'' is a copy of the officially banned west berlin newspaper ``tageszeitung.''
east germany police raided the library in november, confiscating duplicating machines and publications critical of government policies
that raid resulted in 21 arrests, and dissident groups staged peaceful demonstrations several days running at zion and other east berlin churches until their comrades were released from prison
upon leaving the building, wegner pointed down the street at two dour-looking police officers
never mind them,'' he says. ``they're always here.''
the charge of manslaughter is the latest weapon in the fight against heroin in this city of fishermen and artists where heroin overdose is the leading cause of death among young adults
there have been 10 overdose deaths in less than 18 months in gloucester, population 25,000
last week, louis catalina, 36, a fisherman, became the first person in the history of massachusetts to be indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter in connection with a drug overdose
he is accused of supplying a fatal dose of heroin to grace randazza, 31, the mother of three
police later arrested frank auditore, 41, a stevedore, and charged him with manslaughter in the death of his sister-in-law, anne swanson, 33, a former medical secretary and mother of one
district attorney kevin burke said both women died after injecting heroin of exceptional purity. to convict on a charge of manslaughter, a jury must find the defendant provided the drugs that caused the death and did so wantonly and recklessly, he said
manslaughter charges carry penalties of up to 20 years in prison
gloucester is an extraordinary place, having perhaps the highest per capita number of heroin addicts in the state,'' said burke
it makes gloucester an appropriate place to deliver the message that when there's an overdose, the supplier just can't walk away.''
auditore said he has been trying to kick his own drug habit in a methadone program. he pleaded innocent and was released on bail but said he has been evicted from his apartment and shunned by some acquaintances since being charged with manslaughter
i'm very sorry it happened to her, but it was just a matter of time. she was strung out,'' he said of the death of ms. swanson
they're trying to scare people so they won't deal,'' he told the boston globe. ``they want people to think, `hey, someone might die. i better not sell this heroin or i might be up for manslaughter
but it won't work. heroin's got people hooked so bad here, it's never gonna let go. it's like aids, which doesn't scare anyone either.''
there is no known cure for aids, which can be spread by sharing contaminated hypodermic needles
authorities say they aren't sure why heroin has made such inroads in gloucester
auditore's brother, vincent, 37, runs a drop-in center for recovering addicts and said he was one of a small group of young men who made the first local heroin connection in 1968
there aren't many still alive who know how it started, with a couple of guys from boston who came down here in a big lincoln continental,'' he said
there were about 20 of us. after that, it just mushroomed. now, you stand anywhere long enough in this city, someone's going to ask if you're looking to buy.''
police chief earland worthley said overdose deaths began in 1968. police detectives made 87 heroin arrests last year, 300 percent more than in 1986, and they seized 1,020 bags of heroin, 400 percent more than in 1986
estimates of the number of addicts in the city range as high as 250, and the annual heroin trade reportedly is at least twice the $2.6 million budget of the police department
a police officer investigating a report of a stolen sled was shot to death friday in a confrontation with the suspect, who was critically wounded in an exchange of gunfire, police said
lt. larry bauer declined to release the name of the officer because her relatives hadn't been notified. the name of the suspect, a 46-year-old lansing man, also was withheld pending notification of his family
the officer was responding to a call in which a juvenile reportedly was assaulted and his sled taken by an adult,'' bauer said. he said the officer found a suspect and a confrontation ensued
after a standoff, the two exchanged gunfire and the officer was fatally wounded,'' bauer said. he said the suspect shot the officer in the head with a .22 caliber rifle
the suspect, wounded twice in the abdomen, managed to crawl into a nearby garage and barricaded himself for about 40 minutes before surrendering, he said
the suspect was taken to ingham medical center in serious condition and was to undergo surgery
bauer said it wasn't known whether the officer or the suspect fired first
the crew of a continental airlines jet aborted takeoff from washington dulles international airport friday after foreign objects entered the jet's engines and bent some of its turbine blades
no one was injured as continental flight 581, bound for denver with 139 passengers, started rolling down the runway and then slowed to a stop at about 7 a.m
bruce hicks, a spokesman for the airline, said passengers were transferred to other flights
airline officials at first suspected that ice may have been hurled by the wheels into the twin rear-mounted engines. but hicks said that inspections indicated that the problem may have been caused by something on the airfield
visual and hand inspection of the mcdonnell douglas aircraft found no ice on the wings or engines before the plane left the gate
hicks said further testing of the engine blades is planned to determine the cause of the incident
a radio station's gag came to a smashing halt when a truck driver crashed into the car of an on-air announcer who was describing a man undressing
wbzz-fm disc jockeys jim quinn and ``banana don'' jefferson called a phone booth in front of a restaurant and convinced a man to take off his pants and start waving them over his head
the truck driver, who was not identified, was watching the stunt when he sideswiped the car of wbzz-fm announcer tank sherman, who was narrating the activity
a policeman threatened to arrest the pantsless man for public lewdness, but was persuaded only to issue a warning, the station said. the driver was not charged and no injuries were reported
wbzz-fm manager tex meyer said the ``stupid human phone trick'' on thursday on the station's highly rated ``quinn and banana'' show wasn't in bad taste, ``but it was getting close.''
we're not going to do anything that would get anyone in real trouble,'' jefferson said
two u.s. warships are back to ``routine operations'' in the black sea after being deliberately bumped by soviet vessels in a confrontation off the crimean coast, the pentagon says
navy officials said the ships were struck while exercising their right to pass through international waters. the soviets said the u.s. ships violated its border
and the state department, which protested the bumping, said the incident showed once again that u.s.-soviet relations are a continuing blend of the good and the bad in what spokesman rudolph boone called a ``competitive relationship.''
he said that undersecretary of state michael armacost summoned soviet ambassador yuri dubinin to receive a strong u.s. protest and that defense secretary frank c. carlucci would raise the issue in a meeting with soviet officials in bern, switzerland, next month
the flare-up occurred friday when, according to the navy, the cruiser uss yorktown was deliberately struck by a frigate and the destroyer uss caron was deliberately struck by a smaller coastal patrol boat
the two american vessels were exercising their right of ``innocent passage'' within the 12-mile territorial waters claimed by the soviets, the navy said. the navy says its ``assertion of rights'' program calls for steaming periodically through contested waters to emphasize freedom of navigation on the high seas
the soviet union countered with a charge that the u.s. navy ships violated its border, ignored warnings ``and dangerously maneuvered in soviet territorial waters.''
navy capt. gerry flynn gave this account at a pentagon briefing:
the soviets had been shadowing the u.s. vessels since they entered the black sea earlier in the week and headed northward to the crimean coast
at about 11 a.m. local time friday _ or 3 a.m. est _ the soviets broadcast the following warning to the u.s. ships: ``soviet ships have orders to prevent violation of territorial waters. i am authorized to strike your ship with one of ours.'' the caron responded: ``i am engaged in innocent passage, consistent with international law.''
the two soviet ships then closed almost simultaneously on the american vessels, ``which were, as we would say in the navy, shouldered out of the way.''
when neither the caron nor yorktown changed course, a krivak-class frigate moved up on the yorktown and a mirka-class patrol vessel moved on the caron, ``grazing'' the left sides of the each
the yorktown and caron maintained their course and speed despite the bumping, eventually steaming farther from the soviet coast
flynn concluded by saying, ``the latest report i have now is that both ships are operating routinely in the black sea as planned.''
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims a 12-mile limit along its coast, said cmdr. richard schiff, a navy lawyer. the united states will accept such a claim, but any country claiming 12 miles ``must allow for innocent passage by the ships of all nations,'' he said
a high-ranking state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that although the department protested soviet behavior, he did not expect the incident to disturb a u.s.-soviet effort to narrow differences on arms control, human rights, regional disputes and bilateral issues
secretary of state george p. shultz is scheduled to go to moscow in two weeks to further those efforts and talk about a u.s.-soviet summit meeting tentatively scheduled in the soviet capital in the spring
retired rear adm. robert j. hanks, a former director of strategic plans and policy for the navy, said testing rights of passage was an important necessity for the united states, but is accompanied by risks such as those encountered friday
he said the two countries set up a commission to discuss such incidents, under what the navy calls the ``wrinkled fender'' agreement
efforts to assess the blame for the latest incident, he predicted ``will be a big rhetorical contest'' with the soviets
another former admiral, eugene carroll, who commanded ships in the black sea, said such incidents are inevitable, given the conflicting u.s. and soviet goals. he said of friday's action: ``it's really scary.''
investment in u.s. agriculture will probably decline at least through the early 1990s because of the massive tax reform act of 1986, according to a new study by the agriculture department
most of the investment decline can be laid to the law's repeal of the investment tax credit, which allowed up to 10 percent tax credit for qualifying capital improvements, the report said friday
most farm machinery, equipment, many farm structures and certain livestock operations qualified for the full 10 percent credit
the report, ``economic consequences of tax reform on agricultural investment,'' was prepared by roger conway, ron durst, james hrubovcak and michael leblanc of the department's economic research service
according to their study, there was a decline in net farm investment of $2.9 billion in 1987, with repeal of the investment tax credit accounting for 98 percent of the reduction
the annual reductions are expected to increase gradually through 1991, when the net ``disinvestment'' in agriculture attributable to the 1986 law would be almost $3.5 billion
elimination of the investment tax credit increases the rental rate on farm machinery, including tractors and other ``long-lived equipment'' such as cultivators, grain harvesters, planters, plows and shredders, the report said
the rental rate of capital is not the most important determinant of investment, but it _ and therefore, by implication, tax policy _ does have a measurable effect on agricultural investment,'' the report said
according to other usda material about the 1986 tax law, farmers had been claiming more than $1 billion in investment tax credit annually. one of those background papers noted:
however, a large share of this ($1 billion a year) is claimed by individuals with taxable income in excess of $85,000 and marginal tax rates of 45 percent or above. farms with gross receipts between $50,000 and $500,000 (per year) are able to claim less than half of the investment tax credit avabilable to them due to no current tax liability.''
in its latest report, the agency said history ``suggests that changes in the tax code are not permanent'' and that, for example, the investment tax credit has been revised four times since 1964
although no reasonable measure of change in the (1986 law) can alter the current disinvestment of capital in agriculture, 1988 will probably bring forth strident efforts to reinstate the investment tax credit,'' the report said
the national association of wheat growers wants the agriculture department to ease back on acreage controls for the 1989 wheat crop
frank johannsen, association president, said friday that greater acreage should be permitted so the united states can keep filling a growing export demand. for the last two years, wheat farmers have been required to idle 27.5 percent of their base acreage in order to qualify for federal supports
the usda is to announce the 1989 wheat program by june 1. johannsen, a wheat farmer from bayard, neb., said the association asks the acreage reduction be held to no more than 20 percent
johannsen said u.s. wheat stockpiles are expected to drop by 30 percent this season, the largest annual decline in more than 20 years
a 1989 acreage reduction of less than 20 percent could be justified if usda maintains its current export subsidy programs, he said
since we don't know what will happen after the november elections, our market outlook is somewhat cloudy, thus making it more difficult to forecast export sales opportunities,'' johannsen said in a statement released here by the association
price supports for peanuts grown under 1988 quotas will be $615.27 per ton, an increase of $7.80 from last year, the agriculture department has decided
deputy secretary peter c. myers said friday the increase was required by a formula in the law which takes rising production costs into consideration
the annual quota is set at a level equal to the estimated quantity of peanuts that will be needed for domestic edible uses, seed and related purposes
production of non-quota peanuts, which can be grown for peanut oil and meal, and for export, will be supported at $149.75 per ton, unchanged from last year, myers said
in setting the support for non-quota peanuts, officials are reqired to consider certain factors, including the demand for oil and meal, the expected prices for other vegetable oils and meals, and the foreign demand for peanuts. remain</head>
a judge has ruled that suspected terrorist fawaz younis may be tried on charges he led the june 1985 hijacking of a royal jordanian airliner but not on charges of assaulting passengers and blowing up the jet
u.s. district judge barrington d. parker on friday dismissed three charges against younis, but refused to dismiss six conspiracy and hijacking counts of the indictment
each of the three charges parker dismissed carried potential 20-year sentences and fines of up to $100,000. the hijacking charges still pending against younis carry life sentences
parker ruled that the aircraft piracy act of 1984 provided no jurisdiction for u.s. authorities to prosecute younis for the bombing of the alia jetliner . the plane was blown up at beirut international airport after the passengers aboard the aircraft had been released
the judge ruled, however, that the justice department did have jurisdiction to prosecute younis on the six other charges of conspiracy and hijacking under the hostage taking act, also passed by congress in 1984 as part of a legislative package to combat terrorism. the hijacking happened june 11
that law gives u.s. authorities jurisdiction because three americans were aboard the flight when it was stormed in beirut by a group of armed men carrying assault rifles and submachine guns, parker said
there is no dispute that the only nexus to the united states was the presence of several american nationals on board the flight,'' parker said. ``the airplane was registered in jordan, flew the jordanian flag and never landed on american soil or flew over american airspace.''
the judge said the government didn't have jurisdiction to prosecute younis on charges of placing a destructive device aboard the plane, destroying the plane and assaulting the passengers because ``the alia flight had no connection whatsoever with united states territory
the judge refused to dismiss the six conspiracy and hijacking counts of the indictment and upheld the use of navy vessels that transported younis following his arrest aboard an fbi-chartered yacht last sept. 13 in the mediterranean
younis, who later told the fbi that lebanaon's justice minister nabih berri approved the hijacking, was lured aboard the yacht by the prospect of making a drug deal, authorities said
a legal victory in a custody fight over the bodies of two street people who froze to death will enable an advocacy group for the homeless to hold a public funeral and 24-hour protest vigil near city hall
the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the district of columbia on friday upheld a lower court, which reversed a city official who called the funeral plan an attempt by homeless advocate mitch snyder to create a public spectacle
the three-judge appeals panel upheld u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson, who earlier in the day ordered the district of columbia to release the bodies to the community for creative non-violence, which operates a shelter for the homeless. there was no immediate information on when the funeral would take place
our purpose in holding the funeral is not to point the finger at the d.c. government,'' snyder said. ``we are all responsible'' for the plight of the homeless
during the emergency hearing, attorney mark venuti said the organization for eight years has been claiming the bodies of all homeless people who die of exposure
d.c. attorney lutz prager said the group wanted to use the bodies ``for a public spectacle'' to embarrass the city government for not doing enough for homeless people
the district of columbia has an interest in not having a public display of dead bodies,'' prager said
at the earlier proceeding in u.s. district court, jackson told city attorneys he had ``a great deal of difficulty understanding how this differs from innumerable presidential funeral corteges that have proceeded up pennsylvania avenue since the beginning of the country.''
noting that the remains would be in closed caskets, jackson said he saw no legitimate governmental interest in preventing the homeless advocates from holding a dignified funeral in a public plaza across pennsylvania avenue from the district of columbia building
city officials said they had been unable to find next of kin for henry dixon, who died jan. 2 in a parking attendant's booth, and an undentified woman, who was found dead five days later in a construction site
so far, 10 homeless people have died on the streets of the nation's capital this winter
new jersey rep. christopher smith stamped his foot on the airport tarmac, trying to get back the circulation in his big toe. such is the glamor of the campaign trail
smith, along with more than a dozen other congressmen, became a potential frostbite victim en route to campaigning for rep. jack kemp, a colleague and fellow conservative republican who's running for president
arriving from washington aboard two cramped chartered planes, smith and his fellow travelers were unexpectedly warmed by the 30-degree air around this state capitol
thirty felt good compared with the interiors of the planes, neither of which had working heaters. for the two-hour flight, the congressmen kept their coats on and buried themselves under the day's new york times
they came here for a media ``hit,'' a show of solidarity for kemp on the statehouse steps. the idea was to give the campaign a high-profile booster shot less than a week before the state's critical, first-in-the-nation primary election
the idea, also, was to be pictured with kemp in front of the forest of television cameras that has sprouted up in the small town square
the busy congressmen, who logged a total of four hours up and back in the frigid skies, spent about 20 minutes campaigning. they waved flags and shouted ``jack is back'' as kemp predicted victory to what, at least last week, was likely the largest press corps in any 30,000-person town in the world
smith, who has worked nearly a year on kemp's behalf, saw his brief afternoon in new hampshire as time well spent
like other kemp backers, smith says he's encouraged by the momentum his candidate has shown here. once an ``also ran,'' the buffalo, n.y., congressman claims to be creeping into a position just behind gop front-runners vice president george bush and sen. bob dole of kansas
kemp claimed a boost in the iowa precinct cacuses on feb. 8, when republicans handed bush an unexpected and unsettling third place. dole ran first, followed by former tv evangelist pat robertson. kemp was fourth
it's a new day. it's a new race,'' he triumphantly told his audience, composed of friends and reporters _ and hardly anyone else
it's easier around here these days for would-be presidents to get the attention of a $150,000-a-year television reporter than to attract real, live local residents
but then, unlike on most main streets, presidential campaign offices here are more common than convenience stores. as kemp gave his speech outside the statehouse, dole was shaking hands inside. bush was expected later
watching kemp's congressmen _ a full 3 percent of the u.s. house of representatives _ disembark from buses, a truck driver sighed, ``here they come again.''
such political nonchalance reminded smith of his trip to iowa for kemp the weekend before. smith said he thought iowans would at least be startled when a congressman from new jersey knocked at their door
but he quickly found it's hard to impress anybody who's had pancakes with the vice president
government warehouses that once bulged with surplus cheese and other commodities are running out, forcing the agriculture department to cut off much of its aid to food banks and soup kitchens
rice and honey inventories will be gone next month, and cheese and non-fat dry milk will be depleted in may, said assistant secretary john w. bode, who oversees the department's food and consumer services
flour, cornmeal and butter distributions will continue as in recent months,'' he said friday. ``cheese, non-fat dry milk, rice and honey distributions will be suspended when we have given it all away. when we get more, we will distribute it.''
it comes as no surprise. for months, operators of local food banks and soup kitchens have reported reduced usda donations. and last november the department predicted that its donations under the temporary emergency food assistance program would likely be a trickle by spring
according to department estimates, up to 18 million people had been getting some free food each month through the program
the food was accumulated by the department's commodity credit corp. under various farm price support programs. in the case of dairy, for example, the ccc buys surplus butter, cheese and non-fat dry milk to prop up the price of milk paid to farmers
but many federal supports have been reduced, helping make some commodities more competitive on the market instead of winding up in government warehouses. overseas sales and donations also have helped drain off some of the surpluses. diversion of many ccc-owned foods into school lunch programs also has reduced the stockpiles
although variations in surplus stocks cause the size of the temporary emergency program to go up and down, our regular food assistance programs ... continue,'' bode said. ``low-income americans remain eligible for food stamps, free lunches and breakfasts, elderly food assistance, supplemental food programs for women, infants and children (wic), child care meals and summer child feeding.''
more than one of every seven americans receives food assistance at some point in the year at a taxpayer cost of more than $56 million a day, he said
since 1981, approximately five billion pounds of surplus food worth more than $5 billion have been distributed through tefap, bode said
the governing colorado party called for a huge turnout to re-elect president alfredo stroessner to an eighth straight term. opponents labeled the elections a farce and urged voters to boycott it
despite criticism from the opposition and the roman catholic church, stroessner was expected to win sunday's presidential elections easily
the president, who has announced no formal platform, won 90.1 percent of the vote in the last elections, in 1983
criticism of the 75-year-old army general also came from the u.s. state department, which said wednesday in its 1987 human rights report that ``paraguay has not had a democratic government since its independence in 1811.''
the report said stroessner dominates ``the military, the political forces, the government's bureaucracy and the ruling colorado party. the opposition's ability to conduct an effective campaign is severely restricted.''
stroessner, son of a bavarian immigrant father and paraguayan mother, has governed since 1954, longer than any other head of state in the western hemisphere
he faces nominal opposition from candidates of two small recognized parties. there are 1.44 million registered voters, out of a population of 3.7 million
the other candidates are rep. carlos ferreira ibarra, 54, of the liberal party, and sen. luis maria vega, 65, of the radical liberal party. both men, accused by other opposition groups of being government accomplices, admit publicly they cannot win
current conditions do not guarantee free elections,'' ferreira said
three opposition groups charged that at least 12 of their members were arrested thursday for taking part in political acts. police released most of them friday without explanation
police late friday left the asuncion home of domingo laino, president of the unrecognized authentic radical liberal party and paraguay's leading opposition spokesman. for two days they had prevented people from entering or leaving the home. laino's telephone line remained cut
the elections also include races for the 72 seats in the house of deputies and 36 seats in the senate. the party winning the largest percentage of votes gets two-thirds of the seats in congress. the rest are divided according to the percentage won by other parties
the colorado party is expected to win the majority of congressional seats. stroessner closed his campaign thursday night with a 40-minute nationally televised address to 151,000 supporters _ by party count _ in asuncion
wearing the party's traditional crimson kerchief around his neck, stroessner recounted his government's achievements in health, education and public welfare and promised to pay off paraguay's $2.3 billion foreign debt, one of latin america's smallest
interrupted a dozen times by chants and cheers in spanish and guarani, the indian language spoken by most paraguayans, stroessner vowed his government will not share power with ``minorities who call themselves defenders of human rights and embrace the evil and bloody servants of international communism.''
voter polls conducted late last month by the independent asuncion newspaper ultima hora indicate many voters do not even know the names of stroessner's opponents, who together spent less than $100,000 on their campaign
a third officially recognized party, the febrerista revolutionary party, has refused to take part in elections since 1973, saying the voting is rigged
the main opposition is from the national accord, a loose grouping of the febreristas and three parties not officially recognized: the authentic radical liberals, the colorado popular movement and the christian democrats
the national accord asked voters to boycott sunday's ballot. election rules require all citizens aged 18 to 60 to vote. the government said fines and other penalties for failure to vote will be enforced
other critics include members of the colorado party's ``traditional'' wing, ousted from party leadership by a militant pro-stroessner faction at the august party convention. the wing recommend voters cast blank ballots as a show of disapproval
the archbishop of asuncion, ismael rolon, recently told the country's overwhelmingly catholic population it was their duty to ``vote for the candidate of your choice and if none meets your expectations then you are free to cast a blank vote.''
blank votes are permitted by law, but in past elections have been included among the uncounted, with nullified or spoiled votes
the colorado party called friday for voters to prove their allegiance to stroessner with a massive turnout sunday
the elections will be observed by official and unofficial representatives invited by both the government and the opposition, including observers from the united states and the european parliament
planned payoffs to the government of israel and the israeli labor party were mentioned in a 1985 memo to attorney general edwin meese iii describing a proposed $1 billion iraqi pipeline project, according to a swiss businessman who was a partner in the plan
the businessman, bruce rappaport, said friday in an interview with abc news that the memo may have even referred to annual payments that were to be given to guarantee the safety of the pipeline from israeli attack
his statement was the first direct confirmation from any of those involved in the pipeline project about the contents of the memo
rappaport was a partner in the project with bechtel group inc., of san francisco. rappaport was brought in the project because of his 45-year relationship with then-israeli prime minister shimon peres. rappaport in turn brought in e. robert wallach, a longtime meese friend
the memo from wallach to meese states ``that there will be some money that will have to be paid to the government of israel and ... either also a certain portion to the labor party and i think he even referred to some amounts annually,'' rappaport told abc
rappaport said he did not intend to pay bribes. he called the payments standard business procedure and said they would come from profits from the pipeline or discounts on the oil
earlier friday, government sources said independent counsel james mckay won't publicly release the memo because it might harm his investigation of meese
but if the memo is declassifed, the attorney general and his lawyers would also have the option of deciding whether to make the document public. they have said they would first consult mckay on the matter
mckay's opposition to releasing the memo comes on the heels of a review by an interagency group formed at the behest of the white house
patrick korten, a justice department spokesman, said he understood the group had concluded there was no national security reason for keeping the document classified. an earlier recommendation by the state department had prompted mckay to classify the memo
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said, however, the panel was still reviewing hundreds of documents sought by mckay
mckay's office hasn't yet been told officially of the interagency group's conclusions in favor of declassification, said the sources, who spoke only on condition of anonymity
meese said last week he was unable to discuss the contents of the document because it was classified
but meese said that ``i do not believe that it fairly implies that a violation of law was committed or contemplated in connection with the pipeline.''
meese also says he doesn't recall reading the portion of the memo mentioning payments and his involvement in the project was ``entirely lawful, proper and responsible.''
wallach, meese's close friend and former lawyer, approached the attorney general about the pipeline in may 1985 and meese later helped arrange a meeting between wallach and then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane on the pipeline, which was never built
peres, now foreign minister, has denied that anything of value was offered or accepted by him or his labor party in connection with the pipeline
the proposed 540-mile pipeline was to run near israeli territory from iraq's kirkuk oil fields to the jordanian port of aqaba
fitzwater, talking to reporters accompanying president reagan to california on air force one, denied a report in friday's washington post that reagan would order the declassification. ``the president does not make this decision,'' he said
alfie flew the coop nearly a week ago and macaroni and cheese, chicken clucks and feline whines have failed to coax him back
the male mexican yellow-headed parrot remained among the missing friday following his escape during a family picnic in the park in this southern california city
he was sitting on top of the station wagon and he said, `bye, bye,' and flew up to one of the pine trees, about 35 feet up,'' owner susan gabler said
every morning since alfie's escape sunday, mrs. gabler has been strolling through waller park meowing like a cat, clucking like a chicken and crying like a baby in an effort to lure him home
when she wasn't making the sounds alfie has learned to mimic over the years, she was holding out a pot of macaroni and cheese _ the bird's favorite meal _ in hopes the aroma would waft into the treetops and entice him to return home to his 200-pound wrought iron cage
as they often did, the gablers let alfie out of his cage during sunday's picnic to allow him a taste of freedom. alfie took off
after going home and calling authorities about her escaped pet, mrs. gabler returned to the park, where she could hear alfie but couldn't see him
so far, mrs. gabler hasn't spotted alfie's bright yellow head, red shoulders or green body, but she heard him sunday and wednesday
she said she is worried, especially since owls and hawks live in the park and are much larger than her two-pound pet
mrs. gabler is convinced alfie has survived in the unseasonably warm weather, feeding on scraps people have dropped for the ducks in the park. ``but he's never had to forage for food before,'' she added
she said she and her three children would continue the daily hunt for alfie
homeless people are younger, more likely to be women and less likely to be working than the homeless of a generation ago, a study shows
we're getting the harvest of the last decade's very high unemployment rate among minorities,'' said peter rossi, a professor of sociology at the university of massachusetts in amherst
rossi, who has studied the history of homelessness and collected statistics on the current homeless population, was to describe his findings today at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
he said at a news conference friday that the average age of the homeless in the 1950s was 59. ``there were virtually no women, and very few of them slept out on the streets,'' he said
many stayed in skid-row flophouses. ``if they slept downtown, the police would pick them up,'' he said
police policies changed in the 1960s, however, and arrests for vagrancy and public drunkenness dropped, rossi said
about 25 percent of the homeless are now women, the result of a short supply of eligible working males able to support a household
the age has dropped enormously,'' rossi said. ``it's now around 36.'' very few are over age 65
one of the most encouraging things i found was the disappearance of people over 65, by virtue of the rise in the value of social security,'' he said
few of the homeless are now employed, although that varies in different areas, rossi said. in contrast, many homeless men were able to find day labor in the 1950s
you might say the fork-lift truck has depleted the market for day work unloading trucks,'' he said
jon erickson of the state and local expenditure policy commission of new jersey said that job training programs have helped some homeless people get back to work and have their own homes again
an effort to find jobs for 580 homeless in new jersey was partly successful, he said. about one-fourth of them got jobs. most were employed as security guards, clerical workers or in construction, erickson said. eighty-four percent earned less than $7 per hour
rossi has found that the proportion of homeless who come from minority groups has risen. in new york city, for example, 85 percent of the homeless are black or hispanic
estimates of the total number of homeless in the united states vary from 250,000 to several million, rossi said. he guesses _ and emphasized that he is only guessing _ that the low estimates are nearer to the truth
some of the homeless, rossi said, are adults with relatives who might support them, but those relatives are often so close to being impoverished themselves that they cannot support adult dependents, no matter how generous they might want to be. injured</head>
a teen-ager believed to be a gang member fatally shot another youth and injured two others at a crowded high school carnival friday night during an argument over a girl, police said
the shots rang out just before 11 p.m., when more than 500 people packed rides and amusements at hialeah high school's annual charity carnival just northwest of miami
a group of gang members from outside the city approached another group of kids and began arguing, we believe over a girl,'' said hialeah police spokesman lowell coffin. ``the shooting went off very quickly and by the time police could react, the gunman had taken off in a car.''
one teen-ager was dead at the scene and two more were airlifted to jackson memorial hospital, one with gunshots to the knee and another with arm wounds, said coffin. he said the names of the victims and suspect were not yet available
all of them were in the age range from 16 to 18 years old,'' he said
coffin said the suspect or suspects are probably from a gang in neighboring miami. throughout.</note>
sen. joseph r. biden jr. underwent surgery friday at walter reed army medical center to correct an aneurysm of an artery supplying blood to his brain, his spokesman said
spokesman pete smith quoted from a statement issued by walter reed that biden, 45, was expect to recover satisfactorily and have ``no significant after effects'' from the surgical procedure known as a ``clipping.''
biden, d-del., was admitted to the hospital early friday after being transferred from st. francis hospital in wilmington, del., where the senator lives
i am told the hospital has him listed as `seriously ill' but that he `tolerated the procedure well,''' smith said early saturday. an aneurysm is a sac formed by local enlargement of the weakened wall of an artery
the surgery ``did not involve the removal of any brain tissue and there is every indication that the senator will recover satisfactorily and have no significant after effects,'' smith said. ``he is awake, alert, oriented and moving all extremities well. the length of his hospital stay will depend on his continued progress.''
smith said the surgery was performed in the afternoon but there was no immediate information when it began or how long it took
i am told that he is in intensive care, which walter reed said is normal for surgical patients, and his family is with him at the hospital,'' smith said. biden and his wife, jill, have three children
biden, a three-term senator, had been complaining for a couple of weeks about what has been diagnosed as a pinched nerve in his neck, smith said thursday
biden wore a neck brace two weeks ago during hearings on the proposed intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty with the soviet union. he was ill and unable to vote last week on the confirmation of anthony kennedy to the supreme court. biden, as chairman of the senate judiciary commitee, had led the committee hearings on kennedy's nomination to the top court
this week, biden felt well enough to appear for several speaking engagements at colleges on the east coast
gertrude ferris always knew she had a gem of a mate, but she never dreamed he would be named ``husband of the year'' on oprah winfrey's television show
we are just floating,'' said sidney ferris, 77. ``it was just a tremendous experience. we weren't nervous, a little bit stunned maybe. the significance of it all hasn't settled in on us yet.''
the ferrises, who will celebrate their 53rd wedding anniversary in april, won the first prize, a trip for two to hawaii
two weeks ago, winfrey asked wives across america to write and tell her why they thought their spouse deserved the title of ``best husband.''
more than 10,000 letters poured in. from those nominees, 25 finalists were selected, including ferris
all 25 men and their wives appeared on friday's show in chicago wearing beauty pageant sashes with their names on them. for the show's opening, they marched across the stage and sang ``hello, oprah'' to the tune of ``hello, dolly.''
each wife read a portion of her letter aloud, and each husband had about 30 seconds to answer the question, ``what do you love about your wife and married life?''
mrs. ferris, however, is legally blind, and needed help from her husband
he read her letter and it was just heartwarming. he just stole everyone's heart,'' said colleen raleigh, one of the show's publicists
the part of the letter ferris read:
my angel is 77 years of age, and he does all the heavy housework, the laundry and shopping because of my disability. since i am partially blind, he inspects my clothes and checks my makeup every day. my neighbors say when they see sidney, they also see a halo over his head.''
for his part, ferris called his wife ``my angel.'' and then a beaming mrs. ferris hugged and kissed him
i wish every young woman could meet a young man who cares about life and love as he does,'' she said
a new production of ``siegfried,'' a new tenor to sing it and a superlative performance by the entire cast filled the evening at the metropolitan opera on friday
wolfgang neumann, scheduled to make his met debut as siegfried on feb. 20, made it instead on the first night of the new ``siegfried'' production because peter hofmann had a bronchial infection and withdrew
neumann, from kaernten, austria, a member of the mannheim opera in germany, has a golden voice. it isn't the kind with a golden pinging edge but a full, rich voice which remained fresh-sounding through this long part
neumann didn't hold back in the first two acts, as some tenors do, for his duets with brunnhilde in act 3. neumann sounded innocent, as siegfried should, and he looked like an attractive, large country boy
hildegard behrens sang glowingly as brunnhilde, her top notes sounding effortless and tender, never blaring
otto schenk directed the meeting of siegfried and brunnhilde well. they must do a lot of singing before they embrace. schenk has siegfried exhibit much wonderment, circling the rock on which he found brunnhilde
we liked the direction of mime less. horst hiestermann sang the part well but several times skipped about, too frivolously for such a villain
also, the dragon in a suddenly darkened act 2 was unpleasantly startling in a production which has siegfried in act 1 forge a broken sword with meticulous realism. it was a frightening monster, waving various ugly heads out from several holes in a rock wall
anne gjevang had a sweet though hooded tone as erda. she appeared in an otherworldly blue light, to sing with the wanderer
donald mcintyre sounded wise and sympathetic as the wanderer; his voice did not tire
james levine conducted, taking the overture very slowly and making the most of every nuance, note and pause. most of the evening was taken at a faster pace though there were other places where levine slowed the tempo
gunther schneider-siemsen designed the sets, which included wonderful deep forests. attack. no pickup.</note>
an iraqi jet bomber fired a long-range cruise missile within eight miles of the destroyer chandler friday night as the vessel escorted a convoy of four tankers, according to a media pool report
the chandler was not the apparent target or the attack and there were no reported injuries
iraqi planes occasionally have hit by mistake fishing trawlers and last may 17, struck the frigate uss starke, killing 37 american sailors
iraq said saturday its warplanes raided a ``very large maritime target'' off iran's gulf coast on friday night. in iraqi military terminology, a ``very large maritime target'' usually means a supertanker sailing off iran's coast
the pentagon media pool report, released in washington, said an iraqi jet bomber on friday night fired a long-range cruise missile within eight miles of the destroyer uss chandler as it was escorting a convoy of four reflagged kuwaiti tankers to kuwait's oil terminals
although the chandler and its convoy were not the apparent targets of the missile attack, the destroyer fired two flares from its 5-inch guns to warn the iraqi badger bomber that it was approaching too close to the u.s. warship, said the pool report, filed by norman kempster of the los angeles times newspaper
the official iraqi news agency, quoting a military spokesman, reported saturday that iraqi warplanes struck at a ``very large maritime target'' off the iranian coast, ``scoring an accurate and effective hit'' and returned safely to base
the agency, monitored in cyprus, said the attack took place at 9:08 p.m. friday (1:08 a.m. est friday). it gave no other details
cmdr. steve smith, captain of the chandler, said he was concerned because iraqi pilots often fire at radar blips without making sure what their targets really are
having watched the geometry of their attacks for some time, i was concerned that he would be firing his missile while he was heading toward us,'' smith said over the ship's public address system after the incident ended
later, smith told a small group of reporters who boarded the ship as part of the pentagon's persian gulf press pool, that the iraqi pilot fired two soviet-made c-601 missiles, a 50-mile range air-launched version of the styx, which china copied in producing its far better-known silkworms
smith said both missiles passed astern of the chandler, the last ship in the convoy, but that one of the rockets suddenly changed course and passed along the starboard side of the ship before veering away to the right
seconds later it detonated, producing a bright flash on the horizon. there was no immediate indication whether the missile had hit a target or had crashed harmlessly into the sea
smith said it was the closest approach of a missile to his ship, which has been on station in the persian gulf since nov. 25. the chandler, one of four guided missile destroyers originally produced for iran during the reign of the shah but never delivered, is the flagship of the navy's tanker escort squadron, which includes six frigates
ensign brian josse of kilua, hawaii, the officer of the deck when the incident began, said later, ``we've seen iraqi planes come close but never this close.''
quartermaster 2nd class dave markee of salem, ore., who was manning a 50-caliber machine gun on the starboard side of the ship, said, ``we believe we saw the missile separate (from the jet.) we also saw anti-aircraft fire off our stern.''
smith placed his crew on ``general quarters,'' the navy's highest state of alert, after the badger, which had earlier passed the convoy on a flight south along the gulf from iraq, turned back north and headed straight for the chandler
smith said he was prepared to try to shoot down the incoming missile if it had appeared to be on a course that would strike any ship in the convoy. he readied the standard-1, anti-aircraft missile, shoulder-fired stinger missiles and the automatic-firing phalanx gattling gun
smith said he informed the badger by radio that it was approaching a u.s. convoy and ordered it to turn back. he said the iraqi pilot, who did not speak english very well, did not seem to understand
smith said he then warned the iraqi that he planned to fire two ``illumination rounds'' from the ship's powerful 5-inch gun
as soon as the flares went off, he said, the iraqi jet turned sharply away from the ship and fired both of the c-601 missiles
hundreds of lonesome lovers are getting a free chance to whisper sweet nothings into the ears of sweethearts anywhere in america this valentine's day weekend, courtesy of a phone company and a hotel
all that romance stuff is gone. i'm trying to get it back,'' derek grier of los angeles said friday as he tried to call his wife of five years
although he is in chicago for six weeks for an ibm training program, grier said he wants to make this valentine's day a turning point in his marriage
i'm sending flowers for the first time. i have to bring the fire, the sparks, the romance back into it,'' he said
grier was one of dozens taking advantage of three free ``love lines'' set up by american telephone &amp; telegraph co. and the hyatt regency. from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. today and sunday the lovelorn may talk to their favorite valentine for three minutes at the hyatt and at&amp;t will cover the costs, said nancy ruth, a hotel spokeswoman
about 600 people made free calls when the promotion was tried for two days last year, ms. ruth said. the hotel expects about 800 calls will be made this year, she said
but as one homesick valentine discovered, the offer doesn't extend beyond the united states
i want to call rome. my valentine is there _ my wife,'' said mario biasetti, 62, who was in chicago on business
biasetti told the women operating the love lines the story of st. valentine, the third century italian martyr for whom the holiday is named. but despite the storyteller's charm, they wouldn't let him call italy
a chicago woman persistently tried to reach her sister and close friend in san diego to tell them her ``good valentine's news.''
linda calderon opened her apartment door this morning to a deliveryman bearing a dozen long-stem red roses from a new romantic interest
i was speechless,'' she said
others using the three phones set up in the hotel lobby called to express a different kind of love
the only person i can think of to call is my mom,'' said lee dixon, 25, of los angeles, who is also in the ibm training program
carol pegg, who moved from oregon to chicago last year, used the free lines to call some old friends from her hometown
i would never have called another way,'' said ms. pegg, who came across the love lines on her lunch break
maria gonzalez, 26, had a lively conversation in spanish with her grandmother in miami
i just called to tell her i loved her and wish her a happy valentine's day,'' she said
the presidential campaigns began turning bitter on the final weekend before the new hampshire primary, with jack kemp denouncing a pat robertson commercial as a lie and richard gephardt saying a paul simon ad questions his integrity
the public schedules of the campaigns were snarled by a massive snow storm friday, but the reality that the first 1988 primary will end some candidates' hopes heated up the rhetoric
for one republican _ alexander haig _ the campaign ended friday, as he withdrew in the face of certain defeat
for one longshot democrat _ bruce babbitt _ friday was the time to ask voters to prolong a campaign offering vastly different ideas from those of his rivals
let me be direct, even blunt _ new hampshire has the power of life or death over my campaign,'' babbitt told a state party dinner. ``i don't expect to win the new hampshire primary, but what i do need to do, what you need to do, is to send a message to the rest of america that here, in the snowy hills of new england, a message of courage and challenge and hope was kept alive.''
in the final 72 hours before the primary vote begins, the airwaves in new hamsphire are filled with campaign commercials, and those ads started sharp exchanges
kemp, his chance for at least a moral victory here threatened by robertson's surge, demanded that the former television evangelist withdraw television commercials and printed fliers that contained ``deliberate distortions.''
i can't insist that all candidates abide by ronald reagan's 11th commandment'' not to speak ill of another republican, kemp said in an address to the conservative political action committee in washington
but all of us should abide by the ninth commandment: thou shalt not bear false witness,'' he said to prolonged cheers
robertson, snowbound in merrimack, n.h., said: ``this is the kind of desperate thing that losers begin to do. ... we didn't put out any of this stuff he's talking about.''
four of the democratic candidates _ simon, gephardt, babbitt and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis _ showed up for a new hampshire state party fund-raising dinner. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and jesse jackson had planned to be back in the state, but could not make it due to the snow. former colorado sen. gary hart did not plan to attend the dinner
but the fraternal nature of the evening did not stop the bickering
turning to simon and gephardt, dukakis asked: ``you guys getting along? anything i can do to help?''
the audience of activists laughed as many understood the bickering between the no. 2 and no. 3 contenders has done nothing to hurt dukakis
after the dinner, the trading of barbs between simon and gephardt blew up
enough is enough on these negative ads,'' gephardt told reporters. ``paul simon is running an ad that ought to come off the television. it impugns my character and my integrity by saying, can you trust this man?
so to put it very straight _ enough is enough. i asked sen. simon to take those ads off television. and if he doesn't, he ought to take off the bow tie because he's just another politician as long as they're on,'' the missouri congressman said
only moments before, simon had told reporters that drawing out the distinctions between the candidates is legitimate
as long as it doesn't get too acrimonious, i think that a healthy comparison is good,'' simon said
gephardt promised to renew the exchange at the final debate before the primary, a confrontation sponsored by the league of women voters this afternoon at st. anselm college
the daily polling of the sentiments of the new hampshire voters continued without pause, with vice president george bush locked in a neck-and-neck race with kansas sen. bob dole
one survey, the abc news-washington post poll taken thursday night, showed bush with 32 percent to dole's 26 percent. another, the cbs news poll taken wednesday and thursday, gave the kansas senator 32 percent to bush's 29 percent
the cbs poll was based on interviews with 499 likely gop primary voters and had a sampling error margin of 4 percentage points. the abc-washington post poll interviewed 559 likely republican voters and had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
in both polls, dukakis maintained a strong lead in the democratic race
the son of mayor w. wilson goode, injured in a three-car collision, was in satisfactory condition at a hospital today, authorities said
w. wilson goode jr., 22, was under observation at osteopathic hospital for chest impact injuries suffered in the accident late thursday, said george hatzfeld, director of communications
goode was a passenger in a car that was making a left turn when it was struck by another auto and spun around and collided with a third car, police spokesman edward tenuto said
goode was hospitalized after the crash, officials said. the others were treated at osteopathic for various neck and back injuries and released
the accident occurred a week after the mayor was injured when his car was rammed by a car carrying his bodyguards. the mayor has been wearing a neck brace since the collision
european royalty, long used to the best of everything, is converging on calgary to witness the world's best athletes begin competition this weekend in the winter olympics
britain's princess anne, one of five new members named to the international olympic committee, arrived late thursday to spend several days meeting with british athletes and attending social functions
the daughter of queen elizabeth ii was an equestrian competitor at the 1976 summer games
king juan carlos of spain and norway's crown prince harald arrived friday and will be joined later during the games by his wife, princess sonja, ioc officials said
prince albert of monaco already is in calgary _ as an athlete competing in the two-man bobsled. his father, prince rainier, will arrive later to watch that competition and other events
the cat in the hat came back to new orleans in the person of his well-tanned, fit-looking 83-year-old creator, theodor geisel, otherwise known as ``dr. seuss.''
accompanying geisel were officials and patrons of the san diego museum of art, which sponsored a touring restrospective of sketchings, manuscripts and photographs that runs through april 10 at the new orleans museum of art
asked at a news conference friday whether he considered himself a children's artist, geisel said, ``i'm not sure i'm an artist at all.''
geisel said this was not his first trip to the city but it was the first during the mardi gras carnival. ``and it won't be the last,'' he said
film star burt lancaster will top the bill of a marathon 7{-hour film of one of italy's most famous epics, ``the betrothed,'' which will also feature oscar winner murray abraham, the film's producers announced
lancaster is already well-known to italian audiences for his lead role in luchino visconti's 1963 film ``the leopard.''
the betrothed'' is based on the novel by alessandro manzoni, considered a classic of italian romantic literature
the producers, italy's state-owned rai television network, hope lancaster's presence will help sell the film to the american market. it is being made entirely in english, and will be dubbed back into italian for showing in italy
abraham won the academy award for best actor in 1984 for his portrayal of the composer antonio salieri in the film ``amadeus.''
filming, which began last month, is expected to last 32 weeks, the producers said friday
singer michael jackson popped out onto a ramp for less than 10 seconds at the pensacola civic center, waved to about 300 cheering fans and then darted back inside
it was the public's only chance to glimpse the reclusive entertainer since he arrived monday to rehearse through feb. 18 for a 13-city tour scheduled to start feb. 23 in kansas city, mo
it didn't even last two seconds. i'm so disappointed,'' said stephanie puddle, one of three 18-year-old fans from toronto who said they spent every dime they had to travel here in hopes of seeing jackson
a husband-and-wife disc jockey team, doug and denise daniels, had gone on a hunger strike for two weeks and collected thousands of names on a petition to persuade jackson, who has been rehearsing in front of 10,000 empty seats, to hold a public performance here before leaving
it has been to no avail so far, although the daniels did get a call praising their effort from jackson's publicity agents
veteran rock singer sly stone forfeited a $7,500 bond and faced arrest when he didn't show up for a preliminary hearing on charges he possessed ``rock'' cocaine and narcotics paraphernalia
deputy district attorney lisa hart said stone's attorney told her the 43-year-old musician, whose real name is sylvester stewart, was in new york
municipal court judge laurence rubin issued the bench warrant thursday and set new bail at $15,000
stone, who with his band, sly and the family stone, has such 1960s hits as ``dance to the music'' and ``i want to take you higher,'' pleaded innocent dec. 16 to the most recent charges
he also faces trial in santa monica in a separate drug-related arrest in 1986
cartoonist jim davis and his cantankerous feline creation, garfield, will serve as grand marshals of the 72nd indianapolis 500 festival in may, officials announced
davis, of muncie, and garfield will kick off the festival may 7, which marks the opening of the indianapolis motor speedway for practice for the indianapolis 500-mile race on may 29
it's going to be crowded in the car,'' davis said thursday, referring to the pace car in which the grand marshals _ he and a giant garfield likeness _ will ride
actually, it's very nice. i enjoy my anonymity,'' davis added. ``when you have a big ham around like garfield, he tends to steal the limelight and take the pressure off me.''
organizers of a project to turn jimmy carter's hometown into a major tourist attraction say they hope to draw up to 300,000 visitors a year, more than used to stop here during his presidency
carter, former officials of his administration and members of the georgia congressional delegation are scheduled to attend a dedication ceremony today at the railroad depot that served as his 1976 campaign headquarters
the national park service will oversee the jimmy carter national historic site, which will include the depot and the former president's boyhood home and high school
about 80,000 visitors a year still stop at the small welcome center in plains, an agricultural community of 650 residents in the heart of georgia's peanut belt.   
bell atlantic has formally told the general services administration that it won two government telecommunications projects honestly and without ``any information regarding any other offeror's bid.''
in a brief filed friday with the gsa's board of contract appeals, bell atlantic said it should be awarded the contracts despite a complaint of improprieties in the bidding process
the fact is, bell atlantic won its contracts `the old-fashioned way' _ by bidding superior services at significantly lower prices than those proposed by at&amp;t,'' the brief said
the general services administration began investigating the awarding of a total of $55 million in contracts after at&amp;t complained last october that information on at&amp;t's pricing information was leaked to competitors
bell atlantic asked the gsa board to rule that at&amp;t's allegations are incorrect in connection with the awarding of contracts to bell atlantic for electronic switches in washington, d.c., and philadelphia
hearings on at&amp;t's protest are scheduled to begin feb. 16
the senate governmental affairs committee, which has investigated at&amp;t's allegations, has said its probe found that sureshar l. soni, a gsa employee, leaked secret information from at&amp;t's bids to at least two competing telephone companies
bell atlantic maintained in its brief that its prices never changed. it said it submitted its initial bids of $18.40 per month for connection to a switch in washington and $30.50 in philadelphia on april 1, 1987, and those bids remained unchanged on the final dates for bids of aug. 19 in washington and july 29 in philadelphia
the 12-nation european economic community today ended months of financial crisis, approving an agricultural reform package that for the first time limits farm spending
the deal to control, although not end, the community's burgeoning agricultural surpluses was reached in the early hours, averting virtual bankruptcy for the trade bloc later this year
i think it was better to try to strain for agreement today,'' prime minister margaret thatcher of britain, looking tired, told reporters. her country had made major concessions
the emergency summit, which began thursday, was the third high-level attempt in eight months to solve the community's financial woes. the eec had operated without a budget since december
mrs. thatcher, long isolated by her european partners over finances, dropped major demands for austerity in the face of persistent opposition headed by france
the summit was marked by particularly angry clashes between mrs. thatcher and french premier jacques chirac
mrs. thatcher termed ``absolutely crazy'' french insistence that production quotas on cheaper commodities be referred to a foreign ministers meeting instead of agreed upon at the summit in an across-the-board deal
britain and the netherlands endorsed the package, which dealt with the most expensive crops, on condition the foreign ministers approve curbs on the lesser commodities, which was virtually certain
it was the first time in the eec's 31-year history that leaders fixed a limit to farm spending, which eats up two-thirds of the eec's annucal budget
the agreement set a $34.4 billion limit on farm spending in 1988, slightly higher than last year. this can rise by no more than $2.5 billion over five years. mrs. thatcher had wanted a $33.8 billion limit for 1988 and a smaller increase in the years ahead
west germany, the eec chairman, and france had wanted a $36.9 billion limit
also, the leaders agreed to limit grain production to 160 million metric tons a year, compared with 155 million tons demanded by britain and the netherlands
mrs. thatcher said her concession was partly offset by a 9 percent automatic price cut over three years for grain production that exceeds the ceiling
the agreement also set strict production quotas on oilseeds closer to british demands
the eec leaders agreed to raise by 80 percent over the next five years regional aid to spain, portugal, greece and ireland, the poorest members. spain had sought a 100 percent rise, compared with a 50 percent rise favored by the rich northern states, including britain, france and west germany
the increase will bring regional aid to $16.25 billion by 1992
in addition to reducing expenditures, the summit agreed to tap new revenues by basing membership dues on the relative wealth of member states rather than sales taxes only. italy, with a large economy which isn't reflected in sales tax returns, would have to pay more
the agreement was widely seen as sending a signal to the united states to rein in its agricultural production
i hope fervently that our friends across the ocean ... do their share to control their agricultural spending,'' said dutch prime minister ruud lubbers
richard gephardt angrily demanded that rival presidential aspirant paul simon take ``attack advertisements'' off the airwaves or ``take off the bow tie'' that is the illinois senator's trademark
simon responded, ``we may be changing ads, but we're not going to do it in response to his request.''
gephardt aides, meanwhile, said they would unveil new ads today responding to simon's spots, but they declined to give details
three days before the first primary of the 1988 presidential season, gephardt also turned up the heat friday on massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who holds a commanding lead in new hampshire polls
if the state of the state of massachusetts that he gave this year becomes the state of the union next year, americans' individual income taxes are going to go up,'' gephardt said at an impromptu news conference after a state democratic party dinner
but gephardt was most bitter toward simon. the illinois senator this week began airing ads on television and radio that point out ``inconsistencies'' in gephardt's record as a missouri congressman and question his trustworthiness
gephardt and simon have acknowledged they essentially are fighting to place second in new hampshire. simon on friday acknowledged that a poor third-place showing would force him to consider dropping out of the race
simon, gephardt, dukakis and former arizona gov. bruce babbitt addressed the democrats' dinner. dukakis, standing between simon and gephardt, joked, ``you guys getting along? anything i could do to help?''
simon did not mention the dispute in his speech, but gephardt said, ``i've been attacked lately in this campaign, and that's okay with me.'' he cited criticism by simon and dukakis of his votes for tax-reform bills in 1981 and 1986, and said, ``i did it. i really did it. i voted to cut your taxes.''
i just want paul and mike to know that when this is all over, we're going to be friends. and if they keep telling people that i'm a tax cutter, then we're going to be even better friends than we are today,'' gephardt said
afterward, simon met with reporters and said of the dispute with gephardt, ``as long as it doesn't get too acrimonious, i think a healthy comparison is good for the electorate both here in new hampshire and around the nation.''
but minutes later gephardt held his own news conference and escalated his attacks, saying simon's ad ``impugns my character and my integrity by saying, can you trust this man?
i've never impugned paul simon's character. i've disagreed with a lot of his crazy ideas ... but i have never once questioned paul simon's motives or his integrity or whether he could be trusted,'' gephardt said
i asked sen. simon to take those ads off television. and if he doesn't, he ought to take off the bow tie because he's just another politician as long as they're on.''
gephardt's campaign counsel earlier sent telegrams to television stations in boston, manchester, n.h., and portsmouth, maine, saying simon's ads ``contain a savage and willfully inaccurate attack'' and asking stations either to ``discontinue the attack advertisements'' or sell gephardt time for a response ad
the counsel, bob bauer, said the stations have generally agreed to sell gephardt such time for the ad, which will begin running today. gephardt aides would not describe the ad's contents. show</head>
federal reserve policymakers decided in december that the easing of credit instituted by the fed after the october stock market plunge was no longer needed, according to minutes of the meeting
the minutes, released friday, showed that the majority argued in favor of ending efforts to push interest rates lower also because of concerns about the decline of the dollar
lower u.s. interest rates put downward pressure on the value of the dollar because foreigners earn less on their dollar-denominated investments
the action was approved at a scheduled meeting of the federal open market committee on dec. 15 and 16 and reaffirmed during an unannounced telephone conference call fed officials held on jan. 5
immediately following the record 508-point drop in stock prices on oct. 19, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan promised that the central bank would do everything necessary to ensure that the economy had sufficient credit to weather the one-day loss of $500 billion in wealth
the december action was approved on a vote of 9-2, while the re-affirmation of the policy in january carried by a 10-1 vote
martha seger dissented both times, arguing that ``financial markets remained too unsettled'' to justify a shift away from easier credit
since the december meeting, the dollar has stabilized, in part because of massive intervention by the fed and other central banks to prop up the currency's value on foreign exchange markets
fed policymakers met again tuesday and wednesday amid speculation by some private economists that the central bank has launched further easing moves. these economists noted that a variety of interest rates, including mortgage rates, have been headed lower in recent weeks
presidents reagan and miguel de la madrid meet in this carnival-bedecked pacific resort today to discuss how to increase trade in legal goods and reduce traffic of illegal drugs
reagan, accompanied by attorney general edwin meese, commerce secretary c. william verity and secretary of state george p. shultz, will be in mexico about four hours
reagan will have a meeting and lunch with de la madrid in a luxurious seaside hotel within earshot of those celebrating the traditional roman catholic pre-lenten carnival
it will be the sixth meeting between the two presidents who, according to their aides, ``have developed a good working personal relationship.'' both are in their last year in office
tight security measures by both countries have not interfered with the festival atmosphere of this port city of nearly 300,000 residents
the leaders will be welcomed by the flags of both nations and bunting proclaiming mazatlan a ``city of friendship.''
verity, shultz and meese will meet with their mexican counterparts to discuss top matters of common concern _ trade, foreign policy and the illegal drug trade
mexico, struggling with a serious economic crisis now in its seventh year, is making efforts to expand non-oil exports to the united states. it also is trying to lower its own tariffs on u.s. products
the mexicans, however, have made it clear they are not ready to join the united states and canada in a north american free trade zone
unfortunately, mexico's most successful exports to the u.s. market are those the two countries want to stop _ drugs
mexico has become a relay point for south american cocaine going to the united states and a major supplier of marijuana and heroin also shipped to the u.s. market. the state of sinaloa, of which mazatlan is the second-largest city, is where much of the marijuana is produced in mexico
u.s. officials have often criticized mexican efforts to fight drugs as inefficient and hampered by official corruption
mexico counters that 60 percent of the budget of its federal attorney general's office is used to fight drug traffic and complains the problem would not be as serious if there wasn't such a market for drugs in the united states
mexico's foreign policy, often at odds with that of the united states, especially when it comes to central america, will be a minor topic of discussion
neither one is going to change,'' said a u.s. source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
in the end, trade will dominate the talks
mexico and the united states have worked out trade agreements dealing with steel, textiles, shoes and beer. the presidents are expected to formalize some of those agreements during their meeting
one u.s. source said u.s. companies would invest more in mexico if it could make itself more attractive by offering flexible legislation when it comes to ownership. mexico generally demands majority stock in all joint ventures
u.s. investments in mexico represent 2 percent of the total value of mexico's industrial plant and equipment
all airports in the philippines have been put on alert following reports that ousted president ferdinand marcos or his relatives may attempt to return to the country, an air transport official said today
victorino palpal-latoc, chief of the air transportation office, issued the alert order friday to the country's 86 airports, his spokesman said
the spokesman, who demanded anonymity, said the order was ``just a reminder'' of a ``long-standing order'' issued nearly two years ago when president corazon aquino's government revoked the passports of the marcos family
marcos and his wife, imelda, have been living in exile in honolulu, hawaii since the february 1986 civilian-military uprising that ended marcos' 20-year rule and swept mrs. aquino to power
the alert came three days after mrs. marcos and two aides reportedly were about to board philippine airlines flight for manila, but changed their minds at the last minute
in his new order, palpal-latoc told airport officials to be on the lookout for any ``unusual movement of persons who are restricted from entering the country.''
the order did not mention the marcoses by name, but they are included on a list of persons not allowed to return to the country, palpal-latoc's spokesman said
joe lazo, a honolulu travel agent and confidante of mrs. marcos, said the former first lady wanted to return to manila to rendezvous with her daughter, imee manotoc, who reportedly lives in morocco and wants to come home for medical treatment
a strong earthquake centered off taiwan's eastern coast violently shook houses in the capital before dawn today. there were no reports of casualties or damage
the central weather bureau said the quake measured 6.9 on the richter scale and was centered in the ocean about 40 miles southeast of taipei. it struck at 3:15 a.m
a bureau official said the epicenter was near the iriomote islet by the southern tip of japan's ryukyu islands chain. the official and taipei police said no reports of damage or casualties had been received
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a ten-fold increase in intensity
a magnitude of 6 can cause serious damage in a populated area. an earthquake of magnitude 7 is capable of widespread, heavy damage in populated areas. organizations</head>
georgetown university, which has waged a thus-far unsuccessful legal battle to avoid supporting homosexual groups on campus, has agreed to treat such organizations the same as it does other student groups
the university agreed friday to give homosexual student groups ``equal treatment.'' a district of columbia court of appeals ruling late last year had said the university must offer homosexual organizations the same ``tangible benefits'' given other student groups, although it did not have to ``officially recognize'' them
the university had said that treating homosexual organizations on campus with equality would ``violate its conscience'' as a roman catholic institution. church teachings do not support homosexual acts
georgetown's announcement friday came one day after the d.c. office of human rights said it would launch a ``major investigation'' into the university's treatment of homosexual groups after three students complained that it had not fully complied with a court ruling
university spokesman gary krull said its action had ``nothing to do'' with the human rights office investigation and the decision was made before the university learned of the probe
krull also said the decision ``does not prejudice our ability to file'' a formal request for the u.s. supreme court to review the case. last month, the high court twice rejected georgetown's request to stay the appeals court ruling
krull said georgetown would give gay organizations on its law school and main campus ``the same things it offers to any group,'' and would not restrict its assistance to four items specifically mentioned by the appeals court: a mailbox, computerized label service, mailing services and an opportunity to apply for university funds
law school dean robert pitofsky said the broader list of services and facilities that will be available to the lesbian and gay association of georgetown university law students includes photocopying, telephones, stationery, meeting and party rooms, and offices
to promote peace in central america, the united states should immediately lift its trade embargo against nicaragua and stop blocking loans to the sandinista government, said costa rica's ambassador to this country
ambassador guido fernandez said washington's tactic of financing contra rebels to force the leftist sandinista government to allow democracy in nicaragua has failed and that other means should be used to achieve that goal
the contras have received $300 million from the united states from both official and unofficial sources ... but they have made no gains,'' fernandez said in a speech friday night at rockhurst college
the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, honduras, costa rica and guatemala signed a regional peace plan last august in guatemala city
it calls for an end to outside support for insurgencies in central america and calls on the signatories to take specific steps to allow democracy to flourish in their countries
the plan also calls for cease-fires, amnesty for political prisoners and an end to the use of one country's territory to launch attacks on a neighbor
fernandez said washington should make concessions now that the u.s. congress has denied president reagan's request to send military aid to the contras
now that we have withheld the stick, why not use the carrot more?'' fernandez asked
the reagan administration has said it is following a two-track policy toward nicaragua by applying military and diplomatic pressure. but fernandez said he has only seen the use of military pressure by washington
where is the other track of the two-track policy?'' he asked. ``we would like to see it.''
fernandez said the united states should immediately lift its trade embargo against nicaragua. he said in comments after his address that washington should stop blocking loans by the inter-american development bank to nicaragua
costa rican president oscar arias was awarded the 1987 nobel peace prize for being the architect of the peace plan. many members of the u.s. house said they voted against military aid to the contras earlier this month to give arias' plan a chance to work
fernandez said that if the united states grants the concessions he mentioned, they always could be reversed if the sandinistas fail to live up to the plan's provisions
as part of the plan, the sandinistas and the contras have initiated meetings to agree on a cease-fire. fernandez said that if a cease-fire is established in nicaragua, the united states should then negotiate directly with the sandinistas to address u.s. security concerns
the soviet union today exploded a nuclear device underground, the official tass news agency reported, indicating the device may have had a yield seven times greater than that of the atomic bomb dropped on hiroshima
tass said the nuclear test was staged at 6:05 a.m. moscow time (10:05 p.m. est friday) ``with a view to upgrading military technology.'' it gave no further details
the test at the main soviet test range of semipalatinsk in the central asian republic of kazakhstan was the second soviet nuclear test explosion this year. a device was detonated at semipalatinsk on feb. 6
tass said the latest nuclear explosion had a yield of between 20 and 150 kilotons
the u.s. atom bomb dropped on hiroshima, japan, on aug. 6, 1945 had a yield of 20 kilotons, or the equivalent of 20,000 tons of tnt
the superpowers are holding negotiations in geneva aimed at developing a method of verifying the yields of nuclear tests and working out a possible test ban
in january, a delegation of american researchers and officials visited the semipalatinsk range, about 2,000 miles southeast of moscow, to gather information that may be used in verifying u.s.-soviet nuclear test agreements
in april, the americans will use their methods to measure the yield of a soviet nuclear blast at semipalatinsk. at the same time, the soviets will use their techniques to calculate the yield of a u.s. nuclear test at the american test site in nevada. building</head>
an elderly landlord shackled by an electronic manacle brought new furniture and a security guard into his rundown apartment building as he began a court-ordered stay for failing to fix leaky pipes and other problems
greeted by angry tenants and a banner reading ``welcome you reptile,'' morris gross, 77, began serving a 15-day house arrest friday in a brooklyn building where tenants complain of bugs and rodents, leaky ceilings and a lack of heat and hot water
gross, who lives in a luxury high-rise in the brighton beach section of brooklyn, made no comment to a group of tenants who shouted at him as he walked into the lobby wearing sunglasses and a gray scarf around his face
we ask for so many things and they don't do anything,'' said errol ramdeo, who lives in apartment 5a
ramdeo said the door to the apartment where he lives with his parents is off its hinges, bathroom tiles are falling off the wall and their stove doesn't work
a civil court judge convicted gross of criminal and civil contempt in december after the city department of housing preservation and development brought action against him for failing to comply with a court order to correct housing violations
the judge gave him the choice of either paying $169,000 in fines for 420 violations or serving 15 days of house arrest and spending $137,900 of the fines to repair the 113-unit building in brooklyn's flatbush neighborhood
gross will be confined to a fifth-floor apartment, his movements monitored by an electronic ankle bracelet to make sure he serves his sentence
when asked why gross chose house arrest, his attorney, stanley kopilow, said the landlord ``wanted to show to the judge and the community that this is not as bad as portrayed in the press.''
on thursday night, after gross' decision was announced, workers began repairs on apartment 5c, including painting and plastering walls and installing new kitchen tiles
friday morning, delivery men unloaded a new couch, recliner chair and bureau from a truck which they said were to be delivered to gross' one-bedroom apartment
gross' meals will be catered, tenants said, and he will have a private security guard with him in the apartment for the duration of his sentence
lawrence carelli, the hpd attorney who handled the case, said the only other case he knew in which a landlord was sentenced to live in his own building involved a 30-day sentence handed down in los angeles last year
he said there were still 400 outstanding violations in gross' building, some dating back five years
joyce stewart, president of the tenants' association, pointed out a large hole in the ceiling of one apartment from which ``water comes down like crazy.''
another tenant, vivian murray, complained of flaking paint chips which she has discovered her 2{-year-old daughter eating
building superintendent sydney pilgrim, while conceding that gross ``is not an angel,'' said the landlord had spent $1 million to repair the building
we know he should not have let the building run down so far, but work is getting done,'' pilgrim said
ms. stewart countered that cosmetic repairs had been done on only 10 to 12 apartments
when you subtract that from 113 apartments, you'll see the real mccoy,'' she said
many foods contain very high levels of natural cancer-causing agents, suggesting that intense efforts to control industrial carcinogens may be misplaced, a researcher said
apples, for example, contain high levels of formaldehyde, which is considered to be a potent carcinogen, said bruce ames, chairman of the biochemistry department at the university of california, berkeley
broccoli contains a substantial amount of a substance that is chemically similar to dioxin. peanut butter is unavoidably contaminated with a fungus that is highly carcinogenic
does that mean we're being done in by vegetables? well, that's what the reality is turning out to be,'' ames said friday at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
ames said he does not, in fact, believe that the cancer-causing agents in food are causing us harm, because we have evolved to defend ourselves against those agents
he believes, however, that the defenses we have evolved also protect us against industrial carcinogens, which cause cancer in the same ways as do natural carcinogens
peter preuss, director of the office of health and environmental assessment at the u.s. environmental protection agency said, ``i think there's a great deal of importance in what professor ames said.''
he was critical, however, of many of ames's calculations. ``while the idea is important, i'm disturbed by the details. i think there's a lot of rigor that has to be introduced into that science before it's accepted.''
he noted, for example, that the dioxin-like substance in broccoli might act differently than dioxin. ``there are a lot of things that are like that, but, nevertheless, dioxin is unique,'' he said
ames said most of the natural carcinogens in plants evolved as a natural defense mechanism
plants don't have teeth, they don't have claws, they can't run away,'' he said. ``all plant evolution is plants developing new and better toxins to fight off predators.''
ames began his talk by saying that the world is full of carcinogens but that they are not as harmful as people believe
one line of evidence to support that, he said, is that, with a few exceptions, rates of cancer have not increased in the industrial era
except for lung cancer, which is due to cigarette smoking, rates of cancer are staying steady or going down,'' he said
while that is true for some cancers, preuss said, others have gone up. they include melanoma, lymphoma and cancer of the testes, prostate and kidney
ames was critical of the use of rats and mice to test whether substances are carcinogenic. ``it's reasonable to think that chemicals that are carcinogens in mice and rats would be carcinogens in people _ but the hook is, at that dose.''
rats are given the maximum dose that won't poison them, he said, but such doses can kill cells in the body and may lead to cancer simply through the disruption they cause. if that were the case, the substances would not be expected to cause cancer at the low doses that humans might be exposed to, he said
ames is the developer of an alternative test that uses bacteria to identify possible carcinogens
ames presented dozens of examples of carcinogens in plants. celery, for example, contains psoralens, which become carcinogenic when exposed to light. the levels are so high that celery pickers often develop a rash on their hands and arms as a result, ames said
potatoes have high levels of solanine and chaconine, which block the action of a human enzyme called cholinesterase, he said. organophosphate pesticides are considered dangerous, said ames, because they do the same thing _ block cholinesterase
one day last year, every person on earth was bombarded with 10,000 billion ghostly particles called neutrinos hurled into space by the explosion of a star, an astronomer said
however, neutrinos are so incredibly small and elusive that they passed through buildings, people and the earth itself with barely a trace. besides, said boston university astronomer larry sulak: ``we are recycled star dust.''
the neutrinos are the remnants of a supernova, an exploding star, that suddenly appeared almost a year ago in the skies of the southern hemisphere
such explosions happen regularly, but this one was in the large magellanic cloud, a galaxy 1 million trillion miles away, which is close by heavenly standards. it is the brightest, from an earthly perspective, in 383 years
scientists who have spent the past year studying the supernova discussed their findings friday at a meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
john bahcall of the institute for advanced study in princeton, n.j., said that last feb. 23, every human on earth was showered with about 10,000 billion neutrinos from the exploding star
however, people are constantly bombarded with neutrinos from our own sun, as well, and the added dose did no harm
only 1 in 10,000 had as much as a single hydrogen atom changed by the neutrinos,'' bahcall said
the subatomic particles have almost zero mass and no charge
he said the supernova explosion was the equivalent of about one million billion billion billion atomic bombs of the kind that destroyed hiroshima. that's more energy than a hundred stars shining like the earth's sun would give off in light over the lifetime of the universe
scientists at the conference said they were surprised and delighted that the supernova acted almost exactly like their theories said it would
it was expected to make neutrinos, and it did, right on schedule,'' said j. craig wheeler of the university of texas in austin. ``the basic predictions have come to pass with this supernova.''
the researchers said that when the star blew up, 99 percent of its exploding energy was released in the form of neutrinos, while most of the rest was light. the neutrinos reached earth three hours before the light. that light, spotted from a mountain top in chile last feb. 24, was the first sign for astronomers of the celestial catastrophe
later, though, scientists found traces of the sudden burst of neutrinos in two huge vats of water, one in the united states and one in japan
sulak operates the u.s. experiment, a square tank of water five stories high that sits in a salt mine beneath lake erie. the tank was built for another purpose _ witnessing the death of protons _ but it also showed that eight neutrinos from the supernova had collided with water molecules. the japanese tank recorded 11 such collisions
the experts believe that nickel was formed during the initial explosion. this decayed in about five days to form radioactive cobalt, which in turn more slowly breaks down to make iron. the cobalt gives off both light and gamma rays
robert p. kirshner of the harvard-smithsonian center for astrophysics said the steady dimming of the supernova has recently begun to accelerate. this is because it is spewing out more of its energy as gamma rays and less as light. however, the destroyed star is still visible with binoculars
supernovas are important to people, because they are the source of many elements that are essential to life
this is the death of a star,'' said kirshner. ``this is the place where the elements are made. the calcium in your bones was made in a supernova explosion.''
four delegates were chosen today to represent this u.s. territory at the republican national convention and all say they support vice president george bush for president
those selected at the territory's republican convention included territorial gov. joseph f. ada, who said of bush: ``he knows where guam is. his heart is in guam. he told me that one of these days the people of guam are going to vote for president.''
although residents of guam are american citizens, they are not allowed to cast ballots in presidential elections
bush said of the guam results: ``this victory is a tribute to the hard work and dedication of our organization there.''
about 200 party members who attended the gop gathering approved a number of resolutions that will be given to all gop presidential candidates
one of the resolutions supports the drive to give territorial residents the right to vote in presidential elections, while another presses for guam to become a commonwealth of the united states
new hampshire's portsmouth herald has endorsed republican bob dole and democrat michael dukakis in tuesday's leadoff presidential primary
the newspaper on friday called dukakis, governor of neighboring massachusetts, ``one man who stands ahead of his colleagues vying for the democratic nomination ... a man who has perceptibly grown in political stature and consciousness of national and foreign affairs since he began his presidential bid.''
the newspaper said dole, the senate minority leader, has ``credibility and leadership. those are but two of his strong suits.''
the newspaper has a circulation of nearly 14,000. nations</head>
the state department is expressing interest in the efforts of three eastern european countries to buy u.s.-made passenger planes, but cautions there may be some stumbling blocks
deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead said friday the three countries, which he declined to identify, have begun talks with the boeing and mcdonnell douglas aircraft companies to supply long-range passenger planes to replace aging soviet equipment in their national airlines
another official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the countries involved were poland, hungary and romania
whitehead said that from the state department's viewpoint, the sales ``would be feasible and desirable'' but he noted two potential problems
buying u.s. aircraft would require large expenditures by the governments and credits from the u.s. export-import bank for the purchases would not be available, whitehead said
the aircraft companies, moreover, would be prohibited from selling equipment on a list of military-applicable goods banned for export to communist countries. this could limit the type of airplanes the countries could buy. agent</head>
the government is reviewing use of the insecticide dichlorvos, common in fly-killing pest strips and other applications, in the wake of studies on laboratory animals that show the chemical may cause cancer and liver damage
a special review, such as that announced friday by the environmental protection agency, could lead to fewer or more restrictions, a ban on the product or its exoneration
some 2 million pounds of dichlorvos are used in about 800 products every year. about 25 percent is used on farm crops, 35 percent on livestock, 25 percent in commercial and industrial buildings and on lawns and ornamental crops, and 15 percent in homes and on pets, epa said
dichlorvos has been used since 1948 against flies, mosquitoes, gnats, cockroaches and other insects
a federal judge says the environmental protection agency hasn't produced any evidence to back its assertion that distribution of remaining stocks of the pesticide chlordane won't cause undue harm
u.s. district judge louis f. oberdorfer said friday the epa hadn't legally proven it can authorize the retail sale of small amounts of the pesticide chlordane as part of a deal to ultimately take the anti-termite chemical off the market
the agency's latest court filing does not satisfy federal law which requires the epa to determine that a pesticide will not unreasonably harm the environment, he said
the epa believes that chlordane causes cancer. to avoid a protracted battle with 197 distributors, the agency has agreed to let them sell chlordane already in stock. in return, the companies are argeeing to cancellation of their licenses to sell the pesticide
widow
the navy and pentagon say they can't explain why they didn't honor a widow's request to withhold public announcement that a military laboratory had identified the remains of her husband who died in the vietnam war
the widow, erna mckinney of san diego, calif., said in a telephone interview she had asked that the identification be withheld because she wanted to obtain a second opinion to verify the military's forensic work
the navy acknowledged late friday that ``due to an oversight,'' the remains of navy lt. clemie mckinney, an aviator who was lost over south vietnam on april 14, 1972, had been transported from hawaii to california this week without informing mrs. mckinney
i told them i didn't want them to release the identification because i wasn't prepared to accept the finding; that i wanted a second opinion,'' said mrs. mckinney
all i can say is that we routinely abide by the family's desires on that point,'' said lt. col. keith schneider. ``if we had been aware of that request here (at the pentagon), we would have made sure the identification was not released publicly.''

here is a list of the political stories that have moved for this cycle:

on the budget:

concord, n.h. _ the presidential campaigns began turning bitter on the final weekend before the new hampshire primary, with jack kemp denouncing a pat robertson commercial as a lie and richard gephardt saying a paul simon ad questions his integrity
slug pm-political rdp. a0447

and these other stories:

concord, n.h. _ richard gephardt angrily demanded that rival presidential aspirant paul simon take ``attack advertisements'' off the airwaves or ``take off the bow tie'' that is the illinois senator's trademark
slug pm-gephardt-simon. a0452

concord, n.h. _ new jersey rep. christopher smith stamped his foot on the airport tarmac, trying to get back the circulation in his big toe. such is the glamor of the campaign trail
slug pm-campaign trail. a0422

with:
pm-politics-quotes. a0467
pm-political briefs. a0466
---bush picks up four territorial votes
---portsmouth herald endorses dole, dukakis in new hampshire primary
industrialist victor posner must design a $3 million project to aid the homeless and work in a downtown shelter for vagrants as part of an unusual sentence for tax evasion
u.s. district judge eugene p. spellman told the 69-year-old tycoon friday that he would have served some of the maximum 40-year prison term he had faced had posner not offered to make a large contribution of time and money instead
posner, whose worth is estimated at more than $240 million, pleaded no contest sept. 29 to evading more than $1.2 million in federal taxes by inflating the value of land he donated to a bible college as a tax exemption
if i didn't have the alternative you've given me, mr. posner, then i would turn to the only alternative the law gives me,'' spellman said. ``that is incarceration
at your age, i doubt you'd be in jail more than six to nine months regardless of the sentence,'' he said
spellman also warned posner, ``not one dollar of the funds of this project are tax-deductible!''
the sentence also includes five years probation, 5,000 hours of community service, $4 million in back taxes, penalties and interest and a $75,000 fine
posner must spend six months with a committee of experts studying the plight of the homeless in south florida, design solutions and then pay a minimum of $3 million to implement them. his sentence begins immediately, spending five hours a week for the next 60 days at the camillus house shelter for the homeless
posner fended off questions after the hearing but responded when asked if the sentencing plan was his idea
i've been involved in charitable work all my life, and i give millions and millions to charity,'' he said
prosecutors had asked spellman to give him jail time, arguing it would be a deterrent to tax evasion
but monsignor bryan walsh, a member of the committee and head of the charity organization of the roman catholic archdiocese of miami, said the sentence could be a great help to the homeless
there is so little help for the homeless in south florida,'' he said, noting the city has no permanent public shelters for them
posner was indicted in 1982 on charges of filing false returns between 1975 and 1979 and of evading taxes by inflating the value of property he donated to miami christian college
miami real estate broker william scharrer sr. was charged with aiding and abetting in the tax violations. he was convicted in 1984 and sentenced to 18 months
posner's holdings include controlling interests in royal crown cola, sharon steel corp., arby's and the graniteville textile company. he was named america's highest-paid executive by business week magazine in 1985
the secretive industrialist, who rarely grants public interview, reportedly earned $8.6 million in 1986
posner, a high school dropout and son of a russian immigrant, has sold off holdings in recent years to pay company debts
his evans products co. and sharon steel have filed for reorganization under chapter 11 of u.s. bankruptcy law
at least half a dozen homemade bombs exploded in dhaka today at the start of a two-day general strike called by the opposition to force president hussain muhammad ershad to resign, witnesses said
the explosions rocked a shopping center near the dhaka university campus, said the witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the campus is a hotbed of opposition agitation
no injuries were reported
but a bomb explosion friday night left one person injured and a two-story house damaged in downtown dhaka, police said
police suspect the victim was making a bomb when it accidentally exploded. the victim and an alleged accomplice were arrested
bombs are frequently used in political unrest, despite tough government laws that include death sentences for bomb throwers
in dhaka's old district, two scooter rickshaws were set on fire today, police said
the dawn-to-dust strike, scheduled to run through sunday, was the 23rd general strike since nov. 10 called by the opposition
the opposition wants ershad to step down and march 3 elections for a new parliament to be held under a neutral caretaker government. the 21 opposition parties are boycotting the polls, saying that elections will be rigged to favor ershad's governing jayiya party
ershad, a 58-year-old former army general who seized power in a coup in 1982, has refused to resign
dhaka stores remained closed today, and most traffic was halted in the city of 4 million residents. some bicycle-powered rickshaws were seen on the streets
riot police guarded the city's main intersections, but they appeared relaxed. some police were seen leaning on their rifles while others read morning newspapers on the sunbaked streets
meanwhile, the death toll in violence during this week's local elections in bangladesh rose to 135, two newspapers reported today
the independent bengali-language daily ittefaq and the english-language new nation reported the toll, which is 55 more than the official figure of 80 deaths
widespread violence hit bangladesh wednesday during voting to elect 4,370 village councils. the deaths resulted from clashes among supporters of rival candidates. at least 8,000 people were injured in the violence
the current violence has brought this impoverished nation of 105 million people to its worst political situation in 17 years of independence. bangladesh was formerly east pakistan
according to trade estimates, bangladesh has lost about $17 million a day in reduced production and exports during the general strikes
people who are able to laugh it up under pressure seem to have greater resistance to stress-related ailments than those who don't, according to a psychologist studying the link between humor and health
this study points to the conclusion that humor does confer some health benefit when you're under stress,'' albert porterfield, assistant professor of psychology at oberlin college, said friday
porterfield based his observations on preliminary results of a study of 140 oberlin students who were tested to determine their sense of humor, then completed questionnaires on incidence of such stress-related maladies as headaches, rashes, and digestive problems
there is a long-recognized relationship between the kinds of stress one encounters throughout life and depression and physical illness,'' porterfield said. ``what isn't well-understood are the factors that determine how strongly day-to-day stress and well-being are linked in people.''
for students whose sense of humor was ranked in the top 50 percent, there was no significant link between their stress levels and how they felt physically, he said. for those on the lower half of the humor scale, there was a positive connection between stress and illness
the results were similar when the same students were tested a year later, porterfield said. the connection between humor and resistance to stress-related illnesses seems to show a marked increase for those above the 60th percentile in the humor rating, he said
the humor rankings were based on two tests: one presents subjects with hypothetical situations and asks them how they would respond; the other deals with subjects' use of humor in times of stress
john crean is a familiar face at the exchange club, even though he has missed about 1,400 meetings of the civic group since helping found it
crean is one of the club's strongest supporters, said jerry kobrin, a friend and fellow member, ``but for the 27 years he's been a member, he's never attended a meeting.''
well, not exactly; creen has been to two
the local businessman's most recent appearance at an exchange club meeting was thursday, when members gathered at a newport beach restaurant to present him with a ``perfect non-attendance award.''
i'm usually busy in the middle of the day and can't find time to come here,'' crean explained
then he pointed out that he really didn't deserve the award
actually,'' he said, ``i was here once, 10 years ago, so it's not really perfect non-attendance.''
rock music fans are used to standing in long ticket lines for big concerts, but this week it's the late playwright eugene o'neill who's causing waits of an hour or more
it's pretty unusual,'' yale repertory theatre press director robert wildman said friday
the yale rep is presenting two o'neill plays, ``ah, wilderness!'' and ``long day's journey into night,'' both starring jason robards and colleen dewhurst, from late march through may 21
the plays, presented in celebration of the 100th anniversary of o'neill's birth, may go on to new york city and the soviet union
since tickets went on sale monday, ticket buyers have had to wait between an hour and an hour and a half, wildman said. when ticket booths opened monday, more than 75 people waited in a line that extended onto the sidewalk and around a corner, and the waits for some were more than two hours
since the performances were announced last august, eager playgoers have been asking about tickets, some calling from as far away as texas, wildman said
directing ``long day's journey'' is jose quintero, who also directed robards and dewhurst in the 1973 tony award-winning revival of ``a moon for the misbegotten,'' another o'neill play
robards' 1956 performance in o'neill's ``the iceman cometh,'' also under quintero's direction, launched him to stardom. the 1956 production also popularized the play largely ignored for the 10 years after its debut
authorities today said they intercepted 1.4 tons of top-grade heroin bound for new york worth more than $2 billion on the street, in what was believed to be the world's largest single heroin bust
the 2,822 pounds of no. 4 grade heroin were hidden in bales of rubber sheets on a freighter at klong toey port in bangkok, said viroj laohaphan, the director general of the customs department
no. 4 grade heroin is 97 percent pure
viroj said the drug was discovered when customs officials, acting on a tip, began opening the 665 bales earlier this week. heroin had been found in 62 bales by the time the search was completed friday night, he told a news conference
the ship was to leave for new york later this month, authorities said
the packing in rubber sheets prevented police dogs from smelling the heroin,'' viroj said. ``if this amount of heroin had left thailand, it would have killed an uncountable number of people.''
viroj said the previous largest heroin bust was of 2,640 pounds, seized in france in 1972
ross petzing, spokesman for the u.s. embassy in bangkok, said the biggest previous heroin seizure that u.s. drug enforcement administration officials in thailand could recall was a haul also of 2,640 pounds
that seizure was made several years ago on a shrimp boat off the coast of a central american country, petzing said. he said he had no further details of that bust
petzing said no. 4 grade heroin, cut, diluted and sold on the streets of new york, would fetch about $1.6 million a kilogram, which equals 2.2 pounds. he quoted dea agents as saying the drug probably was bought in northern thailand for about $4,400 a kilo
the officials said the heroin was believed to have come from southeast asia's ``golden triangle'' _ a major drug producing region where the borders of thailand, laos and burma converge
viroj said thai authorities have questioned an employee of the shipping company, but made no arrests. ``it will take time to find the masterminds,'' he said, declining to give details
he said the rubber bales were to have been exported by the rubber plus import-export company to the a.i.c. company in the new york city borough of queens. he said u.s. authorities had inspected 300 bales at the company's elmhurst, queens, warehouse but did not find incriminating evidence
viroj said he received information, however, that a woman representative of a.i.c. was arrested
news reports said the manager of the rubber plus import-export had disappeared and police found its offices in bangkok deserted
thai authorities seized 1,496 pounds of heroin aboard a trawler off the southern province of chumphon last oct. 20 in what was then described as thailand's biggest heroin bust. wednesday, give reason, add locator; picks up 4th graf, ``lerner and loewe ...''</note>
songwriter frederick loewe, who teamed with lyricist alan jay lerner for such hit broadway musicals as ``camelot,'' and ``my fair lady,'' was in fair condition today in a hospital cardiac unit, a spokeswoman said
loewe, 86, was rushed to desert hospital wednesday night after he experienced chest pains and trouble breathing, said his guardian, john f. morris.the songwriter was admitted to the hospital in serious condition thursday, said hospital spokeswoman linda riggs
loewe was transferred late friday from intensive care to the hospital's cardiac care unit, said a spokeswoman who declined to be identified
he was in fair condition this morning, said a nursing supervisor who refused to give her name
palm springs is 100 miles east of los angeles
lerner and loewe's collaboration lasted 18 years, from a one-night flop in detroit in 1942 through ``brigadoon'' in 1947 and ``my fair lady'' in 1956. they parted bitterly after ``camelot,'' their last broadway hit, in 1960
critic brooks atkinson called ``my fair lady,'' a musical adaptation of george bernard shaw's ``pygmalion,'' ``one of the best musicals of the century ... close to the genius of creation.''
i could have danced all night'' and ``on the street where you live'' were two immediate hits, but ``get me to the church on time,'' ``with a little bit of luck'' and ``i've grown accustomed to her face'' also became standards. lerner and loewe reportedly needed just 10 minutes to write another song from the show, ``the rain in spain.''
other memorable songs included ``almost like being in love,'' from ``brigadoon,''; ``thank heaven for little girls,'' from ``gigi,'' and ``if ever i would leave you,'' from ``camelot.''
the team reunited in 1973 for a broadway production of ``gigi,'' which they had done as a film in 1958. loewe retired permanently in 1974, but they remained friends. lerner died in 1986. wait</head>
it could be months before an ironworker learns whether he will regain the use of a hand torn off in an industrial accident and joined to his abdomen for 2{ months to save it, doctors say
twelve doctors reattached mike thomas' hand to his arm during 22{ hours of surgery that ended friday. thomas, 31, of cleveland, ala., was in serious condition in an intensive care unit at university hospital
to our knowledge, this is the first time a severed limb has been kept (alive) this way'' in the united states, said hospital spokesman hank black
even if the surgery turns out successful, the nerve damage to the hand was such that thomas ``will never be able to do the type work he did before,'' said one of the surgeons, paul sauer
hopefully, we will have a hand which will at least have enough feeling to serve as a helper to mr. thomas' other hand, and one that is cosmetically superior to a prosthesis,'' he said
he said that thomas would be required to keep his left arm and hand in a cradle-like position
sauer and another surgeon, michael miller, said it might be months before miller learns whether he will be able to use his left hand at all. if the reattachment doesn't work, they said, the hand might have to be amputated
meanwhile, he will go through intensive therapy
we think that we can achieve adequate circulation to the hand and that the bone will grow together, but how well the nerves and muscles will regenerate is the question,'' sauer said
using microscopes and sutures thinner than a human hair, the surgeons reattached two of the three main nerves to the hand
thomas lost the hand, wrist and a small part of his forearm when he grabbed a cable to break a 70-foot fall from a girder while he was working at a church nov. 24. the cable wrapped around his forearm and pulled the hand off
because the break was not clean, doctors said, they were not sure at first whether the nerves were damaged too badly to allow the implant
to gain time to study the problem, they decided to attach the hand's arteries, veins and skin to those on his abdomen
such an attachment has been used twice, once successfully, in yugoslavia, with a broken limb attached to blood vessels under an arm, doctors said
thomas is expected to return home within two weeks
eight convicts armed with knives and homemade bombs escaped from a southern penal colony by taking hostage the penitentiary's superintendent and his wife, police said today
the hostages were released later
most of the escapees are serving terms for murder
police said the inmates barged into the chapel of the san ramon prison and penal farm and seized superintendent leonito narvaez and his wife as the couple attended mass late friday with other prison officials and prisoners
the inmates then walked out the gates of the sprawling complex, threatening to kill the hostages if guards tried to stop them, police said
narvaez and his wife were released two hours later in a village several miles away
most inmates at the penal colony, near zamboanga city 540 miles southeast of manila, live with their families and are allowed to cultivate small farms within the complex
taking valentine's day seriously is the raison d'etre behind paris' first ``salon de l'amour,'' where the lovelorn can seek counsel in trying to ignite, revive or fan the flames of passion
why is love always presented in such a fragmented way when love is indivisible?'' asked fabienne baudot, an organizer of the four-day exhibition. ``the range of exhibitors here is intentionally vast to give visitors as much information as possible.''
stands around the hall display sense enhancers such as lingerie and aphrodisiacs. there are counselors on sex and health and a booth with information on aids
it's not because you love a car that you know how to drive it,'' said dr. jacques waynberg, a leading paris sexologist who is among the specialists lecturing on love at the event that runs through valentine's day
the traditional box of chocolates has been replaced by a new valentine's day wine, produced in the rhone river town of roquemaure where the relics of st. valentine are kept
valentine's day gets less fanfare in france than across the atlantic, and experts say this first salon reflects a trend
an exhibition founded on the word love wouldn't have been understood by the french public five years ago,'' waynberg said in an interview. then, people were ``more sensitized to the sexual dimension of things.''
an exhibit on eroticism is held in paris annually. but in france, as in other western countries, the trend is toward the less ephemeral aspects of a relationship
waynberg told a conference that sex is like a job _ to be learned _ and that sex and love do not necessarily mix
erotic life obeys a certain competence. it is a job. you have to know how to make love,'' he said. otherwise, ``it's like giving a beautiful book to someone who doesn't know how to read.''
waynberg emphasized the fragile foundations of many relationships, so often based on passionate or sentimental love, both volatile commodities
it's a sentiment that i question as a professional,'' he said. ``in poetry, it is good. in art, it is perfect. in itself, it is highly questionable .... ``i don't say love is sad, but i say it's dangerous
if there is no `marriage de raison' between a couple, then you must have reason in a marriage of love.''
the emphasis on passion and sex is falling off, according to a recent cover story in the newsweekly vsd
a 1972 study showed that 80 percent of french adults considered a successful sex life a determining source of happiness. a poll taken in 1986 showed that only 39 percent of french people considered sex a determining factor in their happiness
a poll earlier this month indicated that one french woman in three and one french man in four is ``sometimes'' or ``often'' bored during lovemaking
today's young generation is moving away from the joys of eros, waynberg said. the young women are taking a fresh look at their grandmothers, mistresses of hearth and home, and reassessing their options
grandmother was maybe not such a bimbo after all,'' waynberg said
as the session closed, a portly, elderly man shook his head in agreement. sex and love are two separate things, he said. then, turning to his neighbor, he recalled his late wife, who died eight years ago
during her illness, she told him to pay a visit to another woman
another woman?'' the man repeated with a hint of amazement and admiration, and as though the incident were yesterday. ``now that's love, isn't it? that's love.'' husband</head>
friends urged a teen-age girl bringing valentine's candy and flowers home from school to run when her estranged husband showed up, but he shot her to death before critically wounding himself, authorities said
janie gallardo, 16, died shortly after being shot in the back of the head friday, said police sgt. richard castillon
her 28-year-old husband, johnny gallardo, was in critical condition today at wilford hall air force medical center with a gunshot wound to the head, said a center employee who refused to identify himself
gallardo was charged with murder late friday, and night magistrate quon lew set his bond at $100,000
mrs. gallardo had been in the process of obtaining a restraining order against her husband, castillon said
they were married, but were separated for the past three months and she had been receiving a lot of harassment from that guy,'' he explained. the couple had been married three years, family members said
on friday, the teen-ager was carrying a box of valentine's candy, two carnations and a small stuffed teddy bear she had received during a party at lowell middle school
she was apparently getting off the bus coming from school. as she and her girlfriends were walking home, they noticed her ex-husband and they told the girl to `run, run,' but she didn't and he pulled the gun and shot her once in the back of the head,'' castillon said
just at the same time, he put the gun to his head and fired twice,'' castillon said
rosa ferrer said she saw the girl walking down the street and a man following her
then the first shot, he shot the girl, and then he shot himself,'' she told ksat-tv. ``we were the first ones here with the girl and the boy. she was already dead. he was alive.'' injured, details on weather, background on school, adds byline.</note>
a five-alarm fire today consumed the landmark high school that inspired the hit movie and tv show ``fame,'' injuring 30 of the 200 firefighters battling the blaze in freezing temperatures and high winds
the third, fourth and fifth floors and a section of the roof of the six-story former high school for the performing arts in manhattan collapsed, forcing officials to pull all firefighters out of the building, said spokesman efrain parrilla
some firefighters were sent back into the building about two hours later because there was no other way to get to the blaze, parilla said
the fire was declared under control by 5:30 a.m., nearly five hours after it was reported, parrilla said. pockets of flame were expected to continue burning through the morning, but firefighters were expected to be able to keep it from spreading
four firefighters were sent to hospitals with minor injuries, parrilla said. twenty-six others were treated at the scene for sprain, cuts, and other minor injuries
the fire at what is now liberty high school near times square was reported at 12:38 a.m. the blaze started on the third floor and burned up to the roof, parrilla said
high winds and slippery conditions due to recent snow and rain hampered firefighters, the spokesman said. the national weather service reported winds gusting to 28 mph and wind chills of minus 7
the high school was designated a city landmark in 1982. the performing arts school, part of the public school system, combined with the high school of music and art about three years ago and moved to a new home
although the board of education did not permit film crews to shoot scenes for ``fame'' inside the high school building, the facade was seen in the 1980 film and the tv series. boston, add that hotel was field hq.</note>
longtime cbs newsman anthony streuli, who was directing the network's coverage of the new hampshire primary, died in his hotel room, the network said. he was 43
streuli, from the boston suburb of marblehead, apparently died of natural causes friday at the hotel that was serving as cbs' field headquarters, said network spokesman tom goodman. no autopsy was performed, he said
we shall mourn him and we shall miss him,'' anchor dan rather said in a brief tribute to streuli on friday's ``cbs evening news.''
all of us are stunned by his death, and saddened by this tragic loss to his family and colleagues,'' said cbs news president howard stringer
streuli, the boston producer for cbs news since april 1986, joined the radio network as a newswriter in 1969. during his career, he worked on the ``cbs morning news,'' ``cbs evening news'' and as assistant bureau chief in london
a 1966 colgate university graduate, streuli was born in zurich, switzerland, and worked for the armed forces radio network before joining cbs. he spent 11 years with network radio, and moved to the television side in 1981
he is survived by three brothers: peter of lausanne, switzerland; konrad of bolton, mass.; and mark of stowe, vermont
a winter storm ran out of steam in the northeast early today, while light snow fell in the central appalachians, parts of the midwest and along the great lakes
snow was expected to taper off today in new england and eastern new york, where 12 to 18 inches piled up after the storm rolled into the region early friday
blowing and drifting snow was expected today in extreme northeastern ohio, where more than 2 inches fell overnight
advisories for snow were in effect this morning for the mountains of western pennsylvania and west virginia and the northern mountains of north carolina
advisories for lake effect snow were posted tonight for parts of western pennsylvania, northeastern ohio and western new york
heavier snowfall in six hour overnight included 7 inches in limestone, maine, 5 at lebanon, n.h., and caribou, maine, and 4 inches at burlington, vt
marine storm warnings were in effect for the coasts of maine and new hampshire, where 60 mph gusts were likely. gale warnings were posted for the central atlantic coast and over lakes erie and huron
clear skies were widespread from the southern atlantic states across the lower mississippi valley, the central and southern plains, and most of the central and southern rockies
scattered light rain fell in washington state and northern idaho
freezing temperatures were reported across extreme northern florida, where a hard freeze warning was posted
subzero temperatures were common across the upper mississippi valley. temperatures in the single digits and teens were common from the eastern dakotas across the middle mississippi valley, the ohio and tennessee valleys, the great lakes and the appalachians
in california on friday, record highs for the date were set at several locations, including san francisco, where it was 69, one degree warmer than the record set in 1953
a high of 86 in tucson, ariz., broke the record for the date of 85 set in 1957
today's forecast called for snow from western new york and pennsylvania through northern and central new england; scattered rain and mountain snow from washington state and northern oregon across idaho, montana, western wyoming and northern idaho to northwest colorado; gusty winds across the northern rockies
highs were expected to reach the teens and 20s from the upper mississippi valley across the great lakes and the ohio valley into northern new england and the central appalachians; 60s and 70s across the southern plains; 80 in the desert southwest; 60s over southern and central florida; 30s, 40s or 50s across much of the rest of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 7 degrees below zero at moline, ill., and international falls, minn., to 63 degrees at los angeles:
other reports:
_east: atlanta 23 partly cloudy; boston 31 snow; buffalo 16 snow; caribou 16 snow; charleston s.c. 32 fair; cincinnati 7 cloudy; cleveland 10 cloudy; detroit 15 partly cloudy; miami 46 fair; new york 24 blowing snow; philadelphia 21 windy; pittsburgh 13 snow; portland maine 23 snow; washington 21 fair
_central: bismarck 17 partly cloudy; chicago 00 fair; dallas-fort worth 41 fair; denver 38 fair; des moines 14 cloudy; indianapolis -2 fair; kansas city 17 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 3 snow; nashville 18 snow; new orleans 37 fair; st. louis 16 snow
_west: albuquerque 38 fair; anchorage 19 fair; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 58 fair; phoenix 58 fair; salt lake city 29 fair; san diego 59 fair; san francisco 50 fair; seattle 44 windy
_canada: montreal 14 snow; toronto 16 snow. collisions</head> `on friday night, ...</note>
two u.s. warships violated soviet territorial waters, ignored warnings from patrol craft and made ``dangerous maneuvers'' that led to collisions with soviet ships in the black sea, a soviet admiral charged today
rear adm. nikolai p. markov appeared at a hastily called news briefing to give the first detailed kremlin version of the incident that happened off the crimean peninsula, in which two soviet navy vessels grazed the american warships
on friday night, the defense ministry accused the american vessels of violating soviet waters, but did not mention any physical contact between them and soviet ships
u.s. navy officials said the cruiser uss yorktown and the destroyer uss caron were deliberately bumped while exercising their right to pass through international waters
however, markov and foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov told reporters the u.s. warships were knowingly violating soviet waters, and said the collisions were the fault of the american captains
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims a 12-mile limit along its coast
gerasimov said u.s. ambassador jack matlock had been summoned to the foreign ministry today, where deputy foreign minister alexander bessmertnykh read him a ``strong protest
the soviet side cannot but view the actions of the united states navy as aimed at undermining the process of improvement in soviet-american relations which has appeared recently,'' gerasimov said, quoting from the protest
u.s. navy cmdr. richard schiff, a lawyer, said friday in washington that any country claiming a 12-mile territorial limit ``must allow for innocent passage by the ships of all nations.''
but markov and gerasimov said soviet law does not provide for the right of innocent passage in black sea waters, which the soviets have longed claimed as their own
markov was repeatedly asked to specify what he meant by ``dangerous maneuvers,'' and said the american warships had been warned both before and after entering soviet waters
generally one can and should regard the very fact of entering soviet territorial waters as dangerous maneuvering'' he said
he said the two soviet warships, identified by pentagon officials as a krivak-class frigate and a mirka-class patrol boat, were on a ``basically parallel course'' with the u.s. vessels when the grazings occurred
the larger krivak-class vessel brushed the left side of the yorktown, while the caron was grazed on the same side by the patrol craft, u.s. officials said
both u.s. and soviet officials have said the grazings caused no injuries
markov did not name the soviet warships, but a small chart displayed at the briefing identified them as the frigate bezzavetny and the patrol ship skr-6
according to the chart, the american warships, steaming eastward, entered soviet waters at about 11 a.m. moscow time south of sevastopol, headquarters of the soviet black sea fleet
markov said at one time, the two american ships were as close as 9.2 miles to shore. he said they remained in soviet territorial waters following the grazings
the yorktown left soviet waters at 12:21 p.m. moscow time south of the resort city of yalta, and the caron, sailing north of the cruiser, followed about a half-hour later, according to the chart
at last notice, the two u.s. vessels were back to ``routine operations'' in the black sea, navy capt. gerry flynn said friday in washington
markov said the friday incident was the third of its kind in recent years
in march 1986, the same two ships, the yorktown and the caron, violated soviet territorial waters in the black sea, he said, and two american warships penetrated soviet waters off kamchatka in the soviet far east last year
in washington, a high-ranking state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that although the department had protested the soviet's behavior, he did not expect the incident to disturb a u.s.-soviet effort to narrow differences on arms control, human rights, regional disputes and bilateral issues
secretary of state george p. shultz is scheduled to go to moscow in two weeks to further those efforts and talk about a u.s.-soviet summit meeting tentatively scheduled in the soviet capital in the spring
researchers in japan, switzerland and the united states are experimenting with a new class of ceramics which may carry larger electric currents than other superconductors, a swiss scientist reported
karl alex muller, a 1987 nobel laureate in physics, told a breakfast meeting at boston university on friday the new ceramic compounds were discovered in japan in january
he said they were duplicated and improved by researchers in his zurich laboratory
meanwhile, du pont co. scientists friday said they had been able to duplicate the japanese results and had also identified the structure and composition of the ceramics
muller is scheduled to address the american association for the advancement of science, which is holding its annual meeting here, on monday
i am very glad; i'm delighted that we have found these new compounds,'' said muller, who received an honorary doctorate from the university thursday. ``with these temperatures, you can be much more optimistic about achieving high currents.''
the new ceramics may overcome a problem with other materials which bar the running of large currents through high-temperature superconductors, researchers said
superconductors are materials which allow transmission of electricity with no resistance or loss of energy. materials which can carry high electric currents and generate large magnetic fields might lead to very fast computers and-long distance transmission of electricity
a team of scientists at the national institute for metals in tsukuba, japan, was the first to find superconductivity in the new ceramics, working at 243 degrees below zero
the material is made up bismuth, strontium, calcium and copper, mixed with oxygen
muller indicated that his team working for the international business machines corp. also had been able to identify the material's structure
he said his group had achieved superconductivity at higher temperatures than the japanese, but declined to provide details
researchers are writing a report on the results, said ibm spokesman gerald present
researchers in superconductivity have sought to find a stable, reproducible material that works at temperatures above 288 degrees below zero. superconductivity becomes stronger as temperature drops. cross</head>
two hundred years after a group of men gathered to write the constitution, women and minorities are closing in on equal status but still have many hurdles to cross, coretta scott king told a national symposium
mrs. king, wife of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr., said friday that criticism of the constitution as it was adopted in 1787 is justified
her speech came in the closing day of a symposium on women and the constitution convened by former first ladies rosalynn carter and lady bird johnson. about 1,500 women from all 50 states and 10 foreign countries attended
some people apparently feel that blacks and women should join in an uncritical celebration of a document that protected the slave trade and denied women their democratic rights,'' mrs. king said. ``we still have a way to go before we can say that the constitution is working for all americans.''
mrs. king echoed another speaker at the symposium, 1984 vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro, in calling for more political activism on the part of women
if america is to fulfill the promise of the constitution, we will need many more women of all races holding elective office,'' mrs. king said. ``we have a strength and tenacity and a gift for nurturing and compassion which has been finely honed and tempered in our struggle to raise families in a sexist society.''
we just might save this nation from its pending apointment with armageddon,'' she said
mrs. king said the civil rights struggles of the 1950s and 1960s laid the groundwork for the women's rights movements of the years that followed. she said the kind of organized, non-violent dissent championed by her late husband is still an effective form of protest
the (civil rights) movement showed millions of americans that you can, indeed you must, defy authority when that authority is in the wrong,'' mrs. king said
earlier friday, ms. ferraro said that while no women are among the candidates for president in either party, women have reached higher levels in the campaign organizations than ever before
the women who hold positions of responsibility in presidential campaigns, whether or not their candidate is ultimately successful, will forge contacts and gain credibility that will endure beyond this election cycle,'' she said
many of them will be back, with higher ambitions and sharper skills, in 1992,'' ms. ferraro said
ms. ferraro, whose presence on the 1984 democratic ticket with walter mondale was a high point for the women's movement, said the women in some of the 1988 campaigns will go on to be advisers to the next president
and that's important, too,'' she said. ``the current administration has widely been regarded as hostile to women's issues. that is in part because this president's inner circle of advisers ... have except for his wife been men.''
it's really scary.'' _ retired adm. eugene carroll, after the pentagon reported that two u.s. warships were deliberately bumped by soviet vessels in a confrontation off the crimean coast
we're getting the harvest of the last decade's very high unemployment rate among minorities.'' peter rossi, a sociologist at the university of massachusetts in amherst, who found in a study that today's homeless are younger, more likely to be women and more likely to belong to minority groups than the homeless of a generation ago
if this amount of heroin had left thailand, it would have killed an uncountable number of people.'' _ viroj laohaphan, director general of thailand's customs department, after authorities seized 2,822 pounds of the narcotic in what was believed to be the world's largest single heroin bust
carnival, when practically the whole of brazil puts its worries aside and parties round-the-clock for four straight days, struts and sways to a start today
the festival ends on ash wednesday, feb. 17, when brazilians can begin pondering again the nation's huge foreign debt and corruption scandals in the suitable bleakness of lent
for now, however, party is the word
carnival is an escape valve,'' said roberto couri, president of rio's monte libano club, a main center of celebration. ``it doesn't matter what troubles there may be. when carnival comes, brazilians plunge right in.''
carnival seems to have been made for brazilians, and they began working up to it well in advance. so many people had their minds on carnival this week that it was difficult to transact business with either private companies or the government
not even a strike that began friday by the nation's two largest airlines, varig and vasp, would stop the party. flight crews walked off the job and said they would strike until sunday, tying up most domestic and some international flights
in brasilia, the normally sedate inland capital, a pre-festival highlight was a ``bar-athon.''
contestants ran about 3{ miles, and the winner was the person who swilled the most beer from an accompanying tank truck, not the one who finished first
in rio, the hub of carnival, noisy block parties punctured the week and the first balls were held in a series that continues through the celebration
the dances, which attract thousands of revelers and last all night, range from the sophisticated champagne ball to the earthy bum-bum ball
one of the most popular events is rio's ``samba school'' parade, scheduled for sunday and monday nights in the ``sambadrome,'' six blocks of open-air concrete bleachers near downtown
competing will be the city's 16 best samba schools, which serve as neighborhood social clubs
each school puts 4,000-6,000 brilliantly costumed people on the route in a spectacle that lasts for about 16 hours each day
most participants, dressed as kings, princesses, amazon chieftains, greek gods and maharajas, toil the rest of the year at non-descript jobs that often pay the minimum wage of $60 a month
when it began, the samba school parade was an informal folk event. now it is big business
this year the samba school league, formed in 1985 to protect the clubs' interests, sold exclusive television rights for the parades for a reported $1 million to the commercial network tv globo
samba parade tickets for foreign tourists were jacked up this year to as much as $238 each, payable in u.s. dollars
many local travel agents refused to distribute them at such prices
the president of the samba school league, a burly man known only as captain guimaraes, said on television: ``in the past, samba schools were exploited, yet they were the ones who created the entire show. yes, we're after more money ... to protect the traditional values of samba.''
many carnival tourists are among the estimated 30,000 to 40,000 people who will be affected by the strike of varig and vasp flight crews, the airlines' press offices said
non-brazilian carriers were not affected by the strike friday. transbrasil, brazil's other major airline, operated normally after reaching a separate agreement with its flight crews
edson antonio matosinho, one of the directors of brazil's 12,000-member flight crew union, said in a telephone interview that about 7,000 varig and vasp employees joined the strike
the strike was called to demand a 65 percent wage hike, matosinho said
flight crew workers' salaries range from $385 to $3,300 a month, he said. ``storm warnings ...</note>
a winter storm that plastered the northeast with more than 2 feet of snow and gale-force winds began to peter out today after shutting down schools, government offices, highways and much of new hampshire's presidential campaign
at least 22 traffic deaths were blamed on the storm, although no one was injured when wind gusting to 50 mph tore down 15 stories of metal construction scaffolding around a building in white plains, n.y., on friday
the storm, which had gained strength as it moved northward from texas through the great lakes region earlier in the week, left 12 to 25 inches of snow from eastern new york across much of vermont and new hampshire to southern maine on friday, the national weather service said
it's one of the biggest ones of the year. new york and vermont, they get these things one every year or two,'' said lyle alexander of the national severe storms forecast center
storm warnings for northern maine and vermont were still in effect this morning as the storm headed into canada, alexander said
it's terrible out there,'' new hampshire state police dispatcher norman st. hilaire, said friday, reporting numerous vehicles sliding off highways
ironically, across the continent in calgary, alberta, white sand was trucked in to fill in melting patches on the field used for today's opening ceremonies of the winter olympics. it hasn't snowed there for a week
snow accumulations included 25 inches in crawford notch, n.h., 23 in lebanon, over two feet in brattleboro, vt., 14 inches in the berkshires of eastern massachusetts and more than 13 inches in jewett, n.y
in the south, up to 3 inches of snow, freezing rain and sleet left roads extremely slippery across northern sections of mississippi and alabama, and into parts of tennessee and kentucky, and many vehicles slid into ditches
a foot of snow and wind gusting to 60 mph immobilized much of new hampshire's presidential campaign, holing up vice president bush in his hotel and forcing democratic hopeful paul simon to cancel his morning schedule
bob dole and pat robertson couldn't get out of the state for appearances elsewhere, while jesse jackson and al gore, in virginia, and jack kemp, in washington, couldn't get into the state
only richard gephardt had a campaign event made to order for such a day _ watching a dog sled race in laconia
boston's logan international airport closed for about six hours because of poor visibility in blowing snow and hundreds of travelers camped out in waiting lounges
connecticut's bradley international airport closed for more than two hours while 8 inches of snow was removed. usair canceled flights into albany, n.y., during the morning
almost all new hampshire legislative hearings were canceled, and state offices closed at noon, and blowing snow led some towns to close municipal offices in northwestern massachusetts
ski operators, however, were ecstatic over the storm, which arrived in time for the presidents' day holiday weekend and valentine's day on sunday
it couldn't have come at a better time,'' said chris conti, office manager with the vermont ski areas association in montpelier
schools were closed because of snow or icy roads friday in parts of alabama, kentucky, mississippi, massachusetts, maine, michigan, new york, pennsylvania, vermont and ohio
cold air pushed southward in the storm's wake and friday morning temperatures were only in the teens in the south. record lows included 11 at el dorado, ark.; 2 at paducah, ky., 27 below zero at st. cloud, minn., and 32 below zero at duluth, minn
traffic deaths attributed to the weather included five in arkansas, four in texas, three in tennessee and indiana, two each in new york and vermont, and one each in michigan, maryland and kentucky
guerrillas attacked a white farmer's house with rocket launchers and firearms early today, then fled across the border into zimbabwe, the government said
no one was injured in the pre-dawn attack and damage to the farmhouse was minor, said the regional army commander, gen. george meiring. he said a limpet mine and anti-personnel mines were found in the area
south african officials said the attackers had entered from zimbabwe and sent a terse message to the government of the neighboring, black-ruled state
the south african government urges the zimbabwean government immediately to seek out the attackers and also wishes to state that it reserves the right to take whatever steps it deems necessary to prevent further incursions of this nature,'' the message said
in the past, south african forces have staged raids into neighboring countries on suspected bases of the african national congress black guerrilla movement
zimbabwe, like several other countries bordering south africa, says it allows the anc to operate politically but not militarily in its territory
over the past three years, anc guerrillas occasionally have placed land mines on the roads of white-owned farms in south african border areas
about 20 whites and blacks have been killed in the attacks, which the anc says are justified because most white farmers participate in an anti-guerrilla civil defense network
during the land mine campaign, there have been few assaults on farmhouses
the anc is the main guerrilla group fighting to end white-minority domination in south africa
south africa's 5 million whites control the government and maintain separate districts, schools and health services under a legal and traditional system of racial segregation called apartheid. the country's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs
in a separate incident, police said two black municipal policemen were shot and seriously wounded friday night by unknown assailants in soweto, johannesburg's main black township
black officers have been frequent targets of anc guerrillas and anti-apartheid militants who consider them government collaborators
authorities said three suspects were in custody today in connection with an aborted attempt to assassinate president amin gemayel by planting a bomb in a plane he was to take to north yemen and sudan
a police spokesman said the three were being held ``in solitary confinement pending completion of investigation.''
the spokesman, who cannot be identified in line with regulations, refused to give the suspects' names. he only said they were all ``lebanese airport employees.''
a one-pound charge of tnt was planted under the pilot's seat of the middle east airlines boeing 707 that had been scheduled to leave for larnaca, cyprus, friday and later fly gemayel to north yemen
the bomb was found and defused by explosives experts at beirut airport
gemayel, 44, left on another middle east arlines boeing 707 today
the president usually travels by military helicopter from the christian heartland northeast of beirut to larnaca, and flies from there to world capitals
gemayel, a maronite catholic, has not used the beirut airport in the city's western moslem sector since 1984, when moslem and leftist militias wrested control of the sector from the lebanese army
the airport is now currently controlled by syrian troops, who deployed in the western sector nearly a year ago in an effort to end three years of militia anarchy
the police spokesman said the explosive charge was equipped with ``a sophisticated pressure fuse that would have detonated it when the plane reaches an altitude of 30,000 feet
this means that the bomb was designed to explode during the presidential flight from larnaca to san`a when the plane usually flies at 30,000 feet and more,'' the spokesman said
planes, during the 20-minute trip from beirut to larnaca, usually do not fly at an altitude of more than 10,000 feet,'' he said
lebanon has been plagued by assassinations, car bombings and kidnappings since its moslem-christian civil war broke out in 1975. the conflict has claimed more than 130,000 lives
moslem prime minister rashid karami was killed june 1 by a bomb planted in a lebanese army helicopter that was flying him from north lebanon to beirut
moslem leaders blamed the assassination on the lebanese forces, a right-wing christian militia alliance, and accused gemayel of covering up for them
gemayel's brother, bashir, who led the lebanese forces, was killed sept. 14 1982 in a bomb explosion at a political gathering a week before he was to take office as elected president of lebanon
amin gemayel was later elected president. sandwich</head>
an airport restaurant employee who says he was fired for not charging mayor eugene sawyer for a $4.95 beef sandwich may soon find himself working for the city of chicago
sawyer, upon hearing about the dismissal of michael bueschel, indicated late friday that the 23-year-old college student could end up with a job working for him
i'll help him find one,'' said sawyer, who ate the sandwich on his way to a speaking engagement in alabama on thursday. ``if he can't find one for him, i'll give him one myself.''
bueschel, a sophomore at richard j. daley college who has been working his way through college, said he thought all along the mayor would sympathize with his plight
he's a very fair person, and i'd be more than honored to work with him if he deems it necessary,'' he said. ``i had a feeling the mayor would really take care of me.''
bueschel said he was fired for ``misappropriation of company funds'' from a $5-an-hour restaurant job with midway airport restaurant inc. upon reporting to work at the cafe volare on friday afternoon
i was informed i had been terminated because i didn't receive permission to give a sandwich to the mayor of the fine city of chicago,'' bueschel said
generally, i would give a public official like that a complimentary meal to keep up public relations.''
restaurant manager michael oswald told the associated press friday he would have no comment
a 39-year-old american woman was sentenced to 10 ears of hard labor for the attempted smuggling of seven ounces of cocaine, the news agency of nigeria reported
anita bennie lee temidayo, 39, of washington, d.c., was arrested at lagos airport with her nigerian husband in december 1986 while preparing to board a pan american airways flight to the united states, the agency said
mrs. temidayo, who was sentenced friday, confessed to the attempted smuggling but said her husband, olurunmi temidayo, was not involved. the lagos miscellaneous offenses tribunal acquitted temidayo
the tribunal said it could not grant mrs. temidayo's request to serve the sentence in the united states, saying the decision must be made by the federal military authorities. she told the tribunal she was suffering from hypertension and high blood pressure. convoy</head> occurred about same time as reported iraqi attack; adds details of convoys; picks up 18th graf pvs, `smith said ...</note>
an iraqi jet bomber fired a cruise missile within eight miles of the uss chandler in the persian gulf after the american destroyer warned the warplane away with flares, the warship's captain said
the chandler, which went to full alert, was escorting four u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers, and neither it nor the merchant ships were hit. no injuries were reported
the chandler and the tankers were not the apparent targets
the incident occurred friday night and was reported today by the pentagon's persian gulf media pool
pool reporters said the incident occurred at about 9 p.m. and that the iraqi badger bomber was on a trajectory toward the iranian oil terminal of sirri island. the iraqis reported hitting a ``very large maritime target,'' or supertanker, at sirri island at about the same time
reporters could not determine whether any targets were actually struck at sirri
iraqi planes occasionally have mistakenly hit fishing trawlers and other neutral vessels
last may, an iraqi jet fired a missile into the frigate uss stark, killing 37 american sailors. iraq said the pilot mistook the stark for an iranian warship, and washington accepted its apology
determining that the soviet-made badger was too close for comfort, the chandler fired two flares from its 5-inch guns, said the pool report, filed through washington by norman kempster of the los angeles times
cmdr. steve smith, captain of the chandler, said he was concerned because iraqi pilots often fire at radar blips without making sure what their targets are
having watched the geometry of their attacks for some time, i was concerned that he would be firing his missile while he was heading toward us,'' smith said over the ship's public address system after the incident
he told pool reporters that the iraqi pilot fired two c-601 missiles, a 50-mile-range, air-launched version of the styx, which china copied in producing its better-known silkworms
smith said both missiles passed astern of the chandler, the last ship in the convoy, but one suddenly changed course and passed along the starboard side of the ship before veering away. seconds later it detonated, producing a bright flash
cruise missiles can have several guidance systems, ranging from radio to infrared control
in a report monitored in cyprus, the official iraqi news agency said iraqi warplanes struck their target at 9:08 p.m. friday. it gave no other details. smith said friday night's incident was the closest approach of a missile to the chandler, which has been in the gulf since nov. 25. u.s. warships have been escorting reflagged kuwaiti tankers through the gulf since july to protect them from attacks by iran, which accuses kuwait of helping iraq in the 7-year-old iran-iraq war
smith placed his crew on ``general quarters,'' the highest state of alert, after the badger, which had earlier passed the convoy on a flight south along the gulf from iraq, turned back north and headed straight for the ship
smith said he was prepared to try to shoot down the missile if it appeared to be on a course that would strike any ship in the convoy. he said he readied the standard-1, anti-aircraft missile, shoulder-fired stinger missiles and the automatic-firing phalanx gattling gun
smith said he informed the badger by radio that it was approaching a u.s. convoy and ordered it to turn back. he said the iraqi pilot, who did not speak english very well, did not seem to understand
smith said he then warned the iraqi jet that he planned to fire two ``illumination rounds.'' as soon as the flares went off, smith said, the iraqi jet turned sharply away from the ship and fired the c-601s
iraqi warplanes usually fire radar-guided missiles at iranian naval targets and iraq later announces the hits. the planes are equipped mainly with heat-seeking, water-skimming exocet missiles supplied by france
shipping executives said today that a danish supertanker struck late thursday in an attack initially blamed on iran now appears to have been hit by iraqi warplanes
the executives had said friday that the 339,000-ton kate maersk, laden with saudi oil, was hit by an iranian helicopter. a danish seaman was killed and three others were injured
salvage tugs that rushed to the aid of the kate maersk said there was a gaping hole above the ship's waterline, indicating it had been hit by an exocet
iraq has been attacking iranian tankers and oil facilities to cut off its oil revenues, which finance its war. the two have been fighting since september 1980
iran retaliates by attacking neutral merchant shipping, mainly vessels involved in commerce with kuwait and saudi arabia, which tehran accuses of supporting iraq
president reagan said today he and mexico's president miguel de la madrid would act ``to strengthen the commercial ties between our peoples'' as they held their sixth summit meeting in six years
in his weekly radio address, pre-recorded in washington and released here before the president's departure for today's meeting in mazatlan, mexico, reagan said commercial ties between the two countries are ``of great benefit to people on both sides of the border.''
we've worked hard to make it that way,'' he said. ``last november we signed a new framework of understanding that underscored our special trade and investment relationship
during our meetings in mazatlan, president de la madrid and i will reaffirm our commitment to take advantage of every opportunity to strengthen the commercial ties between our peoples.''
the united states is mexico's largest trading partner. mexico is the fourth largest trading partner of the united states, behind canada, japan and west germany
although putting the emphasis on trade, reagan also touched in his radio address on two subjects - the war on drugs and guerrilla warfare in central america - over which the two countries have sharp differences
the traffickers would go out of business if people quit buying illegal drugs,'' the president said. ``that's the real solution, and it's up to each and every one of us to be part of the solution.''
u.s. officials have said that mexico does not do enough to combat the drug trade, and mexican officials in turn have argued that the united state should act more aggressively to curb demand
turning to central america, the president said that ``the establishment of totalitarian regimes, supported by cuba and the soviet union, is a threat to stability and freedom'' in the region. ``i would hope that the united states and mexico will find common interest in opposing any such totalitarian threat,'' he said. mexico has opposed the u.s. policy of aiding rebels fighting the marxist-led government of nicaragua
reagan also said that the united states ``will continue to do our best to help find solutions to the vexing problems of mexico's international debt.''
mexico owes approximately $80 billion to commercial banks, and the treasury department announced in december it would be selling the mexican government up to $10 billion in special u.s. bonds to be used as collateral to help pay off the debt
reagan said friday he and de la madrid would sign a new four-year textile accord during their meeting at the mexican port
the washington-based council on hemispheric affairs, in an analysis released in advance of today's meeting, said it would be difficult for the two countries to achieve an agreement similar to the one negotiated last year between the united states and canada
the reason, it said, is that the mexican-u.s. border ``marks the only such line in the western world where a remarkably rich market confronts a remarkably poor one.''
reagan, long an advocate of a north american common market, on jan. 2 signed a u.s.-canadian agreement negotiated last year that would eliminate all tariffs and most other trade barriers between the two countries by 1999
mexico and the united states have, however, worked out trade agreements dealing with steel, textiles, shoes and beer
secretary of state george shultz said he once feared terrorism would paralyze the united states but now believes the nation has firm convictions about how to deal with the problem
above all, the american people understand more clearly the risks, especially the risks of dealing with hostage situations,'' shultz said in remarks friday to the executive committee of the anti-defamation league of b'nai b'rith
the secretary, who will travel this month to the soviet union and middle east, spoke after receiving the jewish group's joseph prize for human rights
shultz made no reference to the iran-contra affair, in which critics said the administration went against its own policy by pursuing an exchange of arms for hostages
he said the reagan administration's policy toward terrorism is firm and working
we will not make concessions to terrorists or compromise our fundamental principles,'' schultz said. ``behavior rewarded is behavior repeated. terrorism must not pay.''
shultz said he feared several years ago that ``moral confusion and our instinct for finding fault with ourselves would paralyze us in the face of (terrorism). since then, much has happened. but i believe that we have all emerged from our experiences with a firm set of convictions about terrorism.''
the 30-minute speech was interrupted by applause seven times, including when shultz said israel has provided a great example in dealing with terrorism
courage, skill and public support are the watchwords of the israeli effort against terrorism,'' shultz said. ``when the story is written of how the democracies beat the terrorists, let our names appear together.''
shultz divided administration policy on combating terrorism into four categories: intelligence-gathering, understanding terrorists' aims and strategies, security measures to protect americans and offensive efforts to disrupt terrorist operations
he said intelligence efforts have averted more than 200 terrorist attacks in the past three years, and ``people are alive and well today who never even suspected they were in danger.'' of secret arab group. no pickup.</note>
two palestinians apparently preparing a homemade bomb were injured today when it unexpectedly blew up, military officials said, and two others were shot and killed by israeli soldiers in the west bank
scattered protests were reported throughout the occupied west bank and gaza strip. the daily hadashot newspaper reported that a secret group uniting palestinian guerrillas, moslem fundamentalists and communists was leading the unrest
a military official said israeli soldiers weren't involved in the explosion that injured the two palestinians in gaza city
an arab reporter in gaza city said mohammed ahmed ibrahim, 23, suffered hand wounds and mahmoud nimer mohammed el halaby, 24, had head and chest injuries. they were brought to the city's ahle arab hospital
gaza city was paralyzed by a commercial strike, the reporter said. black flags of mourning and palestinian flags, which are outlawed in israel, flew from many electricity wires and poles, he said
in one arab mosques, a moslem preacher called on worshipers to ``continue the uprising with knives, stones and clubs, and beware of collaborators.''
the arab-run palestine press service reported scattered protests and stone-throwing incidents in different parts of gaza city and the gaza strip, as well as in the west bank towns of ramallah and hebron and arab east jerusalem
four people in gaza city suffered beating injuries and one arab was wounded by army gunfire, the agency said. the army command said it had no information about any protests in the occupied lands. it described the situation as ``quiet.''
the army said it lifted a curfew imposed nine days ago on the west bank town of tulkarem, 37 miles northeast of jerusalem. about 10,000 palestinians live there
more than 20,000 people remained curfewed in the nearby tulkarem refugee camp and the village of anabta and in gaza strip's refugee camp of deir el balah
the daily hadashot newspaper, quoting unidentified sources, said friday that arab unrest is being coordinated by a secret group of 15 people comprised of representatives from different factions
the group unites communists, moslem fundamentalists and members of such palestinian guerrilla organizations as yasser arafat's fatah, the report said
they meet in different smaller groups and pass information and instructions through messengers, after a decision is accepted unanimously,'' hadashot wrote. ``they can't expose themselves...for fear of an expected israeli reaction: arrest and deportation.''
also friday, the defense ministry decided to establish a special body to gather intelligence in the occupied lands because of a failure to predict the violent unrest that began dec. 8, the al hamishmar newspaper said
according to united nations figures, at least 54 arabs have been killed in the protests
two arab teen-agers were killed when protests flared after noon prayers friday in the central nasr mosque in nablus, the west bank's largest city with 120,000 palestinian residents
hospital officials identified those killed as basil taysir al jatan, 14, shot in the head, and bashar al masri, 17, shot in the chest
hundreds of palestinians threw stones at troops, who responded with tear gas and live ammunition, the army said
arabs fired marbles and ball bearings from slingshots and hurled rocks from rooftops at army patrols. others blocked roads with garbage bins and burning tires, witnesses said
israel radio said the palestinians hurled firebombs and flower pots at soldiers in the city's arab bazaar
troops broke into nablus' al ittihad hospital, firing rubber bullets and smashing windows with rifle butts, hospital officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. they said four arabs giving blood were beaten and detained
hospital officials said nine arabs were hit by gunfire in the market clash and a 10th was unconscious after being beaten on the head. the army put the number of wounded at three
meanwhile, secretary of state george shultz declined a request by prime minister yitzhak shamir to revise a u.s. peace plan that calls for palestinian self-rule in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. shultz declined
shamir wants the idea of an international middle east peace conference abolished, the timetable for arab self-rule postponed, and no set dates for talks about final status of the occupied territories, israel television said. also includes a man. picks up 4th graf pvs, `sutherland, acting ...</note>
the leftist beirut daily as-safir today published a st. valentine's day message addressed to american hostage thomas sutherland from his family
to tom sutherland. a christmas picture with valentine love, loyalty, strength, perseverance, and steadfast hope and faith,'' read the caption published along with a black-and-white picture
the picture was signed by sutherland's wife, jean, and other members of the family in fort collins, colo. mrs. sutherland, three other women, a man and a child appeared in it
sutherland, acting dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, was kidnapped in moslem west beirut on june 9, 1985
the islamic jihad, or islamic holy war, underground group has claimed his abduction
the group, believed to be made up of radical shiite moslems loyal to iran's ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, also claims to hold american journalist terry a. anderson
anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held of the foreign hostages in lebanon. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
in all, 22 foreigners, including eight americans, are missing and believed held by pro-iranian extremists in lebanon
in addition, a swede and a norwegian _ both u.n. relief workers _ were kidnapped eight days ago by armed palestinians apparently acting without a political motive
houston lighting &amp; power co. officials say they will pay, without protest, a $75,000 fine imposed by the federal nuclear regulatory commission for violations at the south texas nuclear project
hl&amp;p, managers of the estimated $5 billion plant, said the penalty would not affect customers' rates, company spokesman glen walker said friday
it's not unusual for them to levy a fine,'' walker said. ``we knew there was a possibility they would.''
the utility has 30 days to pay the civil penalty or to protest it, according to nrc spokesman frank ingram
the violations occurred last october and november while the plant's unit i was doing pre-startup testing but before it had begun power operations, ingram said friday
the problems, which have been resolved, did not threaten public safety and had no impact on the plant's schedule, walker said. officials are planning to fire up the reactor in unit 1 on feb. 24 and then ask the nrc for a full-power operating license about two weeks later
at one point, ingram said, three valves were closed, disabling an emergency core cooling system and violating a plant license requirement that at least two of the valves be open when the plant is in the ``hot shutdown mode.''
in a letter to hl&amp;p dated thursday, robert d. martin, nrc regional administrator in arlington, said the violation involving the closed valves was significant because the condition existed for 51 hours before it was discovered
nrc will follow up on the company's long-term corrective measures during future inspections, ingram said
a u.s. coast guard cutter escorted a soviet research vessel into hilo harbor so a crew member could be treated for an eye ailment, a coast guard spokesman said today
the 150-foot fedor matisen, which tied up friday night at hawaii island, also was allowed to take on water during the medical stopover, christopher kimbrough said
a paramedic from the hawaii county fire department was ferried to the fedor matisen aboard the cutter cape cross earlier friday to verify the man's ailment, bob schenck, another coast guard spokesman, said friday night. the ailment prevented the man from looking into bright light, schenck said
the soviet vessel was scheduled to leave hilo today, kimbrough said. picking up at the 8th graf previous, beginning ``two black.'' adds byline</note>
representatives of 150 black students occupying a building at the university of massachusetts refused to meet with the chancellor today, saying they would sit in the building until their demands are met
it has become obvious to us that you are not being reasonable,'' said sophomore mark codling-dave, a spokesman for the students who took over the new africa house on friday
as far as we are concerned, we have nothing else to say,'' he added
the students' demands included prosecution of white students who allegedly beat two black students and a white woman last weekend, suspension of white campus police accused of forcing blacks into a lineup and removal of classrooms to return new africa house to its former use as a cultural center for the black community
chancellor joseph duffey said after the students refused to meet with him that he planned to go home and wait for the protesters to call him. ``obviously, we have to talk,'' he said
university spokeswoman jeanne hopkins-stover said earlier that the protesters had agreed to meet with the chancellor today
duffey said he regretted the lineup by the campus officers and had ordered them not to do it again. he said, however, that prosecution of the alleged assailants was a matter for the courts
he also said there was too little space on campus to move classrooms out of the new africa house. ``my first responsibility here is education and this building is committed to education in a range of ways. i'm not about to put black afro-american professors out of this building.''
duffey said he planned no reprisals against the protesters. ``they're not disrupting anything and i don't think they intend to,'' he added
dwayne warren, a student serving as liaison between duffey and the protesters, estimated that up to 150 students spent the night in the building
blacks at the 25,000-student university say an undercurrent of racism has not abated since oct. 27, 1986, when blacks and whites clashed following the boston red sox loss to the new york mets in the final game of the world series
two black students and the white girlfriend of one of the men filed complaints earlier this week against six white men, alleging civil rights violations and assault and battery stemming from an attack last weekend
the chancellor issued a statement condemning the alleged attack after a delegation of black students presented their demands friday
the demands included the expulsion of the accused whites, and the suspension of white campus police officers who apparently ordered a lineup of seven black men at a dorm early feb. 6 after a white student complained of being harassed by a black man
duffey's statement said two of the students allegedly involved in the beatings have been ordered to move out of the school's residence halls. all five face disciplinary hearings within the next two weeks
it should be clear once again that the university will not tolerate physical abuse or racially associated attacks on others,'' his statement said. ``saying `he started it' or `she started it' is not an excuse.''
a court hearing is scheduled feb. 24 to determine whether there is enough evidence to charge the men accused of the weekend beatings
the chancellor issued a separate report to the head of campus police asking him to cease lineups in the future
the activity was most inappropriate especially in this particular instance because only minority students were required to `line up' for possible identification,'' the report said
one of the three men in the lineup was arrested on an outstanding warrant and two others were banned from campus for trespassing, ms. hopkins-stover said
about 7 percent of the students at the school are black
a bus carrying 26 west point cadets crashed into a jackknifed tractor-trailer rig on a highway covered with snow and ice, leaving nine people injured, authorities said
the jackknifed truck was blocking the southbound lanes of interstate 81 near avoca when the bus hit it friday evening, authorities said. a storm had dumped about 6 inches of snow and slippery pavement contributed to both the truck's mishap and the bus driver's inability to stop, said state trooper edward chervinak
it's snowing _ blowing,'' said trooper tom corbett. ``the roads are frozen solid. it's real bad up here.''
the tractor trailer was in front of us _ jackknifed,'' army maj. larry shattuck said. ``we tried to slow down. we were going about 40 (mph) or so and we just kept going.''
most of us were sleeping and all of a sudden we heard people in the back telling us to look out,'' said cadet capt. martin olson, 22, of wisconsin. ``we slid sideways and ran into the truck. it was just scary. we're just thankful everyone is o.k.''
the cadets were traveling to an officers' christian fellowship conference center at white sulphur springs, near bedford, said andrea hamburger, a west point spokeswoman
most of the cadets were not injured, but a couple had broken teeth and bloody noses, one cadet said. six were treated at geisinger wyoming valley medical center and released, hospital officials said
bus driver charles raab, 60, of new york, was taken to the community medical center in scranton. he underwent emergency surgery and was listed in critical condition, a hospital spokeswoman said
a relief bus driver and the truck driver also were hospitalized, officials said. taken hostage. no pickup.</note>
communist rebels killed six people and wounded about 40 others in several attacks, including an assault on policemen in the philippines' second-largest city, authorities said today
police said about a dozen rebels aboard a jeep opened fire friday on policemen directing traffic in downtown cebu city. three officers and a street vendor were killed
the gunmen shook off pursuing policemen by exploding a hand grenade, which wounded more than 30 pedestrians
police said the gunmen were believed to be members of the communist new people's army, which recently announced plans to step up attacks in cebu city, 350 miles southeast of manila
police later arrested six people in a series of raids on squatter settlements in cebu city and suburban mandaue. officials said two of those arrested admitted taking part in the attacks
in addition, col. cesar aberilla, chief of the philippine constabulary's metropolitan district command, said 25 other people were rounded up late friday from a movie theater near the scene of the attacks, where witnesses said some of the gunmen fled
cebu city mayor tommy osmena called the attack ``shocking,'' and the city's roman catholic archbishop, cardinal ricardo vidal, also denounced it
i appeal to those people of evil motives, please put a stop to your savagery,'' vidal said in a radio broadcast
military field reports reaching manila today said communist rebels killed two soldiers and wounded at least seven others in two clashes friday in davao oriental and surigao del sur provinces on the southern island of mindanao
the reports said a rebel was killed and five others wounded in the fighting in surigao del sur but gave no rebel casualty figures from the encounter in the other province
two suspected rebels shot and seriously wounded a soldier aboard a bus in mindanao's bukidnon province and escaped with the soldier's rifle by jumping off the moving vehicle. a military report said no one else was injured in the incident, which also occurred friday
elsewhere, the military said rebels raided a hospital in ballesteros, 250 miles north of manila, and fled, taking a doctor hostage and stealing about $1,000 worth of medical supplies
in another incident, government troops killed a rebel and captured two others in a skirmish friday in pampanga province, 50 miles north of manila, another military report said
a hong kong businessman today paid a record $641,000 to drive away with a license plate bearing the single digit 8, a number considered lucky by local residents
law ting-pong, chairman of laws fashion knitters ltd., said he hoped for a bright future. he owns two cars, including a rolls-royce, his company said
the pronunciation of ``eight'' in the cantonese chinese dialect, which is spoken by most people in hong kong, is similar to the pronunciation of the word meaning ``prosperity.''
the bidding at the charity auction started at $10,256. the auctioneer brought the hammer down after law's winning bid a few minutes later
the government has held 121 license plate auctions since may 1973. the previous record bid was for the number 3, which fetched $128,000. ``three'' in catonese sounds much like the words for ``life'' and ``vitality.''
the government saturday announced an ``intensive campaign'' against the evils of spitting in public, which plagues this crowded british colony of 5.7 million people
in a statement, the urban council noted that the number of people convicted of spitting has dropped from 13,013 in 1985 to 11,171 last year
despite this, it is considered necessary to further publicize this anti-social habit so as to maintain environmental hygiene,'' the statement said. the campaign will include distributing leaflets and stickers and beefing up law enforcement
a first conviction for spitting carries a maximum fine of $320, and subsequent convictions carry fines of $640. morning, picking up 6th pvs, bgng: smith said</note>
sen. joseph r. biden jr. was alert and talking with family members today after undergoing surgery at walter reed army medical center to correct an aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to his brain
the 45-year-old deleware democrat was ``progressing satisfactorily'' this morning and was ``as comfortable as possible,'' hospital spokesman pete esker said
biden underwent a surgical procedure known as a ``clipping'' to correct the aneurysm, which is a sac formed by local enlargement of the weakened wall of an artery
esker said biden's aneurysm was within his cranium, underneath the brain but not inside the brain itself
pete smith, an aide to biden, said biden was listed in ``seriously ill'' condition but was expected to suffer no significant aftereffects from the surgery
the surgery ``did not involve the removal of any brain tissue and there is every indication that the senator will recover satisfactorily,'' smith said. ``he is awake, alert, oriented and moving all extremities well. the length of his hospital stay will depend on his continued progress.''
clipping'' is a microsurgical technique in which a minute metal clip is slipped around the aneurysm, parallel to the artery. the aneurysm is then deflated and the artery heals. the clip is left in place
smith said the surgery was performed in friday afternoon but there was no immediate information on when it began or how long it took
i am told that he is in intensive care, which walter reed said is normal for surgical patients, and his family is with him at the hospital,'' smith said. biden and his wife, jill, have three children
biden was admitted to the hospital early friday after being transferred from st. francis hospital in wilmington, del., where the senator lives
biden, a three-term senator, had been complaining for a couple of weeks about what had been diagnosed as a pinched nerve in his neck
he wore a neck brace two weeks ago during hearings on the proposed intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty with the soviet union. he was ill and unable to vote last week on the confirmation of anthony kennedy to the supreme court. biden, as chairman of the senate judiciary commitee, had led the committee hearings on kennedy's nomination to the top court
this week, biden felt well enough to appear for several speaking engagements at colleges on the east coast
the senator last june announced he was a candidate for the presidency, but withdrew from the race in september in the wake of disclosures that he committed plagiarism during law school and exaggerated his academic accomplishments during campaign stops
supporters call him, in english, ``the man,'' a takeoff on his initials. critics call him, in spanish, ``cara de pina'' or ``pineapple face,'' because of his pocked and jowly visage
the united states calls him a fugitive from justice, a man who put himself and his country up for sale to drug traffickers and made millions of dollars in the process
but few would deny that gen. manuel antonio noriega is a shrewd, wily and tough politician who will not easily be dislodged as the de facto ruler of panama
he is sly enough, suggest several u.s. senators, to have conned the united states government into supporting him for years despite longstanding rumors of his involvement in drug smuggling, election fraud and other corruption
washington began to distance itself from noriega only after the headless body of one of his leading opponents, hugo spadafora, turned up in a u.s. mailbag in costa rica in late 1985. several former associates say noriega ordered the slaying after spadafora publicly accused him of drug trafficking
indictments returned by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., on feb. 5 accuse noriega of using his position as the commander of panama's defense forces to allow colombian drug traffickers to use his country as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states
noriega, the indictments say, got a healthy kickback from the narcotics profits. they put his take at up to $4.8 million
by any account, noriega has done well for someone born into poverty in a relatively poor country and raised by foster parents from the age of 5
details of noriega's early life are scarce and even his birthday is in dispute. his official biography lists his age as 50, but high school records put it at 54
after attending a military college in peru on a scholarship, noriega entered the panamanian national guard in 1962 as a lieutenant. he quickly became acquainted with a rising young officer named omar torrijos
torrijos took power in panama in a 1968 coup and less than a year later named noriega, then an obscure major in charge of the country's northernmost province, as his chief of intelligence with the rank of lieutenant colonel
in his new position, noriega began collecting dossiers on everyone who counted in panama, friends and enemies alike. he also had jurisdiction over the country's customs and immigration departments, long a source of funds for the military
the job also put noriega in touch with u.s. intelligence agencies interested in any potential threats to the security of the panama canal, a vital shipping link between the atlantic and pacific oceans
when torrijos died in an unexplained airplane crash in 1981, noriega was well placed to shoulder his way to the top command ahead of several more senior officers. it took him two years
in addition to drug smuggling, noriega is reputed to have his finger in a wide variety of other enterprises, some legal and others operating on the fringes of the law. they are said to include duty free liquor stores, maritime services, banks, gambling casinos, newspapers, a television station and 12 radio stations
although his official salary is $60,000 a year, noriega lives in a two-story, colonial-style mansion in one of panama city's most exclusive neighborhoods, maintains a fleet of expensive cars and is reported to own at least a dozen other properties, including an apartment in paris and a chateau in the south of france
a gerbil named ken, campaigning on a platform of free beer and soft toilet paper, beat five other candidates to become president of the student union at the university of east anglia
ken's owner, chemistry student julian campbell, 21, said he entered his pet as a joke and was amazed that the mouselike rodent won the job, which pays $94.50 a week. the university is in norwich in northeast england
ken polled well over a third of the 1,500 votes, beating his nearest competitor by 194 votes. he celebrated his victory friday night with sunflower seeds and a sip of vodka from a water bottle
i think he'll make a great president. and he definitely won't be making any boring speeches,'' campbell was quoted as telling the star
but outgoing student union president rob davies, 23, was not amused
the students have not taken the vote seriously,'' davies was quoted as telling the daily mirror. ``i don't think many know how much hard work goes into the job.''
ken was named after education secretary kenneth baker, whose education reform bill is currently being considered by parliament. but it turns out the name is somewhat of a misnomer
campbell found out during the campaign that ken is actually a female and is pregnant. moved in advance as b0704.</note>
children who become entangled in self-styled satanism often share an obsession with heavy metal rock music, but its exact influence on them is hotly debated
police and parents' groups agree that more than 95 percent of the teen-agers who listen to heavy metal simply enjoy it and never act out. a few become more deeply involved
you might say heavy metal rock music is to self-styled satanism what gospel music is to christianity,'' said carl rashcke, director of the university of denver institute of humanities. ``very few people get converted to christianity just by listening to gospel music on the radio. but (heavy metal) is a very powerful reinforcement. it legitimizes the nasty stuff the kids are already into.''
an attorney for one of three missouri youths charged in the beating death of a fourth said they were deeply involved with the music. one favorite of the client, ronald charles clements, was ``black friday'' by megadeth, whose lyrics clements had memorized
the lyrics, in part:
my hammer's a cold piece of blood lethal steel
i grin while you writhe with the pain that i deal. ..
their bodies convulse in agony and pain
i mangle their faces 'til no features remain.''
i told him that this music just made me want to puke,'' attorney c.r. rhoades said. ``i asked him to explain to me why he enjoys it. and he said, `it's just the energy you feel. it gives me a rush.'''
that rush can be a physiological reality, said denver police detective cleo wilson
it's used as a hype, and it can become addictive because of the adrenalin flow it causes in your body,'' she said. ``it causes the heart rate to go with the beat of the music, so you get a type of high.''
some kids spend up to six hours a day listening to such music. ``you add the words of some of the songs to that ... it becomes a way of life for them. because they believe it.''
at least two lawsuits, neither successful so far, have been brought by parents who blame heavy metal's influence for their childrens' suicides. while sometimes violent, the lyrics of the musicians involved, the group judas priest and singer ozzy osbourne, can seem tame compared with songs by so-called ``black'' metal groups such as venom and slayer
from venom's song ``possessed'':
look at me, satan's child
born of evil, thus defiled,
brought to life through satanic birth. ..
listen to me and i'll tell you
things that will sicken your mind. ..
i drink the vomit of the priests
make love with the dying whore. ..
satan, as my master incarnate
hail! praise to my unholy host!''
groups that sing about violence and devil worship cite their right to free expression. the parents' music resource center, based in arlington, va., agrees that most satanism in music is a gimmick and the target of groundless hysteria
but heavy metal violence, including songs about necrophilia, incest, rape, torture and human sacrifice, is something parents should be aware of, the group says
when the concerned mother of a 14-year-old recently phoned the pmrc, executive director jennifer norwood suggested she listen to the music with her child and discuss it calmly
i tell parents not to take the materials away. we emphasize the need to communicate with their children,'' she said. ``children need to be taught how to think critically about the messages they get from the media. then they'll reject these things themselves.''
convicted ``mercy killer'' roswell gilbert has asked for a new trial, saying his lawyer botched the case by worrying too much about selling book and movie rights to the story
gilbert's current attorney, bradley stark, filed a 65-page motion friday which included a sworn statment from attorney joseph varon acknowledging he may have erred in handling the case
it is quite possible that the economic factor of the book and possible movie or television rights was prominent in my thinking and perhaps swayed my judgment in some critical areas,'' varon said in the statement
gilbert, now 78, was convicted of first-degree murder in may 1985, two months after he fired two shots into the head of his wife of 51 years at their seaside condominium
the retired electronics engineer said he killed his wife, emily, to end the misery she suffered from osteoporosis and alzheimer's disease. the case made national headlines and was made into a television movie that aired last year
varon received $50,000 for the sale of gilbert's television movie rights. gilbert got $5,000 of that amount, which he donated to charity
in an attempt to capitalize on widespread publicity and sympathy for gilbert, varon rushed to trial without hiring an investigator or interviewing witnesses in the case, stark said
in his statement, varon said he put ``unrealistically great hopes'' on what he termed gilbert's ``caretaker defense.'' basically, the defense was that gilbert should be pardoned because of the stress he experienced caring for a wife with alzheimer's disease
stark argued that varon gambled on the caretaker defense to the exclusion of other strategies because that gave the story the best chance of being bought by a movie producer
he also said that varon made no effort to plea-bargain on his client's behalf because that would have scuttled any movie or book depiction
by relying on the sale of gilbert's story for his fee, varon was put in a conflict in which he had to choose between doing what was best for his client or creating what was most likely to be a marketable story, stark contended
varon was vacationing outside the country and could not be reached for comment by the associated press
obituaries, want ads, grocery ads and all the other news that's fit to print, but usually not fit to broadcast, are the daily staple of one unusual radio service
the radio reading service of western massachusetts exists solely to relay nearly every word in area newspapers to those who can't read it, said its founder and president, katharine surette
the service fills a need that even well-meaning friends and relatives can't, said ms. surette, who is blind
when my fiance reads to me on sundays, he reads discriminately, what he wants to read,'' she said. ``unless i push real hard, i don't get all the stories.''
at the radio service, ``we don't editorialize. we try to read everything,'' she said
the 200 volunteer staff members read entire articles of local interest, supermarket ads, daily lottery payoffs and other important tidbits that regular news broadcasts usually skip
obituaries are very important to listeners,'' said ms. surette. ``if a friend passes away, sometimes they have no other way of knowing that. then, they also like the lottery numbers. they always call when we forget to read the payoffs.''
volunteer edith favorato, 73, said she has been going to the studio from her east longmeadow home every monday for the past three years to read magazine articles and books that are not available in recorded form
i don't know any visually handicapped people, but i think i can identify with them,'' she said. ``i feel i'm doing my little bit to bring some happiness to people who might not otherwise have it.''
a speech by stanley potter, who began a reading service in minnesota in 1969, inspired ms. surette to start her own service, she said. after years of pestering springfield technical community college for space and equipment, she opened the service on the campus on jan. 17, 1983
the service had 20 volunteers at the time, twice the number of listeners
anybody who could breathe and speak at the same time was on the air,'' she said. ``we don't have to do that anymore. we have enough volunteers that we can do good training.''
the service has since set up an office off campus with a live studio, two recording booths and eight employees. another studio, in dalton, provides news from the state's westernmost counties
it is financed largely by state agencies, but does conduct fund-raising campaigns and also receives some donations
the program can be heard only through special receivers tuned to cable television or radio stations. ms. surette said there are 500 receivers in homes, nursing homes and hospitals throughout western massachusetts
many of the receivers are donated by local charities, loaned to listeners by the station or sold at cost, about $90. ``the only thing we ask of listeners is that they be in some way print handicapped, even if that means they can't hold a paper and turn the pages,'' ms. surette said
each morning in west springfield begins with a two-hour reading of the union-news of springfield for those in and around the state's third-largest city. volunteers in dalton read the berkshire eagle and other berkshire county newspapers. the readings are repeated every night
newsmagazine and weekly newspaper readings are interspersed through the week. book readings begin at noon and again at 11 p.m. ``usually the less colorful _ i shouldn't say less colorful, maybe less offensive _ books are read during the day,'' said program director kathleen turnbull
a 36-year-old woman who had been using cocaine for two days gave birth to twin boys and left them to die as she continued to use the drug, police said
she was just too coked out to care,'' police officer carey lee
deborah stewart, 36, op oakland, was arrested friday and charged with two counts of murder
ms. stewart began using cocaine on tuesday evening, lee said, and late thursday morning she went into the bathroom and gave birth to a premature baby boy
she left the kicking and squealing infant on the bathroom floor and went to her bedroom to continue freebasing,'' lee said
thursday afternoon, ms. stewart began to hemorrhage, police said, and she called paramedics
both infants were found dead in the bathroom, the first on the floor and the second, wrapped in a towel, in the toilet, lee said. ms. stewart told investigators she believes the second child was stillborn
when the fbi infiltrated a group of opponents of president reagan's central america policies, it suspected they were behind the still-unsolved november 1983 bombing of the u.s. capitol
secret fbi files made available under the freedom of information act show that for up to five years the bureau looked for links between the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador and a number of terrorist acts. it found none
cispes contends the investigation was really based on its opposition to administration policies in el salvador and elsewhere in central america. the fbi denies it
fbi files also reveal the bureau was investigating whether cipses was considering any violent activities at the 1984 olympics in los angeles or the 1984 political conventions, or whether it had any connection with the may 1983 bombing at the army national war college in washington
one document said some of those interviewed in the investigation were told the fbi was checking into bombings of federal buildings and facilities of defense contractors
the documents were among some 2,000 pages of fbi records on investigation of the el salvador group released under the freedom of information act. large portions of the requested documents were either blacked out by government censors or withheld entirely
references to the bombings were the only indications of what the fbi was seeking in its investigations
the suit was filed on behalf of cispes by the new york city-based center for constitutional rights
beth perry, cispes spokeswoman, called the allegations that the group had a connection to the u.s. capitol bombing or the bombing at the war college ``absolutely ridiculous.''
she said some literature on the capitol bombing was passed out at a cispes-sponsored demonstration on nov. 12, five days after the bombing, but that the group had nothing to do with distributing that material
asked about any plans for violence at the 1984 conventions or olympics, she said the fbi called the national office of cispes to ask what the group planned
cispes referred the fbi agent to its lawyer, who told the agent that local groups might be planning peaceful demonstrations but no national effort was planned
one of the fbi documents said the dallas field office received copies of literature produced by cispes at a demonstration on nov. 12, 1983, five days after the bombing
among this literature was the armed resistance unit's communique claiming responsibility for the 11@7@83 bombing of the capitol building,'' the document said
the bomb severely damaged a corridor and lounge outside the senate chamber. the same organization name was used by those who placed the may 1983 bomb outside the army war college at fort mcnair
another document said, ``although not cispes literature, the communique claiming responsibility for the 11@7@83 bombing of the u.s. capitol building was passed out along with the cispes literature.''
a document on the fort mcnair bombing said an unidentified individual contacted a local radio station in washington, d.c., a few days after the bombing and said, ``we are in solidarity with the people of el salvador and guatemala, and have taken action because people are trained at the nwc (national war college).''
in another document, fbi agents were told, ``determine extent and nature of cispes involvement in organizing@supporting terrorist activities within the united states with particular attention placed on the forthcoming political conventions and 1984 olympic games.''
fbi spokesman ray mcelhaney denied the investigation was political, saying it ``had a narrow focus and was limited to those leaders and key members of cispes to ascertain if they were involved in illegal support of the fmln, a foreign terrorist organization.''
the fmln is the frente farabundo marti para la liberacion nacional, a resistance group fighting the u.s.-backed government of el salvador
field offices were instructed not to interfere with first amendment rights of cispes members, he said
president reagan this week will make one last try at rearranging the national agenda as he sends congress a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal year 1989. but it will be just a ghost of budgets past
with neither side spoiling for an election-year budget brawl, the new reagan spending plan appears more designed to shun confrontation with congress than to stake out new ground
to be sure, the budget submitted next thursday will sound encores for familiar reagan tunes: selling off amtrak, abolishing the interstate commerce commission, ``privatizing'' regional power authorities
but it is also laden with politically appealing offerings: a $1 billion-plus program for aids research, modernization of the nation's air control system, a speed-up of the environmental superfund program and more funds for orbiting a manned space station
the biggest white house concession this year has already been made: the pre-christmas agreement with congress to let defense spending authority rise by only 2 percent. since that's less than last year's 4.4 percent rate of inflation, such an increase is tantamount to a defense spending cut _ the first ever during the reagan years
reagan's earlier spending plans, which envisioned the massacre of dozens of federal agencies and programs, may have been more ambitious than the new one, but never were very successful. not a single agency reagan targeted for extinction has ever been abolished
this will be reagan's final full-fledged budget. he will submit one next january, but it will quickly be refashioned by the next president _ just as reagan redid the budget plan prepared in early 1981 by former president jimmy carter
that february, a month after his inauguration, reagan sent congress a stark budget calling for deep domestic spending reductions, a huge tax cut and the promise of a balanced budget by 1984
while going along with the tax cuts encompassed in reagan's first budget, congress has never shown much enthusiasm for the spending-cut side of the equation
congress cut income taxes, left domestic spending pretty much alone, and went along with reagan's request for a defense buildup. the annual budget deficit, at $78 billion when reagan took office, is now hovering at near $150 billion
many aspects of this year's budget have been predetermined by an agreement the white house struck with congress late last year _ so members of congress can't scream as they have in the past about reagan's defense request
that agreement calls for defense spending authority for fiscal 1989, which begins next oct. 1, of $299.5 billion. that's up 2 percent from the current level
the compromise also calls for $14 billion in new revenues, including $3.5 billion from the sale of government assets. while the administration is expected to put in another $8 billion or so in asset sales, there won't be any surprises on taxes in the budget
and the pact also calls for shrinking the federal budget deficit from $148 billion of fiscal 1987 to $136 billion, the target called for in the revised gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law
the administration, assuming that the economy will expand this year at 2.4 percent and at 3.5 percent in 1989, claims it will be able to meet that $136 billion through assorted domestic spending cuts _ but that it will be close
the congressional budget office, using more pessimistic assumptions of 1.8 percent growth in 1988 and 2.6 percent in 1989, suggested recently that the deficit could grow to $176 billion even under the agreement between the white house and congress
the deficit shrinks when the economy speeds up because more revenues come into the treasury, and it rises when the economy slows
it may be an academic issue. under the budget law, administration figures are used in deciding whether the gramm-rudman requirements have been met _ a subtlety that may allow the year to pass without a knockdown budget fight
another reason why there may be less budget acrimony this year _ congress will have less time to deal with the issue. not only is the spending plan being submitted a month later than usual, but with party conventions comning up in the summer, followed by elections, members of congress will have other things on their mind. the whole process will be compressed
we have an agreement (with congress). i think the rhetoric will be a lot less this year,'' says budget director james c. miller iii
still, the new reagan budget will recycle _ if half-heartedly _ many past reagan proposals, including those for selling off government assets to the private sector
do not be surprised that the president's budget will reflect his priorities,'' miller says
expected to be re-proposed are plans to sell amtrack rail passenger service, small business administration loans, naval petroleum reserves, regional power marketing authorities and public housing projects
the new reagan budget, according to internal budget documents obtained by the associated press, also will renew earlier proposals to eliminate mass transit grants, abolish the interstate commerce commission and the economic development administration
however, spared from reagan's budget knife this time will be the legal services corporation _ which the adminstration has given up on trying to terminate. instead, deep cuts will be proposed
few in congress or in the administration, however, consider it likely that congress this year will accept proposed reagan program cuts that have been repeatedly rejected in years past
still, in the absence of a budget accord, the gramm-rudman law will take control of the situation _ mandating across-the-board cuts
actually, even though the gramm-rudman law calls for a deficit in fiscal 1989 _ which begins next oct. 1 _ of $136 billion, there is actually a $10 billion margin of error built into the law
that means that if congress can cut the deficit to $146 billion or less, lawmakers can head home for the year without further worry about dealing with the deficit this year
if a recession hits during 1988, then the picture changes dramatically. the deficit will probably mushroom back over $200 billion _ where it was in 1985 and 1986 _ as tax revenues fall
however, the gramm-rudman law has a built in safety valve: in the case of a recession, the deficit targets are waived
the nation's labor leaders can look back on 1987 as the best year of a bleak decade. but a tide of changing economic forces is still rolling against them
despite having regained some of the political and bargaining clout they lost in the early 1980s, unions are continuing to lose members amidst the greatest peacetime spurt of job creation in the nation's history
where they are the weakest is among women, minorities and immigrants who will fill 85 percent of the new jobs created between now and the year 2000, according to projections by the government's bureau of labor statistics
a new $13 million afl-cio media campaign following up on offers of low-interest credit cards, pre-paid legal insurance and other lures aimed at potential white-collar and pink-collar recruits is still in its infancy
the payoff is yet to be seen. in absolute terms, union membership among blacks and women increased by 9,000 and 40,000 respectively last year. but the percentage of non-union workers in both groups also rose
and, despite the restoration of more than 300,000 assembly line jobs in 1987, union membership among manufacturing workers _ organized labor's biggest base of support for four decades _ declined by 178,000, according to government figures
essentially, unions in the past year have moved the ball out from what had been a goal-line stance to the 7-yard line,'' says richard belous, a labor market analyst for the conference board, a business research house. ``the bottom line is that they are still very much in the hole.''
nonetheless, union chiefs on the afl-cio's 36-member, policy-making executive council convening at this beachside resort for their annual winter meeting this weekend have reason to be optimistic for the first time this decade
they have become a force again in both the economic and political arenas
unions last year succeeded in negotiating front-loaded contracts with the biggest wage gains and benefits coming early, reversing a pattern of concessionary bargaining and end-loaded contracts in the early 1980s
with the exception of the meatpacking, airline and steel industries, unionized workers last year received roughly the same 3.6 percent wage and benefit increases of non-union workers, enabling them to maintain a 36 percent over-all wage advantage
divisive two-tier contracts in which newly hired workers can never hope to catch up with veteran employees were still being signed in some industries like meatpacking
but those split pay levels were eliminated _ or the wage gaps at least were greatly reduced _ among several other employer groups such as aerospace plants, airlines and food stores
and, in exchange for productivity improvements from decreased featherbedding, stronger job guarantees and new restrictions on subcontracting work to foreign or domestic non-union suppliers were bargained in the auto, mining and steel industries
those developments, coupled with the reinvigoration of a legislative agenda dormant for the past eight years, have afl-cio president lane kirkland now speaking of the ``resurgent labor movement,'' a term he was unwilling to adopt just a year ago
as the 28 owners of the national football league proved, employers are still more than willing seven years later to follow president reagan's example with air traffic controllers and hire strikebreakers
while the afl-cio staked what some critics consider too many chips on the football players union and suffered a major symbolic loss with the failure of their strike, it won several less visible but no less significant victories in other areas
seventy percent of the air traffic controllers hired to replace the 11,000 strikers fired by reagan in 1981 voted to form a new union. and the adolph coors co. knuckled under to a decade-old boycott of its beer and agreed to allow unhindered union elections at its breweries and use union construction workers in building any new facilities
having played a key role in restoring the senate to democratic control in 1986, unions last year also dusted off a congressional agenda that had been shelved since 1980
only three months into 1987, the afl-cio marshaled its allies in congress to help override president reagan's veto of an $88 billion highway bill providing jobs for 700,000 mostly union workers
through the summer and into the fall, unions were instrumental in mounting grass-roots opposition to president reagan's nomination of robert bork to the supreme court. in october, bork's confirmation was defeated on a 42-58 vote
import-curbing trade bills, the federation's top legislative priority the past two years, were passed by both the house and the senate. a measure requiring 60 days advance notice of layoffs was attached to the senate version over intense opposition from the adminsitration and business lobbyists
kirkland expects this year will be even more active, with passage expected on several other labor-endorsed measures _ including raising the minimum wage, restricting use of non-union workers and mandating child-care leaves
veto override fights may become frequent, and labor won't win them all,'' kirkland predicts. ``but the veto battle will be part of the 1988 political campaign.''
bertie and john weaver don't go out to a fancy restaurant or even share a romantic candlelight dinner to celebrate their wedding anniversary
after 80 years of marriage, the couple prefers a simple observance of the event that took place on july 27, 1907. they just remember the good times and give thanks for the life they've had together since their marriage at age 16
we've had so many (anniversaries) that we don't make much to-do over them anymore,'' weaver once said
the weavers, who live in glenloch, a rural community in heard county about 60 miles west of atlanta, have had so many anniversaries, in fact, that they've been honored as the longest married couple in the nation
the distinction was bestowed on them by the worldwide marriage encounter, an international non-profit organization dedicated to the enrichment of all marriages
charley anton and his wife ida-marie, coordinators for the group in atlanta, found out about the weavers more than a year ago when a grandson nominated them for the honor. the weavers held the distinction for the state of georgia last year, and moved to national prominence this year
the award is given each year on ``world marriage day,'' which anton's group marks on the second sunday of february; this year, it happens to fall on valentine's day
they're really a warm, gentle couple,'' anton said
they're just amazed at (the award),'' said mary steed, the couple's daughter, who lives near them and visits on weekends and, if needed, during the week. ``they do a lot of talking and grumbling.''
the weavers, now both 96, have been ill recently and not up to talking with reporters about their lengthy marriage, anton said
but in a chat with anton, weaver attributed the longevity of the relationship to ``the good lord watching over us, working together, respecting each other's feelings, being good to one another and being understanding with one another...
the simple life is the best life.''
in a previous newspaper interview, weaver said he and his wife ``get along as good as two people ever could. i help her with anything she needs. every now and then we'll bring up a quarrel, but not often.''
despite their age and fragile health, weaver gets up each morning and makes breakfast for his wife
married over the objections of mrs. weaver's family, the couple had 13 children _ six still are living _ 50 grandchildren, 87 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren
mrs. weaver's family objected to her choice of a husband because he was the son of a sawmill worker. although the wedding was supposed to be secret, her family found out and lined the road when weaver came to pick up his bride for the ceremony
i took a back road and picked her up and headed for the justice of the peace,'' said weaver, who also was a sawmill worker
the weavers' reaction to being named as the longest married couple in the united states is mixed, anton said. on the one hand, anton said, they're enjoying the attention. but ``it has made them very much aware of their age.''
three months of violent protests have pushed this volatile nation to the point of political paralysis
at the heart of the conflict is a stalemate between president hussain muhammad ershad and his tenacious opposition. the upcoming parliamentary elections only have compounded the standoff
ershad, a former army general who seized power in a 1982 coup and subsequently was elected president, refuses to accede to the chorus of protesters demanding his resignation
the opposition, which rarely articulates its ideology beyond saying ``ershad must go'' and ``the people want democracy,'' persists in calling a general strike every few days in dhaka and other major cities
the main opposition leaders, sheik hasina and khaleda zia, say the nearly 100 percent compliance with their strike initiatives is proof they have widespread support
but random conversations with a score of merchants indicated that fear, not politics, is keeping the shops shuttered
oh, yes, i close. not because i support the strike, but out of panic,'' said abdul qader, who sells housewares near the buriganga river. ``if i open, somebody will loot and burn. that is why i close. i lose money, about 1,200 takas ($37.50) in sales a day.''
of that amount, only about $3.12 represents profit for the 35-year-old shopkeeper, who has a wife and two children
bangladesh has not had a peaceful transition of power since it broke away from pakistan in 1971
hasina, daughter of an assassinated president, and mrs. zia, wife of another assassinated president, launched their anti-ershad campaign on nov. 10
since then, confrontations between police and protesters have left 25 people dead according to the government's count, 100 by hasina's tally
in addition, more than 100 people were killed during election day last wednesday, most in clashes among supporters of rival candidates in local elections
to try to counter the spiraling unrest, ershad imposed emergency rule nov. 27, banning public political activities by everyone except himself and permitting police to detain people indefinitely without charge
on dec. 6, he dissolved parliament and ordered new elections. but hasina and mrs. zia refused to settle for anything short of ershad's resignation
hasina, head of the awami league, and mrs. zia, leader of the bangladesh nationalist party, are boycotting the march 3 parliamentary elections, contending ershad will rig the vote to favor his jatiya party
we have to stop this election,'' hasina said in an interview. ``under him, there cannot be a fair election.''
siraj, a 35-year-old truck driver, had another reason for not voting
in 1986 i went to vote and was told i had already voted,'' said siraj, who like many bangladeshis uses one name
a small crowd gathered as siraj spoke to a foreign reporter through an interpreter, and one man heatedly told the trucker he had not spoken the truth
siraj then retracted his remark
ershad's jatiya party, which took 212 seats in the 1986 parliamentary election, is fielding candidates in all 300 constituencies. sixteen unopposed jatiya candidates already have been declared victors
a hastily formed alliance of 73 small parties, called the combined opposition party, is contesting 270 seats. the alliance is visible mostly through campaign slogans painted on public walls
mrs. zia, whose husband president ziaur rahman was assassinated in 1981, referred to it as ``a briefcase party.''
the third-largest party in the election is headed by retired col. farooq rahman, acknowledged mastermind of the 1975 assassination of hasina's father, president mujibur rahman
farooq, who says his funds come mostly from his consociates inc. construction business in libya, founded the freedom party last august and is running 110 candidates
local and foreign analysts, representing a broad range of ideologies, say ershad permitted the creation of the freedom party in an effort to restrain hasina and the awami league, which was her father's party
both ershad and farooq deny this
despite the array of candidates, including 302 independent and minor-party candidates, the election will not provide a test of the country's major political forces, since hasina's and mrs. zia's parties are not running against ershad's jatiya party
this election is not going to solve any crisis, so why are these elections being held?'' asked anwar zahid, who resigned as information minister last month to protest the decision to proceed with the vote
he subsequently was expelled from the jatiya party
the election that is now scheduled is a sham election,'' zahid said in an interview
there is a political stalemate. the opposition cannot achieve. the government cannot achieve. there is neither victor nor vanquished, and the victim is the nation.'' one seaman's nationality; picks up 8th graf pvs, `the lebanese ...</note>
eight seamen and a teen-age boy who were seized by lebanon's main christian militia seven weeks ago were freed today, officials and militia sources said
a source from the lebanese forces christian militia, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the seamen _ three poles, three danes, a sri lankan and a trinidadian _ were freed
ole neustrup, danish charge d'affairs in damascus, syria, confirmed it, saying, ``they have all been released.'' neustrup said the 15-year-old boy with the seamen is the adopted son of the sri lankan
the former captives were taken to the dallas hotel in the christian port of jounieh, 12 miles north of beirut, after their release, neustrup told the associated press by telephone. he would not release their names
he said they would sail from the port of jounieh to larnaca, cyprus
the lebanese forces command had imposed a news blackout on the ship affair and publicly denied any ship had been seized or seamen detained
but a danish foreign ministry spokesman said in copenhagen on friday that the three danes were among the seamen held by the christian militia
the group was taken prisoner dec. 27 after arriving at beirut from north yemen with a cargo of foodstuffs, spokesman herluf hansen said
the vessel has been identified as the ingawebb
the crew were accused by the christian militia of unloading arms for druse warlord walid jumblatt's progressive socialist party militia, press reports said. jumblatt's militia is the main foe of the christians in lebanon's 13-year-old civil war
a lebanese forces spokesman said ``the ship remained in custody.''
the lebanese forces command has been annoyed by the term `hostages' that was used by the scandinavian media. the eight sailors were not kidnapped, to be described as hostages. they were arrested and questioned over a specific charge. now they are released,'' the source said
neustrup, who flew to beirut on friday to take charge of negotiations to release the crew, was in jounieh today to arrange for their departure, the source said. jews</head> spiegel saying telegram was fake and apologizing. picks up 3rd graf pvs, ``the commission ...</note>
the historians who determined kurt waldheim knew of and did nothing to stop nazi atrocities ``were practically all his enemies'' _ socialists and jews, an old friend and close aide to the president charged
in their report, the historians condemned waldheim for not objecting to the atrocities they said he must have been aware of as a german army intelligence officer in the balkans during world war ii, but said it found no proof he committed war crimes
today, the west german news magazine der spiegel, which published a telegram purportedly linking waldheim to the deportation of civilians to concentration camps during the war, said the document was a fake, and it apologized for printing it
spiegel regrets that it presented this ... document to its readers as `the proof' (of waldheim's involvement) and not with the necessary distance,'' the magazine said. it said a document expert, bernhard haas, had concluded the telegram was ``in all likelihood a fake.''
the commission that studied waldheim's wartime past did not have access to the original telegram
the commission, they were not his friends, they were practically all his enemies,'' karl gruber said friday. ``the german is a socialist, the others are of jewish descent,'' he said, referring to west german historian manfred messerschmidt and the five other members of the international panel
commission chairman hans rudolf kurz, a swiss historian, rejected gruber's allegations of bias, saying the panel's members were hired for their scientific expertise and had not acted as waldheim's enemies
in an interview with austrian television, kurz reacted angrily to gruber's comment about the government-appointed panel being comprised of people of jewish descent
he said he chose israeli professor yehuda wallach, a jew, ``because i have known him for many years as an outstanding scientist.'' only later did he learn that british commission member gerald fleming was also jewish, he added
gruber, a resistance fighter against the nazis, was austria's first foreign minister after the war and brought waldheim into the diplomatic service. his comments to italian television were broadcast on austrian radio
chancellor franz vranitzky, a socialist, sent telegrams to each commission member apologizing for gruber's remarks, which he said ``have nothing in the slightest to do with the government's view of your work.''
austria's jewish community, in a telex to news organizations, said gruber's statement expressed ``the deepest hatred of jews.''
vranitzky's government appointed the commission at waldheim's request in september, after the u.s. justice department put the president on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens that bars him from the united states
accusations that he committed war crimes arose during the former u.n. secretary-general's election campaign in 1986
waldheim's office said he will make a five-minute address on national television monday, but a spokesman said he could not disclose its contents
the president has consistently refused to resign and said this week he will stay in office despite the historians' report, which left open the questions of guilt and moral responsibility. the 202-page document was presented to the government monday
about 500 intellectuals gathered outside waldheim's offices in the imperial hofburg palace at dusk friday and handed in a petition demanding his resignation. organizers said they collected 1,200 signatures
another anti-waldheim demonstration by prominent intellectuals is planned for sunday
when asked about gruber's comment that he was a socialist, messerschmidt described himself as a lifelong liberal who never has belonged to a political party. critics of the commission ``should do their research better,'' he said
the advertisement in the supermarket read: ``giveaway: lonely 23-year-old male. shy and reserved, but likes parties and discos. a dream to look at. must be seen. frustrated mother welcomes all replies.''
ron barber, the bashful bachelor, appeared on the tyne-tees television program nightline on friday night and said the response to the advertisement by his mother, wendy, had been enormous
the first reply was from a woman named irene, whom barber had arranged to meet friday night. but he canceled the date at the last minute to appear on the tv program
i'm no rat,'' said barber, who works in a factory. ``i got mum to ring her and send some flowers for valentine's day with my apologies _ and a promise that i will keep my blind date with her next week.''
he said he had been inundated with phone calls and letters from all parts of the country after publicity about the ad, which was put up in a supermarket near his norfolk home in northeast england
one 53-year-old woman asked barber to marry her
barber said he intended to answer every response
the statler brothers and randy travis are finalists for five country music awards each in the annual honors chosen by readers of the music city news
the quartet from staunton, va., are finalists for entertainer of the year, video of the year for ``maple street memories,'' single of the year for ``i'll be the one,'' album of the year for ``maple street memories'' and vocal group of the year
travis is a finalist for entertainer of the year, male artist of the year, video of the year for ``forever and ever, amen,'' single of the year for ``forever and ever, amen'' and album of the year for ``always and forever.''
joining the statlers and travis as finalists for entertainer of the year are reba mcentire, george strait and hank williams jr
finalists for male artist of the year, along with travis, are gary morris, strait, ricky van shelton and williams
finalists for female artist of the year are holly dunn, barbara mandrell, kathy mattea, mcentire and tanya tucker
winners and finalists are chosen by readers of the music city news, a monthly country music publication in nashville
winners will be announced june 6 during a live, syndicated television special at the grand ole opry house
finalists were announced friday
a seattle university student rescued a young woman who was about to be raped in an alley behind his apartment, then captured her assailant after a three block chase
i was down those stairs in two seconds. i just reacted. i didn't even have time to think what i was doing,'' said christopher fox, 19
police said fox ran out of his building waving an ax handle and helped save a badly beaten 18-year-old british tourist from further injury and from being raped early friday morning
fox then chased the assailant through the university district
seattle police sgt. lee libby said it appears fox qualifies for a commendation from the department
the woman suffered a gashed forehead where she was struck by a brick, a swollen eye and scrapes on her face and knees. she was treated and released at a local hospital
fox said he was in his apartment when he saw a man smashing the woman's head against the pavement. fox said he grabbed the ax handle, shouted at his roomates to call the police and ran out
the man ran about three blocks, then stopped and pleaded not to be hit. fox said he never hit him
police refused to identify the victim at her own request. they said the suspect, also unidentified, was booked for investigation of attempted rape and assault
the $2.7 billion nuclear aircraft carrier abraham lincoln was christened and launched saturday before a shivering crowd of 3,500
as it sails through the seas and oceans of the world, this aircraft carrier will send a clear and unambiguous message to friends and enemies alike that we have every intention of remaining true to our commitment to freedom,'' said secretary of defense frank c. carlucci
the 1,092-foot ship is the navy's fifth nimitz class nuclear-powered carrier. all have been built at the newport news shipbuilding &amp; drydock co., where a sixth nimitz carrier, the george washington, is scheduled for completion in 1991
the lincoln, when it is commissioned in late 1989, will have a crew of 6,000 and carry more than 90 aircraft. it is powered by two nuclear reactors
illinois gov. james r. thompson, speaking to the crowd gathered at pierside in 30-degree temperatures with winds gusting from between 20 to 30 miles per hour, said ``it is a proud but cold honor for the 11{ million people of illinois.''
abraham lincoln, who led the nation during the civil war, was raised in illinois and lived in springfield before he became president
the ship was christened by joann webb, wife of navy secretary james h. webb
kenny rogers says he is negotiating with lloyd's international inc. to buy the $69 million stouffer nashville hotel
i would like to get into the hotel management business,'' rogers said friday in an address before some 1,000 radio station managers attending a seminar. ``i'd like to own more than one.''
the hotel, which opened last august, adjoins the new nashville convention center
lloyd's has said the 673-room hotel is for sale. in january 1987, the international financial giant took over the interest formerly held by a limited partnership. prior to that, it was the lead financing institution on bonds issued to finance the hotel
rogers is known for hits such as ``the gambler'' and ``islands in the stream,'' a duet with dolly parton
mike roark, former mayor of charleston, w.va., who has begun his 179-day prison sentence for cocaine possession, says it was ``stupid'' and ``weak'' of him to use the drug that cost him his office
why i did it? you picked a question that will probably be the first thing i ask myself every day for the rest of my life,'' roark said in an interview published in friday editions of the charleston daily mail
roark, 42, once known as ``mad dog'' for his zealous pursuit of drug offenders when he was a prosecutor, reported to federal prison here friday
the former second-term republican mayor was scheduled to report to the petersburg federal correction institution on monday, but he showed up early because monday is a federal holiday
the former assistant u.s. attorney and kanawha county prosecutor resigned as mayor one week after pleading guilty. roark, who had been mentioned as a possible gop gubernatorial or congressional candidate, told the newspaper he considers his political career finished
roark pleaded guilty last november to six misdemeanor counts of cocaine possession as part of a plea bargain. in addition to prison, he was fined $5,000
a decision by idaho's highest court to give singer carole king the right to lock a gate on a back-country road leading to her ranch could prompt legislative action, says the state's attorney general
i've heard a figure that there may be up to 65 of these controversies simmering around the state,'' attorney general jim jones said friday, adding that state legislators may want to provide a legislative remedy
the idaho supreme court on wednesday upheld a district court ruling that the dirt road leading to the ranch was abandoned by custer county in 1939 and therefore ceased to be public
king and her husband, rick sorensen, put a locked gate across the road in july 1981, after moving to their back-country ranch. the sorensons' action was protested by neighbors who said they had used the road for years
after custer county declared the road open to public use, the sorensens took the matter to court
oral roberts university is exchanging a beverly hills, calif., house used by evangelist oral roberts for two south tulsa office buildings
richard roberts, the evangelist's son, described the house as a workplace and said it was valued at $3.25 million. the university bought it for $2.4 million in 1982, he said
the university, roberts said, will use a $6 million loan from the bank of oklahoma and $1.5 million from the sale of the house to buy two office buildings owned by the bank. the other $1.75 million from the sale of the house may be invested in other property, he said
the decision to sell the beverly hills house was not related to the ministry's financial woes or to criticism of the roberts family lifestyle, richard roberts said. the house, which has four bedrooms, five bathrooms and a swimming pool, was part of the oru endowment
in remarks published in a ministry magazine, oral roberts said he has lived in the beverly hills house while he wrote books, recorded the new testament on audio tape and held ``conferences with important spiritual leaders who are vital to this ministry.''
golfer jack nicklaus is planning to build a resort that will include not only a golf course and luxury homes, but also a renovated 1890s-era winery
nicklaus said friday his tampa, fla.-based development company is working with a california developer on plans to build the resort on 600 acres bought from the wente brothers winery and on 700 acres the partners have agreed to buy from the catholic archdiocese of oakland
backers, including carolyn wente, vice president of the family owned winery, said they plan to replant 200 acres of ruby hills vineyards property
it'll help promote the region and enhance the local wine industry by bringing in more tourists,'' she said
conservation groups, however, have steadfastly fought development of the valley's agricultural lands. last month, livermore residents approved a referendum that narrowly overturned a city council decision in favor of new homes on 154 acres reserved as farmland
a bold thief stole a judge's folded robe and keys while the judge stood a few feet away posing for a campaign photograph
circuit judge sam monk was posing on the front steps of the courthouse thursday, and put his robe just inside the front doors, only a few feet away. he hid his keys in the robe after the photographer said they were making his pocket bulge
asked what he thought about the thief's brashness, the judge said, ``the king's english fails me in that question.''
it's obvious they knew what they were doing and who they were doing it to,'' said presiding circuit judge malcolm street jr. ``the church choir was not standing on the front steps.''
this is just another glaring example of the lack of proper security in the county courthouse,'' said monk. locks have been changed at the courthouse, and monk has had to change locks in and around his home
the robe was found in a downtown garbage bin, but the keys are still missing
here is the text of president reagan's radio address saturday, which was pre-recorded on thursday:
my fellow americans, today, i am meeting with mexican president (miguel) de la madrid in mazatlan, mexico, so i've pre-recorded this radio talk. over these last seven years, maintaining a constructive and friendly relationship with our neighbors to the south has been one of the highest priorities of our administration
as we review what has transpired, there is every reason to be pleased. the leaders of our two nations are aware that good relations and cooperation between us are invaluable to both our peoples. and that's why the meetings between our top leadership have been frequent and our talks at those meeting comprehensive
my meeting today with president de la madrid will cover a number of issues _ from economic concerns, to our mutual commitment to fight drug traffickers, to the security challenges facing the hemisphere
mexico is our fourth largest trading partner and we, correspondingly, are mexico's largest trading partner. our commercial ties are strong and of great benefit to people on both sides of the border. we've worked hard to make it that way. last november we signed a new frameword understanding that underscored our special trade and investment relationship
during our meetings in mazatlan, president de la madrid and i will reaffirm our commitment to take advantage of every opportunity to strengthen the commercial ties between our peoples. one thing that cannot be overemphasized is that a healthy and expanding mexican economy is in the interest of the united states. we want mexico to grow and prosper. and that's why we've done our best, and will continue to do our best, to help find solutions to the vexing problems of mexico's international debt
innovative, market-based methods of managing this burden are being explored, such as mexico's offer to exchange debt for long-term bonds. at the same time, we've been working with our mexican counterparts on such things as a new textile accord, a telecommunications agreement, and a new civil aviation agreement, which is in the final stages of negotiations
i hope that one day all of this will be seen as the initial steps leading toward an historic freeing of commerce and trade throughout the continent. we're just now beginning to tap the unmeasurable potential between mexico and the united states
this can certainly be seen in the immigration reform and control act, passed by congress in 1986. this law offers protections for more than a million undocumented immigrants living in the united states, many of whom are from mexico. it provides a means for them to find legal employment in our country and to participate openly and freely in our society
population movement and employment are subjects being examined closely by joint us and mexican commissions. a study of the issues and frank dialogue between us is essential, and i am gratified by the responsible long-term approach the mexican government is taking in this sensitive area. we have found that there are honest and concerned officials on both sides of the border who are dedicated to the same ideals
nowhere is that more clear than in the battle against drug traffickers. american and mexican policemen and law enforcement officials have lost their lives in this fight. we've been allies with brave individuals, men and women of integrity, who are putting their lives on the line against this evil, and the corruption and bloodshed that follows in its trail
i might add that each and every one of us can make a contribution to winning this war against drugs _ first, by refusing to use illegal drugs ourselves, and second, by helping others to get off drugs, and the traffickers would go out of business if people quit buying illegal drugs. that's the real solution, and it's up to each and every one of us to be a part of the solution
finally, my talks with president de la madrid will also cover the security threat to this hemisphere. since 1980, we've witnessed an impressive expansion of democracy throughout the americas. however, this progress cannot be taken for granted. the establishment of totalitarian regimes, supported by cuba and the soviet union, is a threat to stability and freedom. nowhere is that threat more acute than in central america
i would hope that the united states and mexico will find common interest in opposing any such totalitarian threat. the peoples and governments of the united states and mexico are and ought to be friends. our national interests dictate it, our peoples demand it. it is in this spirit that i meet today with president de la madrid. i will pass on to the people of mexico your very best wishes
until next week, thanks for listening and god bless you. agency saying it was forged. no pickup.</note>
a magazine said today that a document purportedly linking austrian president kurt waldheim to the deportation of civilians to concentration camps during world war ii was a fake, and it apologized for publishing it
spiegel regrets that it presented this ... document to its readers as `the proof' (of waldheim's involvement) and not with the necessary distance,'' the der spiegal news magazine said in its latest edition
der spiegel said bernhard haas, a document expert from stuttgart, concluded that the military telegram was ``in all likelihood'' a fake
the telegram, published feb. 8, allegedly linked waldheim, a former u.n. secretary-general, to the deportation of more than 4,000 civilians while he served as an officer in the german army in yugoslavia in 1942
the west german magazine published the text of the telegram two weeks ago, which it said ``for the first time will prove austrian president kurt waldheim's complicity in war crimes during world war ii.''
the document published said: ``very urgent. lieutenant kurt waldheim from the staff of general stahl demands that 4,224 prisoners from kozara, most of them women and children and approximately 15 percent older men, be sent on their way: 3,514 to grubisino polje and 730 to zemun.''
both places were prison camps near belgrade during world war ii
the hamburg-based magazine said the document was discovered by yugoslav military historian dusan plenca. spiegel has not said how it obtained the document
waldheim has consistently denied allegations he participated in war crimes while serving with the german army in the balkans during the war
after der spiegel published the document, a waldheim spokesman dismissed it as a ``probable fake.''
a panel of historians assigned to study waldheim's past presented its report to the austrian government last monday and condemned the president for not objecting to atrocities it concluded he must have known about
but the commission also said it found no proof waldheim actually participated in war crimes. it did not have access to the original telegram published in der spiegel
plenca never produced the original document. the commission appealed unsuccessfully to the yugoslav government to help it find the original
yugoslavia placed waldheim on a list of suspected war criminals and asked for his extradition from austria in 1947, but it never pursued the extradition request and never publicly explained why
yugoslavia's tanjug news agency said this week that the telegram was a ``forgery.''
tanjug said a yugoslav commission, ``formed of historians, archivists and other experts, came to the conclusion that the telegram is not an authentic document and that there exists a founded suspicion that it is a forgery.'' spoke on condition of anonymity and fix typo. pick up 8th pvs, `the opposition...'</note>
panama began four days of carnival this weekend with the country's future as unpredictable as the route of shambling revelers wending from one sidewalk beer stall to another
the festival was expected to be subdued this year, clouded by months of political unrest and the recent indictments in the united states of the country's de facto leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega. he was charged in miami and tampa, fla., with drug trafficking and money laundering
the indictments deepened the polarization of a nation already sharply split along economic lines. they caused noriega to try to reinforce his power by criticizing the united states and left his opponents confused
if there ever was a chance that noriega would relinquish power gracefully, the indictments in florida appear to have quashed it,'' said one european diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity
leaders of panama's growing opposition movement acknowledge that their goal of removing the general was made more difficult by the indictments and subsequent congressional testimony last week by several former noriega associates
the grand juries in miami and tampa and the testimony of noriega's former friends lent weight to what the opposition has been charging all along _ that the general is up to his jowls in corruption
but what can we do now?'' asked aurelio barria, president of the panamanian chamber of commerce and industry and a leading opposition figure who returned home two weeks ago after several months of self-imposed exile
the opposition has ruled out further demonstrations like the ones that shook the country last summer when noriega sent the army into the streets with guns, clubs and tear gas
at least three people were killed and hundreds injured in the disturbances organized by the national civic crusade, a coalition of civic, professional, labor and other groups
subsequent calls for popular demonstrations met with dwindling enthusiasm
we just can't ask people to go out in the streets and face that kind of repression,'' said ricardo arias calderon, the president of the christian democratic party and another leading opposition figure
barria, arias calderon and other opposition leaders spoke hopefully of arranging the general's ouster through talks with his supporters in the democratic revolutionary party, which is closely linked to panama's military
but they acknowledged that they may not be able to arrange such talks and they appeared to have no other firm course of action to oust the general from his post as head of panama's defense forces
barria spoke of the possibilities of a coup by junior officers, a presidential order removing noriega, a nationwide general strike, greater involvement in the ouster effort by the roman catholic church and united diplomatic and financial pressure by other latin american nations
opposition leaders began talking about a general strike a week ago, but barrios said they were still discussing the action ``with various (economic) factions'' and no date has been set for the shutdown attempt. previous strikes have been only partly effective
and few officers in the military seem to command enough respect to launch a successful coup
barria said he and other opposition leaders have personally taken their case to the presidents of argentina, venezuela, brazil, guatemala and uruguay, but none of those leaders has yet spoken out against noriega
nor has the roman catholic church, widely respected in this predominantly catholic country, given the opposition movement the support that barria and others would like to see
president eric arturo delvalle, widely seen as a puppet dancing on noriega's strings, has the constitutional authority to dismiss the general. but few believe he will do it
still, delvalle was the object of much speculation. grafitti appeared on walls in panama city saying ``watch out for delvalle.''
he was absent thursday night when an estimated 8,000 people crowded into a panama city convention center to pay homage to gen. noriega on his birthday _ either his 50th or 54th, depending on differing records
noriega's triumphant appearance at the gathering capped a week of speeches around the country in which he blamed his troubles on a plot by the reagan administration to renege on a 1977 treaty that will turn over control of the panama canal to panama at the turn of the century
that accusation is vigorously denied in washington, but noriega has been using it for months to whip up anti-u.s. sentiment
noriega also demanded the removal of the u.s. southern command from panama, which the pentagon and the white house initially interpreted as a call for the transfer of some 10,000 servicemen and their 20,000 dependents from panamanian soil
washington immediately rejected that, saying the the american troops were legally in the country and would remain here to protect the canal until it is handed over to panama on dec. 31, 1999
noriega later said he was referring only to the headquarters unit responsible for u.s. strategic military planning. american military sources said that would involve the removal of only about 300 officers and men
during his birthday speech, noriega's biggest ovation came when he declared: ``if they want me out, they'll have to kill me.''
adolfo calero, a leader of u.s.-backed guerrillas in nicaragua, denied on saturday that his troops trained in panama or received funds from the panamanian government
we never had anyone training in panama,'' calero said. ``i don't know anything about it. we have absolutely nothing to do with panama, nor with the panamanian government.''
we have never received any money from panamanian sources,'' he said
calero's comments, in an interview after appealing to a convention of u.s. conservatives to send donations to his cause, was his first reaction to congressional testimony on wednesday by a former top panamanian intelligence officer, jose i. blandon
blandon told a senate foreign relations subcommittee that panama provided military training for the rebels after a 1985 request from then-white house aide oliver north. at the time, direct u.s. assistance to the rebels was banned by law
in addition, gen. manuel antonio noriega, the panamanian military leader whose ouster the reagan administration is urging, said last week that he and another former white house aide, john poindexter, discussed the possibility of a u.s. invasion of nicaragua. u.s. government spokesmen have denied such talks took place
asked if he thought noriega, who was indicted last week by a grand jury on drug charges, fabricated the story about invasion plans to divert attention from his current fight with the united states, calero replied: ``yes, he's the one in hot water.''
the testimony by blandon and the comments by noriega have raised several questions, including: was the united states using panama to help the nicaraguan rebels at a time direct u.s. assistance was outlawed?''
also at issue is the relationship between the united states and noriega, who has now been accused of criminality by a grand jury. according to blandon's testimony, the cia gave noriega classified reports on anti-reagan administration senators
the cia denied the allegation, but sen. alfonse d'amato, r-ny, said ``the fact of the matter is that it has been well know that noriega _ the thug and racketeer _ has been on the payroll of the cia for many years and remained there, i am given to understand, until rather recently.''
in his speech to the annual conservative political action conference, calero lamented anew congressional rejection of an administration request for $36.2 million in aid for the nicaraguan resistance
he solicited private donations, but said ``private support cannot substitute for u.s. government aid.''
however, we do need private support of a humanitarian, or non-lethal nature,'' calero said
the reagan administration, whose solicitation of private funds for the contras in previous years created a huge furor, has publicized a white house memo ordering officials to take no part in private fund raising
calero said the vote against contra aid will force the resistance forces to reduce their activities in the coming year, but he added, ``we will continue the struggle no matter what.''
opponents of the u.s. government assistance said it would harm a peace plan signed by nicaragua and other governments in the region. for bosses</head>
a department store is offering japanese cupids the ultimate arrow this valentine's day _ a $7,700, 10{-ounce heart of pure gold engraved with the sender's message
two of the palm-sized hearts have been sold so far, one to a devoted husband seeking a special gift for his wife's 77th birthday and the second to a bank, said hanshin department store spokesman toru imamura
more cost-conscious schoolgirls and secretaries choose from a wide array of fancy chocolates and novelty gifts
besides the old standbys _ chocolate hearts with long ribbons and miniature chocolate whiskey bottles _ this year's items have a decidedly domestic flavor. ``sir dean'' chocolate fish come paired in a sardine tin with rollback top
flip up the lid to another can of chocolates and you find chocolate bandages in familiar red, white and blue wrappers with the warning, ``this chocolate is not medicated sweets.''
baby choco'' is softly nestled in a mini-package of disposable diapers with a smiling tot on the front
for the objects of this sweet attention and invention, all is not a bed of roses. obligatory chocolates given to male bosses and colleagues outnumber those of romantic intent, spurring receiving males to compete in an annual popularity contest
the possible embarrassment of being giftless at the end of the day is enough to keep some men home from work, according to a daimaru department store survey of 400 men aged 20 to 30
less drastic ways of avoiding embarrassment are broad hints, extra nice behavior or even buying one's own chocolates for prominent display. a few men console themselves by saying that valentine's day is a foreign holiday with a short postwar history
chances are good that generosity on valentine's day will be returned on march 14, called ``white day'' by japanese candy makers who urge men to give their favorite women hard candies
nato members must work to reinvigorate the western alliance because the arms control treaty with the soviets does not mean the kremlin has given up its ambitions of world dominance, senate majority leader robert c. byrd said saturday
byrd, d-w.va., delivering his party's weekly radio address, said the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty leaves nagging questions
where is the evidence that a half-century of soviet pursuit of dominance and control has been bridled?'' asked byrd, who is leading a bipartisan congressional delegation that is consulting with european leaders
we are heartened to find that nato leaders view the new soviet leadership with a healthy dose of realism,'' he said. ``we know that our adversary has not abandoned its historic goals on the world scene.''
byrd said western europe and the united states ``are the only real foil to soviet expansionism'' and should use the treaty ``as an invitation to fashion a stronger alliance among ourselves.''
the key to peace is cohesion,'' he said. ``we must redeclare ourselves as an alliance. the soviets must be convinced of our public support, the depth and flexibility of our armed response _ and our staying power.''
we are still far from a time when the world is in perfect balance,'' byrd said. ``although nuclear deterrence is an essential component in the pursuit of peace, nato must soon offer a strong proposal on conventional and chemical weapons control.''
here is the text of the democratic radio address, delivered saturday by senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va
this is senate majority leader robert byrd. 1988 promises to bring about a massive shift in the way most of the free world sizes up its own security. a new arms control treaty _ the inf treaty _ is before the senate. people in this country and in europe are concerned about what it means to their future
for that reason, i led a bipartisan delegation this week to five nato countries to raise some crucial questions, and to pledge to european leaders that america's commitment to nato is unshakable, unchanged, and undiminished
the signing of the inf treaty has opened the door to new optimism, new uncertainties and new risks for nato. the treaty is an invitation to fashion a stronger alliance among ourselves, and a more pragmatic strategy toward the soviets
we were heartened to find that nato leaders view the new soviet leadership with a healthy dose of realism
much of their skepticism _ and ours _ can be laid to mr. gorbachev's stunning achievement in eclipsing his predecessors in style and message. at times, he seems to have almost mesmerized western publics with the prospect of detente with his adversaries abroad and the trappings of glasnost at home
american polls are now recording a trust toward this russian leader where none existed before. yet, there are some of us who are still nagged by questions:
_where is the evidence that a half-century of soviet pursuit of dominance and control has been bridled?
_why should we risk deterrence on the professed good will of a man only three years into power? glasnost must not be confused with the freedom of the press or freedom of speech by western standards
the inf treaty is, in large measure, due to the courage and the cohesion of the west. we proved that, together, we are the match for any aggressor, that we are the only real foil to soviet expansionism
we know that our adversary has not abandoned its historic goals on the world scene. so, our course should be one of new initiative to constantly test the new soviet leadership under gorbachev
the leaders we consulted this week agreed that nato has a twofold task: first, to fashion sound solutions for our common defense and our common approach to a skillful protagonist; second, to persuade our peoples of the realities we face
our message must be clear and constant: arms control is not an end in itself. it is a means to an end. the end being a more secure western alliance
i was born at a time when woodrow wilson proclaimed world war i the ``war to end all wars.'' and i was a young man when franklin roosevelt galvanized a nation with his call to arms
a generation has come of age since america and europe last fought side by side. that that generation has been spared the trauma of war is a credit to the trust and strength we have given on both sides of the atlantic
in the coming months we must declare our unity of purpose, not just to the soviets, but to the american people and to the people of europe
we know we are still far from a time when the world is in perfect balance. although nuclear deterrence is an essential component in the pursuit of peace, nato must soon offer a strong proposal on conventional and chemical weapons control
in the end, the key to peace is cohesion. we must redeclare ourselves an alliance. the soviets must be convinced of our public support, the depth and flexibility of our armed response _ and our staying power
the leaders in europe with whom we met share our concerns. they are realistic about mr. gorbachev and they welcomed strong american leadership of the nato alliance. we pledged to them our support of the alliance and the continued commitment of the american people to the common destiny of europe and america; for europe's security is our security
people who live on barlow street say they support two neighbors who face arraignment on charges of setting a house on fire. the residents cheered because they said the house had been used, since last summer, to sell crack
residents of the working-class neighborhood where blacks, whites and asian-americans live side by side said the two men acted as good neighbors
robert firmstone said he's taking up a collection to help pay legal expenses for angelo ``bruce'' parisi, 28, and perry kent, 29, who are free on $10,000 personal bond pending a feb. 26 arraignment on two charges each of burning property
both men have admitted setting the fire but insist they are not vigilantes, and their lawyers say they were acting in self defense
they are not vigilantes,'' said firmstone, who has lived on barlow street for 15 years. ``they are not going around the city burning down crack houses
ninety percent of the people in this block support them. when they set the fire, everybody in the neighborhood knew they were going to do it and they knew why they were going to do it,'' he said
this is a peaceful neighborhood,'' said firmstone. ``this isn't a rich street, but we look out for each other.''
however, guy martin, another neighbor, said, ``i don't agree with their means. they did take the law into their own hands. but i don't want a crack house in my neighborhood. they did what they thought they had to do.''
the suspected crack house was destroyed by fires oct. 28 and nov. 15. parisi, an unemployed landscaper, and kent, an unemployed machinist, are accused of dousing the house with gasoline and setting the blazes
lt. jon bozich, an arson investigator, said he plans to question neighbors who told reporters they contributed to a neighborhood collection for the gasoline. neighbors could face conspiracy charges, fire officials have said
earlier, parisi said he and kent collected less than $10 from neighbors to buy gasoline and a can
if i could do it over, i would call the police,'' parisi said. ``i wouldn't do this again. it's scary.''
kent said he was so distressed he has sent his wife and three children out of town. ``we did it for our kids; now we're not sure we'll be around to see them grow up,'' he said
maybe we overreacted, but something had to be done,'' parisi said. ``all we want is a peaceful, quiet neighborhood.''
renee lynch, president of detroit area residents east, applauded the goal of parisi and kent but not their method
i think people get frustrated,'' lynch said. ``you call those drug telephone numbers and the police and you don't get any feedback. those two men were thinking of their children. i don't think they should go to jail, though i fear they will be made an example of.''
frederick loewe, who wrote such musicals as ``camelot'' and ``my fair lady'' with partner alan jay lerner, was hospitalized in fair condition saturday, an official said
the 86-year-old songwriter was brought to desert hospital late wednesday because of chest pains and breathing trouble, according to his guardian, john f. morris
hospital officials said he was in serious condition when he was admitted but a nursing supervisor said he was in fair condition saturday
during an 18-year partnership, lerner and loewe wrote such hits as ``brigadoon'' in 1947, ``my fair lady'' in 1956 and ``camelot'' in 1960
the team reunited in 1973 for a broadway production of ``gigi,'' which they had done as a film in 1958
loewe retired, permanently, in 1974. lerner died in 1986
an american destroyer wary of another stark-type attack fired flares at an iraqi bomber racing toward a convoy of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers in the persian gulf, u.s. military officials said saturday
the plane, a soviet-built tu-16 badger, veered sharply away from the convoy just before it launched two missiles friday night. the missiles exploded in a flash on the horizon a minute or so later, according to journalists aboard the destroyer chandler
on may 17, two exocet missiles fired by an iraqi f-1 mirage hit the missile frigate uss stark, killing 37 u.s. sailors. iraq said the attack was a mistake
friday's incident was the second time in five days that an iraqi aircraft on a raid against iranian targets had come within eight miles of a u.s. warship in the central gulf as it prepared to fire its missiles
u.s. military sources said officers aboard the battle cruiser richmond k. turner had a ``tense moment'' last sunday night when they thought an iraqi missile had been fired at their ship. that missile, also launched from a badger bomber, was visible when fired and when it exploded, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
there was no word on what the friday's projectiles actually hit, but iraq announced it had carried out an air strike against ``two large maritime targets'' near iran-held sirri island at 9:08 p.m., the same time as the chandler's sighting
sirri is a little-used oil terminal about 60 miles northwest of dubai and 40 miles from the iran coast. there was no other verification of the claimed attack
cmdr. steve smith, skipper of the 8,300-ton chandler, told members of the pentagon-organized news pool that iraqi pilots often fire at radar blips without being sure of what they are
having watched the geometry of their attacks for some time, i was concerned that he would be firing his missile while he was heading toward us,'' he informed his crew by ship's intercom
many u.s. officers sailing the gulf say their greatest single concern is an errant iraqi air attack, such as that which devastated the stark
iraq later apologized for the attack and agreed to pay compensation to the u.s. government and the victims' families. the state department said recently it was in the ``final stages'' of preparing claims
the chandler was one of two warships escorting the upbound convoy, which included four of the 11 state-owned kuwaiti tankers re-registered under the stars and stripes last year for protection from iranian attack. iran considers kuwait an ally of iraq in their seven-year war
u.s. warships routinely go on top alert when iraqi warplanes show up on radar, and the chandler's crew was at ``general quarters,'' or battle stations, as the badger was tracked down the gulf and looped eastward toward its target
the ship's phalanx gun, designed to hurl a storm of radar-guided shells at an incoming cruise missile, was on automatic, and its own missiles and stinger anti-aircraft teams were ready to fire
as the iraqi jet turned behind the convoy and appeared to head for the trailing chandler, the destroyer fired two flares from a 5-inch gun and radioed the pilot to change course. smith said the pilot spoke poor english and did not seem to understand, but veered away immediately when the flares lit up
smith said it was the closest an iraqi plane had come to the chandler since its arrival nov. 25. the ship, originally built for the iranian navy but never delivered, is specially equipped to monitor air activity
the skipper also said the iraqi badger, a twin-engine jet bomber, carried chinese-made c-601 missiles rather than the french-built exocets normally used by baghdad's air forces
it was apparently the first disclosure that iraq uses the c-601, an air-to-ground version of the silkworm anti-ship missile that china has furnished to iran. the basic design is soviet and more than 30 years old
meanwhile, a danish supertanker, crippled in a mysterious attack on thursday, continued under tow to a shipyard outside the gulf
gulf shipping executives and military sources in the united states said there were indications that the 339,000-ton ship was hit by an iraqi missile, rather than an iranian helicopter, as first reported
one seaman was killed and three others injured in the attack on the tanker kate maersk, which was badly damaged by fire
the u.s. sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was no helicopter in the vicinity, but noted that iraq had claimed an air raid on a ``large naval target'' about the time of the attack
salvage officials, also speaking privately, said the tanker had what one called ``a gigantic entry hole'' in its superstructure, suggesting a hit by a large, exocet-type missile
officials of a.p. moeller, the ship's copenhagen-based owners, said they could not comment on what may have hit the tanker
a large windowless room here has witnessed the assassination of an overbearing naval commander and mass firings when officers failed to follow orders. it has seen treaties broken and weapons used up
but not a drop of blood has been spilled. the room on the campus of the naval war college is used for war games, a serious pastime that draws participants from around the world
players call their activity, aided by maps and computers, fun and exhilarating. but war gaming is played as the next best thing to the real thing and even the scenarios are top secret
we try to stimulate the thinking process of these players,'' said navy cmdr. tim barker, who acts as umpire, keeping players within the confines of the possible and showing them the consequences of their decisions
should i make my boats report? should i move my boats into the area? should we respond to terrorist activity? all these things are being played out,'' he said
on occasion, war games are handy in light of current events
when the united states began providing naval protection last summer to u.s.-flagged oil tankers in the persian gulf, the war gaming staff played it out
we didn't come up with any surprises,'' said capt. joseph hurlburt, who has since retired as head of the college war gaming department. he wouldn't elaborate but shook his head ``no'' when asked if the persian gulf situation might explode
but war gaming can't predict all real-life actions, as shown by a letter, displayed in the lobby, that was written to the war college by adm. chester nimitz, commander in the pacific during world war ii
the war with japan had been re-enacted in the game rooms at the naval war college by so many people, and in so many different ways,'' nimitz wrote, ``that nothing that happened during the war was a surprise ... absolutely nothing except the (japanese suicide) kamikaze tactics toward the end of the war; we had not visualized these.''
often games produce no clear winner. instead, the objective is to test theories, develop trends, build consensus and assess technology and logistics, and to give war college students an arena in which to practice what they've learned
when a war game is on, the building is off-limits to outsiders. but during a recent rare visit, monitor screens blinked with numbers and, in big red letters, the word ``classified.'' other screens showed maps indicating the locations of ships, submarines and aircraft
the notion of two-sided war games in which players pretend to be the adversary is relatively modern. it was invented early in this century in prussia and refined between the two world wars
today, war games are sometimes played in seminars, where the armaments and battle lines are drawn in the imagination. but the naval war college prides itself on its use of computers as a resource for reality. they give more dimension to the simulation by bringing in political variables and millions of facts
computers hold the information from which the gamesters recreate the world, including statistics on the shape and climate of ports, the inclinations of their inhabitants and the details of other countries' ships, aircraft and bombs
the number of players varies greatly, from a dozen to hundreds, depending on the complexity
each summer world war iii begins anew, played out in three weeks with 1,200 participants. there are nato games and games with other allies
players are assigned to a force in computer-equipped rooms called cells. one is designated the ``red cell,'' for communist forces. cmdr. robert simeral is a navy intelligence expert with intimate knowledge of the soviet union, so he often plays the soviet side
the goal of the red cell is to play a consistent red threat. however, you can never really crack the skulls of the soviets,'' he said, pointing up a flaw inherent in war games _ the best you can do is imitate the enemy
each game takes on a life of its own, animated by the players and their options, simeral said. ``tempers flare. people get fired. military leaders get upset with the civilian command. you get an acting president firing a commander in charge of the pacific for contradicting policy.''
the professional warriors all stressed that the ultimate objective of trying out such scenarios is to keep the peace. said barker, ``we don't necessarily want a good juicy war, but to make people think about it.'' tampa; corrects 16th graf ``when u.s.'' to delete extraneous word ``office''</note>
some law enforcement and other government officials are challenging the credibility of witnesses who gave the senate a startling, detailed account of ties between latin american leaders and a huge colombian drug cartel
but the two senators who ran last week's hearings, massachusetts democrat john kerry and new york republican alfonse d'amato, are unbowed by the criticism and promise more revelations to come
when you're trying to prosecute the devil,'' said kerry, referring to panamanian strongman manual noriega, ``you don't go to heaven for the witnesses.''
though noriega, who denies all charges, is under federal drug-trafficking indictments in miami and tampa, and the administration has distanced itself from its one-time ally, some officials are challenging parts of the senate testimony as undocumented and tainted by the criminal background of key witnesses
the critics include vice president george bush, officials of the drug enforcement administration, the u.s. attorney in miami and democrat david boren, chairman of the senate intelligence committee
kerry is chairman of the senate foreign relations subcommittee on terrorism and narcotics, which has spent the past year investigating ties among latin american leaders and drug kingpins in colombia
last week's hearings produced dramatic testimony from jose i. blandon, a former close associate of noriega who was fired last month, and ramon milian rodriguez, an accountant who is serving a 43-year prison term for laundering money for the drug cartel
at one point, blandon said the cia had provided noriega with details about the personal lives of u.s. senators
the cia categorically denied that assertion. boren, traveling in europe, said he had ``no reason to believe that there is any truth'' to the charge
kerry said blandon ``was a very credible witness. i haven't talked yet to sen. boren about his statement, but i intend to when he returns from europe.''
d'amato, who has been interested for years in the way drugs reach the united states, sided with kerry. ``blandon is credible,'' d'amato said. ``i don't know about the truth of every single statement he made, but an awful lot of what he said can be checked out and has been fully checked out.''
blandon also said that two hours before the u.s. invasion of grenada on oct. 25, 1983, bush passed a warning to cuban president fidel castro that cuban troops shouldn't oppose the u.s. action on the caribbean island
bush said he'd never given such a warning
rodriguez testified about the money laundering operations of the drug cartel, based in medellin, colombia. he asserted that the cartel had helped bankroll the u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels, and also said he received money from the cia
echoing complaints of federal drug agents, richard gregory, chief deputy u.s. attorney in miami, said ``when rodriguez was arrested (in 1983), he never told us any of the things he's talking about now. i've talked to the agents in this office who worked on his case and they don't believe him. every time anything reached headline status in the last five years, he'd say he knew about it.''
when u.s. attorney leon kellner sought the indictment in miami against noriega, returned two weeks ago, rodriguez wasn't used, gregory said
gregory also said investigators from kerry's subcommittee were told that rodriguez wasn't credible, but kerry used him anyway
you know,'' said kerry, ``if you go back to the iran-contra hearings, there were witnesses who came forward with totally different stories, totally inconsistent with each other, day after day. that has not appeared here. witness after witness has corroborated the money laundering, corroborated the (drug) network, corroborated the names.''
kerry added that ``i certainly don't quickly forget the fact that there were long and indignant and repeated denials by the white house and others about selling arms to iran. there were long and repeated denials by the cia and state department about those and many other things, including illegal support of the contras.''
d'amato agreed. ``a lot of people don't want to believe the things that blandon and rodriguez are saying, so their credibility is attacked,'' he said. ``but if you look at it very closely, an awful lot of what they are saying has been corroborated by documentation, by statements from other people. the international drug trafficking problem is very serious and it won't go away by attacking someone's credibility.''
when the hearings resume next month, kerry says he plans to focus on the alleged connections among the drug cartel, the contras and the cia
killer bees from south america will probably begin swarming into the united states in the next year or two, and any attempt to head them off at the border is likely to fail, experts predicted saturday
the nasty, aggressive bees have already reached southern mexico and are winging northward at a rate of 200 or 300 miles a year. one authority said they might even hit brownsville, texas, late this year
u.s. and mexican officials have set up a brz, or bee regulated zone, in southern mexico in an effort to at least slow down the intruders
however, experts at a conference of the american association for the advancement of science said saturday that the arrival of the africanized bees is inevitable, although they are not sure how far north the bees will spread. some believe they will be limited to the warm southern states, while others say they might spread over much of the nation
in my view, to eradicate a social insect is almost impossible,'' said david w. roubik, a staff scientist with the smithsonian tropical research institute in balboa, panama
it's too hard to get every last one,'' he said. ``any mass eradication program would be a filter. i don't see any possibility of ridding the americas of africanized bees.''
the bees descended from south african bees that escaped from a researcher in brazil in 1956. in south and central america, they have largely displaced their gentler cousins, descended from european bees
unlike ordinary honeybees, the africanized variety is easily riled, and hundreds may attack unsuspecting intruders who go near their nests, leading to the popular name killer bees. they sometimes kill animals and people with their stings
the africanized bees are thought to be a major threat to the u.s. beekeeping industry. commercially maintained bees are important for pollinating crops ranging from almonds to blueberries, and the africanized bees are poor pollinators
killer bees frequently take over commercial hives, where they are difficult to handle. they are poor honey makers, and they frequently pack up and fly off without warning
in a report prepared for the meeting, orley r. taylor of the university of kansas predicted the arrival of the bees in texas later this year. he said the bees will clearly have an impact in the united states, but whether it ``will be in the billions of dollars or only in the tens of millions over the next 20 years is not yet clear.''
an effort to halt the bees at the narrowest point in mexico, the isthmus of tehuantepec, already shows signs of failing. officials hoping to trap and kill the bees in a belt across the isthmus have already had to fall back to a second line of defense
like several other experts scheduled to speak at the meeting, al dietz of the university of georgia was not able to attend because of bad weather in boston, but his research report was read to the conference
he said the bees were able to survive as successfully as european bees in the cold mountains of argentina, even when covered with snow for a month. he said they might survive in the united states south of the 40 degree latitude, which crosses the country from philadelphia to denver to northern california
suzanne w.t. batra of the u.s. department of agriculture said she believes they will thrive along the coasts as far north as washington state and boston but live only in the southern states in the nation's interior
roubik said that the africanized bees may need tropical flowers and nest-uilding materials, and this could stop them from getting established in colder parts of the united states
david j.c. fletcher of bucknell university said in a report that bees in africa are more gentle, make more honey and are easier to control than their africanized descendents in the americas. he proposed bringing friendly bees from africa to the united states and letting them breed with the killer bees so they will pass on their desirable traits
however, it is currently illegal to bring live honeybees into the united states. efforts to crossbreed killer bees with european honeybees have proven unsuccessful because the africanized bees are genetically dominant
dennis clouthier is a conservative republican _ pro-star wars, pro-contra aid and opposed to the u.s.-soviet nuclear arms treaty. yet in 1986, he voted for a liberal democrat for governor solely because the gop incumbent championed the seabrook nuclear power plant
the stalled, $5.2 billion project on new hampshire's seacoast has been a leading state and regional issue throughout much of its 16-year history. now its foes hope voters like clouthier will make it an influential factor in the first presidential primary of the 1988 season _ possibly ruining the presidential bid of vice president george bush
all seven major democratic presidential candidates are to some extent opposed to seabrook, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis playing a key role in blocking a license for the completed reactor. but there are some sharp distinctions among the five republican aspirants
seabrook opponents criticize pro-nuclear republicans at the bottom of the polls _ former delaware gov. pete du pont and former television evangelist pat robertson. but their chief target is bush, whose front-runner status in new hampshire polls has been jeopardized by his third-place showing in the iowa caucuses
bush views on seabrook have echoed those of his state campaign chairman, gov. john sununu: its fate should be left to the nuclear regulatory commission, not state governors
george bush is going to do terribly on the seacoast among republicans because of seabrook, and it could end up costing him the presidency,'' said kurt ehrenberg of search '88. he noted that a little-known, anti-seabrook challenger to sununu in the 1986 gubernatorial primary won 22 percent of the vote statewide, and up to 45 percent in some seacoast towns
to try to help fulfill that prophecy, ehrenberg's group last week began airing radio ad on seacoast stations that concluded: ``if you don't want seabrook, you don't want george bush.''
bush campaign aide andrew card disputed ehrenberg's prediction
i don't think (voters) are that parochial,'' card said. ``it will be an issue, but one of many, many issues in the primary _ not a cutting issue.''
electing a governor and electing a president are two different things,'' said paul young of new york rep. jack kemp's campaign. but he also speculated that seabrook could have an impact if it costs bush support on the seacoast
kemp, a strong proponent of states' rights, has asked federal regulators to hold up a low-power license for seabrook before evacuation plans are developed that win the confidence of people within the plant's 10-mile emergency planning zone
i want to make clear, he is not against nuclear power _ just for the health and safety of the people,'' young said
however, the kemp camp has not been trumpeting its positions on seabrook
i understand that. that's politics,'' said mimi fallon of the group republicans against seabrook station. ``they're afraid they're going to lose the people they already have on the other side'' who support the plant, said fallon, who supports kemp
another republican hopeful, sen. bob dole of kansas, has suggested that the non-partisan national academy of sciences review seabrook's evacuation plans because of a perception that the nrc favors the industry it is supposed to regulate. in december, dole also asked the nrc to hold up low-power testing until evacuation issues are settled
i'd like to see senator dole go a little further, but i'm not knocking what he's done,'' ehrenberg said. ``he's a tough guy to move on some issues, that's clear. he's a very careful politician.''
what irks the anti-seabrook activists is dole's insistence that governors should not have veto power over nuclear plants. but in an interview this month, dole also said a governor ``has got to be certain that the rights of his people are protected.''
on the democratic side, dukakis is fighting in federal court against an nrc rule change that would allow approval of evacuation plans developed by utilities when governments balk. dukakis tried to reinforce his standing with anti-seabrook voters last week by holding a news conference with the reactor in the background
ehrenberg speculated that dukakis' action against seabrook may have gained him some early organizational support in neighboring new hampshire, but that hasn't stopped the other democrats from wooing the anti-seabrook vote _ in some cases, in spite of generally pro-nuclear records
former arizona gov. bruce babbitt said he served on the presidential commission that investigated the 1979 three mile island accident and recommended the evacuation-planning rules that have become seabrook's major obstacle
former colorado sen. gary hart said he sat on a congressional panel that helped write those recommendations law
jesse jackson favors a rapid phase-out of all the nation's nuclear power plants and notes that he opposed seabrook in his 1984 preidential campaign, before the chernobyl disaster in the soviet union
sen. paul simon of illinois calls seabrook a ``white elephant'' that should not operate, and he held a news conference last week in the same place dukakis did to criticize pro-nuclear votes by rep. richard gephardt of missouri
simon noted that a nuclear industry lobbying group said last year that gephardt voted with the industry 53 percent of the time in recent years. but gephardt says his votes came under a more vigilant nrc and he has learned since chernobyl
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee voted with the nuclear industry 55 percent of the time when he was in the house, but has taken a low-key position on problems at the tennessee valley authority nuclear reactors
clouthier, the new hampshire voter who is a quality-control manager, said he doesn't see seabrook as an overriding issue in the primary
but i think they're all avoiding it like a hot potato because it is so controversial,'' clouthier said. orlinz museum.</head>
city park in new orleans is a marvelous place
its museum of art friday framed a new face
not a mondrian modern or unknown jurassic,
not van gogh or matisse or some other old classic
they brought this seuss fellow fresh from the west coast
to personally bring what he does the most
to a place which has showcased peruvian gold,
king tut and old glass _ 'twas a stroke the most bold _
they've brought cats with tall hats, creatures so long and slinky ..
and how did he draw them with eyes that go winky?
they invited, as well, (just to welcome him there)
a few fellow artists. oh, heavens! beware!
reporters! cartoonists! writers! art critics!
will they be converted? perhaps catalytic?
all joined in big easy at carnival time
to welcome the master of nonsense and rhyme
dr. seuss is the fellow, we know him as ted
geisel's the last name. stick that in your head!
it seemed such a good scheme, when the directors thought it,
that no one, not even the ombudsmen fought it
they wanted something classy to put on a show
and so they went shopping in san diego
what they got were some prints, some old manuscripts, too,
to put up on the walls in red, yellow and blue
the old master walked in, looking fit and well-tanned
and saw that the media there was well-manned
so he pitched out some quotes which they all gobbled up
from the floor where they fell like fat-bellied pups
asked what children might gain if they see dr. seuss,
the sage quickly replied, ``well, what will they lose?''
then he chuckled and said, trying hard not to pun,
why, my only hope is they'll have them some fun.''
kids sometimes come to museums, escorting mommies and daddies,
and wait holding thick fingers, wishing for peppermint patties
but here's an exhibit that all can admire
there are creepies and crawlies, and creative fire
don't worry 'bout this, don't worry 'bout that,''
said seuss, ``this is stuff just to be looked at.''
the doors will be open until april 10
so get yourself down here and walk yourself in
and if you're afraid of an encounter with culture
why, you're in new orleans _ just mask as a vulture!
oh, yes _ all the journalists, cynical, tired _
after seeing the doctor ... they all left inspired!
customers at the waycross newsstand usually discuss politics, football and current events over coffee, but lately talk has focused on charges of discrimination against blacks in the mostly white ware county school system
newsstand owner jack perry said the complaints stem from ``isolated incidents'' and are not a sign of serious racial problems in the county
i think we have a fine racial situation,'' said perry, 59, whose family has lived in this southeast georgia town of 19,500 for 75 years. ``there are some isolated incidents, but we make an effort to resolve our differences.''
around the corner from the newsstand is the office of huey spearman, attorney for the waycross branch of the national association for the advancement of colored people
spearman disagrees with perry's assessment. he says three recent incidents demonstrate a pattern of discrimination that is condoned by school officials
ten black students say a white school bus driver forced them to sit in the back of a bus after they missed school on martin luther king day last month
the bus driver, dale dixon, wrote a letter to school officials and passengers saying she seated the black students at the rear to facilitate loading and unloading
in another incident, spearman said, school officials failed to discipline two white ware county high school cheerleaders who blackened their faces at a pep rally and posed as clumsy football players from predominantly black waycross high
black leaders also have charged that until black parents complained, school officials failed to discipline white students who wore ku klux klan-style hoods at a ``toga party.''
i think we're seeing vestiges of the '60s,'' spearman said, noting that the county school system is 4 percent black while the city school system is 65 percent black
i think it probably goes back to the days when the schools were segregated,'' he said. ``a lot of people moved into the county so they would not have to integrate. i think the white parents, as well as the school administration, would like to keep it white.''
last week, he gave the school board a list of steps the naacp felt were necessary. they included the dismissal of the bus driver, disciplinary action against school officials for improper handling of the incidents and a public apology to black students barred from county school buses for refusing to sit in the back for a second day
we're going to try hard to do what's right,'' said donnie griffin, chairman of the ware county board of education
on friday, the board refused to act against the bus driver, but agreed to erase suspensions from the records of three black girls who refused to obey her order
griffin, a pharmacist, said he thought ware county had been blessed with good race relations and he was surprised when the controversy surfaced
for the most part, i think we get along very well,'' he said. ``we have a great community. we want to work to make this community even better
my number one concern is to let everyone know there will be no discrimination, whether by race or income or handicap. we've got a good board and we're going to do what it takes to keep it a good system.''
after black teen-agers and their parents testified about the three incidents at a board meeting tuesday night, at least two black students got menacing phone calls, spearman said
he said consolidation of the city and county school systems should be the ultimate goal, but that merger is not likely any time soon because many whites still cling to old racist attitudes
i think the people in the county would fight it vigorously,'' said spearman, adding that he believes the reagan administration has contributed to racial problems by failing to take a strong stand on civil rights
supremacists seem to be on the rise again,'' he said
cultural differences and national pride distinguish russian from estonian and divide parent from child in estonia, home of a small ethnic group caught between stronger neighbors for centuries
dissidents plan protests feb. 16 in lithuania and feb. 24 in estonia to mark the days when the baltic republics declared their independence from soviet russia months after the bolshevik revolution of 1917
last august, in an event dissidents say showed the authorities they had lost control, thousands of people marked the anniversary of a secret agreement between nazi germany and the soviet union that led to the 1940 soviet takeover of estonia, latvia and lithuania
soviet authorities now are encouraging the republics' growing non-baltic populations to learn the native language and in some cases are seeking to restrict immigration from other parts of the soviet union
people of the baltic nations, very different ethnically from the soviet union's dominant slavic population, always have maintained a strong cultural and ethnic identity
one of the estonian dissidents is 21-year-old tina hallik, daughter of faithful communist party members
people think if i'm free, if i'm not in prison or slave labor camp, then maybe i can do a little something. but nothing is getting done. nothing changes,'' said ms. hallik
the dissidents are seeking permission for a demonstration in the center of tallinn, capital of estonia, on feb. 24. they have not yet heard from officials but say they have the support of average estonians
if they try to isolate every one (of the group) the people will come out because they will have heard something is happening,'' she said
on thursday, ms. hallik's 55-year-old mother, klara, was among writers, scholars and officials from the baltic republics taking part in a panel discussion of national problems organized for foreign reporters by the government news agency novosti
klara hallik discounted the importance of nationalism as a problem in estonia, and she and other panel members drew a distinction between nationalism and cultural differences
her daughter said she respects her mother's views but that they sharply disagree. superiors at work and the kgb have put pressure on her parents because of their daughter's views, ms. hallik said
little open conflict is evident between ethnic groups in estonia. writer ulo tuulik, a member of the officially sponsored panel, said estonians and other ethnic groups ``could be compared to the mississippi and volga rivers. we just live our own lives and don't have great conflicts.''
estonians number just more than 1 million and make up 61 percent of their small republic, but that figure has dropped from almost 75 percent in 1959. russians now make up 28 percent of the population
according to 1987 official statistics, only 25 percent of the estonians spoke fluent russian, the dominant language of the soviet union. one out of 10 non-estonians could speak fluent estonian
in latvia in 1979 there were about 1.3 million latvians and 821,000 russians, but lithuanians made up 80 percent of the population of their republic
the official group blamed nationalist protests on a small group of ``extremists.''
toomas karjaharm, a professor of history at tallinn state conservatory, said the protests are ``tied to social and economic problems which have gotten worse in the past few years,'' and which officials are trying to solve under mikhail s. gorbachev's reform policies
officials say the number of estonians in the republic is dropping because estonians have one of the lowest birth rates in the soviet union, and that many of the non-estonians who move there are young people attracted by good jobs in the republic's industries
but one estonian dissident, speaking on condition of anonymity, dismissed gorbachev as ``a loud voice of an empty barrel rolling along.''
to limit the migration, officials are requiring state-run industries that seek workers outside the republic to put up about $25,000 for each worker's housing. a similar program is in effect in latvia
officials also are trying to publish more books in the native languages of the baltic republics and are encouraging people of non-baltic origin to learn the languages of the indigenous nationalities
the official media also accuse western radio stations of stirring up nationalist feelings in the baltics
most of the protests in the baltic republics have been peaceful, but the dissidents report more surveillance and pressure
dissident sources say activists in lithuania and estonia have been arrested for refusing temporary military service. they charge that the temporary call-up in both cases was an attempt by authorities to discourage protests
the official lithuanian press has warned that activists face prosecution if they disrupt public order, and soviet president andrei a. gromyko addressed the issue in a visit to vilnius, lithuania, a week ago
two members of a group trying to establish an alternative to the communist party in estonia, vello vaartnou and eke-part nomm, said they were forced to emigrate saturday to sweden
the baltic helsinki group, a human rights group based in stockholm, sweden, quoted nomm as saying he and vaartnou had been told by soviet authorities to leave the country or face imprisonment
customers at the waycross newsstand usually discuss politics, football and current events over coffee, but lately talk has focused on charges of discrimination against blacks in the mostly white ware county school system
newsstand owner jack perry said the complaints stem from ``isolated incidents'' and are not a sign of serious racial problems in the county
i think we have a fine racial situation,'' said perry, 59, whose family has lived in this southeast georgia town of 19,500 for 75 years. ``there are some isolated incidents, but we make an effort to resolve our differences.''
around the corner from the newsstand is the office of huey spearman, attorney for the waycross branch of the national association for the advancement of colored people
spearman disagrees with perry's assessment. he says three recent incidents demonstrate a pattern of discrimination that is condoned by school officials
ten black students say a white school bus driver forced them to sit in the back of a bus after they missed school on martin luther king day last month
the bus driver, dale dixon, wrote a letter to school officials and passengers saying she seated the black students at the rear to facilitate loading and unloading
in another incident, spearman said, school officials failed to discipline two white ware county high school cheerleaders who blackened their faces at a pep rally and posed as clumsy football players from predominantly black waycross high
black leaders also have charged that until black parents complained, school officials failed to discipline white students who wore ku klux klan-style hoods at a ``toga party.''
i think we're seeing vestiges of the '60s,'' spearman said, noting that the county school system is 4 percent black while the city school system is 65 percent black
i think it probably goes back to the days when the schools were segregated,'' he said. ``a lot of people moved into the county so they would not have to integrate. i think the white parents, as well as the school administration, would like to keep it white.''
last week, he gave the school board a list of steps the naacp felt were necessary. they included the dismissal of the bus driver, disciplinary action against school officials for improper handling of the incidents and a public apology to black students barred from county school buses for refusing to sit in the back for a second day
we're going to try hard to do what's right,'' said donnie griffin, chairman of the ware county board of education
on friday, the board refused to act against the bus driver, but agreed to erase suspensions from the records of three black girls who refused to obey her order
griffin, a pharmacist, said he thought ware county had been blessed with good race relations and he was surprised when the controversy surfaced
for the most part, i think we get along very well,'' he said. ``we have a great community. we want to work to make this community even better
my number one concern is to let everyone know there will be no discrimination, whether by race or income or handicap. we've got a good board and we're going to do what it takes to keep it a good system.''
after black teen-agers and their parents testified about the three incidents at a board meeting tuesday night, at least two black students got menacing phone calls, spearman said
he said consolidation of the city and county school systems should be the ultimate goal, but that merger is not likely any time soon because many whites still cling to old racist attitudes
i think the people in the county would fight it vigorously,'' said spearman, adding that he believes the reagan administration has contributed to racial problems by failing to take a strong stand on civil rights
supremacists seem to be on the rise again,'' he said. dates</note>
it's not safe to be mayor in this western nebraska community of 10,000. there have been three of them in 37 days and two of them were recalled
this office is scared. i'm scared. i don't know if this stuff is going to die,'' said kevin horn, executive director of the chamber of commerce
horn and other community leaders are worried about the city's image and how it will attract new residents and businesses
i was 100, 150 miles from home and people would laugh _ here's the alliance guy. what's going on up there?'' said hal murray, a liquor salesman who was an organizer of the first recall drive
anti-drug crusader dick zellaha was ousted as mayor in that recall on dec. 15, and his successor, rival duane worley, was officially recalled jan. 20
car salesman richard robb, appointed to the city council in october to fill a vacancy, is the latest to hold the title of mayor, a ceremonial job that pays only $575 a year
the mayor serves as president of the city council, while city manager wolfgang bauer runs the town's day-to-day business
i think the key word for alliance at this point is `polarized,''' said horn, who was warned before moving to alliance to take the chamber job that ``this was a community that would fight.''
since omaha mayor mike boyle was recalled in january 1987, the state has seen a big increase in recall elections of mayors, city councilmen, school board members and other elected officials. the omaha recall was considered a trigger to many of the other recalls, all in small communities
according to a study by a legislative committee, there were 11 recall elections in the state from 1984 through 1986. in 1987, there were 17
the nebraska legislature is considering a bill that would make it tougher to recall an elected official. the bill would require petition groups to state reasons for the recall, and the reasons would have to be more serious than mere disagreement with the official's voting record
at the center of the alliance controversy is zellaha, 49, a former department store manager and one-time amateur boxer who called himself ``the great lakes mauler.''
zellaha, who is unemployed but supports himself with investments and his wife's salary, believes he was recalled because people were jealous of the attention his anti-drug campaign received, including a letter from first lady nancy reagan
his opponents said the problem was much deeper. they accused him of unethically and illegally using his office to promote his personal gain
council members elected zellaha mayor in december 1986, and one month later his son was seriously injured in a traffic accident. shane zellaha, now 25, owned up to a drug problem, and father and son began giving talks on drug abuse
critics said zellaha wasn't able to separate his personal campaign from his responsibilities as mayor. the recall committee also accused him of harassing the police department, shouting at meetings, misusing city stationery and postage and bringing ridicule to the city
asked if he did anything in office that was illegal or unethical, he replied, ``oh heavens no, heavens no. i never did.''
worley and council member wendy fierstein were recalled for allegedly not honoring a group's request that electrical rates be lowered and that the city manager be fired
worley said bauer had done nothing to warrant firing. he also said the city was working to adjust the electrical rates
worley, whose recall was the work of another committee, said he is disturbed by the publicity the recalls have created
the acting mayor's council seat and three others are up for election this year, with the primary on may 10. robb won't say if he'll run. zellaha has promised his wife he won't run but their son is a candidate
this would have been a good place to do two things: a study on government ... and another one on psychology,'' said bauer. ``how the psychology of this whole thing worked, and how it transpired and what the emotions were and how ugly it got.'' essay</head> journal officials.</note>
a grand jury has requested all records linked to a ``mercy killing'' essay written by a doctor whose identity has not been revealed by the journal of the american medical association, the chicago sun-times said saturday
the newspaper, in its early sunday editions, said the grand jury wants the cover letter from the author, the original manuscript and all correspondence between the journal and the author
with a subpoena, the cook county grand jury also has requested any in-house memos about the essay and minutes from editorial staff meetings concerning the jan. 8 article, the sun-times said, citing sources it did not name
but a spokesman for the ama and the editor of the journal said they had not seen the subpoena. ``i have no information about that,'' editor dr. george lundberg told the associated press
ama spokesman tom toftey said, ``we have not been subpoenaed as far as i know, and i am quite certain that i would know if we had.''
the state's attorney's office had no comment, spokesman terry levin said saturday
the essay, titled ``it's over, debbie,'' has sparked debate about the ethics of euthanasia. medical experts and prosecutors have urged the journal to release the name of the doctor who wrote the article
the essay, which ama officials admit wasn't verfified, describes how an exhausted gynecology resident gave a fatal injection of morphine to a young woman suffering from ovarian cancer
some doctors have questioned whether the incident ever took place
state's attorney richard m. daley became involved in the matter because the journal is published here. the essay did not indicate where the author lived or where the incident took place
lundberg said the state's attorney's office had called ama general counsel kirk johnson, asking him to reveal the name of the doctor. johnson refused
previously, johnson has said the organization would challenge, under first amendment protections, any efforts to obtain the name of the author of the essay
the newspaper said johnson would go to court to fight the subpoena. he has, however, stated that the journal would make the name public if confronted with a formal court order
a smoldering shell was all that remained saturday of the former high school for the performing arts, which helped launch the careers of future stars and inspired the movie and tv series ``fame.''
the landmark structure was destroyed by an overnight fire that apparently started near a stage in a second-floor auditorium. ``but we don't know why,'' said pat foley, a battalion fire chief
al pacino, liza minnelli, eartha kitt, suzanne pleshette and anna maria horsford, who plays the minister's daughter on the tv series ``amen,'' are among the successes who studied there
so excited because i'm going to go to the high school of performing arts!'' exclaims the character diana morales in the long-running broadway musical, ``a chorus line.''
detailing the rigors of the school, the character, a native of sunny puerto rico, sings about riding a make-believe bobsled in class
and mr. karp turns to me and he says, ok morales, what did you feel? and i said, `nothing. i'm feeling nothing.' and he says, `nothing could get a girl transferred.'''
the performing arts school, part of the public system, was combined with the high school of music and art about three years ago and moved to a new home. the old building became known as liberty high school
it was the original school that was used as a model for ``fame.'' although the board of education did not permit film crews to shoot scenes inside, the facade was featured in the 1980 film and subsequent television series
the school had a very positive and very motivating reputation,'' said dancer paula brown, who appeared in the series for two years. ``it made a lot of kids successful.''
working on fame ``was like being in school. i was 22 years old and i felt like i was 15, starting all over again,'' said ms. brown, who currently is appearing in the new spike lee movie, ``school daze.''
the school, just north of the times square area in manhattan, caught fire about 12:30 a.m. and burned out of control for 5{ hours. the third, fourth and fifth floors and the rear portion of the roof collapsed,
thirty firefighters _ struggling against a wind chill of minus 7 and wind gusts of 28 miles an hour _ suffered minor injuries
seven members of unofficial social and political groups demonstrated saturday in a moscow square against the government's attempts to restrict their activities, one protester said
the protesters held posters in pushkin square and spoke peacefully with about 150 passersby, said yevgenia debryansky, a member of the unofficial group for establishing trust between east and west
in a telephone interview, she said the demonstration continued unimpeded by militiamen for 15 minutes, but that a kgb agent then ripped away one of the posters and the crowd dispersed
the passersby were very interested in what we had to say and asked many questions,'' ms. debryansky said
she said she and the other demonstrators were demanding that soviet authorities let them in on discussions of any new laws that would restrict the activities of the unofficial groups that have sprung up under soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or openness on some social issues. rumors have been circulating that such laws are under consideration, but their exact nature is unknown, she said
there have been other signs that authorities are cracking down on unofficial, unsanctioned groups. on sept. 1, the moscow city council announced it would not allow protests near the kremlin, red square or on other squares in the city's center
on feb. 1, the communist party newspaper published a lengthy article attacking what it called ``political freak'' organizations of the right and left. pravda said there are more than 30,000 such groups nationwide
on dec. 27, pravda warned that unofficial groups would create anarchy by establishing alternatives to the communist party or official trade unions
the state-controlled publishing industry also is under orders not to print material prepared by groups lacking official recognition
ms. debryansky said the other groups taking part in saturday's demonstration were democracy and humanism, perestroika '88, memorial, and freedom of emigration for all
after 75 years, love still blooms for charles and fannie forespring
the couple, who eloped on valentine's day in 1913 after their parents told them they were too young to marry, have been inseparable since their wedding, living a rather quiet life in somerset county
we had our fights. but we never stayed mad at each other,'' said forespring, 94. ``i'm the kind of person who can't stay mad at people, even my wife.''
the couple moved into the white star residence in jennerstown two years ago after living various places in somerset county. they have four children, 16 grandchildren and 20 great-grandchildren
forespring was a member of the new centerville country band when he met his future wife while playing at a memorial day service. but he had trouble getting past her father when he tried to call on her at her home in berlin
my father wasn't too pleased,'' said mrs. forespring, 93. ``he told me we were too young to be getting serious.''
she said her family also was opposed to the marriage because she was needed at home
i quit high school in my senior year and went to work for a dentist. we had a large family and needed the money,'' she said
after dating for several months, the two decided they couldn't wait
we devised a plan,'' forespring said. ``on fridays when fannie was visiting with her aunt and uncle, her uncle would take her to the railroad station in rockwood on his sleigh and put her on the train.''
but on friday afternoon, feb. 14, 1913, forespring was waiting in the hotel across from the railroad station and hopped the train
we made our way to cumberland, md. we were sure a preacher friend of her family would marry us,'' he said. ``somewhere along the way, i really don't remember, we obtained a marriage license.''
mrs. forespring said a rev. styles, who had been pastor of the reformed church in berlin, agreed to perform the ceremony
we were married, stayed overnight in cumberland and the next day headed back to new centerville,'' forespring said. ``monday morning i was back at my job as a teamster with the atlantic refining co.''
mrs. forespring said there are days when she feels like she's 16 and times when she feels her age
i never let my age bother me,'' she said. ``why, i just gave up driving a car four or five years ago.'' spelling of coupe</note>
to alice leitner, her fiance is ``my prince charming.''
her valentine present was a box wrapped in pink and fuchsia fabric
when she opened the box in a parking stall friday she found a $65,000, silver 560 sl mercedes-benz convertible coupe
leitner, an architectural designer, won't identify her boyfriend. she says he has been very generous during their seven-year relationship
he always does very romantic surprises,'' she said
if i come home (from a trip) he'll always have 10 dozen roses for me. once he gave me a ring with dolphins on it.''
for her 1987 valentine's gift, leitner received a gold ``love bracelet,'' which fastens with two gold screws. he keeps the screwdriver
i'm so lucky,'' she said on friday. ``this is better than a movie. he's my prince charming.''
republican presidential hopeful jack kemp predicted saturday he will beat pat robertson in new hampshire's primary and aired a new television commercial targeting rivals bob dole and george bush
kemp's 30-second spot says vice president bush and senate gop leader dole have not done enough to help the contra rebels fighting the leftist nicaraguan government
it did not mention robertson, the former television evangelist whom kemp is battling for conservative support in the primary on tuesday
we're not that worried about robertson,'' kemp press secretary john buckley said after the new york congressman held a news conference to unveil the ad
but after finishing a distant fourth in monday's iowa caucuses while robertson placed second, behind dole and ahead of bush, kemp's white house bid hinges on at least a third-place finish in new hampshire _ preferably ahead of robertson
asked if his campaign would be dead if robertson beats him tuesday, kemp said, ``he's not going to beat me in new hampshire.''
however, a poll conducted thursday and friday nights in new hampshire and published saturday in the boston globe indicated that roberston is in third place with 11 percent, while kemp had 8 percent, although the difference was half the sample's margin of error
buckley said kemp would air two more new ads as the new hampshire campaign wound down, but neither would criticize any of the other candidates
the spot focusing on contra aid opens with a picture of bush presiding over the senate, a male voice saying: ``president reagan's request for aid to the freedom fighters narrowly loses when eight republicans who endorsed george bush desert the president.''
the spot continues: ``communist dictator (nicaraguan leader daniel) ortega continues his military buildup. yet bob dole told the boston globe he wasn't concerned about ortega or his army. is that leadership?''
contra leader adolfo calero said, `jack kemp is the only one who lifted a finger to help us.' that's leadership.''
kemp acknowledged that dole voted for contra aid, but said, ``he didn't lift a finger, according to adolfo calero, to get ... more money'' last summer
buckley later added, ``sure (dole has) voted in the right place. but this guy has run for the last year on leadership. and the question that we're raising here ... is whether or not he's really, truly had the leadership he's claimed to have had, to have gotten more aid to the contras.''
danny and the juniors must have had the gift of prophecy when they recorded ``rock and roll is here to stay'' 30 years ago
the number of radio stations nationwide playing rock music of the late 1950s, the 1960s and 1970s has doubled in the last five years, and the trend is continuing, according to the authoritative broadcasting@cablecasting yearbook
for 1981, the yearbook listed 232 am or fm radio stations playing the gamut of popular music of past decades: ``oldies, golden oldies, nostalgia, classic rock, old gold, solid gold, and classic rock.''
that number had grown to 464 by 1986, and members of the yearbook staff at the main office of broadcasting magazine in washington said recently the 1988 yearbook will list 537 of the country's 10,219 stations as playing oldies
there are indications most are doing well in a highly competitive business
figures at arbitron ratings, the service that keeps tabs on the nation's listening habits, show that in many large markets oldies stations are among the top 10 draws
there is no clear-cut explanation for classic rock's popularity, but many in the industry believe millions of baby boomers prefer the music they grew up with
i think it really comes down to the music,'' said wods program director dave vandyke, whose boston station went on air last october with its ``oldies'' format. ``for the adults of today, the music that's being released just doesn't do a thing for them, but teen-agers (also) are desiring this kind of music more than what's being recorded today.''
in new york, joe mccoy, program director at wcbs-fm, said his station's ``oldie'' format transcended the generations
this is the stuff parents grew up on, this is the stuff they were weaned on, so they're translating it to the kids today,'' he said in a telephone interview
in hartford, conn., where wdrc-fm plays ``solid gold rock 'n' roll'' with emphasis on music between 1964-1975, the station's program director, frank holler, agreed the oldies had appeal for young adults
but holler, himself a baby boomer at 39, was most eloquent when describing the meaning of wdrc's music to others of his age
he spoke on the telephone to a background of peter and gordon's ``world without love.''
the people love it, it reminds them of a very special time of their lives,'' said holler of his station's music. ``there is a familiarity that both men and women are immediately comfortable with, and it has not been played to such excess within the last 15 years as to be burned out.''
i think as long as the baby boom generation is alive with disposable income that the advertisers are looking to reach, the music of the '50s, '60s and '70s is going to continue to be popular,'' he said
garry guthrie, whose edinborough rand inc. advises stations on formats, agreed that ``there is considerable advertiser interest'' in baby boomers
most of them are in the $35,000-plus range,'' he said, in a telephone interview from scottsdale, ariz. ``you are giving ... (advertisers) a large block of people with discretionary income who want to be on top of trends, who are willing to buy durable goods.''
guthrie said he has overseen about 12 station changes to classic rock formats since he set up business in october 1985, and ``we have yet to have any failures.''
from the sweaty cities on the amazon to the beaches of rio de janeiro, revelers saturday shed their inhibitions, sobriety and clothing for the first day of carnival
banks, stores and government offices closed down for the four days of drinking, dancing and abandon. they will re-open ash wednesday, feb. 17
in rio, the festival was kicked off in the morning when mayor saturnino braga handed over the keys of the city to a jolly and fat king momo, carnival's symbolic sovereign
the city ball late saturday was the first of the official all-night parties
late friday, poorer brazilians hailed in the pre-lent festival as they beat out samba rhythms on homemade instruments and danced beneath pouring rain
wealthier rio dwellers headed for a lavish celebrity-studded ball atop sugar loaf mountain
and after 10 days of torrential rains and mudslides that have left 198 dead and more than 11,000 homeless around the state, the sun briefly put in an appearance, buoying spirits
elsewhere around the world, festivals got under way in spain, portugal, trinidad, peru and other predominantly roman catholic countries celebrating one last fling before marking jesus' fasting in the wilderness
radio trinidad predicted saturday that up to 3 million people will take part in the festival starting saturday night and ending midnight tuesday
parades, calypso, king and queen contests, and 13 steel bands were expected saturday night at queens park in port-of-spain, the capital
haiti was also planning its first carnival since president-for-life jean-claude duvalier fled into french exile feb. 7, 1986
with the election of leslie manigat on jan. 17, carnival started up again but on a small scale _ nothing like days of old when port-au-prince used to rock with the rhythms of haitian meringue
portugal imported brazilian rhythm to its carnival celebrations with samba-style processions planned in several cities
even the uncrowned monarchs of the portuguese carnival were brazilian: regina duarte and lima duarte, two stars of the immensely popular television soap opera ``roque santeiro.''
carnival processions in portugal feature floats, often poking fun at prominent political figures, and horseplay amongst the crowds who throw flour bombs, soak each other with squirt guns and shower the streets with confetti and streamers
but gamblers planning on a holiday spree in lisbon were disappointed. workers in portugal's gambling casinos began a strike saturday over government plans to tax their tips
carnival in spain was banned during the 36 years of the franco regime. it returned after his death nov. 20, 1975, but with scant following
the most important carnival in spain is that in tenerife, in the canary islands, which began friday with colourful parades
in madrid the celebration began saturday with a parade of floats and costumed revellers through main streets
in peru, celebrations have declined over the past half century. carnival today is mainly observed by children, who splash water on each other or throw water balloons from windows and rooftops at pedestrians and vehicles passing below
but in brazil, carnival is serious fun
along rio's famous copacabana and ipanema beaches, brazilians and visitors from around the world danced to the contagious music of impromptu samba bands
and for the more professionally inclined, rio offered up its ``samba school'' parades during which neighborhood groups _ wearing skimpy bikinis or ornate feather and sequin costumes _ compete for such prizes as best rhythm, costumes, music and theme
seats in choice locations were sold for $58,000 a dozen, according to local newspapers
with inflation running at 16 percent per month, the foreign debt at $114 billion and brazilians poorer than ever, the dance themes were expected to be particularly political
the first group to samba was to represent the theme, ``and now what jose?'' a reference to jose sarney, brazil's first civilian leader after 21 years of military rule. sarney took office two years ago but still hasn't been able to put the economy in order and is under pressure to step down
the second dance was to explore racism in this mixed-race country of 141 million. slavery was abolished in brazil 100 years ago
but in petropolis, a nearby mountain resort about 40 miles northwest of rio, the festival was called off after mudslides buried at least 65 people beneath there homes during 10 days of rain. on saturday, rescue workers continued the search through thick, foul-smelling mud for victims
in two other low-lying slum suburb towns near rio, where floods turned whole regions into lakes, carnival festivities were also canceled
about 10,000 brazilians and tourists were stranded by an airline pilot's strike that began early friday
the president of italy on saturday rejected the resignation of giovanni goria and told him to stay on as premier to get the country's 1988 budget approved
president francesco cossiga summoned the christian democrat politician to the presidential palace to inform him of his decision
a statement from the presidential palace said goria was asked to return because his presence was an absolute necessity to pass the national budget. the deadline for parliamentary approval of the budget is april 30
goria said in a statement that he accepted the decision because he understood ``the difficulties of the moment and the call to a sense of responsibility that everyone of us must have.''
goria's resignation wednesday marked the second time he had done so since november. when he resigned last week, he cited factional fighting within his own christian democrat party and accused party dissidents of demonstrating a lack of responsibility
he met later saturday night with senate president giovanni spadolini and nilde iotti, the communist speaker of the chamber of deputies, to tell them cossiga's decision
just before he met iotti, one italian jounalist told him ``welcome back.'' goria quipped: ``never left.''
cossiga's other options included appointing a new premier-designate to try to form a new coalition government or dissolving parliament and calling early general elections
goria, at 44, is italy's youngest ever premier. he resigned after a series of defeats on secret votes on the budget convinced him he could no longer govern. at the time, cossiga asked him to remain in a caretaker capacity until the decision on a new government could be made
while cossiga's decision at least temporarily resurrects italy's 47th postwar government, it does not resolve the problems within the governing coalition that led to the collapse
even before the decision was announced, goria's reappointment for the approval of the budget had emerged as the principal short-term solution
this would allow us to move on to the next phase in a less convulsive way,'' said arnaldo forlani, a top christian democrat
cossiga opted to reject goria's resignation after consultations with leaders of the five parties in the coalition. only the opposition communist party sharply opposed the idea to reinstate him
the plan was supported by goria's dominant christian democrats and the socialists, the second largest party in the coalition, which also included republicans, social democrats and liberals
in fact, the socialists have warned that unless goria was reappointed, the country might be forced to hold early elections
goria took office 6{ months ago. but from the start, his ability to hold the fragile coalition together has been in doubt
he resigned once before, in november, in a budget dispute with the tiny liberal party. but he was convinced by cossiga to withdraw his resignation and continue as premier
goria's recent losses in the secret votes in the chamber of deputies, the lower house of parliament, were due in part to factional fighting within his own party
analysts suggest some christian democrats are trying to undermine goria to make party secretary ciriaco de mita the prime minister
the leadership of the long-dominant party is considered by many the most powerful post in italy and some party insiders would like to move de mita out of the post at the party congress in april by making him premier
other members of the party reportedly have voted against goria secretly because they want to give foreign minister giulio andreotti the premiership for a sixth time
advocates for the homeless bore the plain, wooden caskets of a man and woman to a pennsylvania avenue plaza across from city hall on saturday and prayed for a world where people ``do not die in the cold.''
bundled against sub-freezing temperatures and a bitter wind, about 40 activists conducted a funeral service dubbed ``tasteless'' by city officials, a day after the authorities lost a legal fight for custody of the corpses
mitch snyder, leader of the community for creative non-violence, said the public service, prior to cremation of the bodies, was designed to call attention to the deaths of 10 homeless people this winter on the streets of the capital. the city says 13 people have died of hypothermia, seven of them homeless
snyder's group said prayers for henry dixon, found dead of hypothermia jan. 2 at a parking attendant's booth three blocks from the funeral site, and for an unidentified woman who died jan. 7
the rev. william wendt, holding his left hand on the casket of the woman called ``jane doe'' read the names of the dead as those surrounding him cried out ``forgive us'' after each name
let us pray for ourselves who are tested by their deaths,'' wendt said. ``may god grant us, and others too, new courage to face life and do something about it ... this world should be a place where people have a home and do not die in the cold.''
ccnv says it has picked up from the city morgue the remains of about 40 people in the last eight years who have died of hypothermia and whose families have not come forward to claim the bodies. the city had agreed in the past to turn the bodies over to ccnv in the group's capacity as a ``friend'' of the homeless. the group has preserved the ashes of each victim
jerome woods, director the department of human services, ordered the two bodies held this week, however, citing a city law that allows the government to withhold the remains if they are to be used in a ``tasteless'' way
u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson ordered the bodies released friday, saying ccnv's plans for a service on pennsylvania avenue were no different, in principle, than the public funeral corteges of president kennedy and the rev. martin luther king jr
i can't believe we had a tug-of-war over this,'' said snyder, wrapped in a blanket against the cold winds. ``the city doesn't care about these people when they're alive, and all of a sudden they care when they're dead.''
ccnv members said the city has ignored a city law passed last month requiring public buildings to be opened to the homeless when the temperature falls below 25 degrees
city officials countered that an elementary school was opened to the homeless, but wasn't fully utilized by them
eds: includes 4 delegates for bush from guam
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days babbitt          4           0          0            0 dukakis         35.50        0         13            0 gephardt        33           0         20            0 gore            10.55        0          0            0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson          9.80        0          0            0 simon           30           0         17            0 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    274.40        0          2            0
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 397.25
yet to be chosen: 3,764.75
total                               changes
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           50           4          0           46 dole           35           0          1           34 du pont         0           0          0            0 haig            0           0          0            0 kemp           32           0          0           32 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted     8           0          0            8
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 133
yet to be chosen: 2,144
three suspects were in jail and president amin gemayel resumed his travels saturday, one day after avoiding an assassination attempt when a bomb was found planted in his jetliner
a police spokesman identified the suspects only as lebanese airport employees and said they were being held in solitary confinement pending completion of an investigation
a 1-pound charge of tnt found under a pilot's seat of the middle east airlines boeing 707 jetline that was to leave for larnaca, cyprus, on friday to carry gemayel to san'a, north yemen. the bomb was defused by explosives experts at beirut airport
gemayel was assigned another aircraft and arrived saturday in north yemen, where he was greeted by north yemeni leader, col. ali abdullah saleh. the two presidents are to discuss lebanon and other arab issues
gemayel, 44, usually travels by military helicopter from the christian heartland northeast of beirut to larnaca and flies from there to world capitals
the maronite catholic has not used beirut airport in the city's moslem sector since 1984, when moslem and leftist militias wrested control of west beirut from the regular lebanese army
beirut airport, surrounded by shiite moslem slums, is controlled by syrian troops who were deployed in the capital's western sector almost a year ago in an effort to end three years of militia anarchy
the police spokesman said the explosive charge was equipped with a sophisticated pressure fuse that would have detonated it when the plane reached an altitude of 30,000 feet
it was obviously an attempt to kill the president,'' the spokesman added
lebanon has been plagued by assassinations, car bombings and kidnappings since its moslem-christian civil war broke out in 1975. the conflict has claimed more than 130,000 lives. changes</head> committee. pick up 14th pvs, `the next...'</note>
reading, writing and arithmetic will join politics this week as communist party leaders meet to reform the country's vast public education system and clarify the futures of two fallen proteges of mikhail s. gorbachev
the 300-plus-member party central committee will convene in plenary session at a time when, as the soviet magazine new times recently put it, ``everyone seems dissatisfied with the present education system.''
gorbachev, the party's general secretary since march 1985, has repeatedly urged improvements in education as part of his drive for ``perestroika,'' or restructuring, of society
education, the 56-year-old soviet leader has said, is key to improving soviet technology and management and to making the country more competitive on world markets
changes made by the central committee in the country's public education apparatus could have sweeping consequences for a large part of the soviet population.there are 40 million students and 3 million teachers in the soviet union, the official tass news agency reported recently
the date of the central committee meeting has not been officially announced, but foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said it would be held sometime this week
the ruling politburo, which directs the party's work between plenary sessions of the central committee, discussed education at a closed-door meeting on feb. 4, but no details have been released
the central committee is officially the party's policy-making body, and is composed of top national officials, local party bosses and communists from the armed forces, government ministries, industry and agriculture
by party rules, it is the sole body empowered to make changes in the politburo, and this week's session could see some changes in the ruling 13-member body
at the central committee's last plenum on oct. 21, gorbachev protege boris n. yeltsin strongly criticized style of leadership and said the pace of reform was too slow. yeltsin, 57, was removed as moscow party leader on nov. 11. a week later he was given another job _ first deputy director of the state construction committee, which made him a government official with the rank of minister
yeltsin was stripped of two lesser positions in the moscow city government on nov. 14. recent press articles have mentioned him without referring to his position as a non-voting politburo member
this could indicate the central committee will formally strip yeltsin of his politburo post
another fallen gorbachev ally and candidate politburo member, nikolai v. talyzin, is also in the spotlight. talyzin, 59, was made head of the state planning committee in october 1985, but last june, gorbachev criticized him by name
the next blow came feb. 6, when tass announced that talyzin had been relieved of his planning job and made chairman of the obscure social development bureau. the central committee now may sack talyzin from his non-voting post on the politburo
the committee could name immediate replacements for yeltsin and talyzin and add another voting politburo member
at its october session, the committee dropped politburo member geidar a. aliev, 54, who oversaw light industry and public transport and was the last man to rise to the ruling body under the patronage of president leonid i. brezhnev
aside from personnel changes, the central committee may set the agenda for the first nationwide conference of local communist party leaders to be held since the stalin era. gorbachev has said the topics of the conference, to be held in june, will include electoral and judicial reforms
the last party conference was held in february 1941. a party conference can be held between party congresses, which take place every five years, and western observers believe gorbachev will use the occasion to put his stamp even more firmly on the party's top bureaus
from a western perspective, soviet education appears extremely rigid, with the curriculum for the country's schools set by a central ministry in moscow and little variation allowed at local schools. in the classroom, pupils are taught largely by the rote method and conformity is stressed
they are discouraged from studying independently, educating themselves and developing self-reliance,'' new times quoted soviet educator victor tomashkevich as saying
in the past, soviet officials stressed the nation's 99 percent literacy rate and the state's payment of all education costs for citizens. soviet education in the basic sciences and mathematics is regarded in the west as strong
it is not known exactly what changes the central committee might make in the educational system, but some of the ideas that have been floated in the press include more flexibility in determining the curricula and teaching method at the local level, increasing teachers' salaries and reducing class size
one key to the country's technological advancement, computer training, has already been made part of the basic education program, but computers and qualified teachers are scarce, soviet officials acknowledge
the central committee also could mandate changes in the academy of pedagogical sciences, which is in charge of training teachers
the youth newspape komsomolskaya pravda lashed out at the academy on feb. 2, saying it has turned into ``social security for retired ministers, directors and other non-functioning functionaries of education.''
mozambique rebels said saturday they attacked and occupied army barracks 15 miles from the south african border and killed an undisclosed number of soldiers
the mozambique national resistance said it attacked the barracks in moamba on tuesday and ``destroyed three battalions of the 2nd brigade'' of the mozambique army. moamba is about 30 miles northwest of the capital, maputo
a rebel statement distributed in lisbon said the survivors of the attack fled toward south africa
the statement also denied any responsibility for reported massacres of civilians over the past 15 days
the rebels, also known as renamo, have been fighting since 1977 to topple mozambique's marxist government
a chinese railroad worker was sentenced to life imprisonment saturday for causing a passenger train fire in january that killed 34 people, china's official news agency reported
guo zhongqi was found guilty of illegally carrying flammable paint onto the train, the xinhua news agency reported
it said guo dropped a lighted cigarette onto some paper that had been used to wipe some spilled paint from the container, causing the fire to break out
the jan. 7 fire killed 34 people and injured 30 others and damaged two cars on the train, which was traveling between canton and xian, the report said
the news agency, monitored in tokyo, said the intermediate railway transport court of the guangzhou railway administration also sentenced another worker, nie chunhua, to three years in prison for providing guo with the paint. incidents</head>
the weekend takeover of a university of massachusetts building by black students protesting campus racism is the latest in a series of incidents at the school in recent years
minority students say school administrators have contributed to the problem by being insensitive to their concerns and by moving slowly in implementing recommendations made in a stinging 1987 report that said the school has acted superficially and sporadically to deal with racism
the most-publicized incident on campus was a fight between white and black students following the new york mets' victory over the boston red sox in the final game of the 1986 world series
in 1984, a black umass senior who was arrested and jailed for two days before being cleared of setting a string of campus fires complained that her arrest was motivated by ``impermissible racial considerations.''
last year the university disciplined six white students who admitted chasing and beating a black student after the world series game. they pleaded no contest to assault charges
it was the report ordered after that incident that lambasted umass for not intervening to stem an apparent surge in racial tensions
the administration's historical denial of racial problems caused not only the failure to predict and prevent the incident, but also caused black student, faculty and staff discontent with its conduct of the subsequent investigation, a discontent which was exacerbated by a perception that the quality of campus life for minorities at umass is generally declining,'' the report said
it called for the hiring more minority faculty and administrators and urged anti-racism education for administrators. blacks constitute 7 percent of the school's 18,000 undergraduates, and only 38 of 1,464 umass professors are black
umass officials vowed when the report was released five months ago to work harder to improve race relations on campus. but students interviewed in the past week following two recent incidents say little has changed
racism comes from inside,'' said matt bigg, black affairs editor at a student newspaper. ``i can't express how much it hurts when a person hates you for something you can't help being. it's a dull pain that never goes away.'' bgng: robertson's staff xxx to update with robertson comment.</note>
republican presidential candiate pat robertson has canceled interviews and ducked questions when asked to back up anecdotes he's told, including one about a woman who caught aids by kissing her impotent husband, a newspaper reported saturday
the concord monitor said the former television evangelist also has failed to document assertions he knows a little girl in pittsburgh whose reading level soared from second to seventh grade in 20 days under a money-saving program to improve reading skills
the newspaper said it has asked robertson and his staff for documentation, but details have not been produced and interviews have been canceled
the newspaper said it asked for details after an aids expert, concerned with robertson's remarks, said acquired immune deficiency syndrome is spread through sex, blood or needles and mother to infant
robertson said saturday the story about the woman catching aids ``was a news story gathered by our news department.''
it was strictly off the wire reports but was gathered when we did a series on my television program dealing with this subject,'' robertson said
robertson's staff has not identified the girl whom the candidate has cited as an example of an inexpensive method of improving children's reading skills, the monitor said
all of the stories are ``verifiable,'' robertson said. ``we gave them the names of who to check. every one of them is true.''
three weeks ago, the monitor asked for documentation of the aids case, the account of the little girl and two other anecdotes robertson has used in interviews,'' the newspaper said
aides offered names of people they believed could substantiate two of the anecdotes; at best, their comments offered partial support. in the other two instances, the staff provided no documentation, and people contacted by the monitor said the stories were unlikely
initially, staff members said they would respond to the monitor's request for documentation. last week, they recommended asking robertson himself. campaign aides arranged two interviews this week; both were canceled
stopped in an elevator in the statehouse on thursday, robertson said, `i haven't got time for that, really. that's background
robertson missed a third interview, by telephone, arranged by his staff for later thursday night,'' the newspaper said
the newspaper said that friday, marc nuttle, robertson's campaign manager, said the examples were taken from segments of the 700 club, a program on robertson's christian broadcasting network, but he did not know how producers who worked on the stories could be reached
regarding aids by a kiss, the monitor quoted robertson at from a december news conference: ``i know one man who was impotent who gave aids to his wife and the only thing they did was kiss.''
in an earlier interview with the monitor, robertson said that if a person is `in a room with 25 people with aids and they're breathing various things into the atmosphere, the chance of somebody catching it has become quite strong,' '' the newspaper said
the monitor said scott hatch, a spokesman for robertson, said that information was taken from a british medical report, ``which he said he sent to the monitor by overnight mail about a week ago. it did not arrive.'' tighten. no pickup</note>
president kurt waldheim was quoted sunday as saying he will not resign because a ``great'' and ``silent'' majority supports him despite the furor over his world war ii conduct
i feel the group who makes the demand that i should resign is relatively small compared to those who want me to stay in office,'' the president said in an interview published in the tabloid kurier
on saturday, chancellor franz vranitzky launched his harshest criticism yet of waldheim when he said that mere non-involvement in war crimes did not qualify one to be president of austria
a top government official disclosed meanwhile that a majority in the socialist party, which is governing austria with waldheim's conservative backers, wants the president to resign
vranitzky, a socialist and head of government, spoke in a radio interview about waldheim, whose duties as head of state are mostly ceremonial. he criticized the president's conduct throughout the international debate about his wartime past
without mentioning names, vranitzky berated waldheim and his conservative backers for accepting word from six military historians who said they found no evidence waldheim was involved in war crimes, but dismissing the rest of their report
the 202-page document, presented on monday, established waldheim's ``close proximity'' to wartime atrocities in the balkans and seriously questioned his moral integrity as a german army officer during world war ii
last year, the u.s. justice department barred waldheim from the country as an undesirable alien and said his unit sent thousands of jews to nazi death camps
vranitzky told austrian radio: ``after all, nobody has ever conducted an election campaign by saying: `please vote for me because i am not a war criminal
the federal president will certainly continue to be confronted with a series of questions and will have to face up to them.''
in the kurier interview, waldheim said: ``i do not at all share the opinion of the historians' commission'' that he had kept silent about or belittled his wartime activities
i was also ... of the opinion that it did not belong in the framework of this task (of the commission) to make such assumptions and interpretations
after all the surveys i am rather convinced that the great majority, which is very often the silent one, wants me to stay on,'' he was quoted as saying
waldheim was in innsbruck saturday with jordanian king hussein and queen noor in his first public appearance since the commission's report was released
the president was greeted by about 50 whistling protesters who called for his resignation and threw eggs at waiting limousines
waldheim was scheduled to address the nation in a five-minute television appearance monday night
in west germany, der spiegel magazine said saturday that a document linking waldheim to the deportations of thousands of civilians during world war ii was a fake and apologized for publishing it
spiegel regrets that it presented this ... document to its readers as `the proof' (of waldheim's involvement),'' the magazine said in its latest edition
spiegel said bernhard haas, a document expert from stuttgart, concluded that the military telegram was ``in all likelihood'' a fake
the telegram allegedly linked waldheim to the deportation of more than 4,000 civilians while he served as an officer in the german army in yugoslavia in 1942
the document was not used by the commission investigating the president
heinrich keller, a chief secretary in the socialist party, reported that for the first time a majority of party members want waldheim to resign
keller, who was also interviewed by austrian radio, said he saw ``a turnaround'' in rank-and-file sentiment in the wake of the commission's report
the socialists are senior partners in the coalition government with the conservatives
at the socialist party congress last october, a majority of 198 delegates voted against a resolution calling for waldheim's resignation, while 101 supported the motion. there were 276 abstentions
i would believe that such a vote today would have rather the reverse outcome,'' keller said
a county judge, hoping to cash in on the marriage business, is leading a wedding march from the courthouse to his own back door
liberty county court-at-law judge l.j. ``boots'' krueger built a tiny, white-steepled chapel _ he calls it ``the chapel of love'' _ next to his house; six couples will be married there sunday on valentine's day
my chapel is unique. people like the rural setting, and the chapel gives a little more dignity to the wedding,'' he said. ``it's better than a judge's chambers.''
on a trip to wisconsin, he photographed a quaint chapel nestled in the woods. he then paid $6,000 to have it duplicated on his 50-acre ranch just north of here
secretary of state ken hechler, a lifelong bachelor, remembers the most successful love letter he ever wrote. only it was for someone else
it was during world war ii, and one of hechler's army buddies was about to lose his girlfriend to another suitor. sensing that hechler had a way with words, the soldier hired him _ for $1 _ to write a letter to win her back
i really poured out my heart,'' hechler recalled last week. ``i wrote the most persuasive love letter i could dream up. i had a lot of shakespeare and browning and other literary allusions in it.''
the soldier, more than satisified with the results, copied it in his own hand and sent it off to his straying girlfriend
about 10 days later he came up to me very distraught and waving the letter from the girl and he said, `what am i going to do now? she says she's coming down and wants to get married this weekend!''
but hechler had a response to that, too
the dollar just covered the letter, not the consequences,'' hechler said he told his friend
cupids, hearts and faces of young lovers peer from the neatly kept scrapbooks of eileen williams, whose valentine collection includes cards dating to 1857
we had to use this one again on account of the depression,'' someone named john scribbled in pencil to his sweetheart on the back of a 1932 valentine
cards with moveable parts, pop-up cards, shaped like fans, adorned with flowers and birds from england and germany and cards from the high-lace heyday of valentine-giving are among the more than 1,000 cards mrs. williams plans to pass on to her children
i enjoy the beauty of the old ones. they're so much more sentimental than the ones of today,'' said mrs. williams, who started the collection in 1970. ``they had more of a loving touch to them. those are the ones i really wanted to collect.''
several chicago bears coaches and players donated items for a valentine's day auction to raise money for a young frostbite victim whose lower legs were amputated
ed jacobson, president and owner of the chicago-area edwardo's natural pizza chain, will sponsor a 12-hour-long, silent auction on sunday
autographed photographs donated by bears' coach mike ditka, quarterback jim mcmahon and linebacker mike singletary are among items that will be sold to the highest bidder
a basketball signed by chicago bulls guard michael jordan and a hockey stick signed by chicago blackhawks player troy murray the nhl also will be auctioned
the auction is the latest of many fund-raising events to help darlwin carlisle, 9, found in the attic apartment of an abandoned gary house by a construction worker on jan. 17
surgeons at wyler children's hospital in chicago had to amputate the child's lower legs, which had been severely frostbitten
love may be blind, but it need not be unenlightened, according to a new book being published on valentine's day
in ``the psychology of love,'' 22 psychologists write on subjects such as styles of love, ways to maintain relationships, the components of love and possible evolutionary origins of love behavior
it's not as if there is any one right kind (of love),'' the book's co-editor, robert j. sternberg, a yale professor of psychology, said. ``it's more that you sort of find something that is right for you.''
sternberg said the book may help a reader figure out what is right in love for him or her; its contributors are regarded as strong researchers and theorists, he said
sternberg said he and co-editor michael l. barnes, a yale graduate student of psychology, wanted the book to be of scholarly interest, although lay readers may find some chapters easy to comprehend
leon goossens, a pioneering oboist who redefined the instrument's potential and inspired composers to write music to showcase it, has died at age 90, his family said saturday
goossens died friday night at nuffield hospital in tunbridge wells, kent, after a long illness
funeral arrangement still were pending, said his son-in-law, raymond cooke
the liverpool native was the son of conductor eugene goossens. he began studying the oboe when he was 10 years old, and at 16 was offered a place with the queens hall orchestra by sir henry wood
by the next year he was principal oboist and had already begun to redefine the oboe's role as an orchestral instrument
goossens was part of a family rich in musical talent. he is survived by his two sisters, both harpists, marie, 93, and sidonie, 87, who was principal harpist with the british broadcastng corp. symphony orchestra for 50 years
goossens joined the liverpool orchestra, which paid him 22 cents a night, plus an extra 9 cents for tackling the cor anglais solo in rossini's ``william tell overture.''
he played with some of the finest orchestras of the day and by 1927, after joining sir thomas beecham at the london philharmonic, he became a soloist
his playing inspired many original works for the oboe. among the composers who dedicated works to him were benjamin britten, francis poulenc and sir edward elgar, whose 1934 soliloquy for oboe and strings, one of his last works, was composed in honor of his friend goossens
the oboist was made a commander of the order of the british empire in 1950 and received the cobbett medal for services to chamber music in 1954. he toured the world until 1962, when a serious car crash temporarily halted his career
goossens played and recorded for many top orchestras and bands, including jack hylton's jazz orchestra at london's plush kit kat club
his other interest was sailing, and he was a stalwart of the london corinthian sailing club
goossens' wife of 52 years, the former leslie burrows, died in 1985
he was the finest woodwind instrumentalist this country has ever produced,'' said james brown, 58, oboist with the english chamber orchestra. ``he was a great influence not only on myself, but on woodwind playing in general.''
celebrated clarinetist jack brymer, 73, said goossens ``did more for the development of woodwind playing throughout the world than any other person. when i became a professional musician, i became friends with him, and he was not only a great musician, but a humorous and pleasant individual
he opted out of the orchestral world at a fairly early age, but remained a great soloist almost to the end of his very long life.''
a man who doesn't believe in lotteries and wouldn't spend $1 on a ticket became florida's first $1 million lottery winner saturday thanks to a ticket he found on the ground
you cannot beat dumb luck,'' said tom sawyer, 45, after beating six other finalists in a random drawing for the top cash prize
if i had $5 that i was going to spend, i'd rather go to a two-hour movie than spend a minute and a half scratching off five tickets,'' he said
sawyer found the ticket on the ground outside his paint store and scratched off the covering to find the word ``entry'' three times. tickets with that combination were to be mailed in for a drawing, and in spite of sawyer's feelings he didn't hesitate to send it in
i send in to publishers' clearinghouse, for a 22-cent stamp you always have a chance,'' he said
his was one of 460,000 tickets mailed in. gov. bob martinez last week picked seven out of a barrel to be on saturday's award show
sawyer called himself ``fantastically lucky,'' and said he would use his winnings to educate his children, two whom are approaching college age. one daughter is engaged, so he expects to pay for a wedding soon. he said 10 percent would go to his church
sawyer said he still won't support the lottery or buy a ticket. he voted against it, and maintains those who play are the ones who can least afford it
if you've got all your obligations taken care of and that's how you want to handle your spendable income, that's fine,'' sawyer said. ``i have no problem with that. what i believe is for me, and i'm not trying to lay that on you.''
he said he doesn't expect the winnings to change his lifestyle and expected to be back at work monday, but he conceded that he will probably have to get an unlisted telephone number
the game of chance began jan. 12. the second $1 million ``millionaire'' drawing will be held in about a month
for the first time in nearly three decades, the name henry maier will be missing from the ballot when milwaukee voters choose their mayor
maier, 70, has held the office since 1960, longer than any other big city mayor in the country. but residents will see fresher faces when the city holds its primary vote tuesday
it has been forgotten that i said the president is too damn old to be president at 70,'' maier said last june when he announced he would not seek re-election. ``and i believed that then, and i believe that now, and i think it's true of me.''
former acting gov. martin schreiber and state sen. john norquist are the leading contenders in the non-partisan race to fill maier's job
when asked to list his accomplishments, maier points to the city's revitalized downtown, the annual summerfest, which the mayor once called ``the super bowl of festivals,'' and a fiscal policy that has given milwaukee an aa-bond rating
he has cultivated a folksy image, with his public sing-alongs at summerfest and other events and the annual christmas tree lighting
but maier also has a feisty reputation. he has been combative with the local press, has criticized the federal government for cutting aid to cities, and has blamed suburbs for not sharing their wealth and causing many of the city's problems with poverty
for the average joe in milwaukee ... he needs a mayor whose image is supportive, to lean on,'' maier said in a 1983 interview. ``he has to feel he has a champion, someone who is representing him vigorously, willing to stand and fight.''
but some community leaders say maier has not done enough to help the city's black population. statistics released last fall by the milwaukee urban league show milwaukee is the most segregated major metropolitan area in the country, and more than 40 percent of the city's black children live in poverty
some black leaders complain that the stability of maier's 28 years has led to stagnation in addressing inner city issues
the city hasn't done much with what we wanted,'' said felmers chaney, president of the milwaukee chapter of the national association for the advancement of colored people
maybe (maier) did the best he could. i don't know,'' chaney said. ``whoever takes his job now needs to come out with a firmer stand.''
maier, however, has demonstrated support from blacks and the population as a whole
he repeatedly has dismissed notions of seeking higher office at the state capital or in washington
in 1984, just before being re-elected for the last time, maier said, ``i have never wanted to go to madison. i have never wanted to go to washington. i have never wanted to leave the soil of this city.'' ``two''</note>
an australian who was sentenced to death on heroin trafficking charges was freed after the supreme court threw out the charges, corrections department officials said saturday
the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said donald tait, 54, was released friday and was awaiting deportation
tait, of sydney, was arrested in july 1985 on the southern resort island of phuket with 4.4 pounds of heroin in his suitcase, according to police
he pleaded innocent to charges of possessing heroin with intent to sell
a provincial court sentenced him to death in november 1985. in january 1986, an appeals court in bangkok overturned the verdict on grounds of lack of evidence, and the supreme court upheld the appeal. told</head>
some 1,500 women who spent two days discussing how they could secure the constitution's ``blessings of liberty'' were urged to become more active in politics and to run for elective office
it was no accident that the event was sandwiched between last week's iowa presidential caucuses and tuesday's new hampshire primary, said linda kurtz hallenborg, a member of the symposium's executive committee
this is a way to highlight the fact that we need to get more women involved in politics,'' she said in an interview friday. ``we need to make it clear to the presidential candidates that we make up 53 percent of the electorate, and women's issues need to be taken seriously.''
those attending the symposium included u.s. supreme court justice sandra day o'connor; 1984 vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro; coretta scott king, widow of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr.; syndicated newspaper columnist erma bombeck; and former new york congresswoman bella abzug
the two-day symposium on ``women and the constitution'' at the carter presidential center was convened by former first ladies rosalynn carter and lady bird johnson
in speeches and seminars, women who attended the event that ended friday heard that political power could be their best hope to achieve equality in other fields besides politics
they also heard that the constitution, as originally drawn up 200 years ago, deserved criticism as unfair to women and minorities
our criticism of the unamended constitution is not intended to be divisive,'' said mrs. king. ``some people apparently feel that blacks and women should join in an uncritical celebration of a document that protected the slave trade and denied women their democratic rights.''
sixty-eight years after the ratification of the 19th amendment, which guaranteed women the right to vote, women make up just 14 percent of the higher statewide political officeholders around the country, according to the national women's political caucus
there are 23 women in the u.s. house and two in the senate. two women are governors of states
both ms. ferraro and mrs. king urged women to run for office and continue working in other campaigns. ms. ferraro described a ``ripple effect'' that she discovered when her 1984 campaign generated thousands of letters from women whom her candidacy had inspired
it's the young woman writing after the election, `i've decided to go to medical school because of you,''' ms. ferraro said. ``it's the 7-year-old writing from her school in minnesota, `someday i'm going to run for president
if you don't run, you can't win.''
while ms. ferraro spoke of a future in which women will share equally in the political landscape, ms. hallenborg said the present administration _ and a return to traditionalism by some women _ has slowed down the women's movement
i think the reagan presidency has been extremely detrimental to the progress we have made,'' she said. ``every president up to reagan made progress in bringing women into power.''
the 1988 elections represent an opportunity for women to reassert themselves at the ballot box, and the outcome could determine whether eight years of republican conservatism has splintered the women's equality movement for good, ms. hallenborg said
this is a clarion call that women need to rise up and be counted in the political process,'' she said. collisions</head> update with tass report of soviet captain, u.s. defense department comment. pickup 26th graf ``markoff said...''; edits thruout to trim</note>
two u.s. warships collided with soviet ships in the black sea when they violated soviet territorial waters, ignored warnings from patrol craft and made ``dangerous maneuvers,'' a soviet admiral charged saturday
the spokesman for the foreign ministry, gennady i. gerasimov, called the friday incident off the crimean peninsula an american ``military provocation'' and likened it to the 1960 downing of a u-2 spy plane that forced cancellation of a superpower summit
we hope that this will not hinder the process of improvement in soviet-american relations'' gerasimov said of the warship collisions
gerasimov and rear adm. nikolai p. markov appeared at a noon news briefing to give the first detailed kremlin version of the grazing of the cruiser uss yorktown and the destroyer uss caron by two soviet navy vessels
the soviet defense ministry on friday night accused the american vessels of violating soviet waters, but did not mention any physical contact between them and soviet ships
u.s. navy officials said the yorktown and the caron were deliberately bumped while exercising their right to pass through international waters
but markov and gerasimov told reporters the u.s. warships were knowingly violating soviet waters, and that the collisions were solely the fault of the american captains
if we look back at history, always when there is a tendency toward improvement in our relations we see some military provocation,'' gerasimov said
soviet anti-aircraft units downed the spy plane piloted by francis gary powers on may 1, 1960 near sverdlovsk. the resulting uproar doomed a meeting planned that year between soviet premier nikita s. khrushchev and president dwight d. eisenhower
gerasimov said u.s. ambassador jack matlock had been summoned to the foreign ministry saturday morning, where deputy foreign minister alexander bessmertnykh read him a ``strong protest'' over the black sea incident
the soviet side cannot but view the actions of the united states navy as aimed at undermining the process of improvement in soviet-american relations which has appeared recently,'' gerasimov said, reading from the protest
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims a 12-mile limit along its coast
u.s. navy cmdr. richard schiff, a lawyer, said friday in washington that any country claiming a 12-mile territorial limit ``must allow for innocent passage by the ships of all nations.''
but markov and gerasimov said soviet law does not provide for the right of innocent passage in black sea waters, which the soviets have longed claimed as their own
markov referred repeatedly to ``dangerous maneuvers'' by the u.s. warships. when asked to explain, he said the yorktown and caron had been warned both before and after entering soviet waters
he said the two soviet warships, identified by pentagon officials as a krivak-class frigate and a mirka-class patrol boat, were on a ``basically parallel course'' with the u.s. vessels when the grazings occurred
the larger krivak-class vessel brushed the left side of the yorktown, while the caron was grazed on the same side by the patrol craft, u.s. officials said
u.s. officials said the grazings were intentional, but markov said the captains of the soviet ships ``did not have such an intention.''
markov did not name the soviet warships, but a small chart displayed at the briefing identified them as the frigate bezzavetny and the patrol ship skr-6
the official news agency tass later quoted the captain of the bezzavetny as saying the soviet ships came within two yards of the american vessels when ``they demanded anew that they leave the ussr's territorial waters.''
without receiving an answer, the bezzavetny and the skr-6 came close to the u.s. warships' sides with a view to ousting them,'' the captain, vladimir bagdashin, was quoted as saying. ``no damage was caused to either the soviet or the u.s. ships.''
defense department spokeswoman susan hansen said the two u.s. ships have continued what she called ``routine'' operations. the pentagon has declined to say when the ships were to leave the black sea
markov said the friday incident was the third of its kind in recent years
in march 1986, the same two ships, the yorktown and the caron, violated soviet territorial waters in the black sea, he said, and two american warships penetrated soviet waters in the far east last year
secretary of state george p. shultz is scheduled to arrive in moscow next sunday to talk about a u.s.-soviet summit meeting tentatively scheduled in the soviet capital in the spring
golfer steve wells will take a hole-in-one any way he can get it _ even if it means sharing the golf course with a private plane forced to make an emergency landing
wells approached the eighth hole of the mohawk golf course on friday shortly after the two-seater plane landed. the pilot and his passenger walked away uninjured
wells and his partner, doug smith, were determined to finish their game, despite the winged obstacle that remained on the 382-yard, par-4 hole. but police cordoned off the area around the damaged plane, which put the tee box out of reach
wells and smith improvised, making their own tee box on the other side of the plane. the next thing you know, wells got his second-ever hole-in-one
i hit it about as good as i could,'' wells said
emergency personnel attending to the plane witnessed the feat
bruce gardner, the chopper pilot for the police, is the one who told me it went in,'' wells said
the folks who live on stamper place want to stamp out that name and dub their quiet, hillside cul-de-sac mystic view court
the name stamper doesn't reflect the feeling of the neighborhood,'' said tom hoefel, a leader of the campaign to change the street name. ``we just felt the street needed a pretty name.''
the eight homeowners plan to present the issue to the city council on tuesday
the street was named after the rev. larry stamper, a methodist minister who was a councilman in the early 1980s when the area was developed
aside from not being pretty, the street name is sometimes confused with nearby stanford road or referred to as thumper place, hoefel said
council members don't oppose the change
i don't believe in naming streets after elected officials anyway,'' said mayor michael hastings, ``except maybe somebody who's really important like (john f.) kennedy or gerald ford.''
a storm that had crossed much of the nation moved out of new england on saturday after dumping up to 2 feet of snow, and elsewhere snow was scattered around the great lakes and over the mountains of the west
record lows saturday included 12 at greer, s.c., and 7 below zero at rockford, ill
the storm that spread snow from texas to michigan in the middle of last week trailed out of maine during the day with wind gusting to 30 to 40 mph and temperatures in the teens and 20s
snowfall totals included 22 inches at brattleboro, vt.; 25 inches in the western mountains of maine; 17 at lewiston, maine; 15 inches at albany, n.y.; 13 inches in the catskills at east jewett, n.j.; and more than 2 feet in parts of southern vermont, the national weather service said
not a record-setter, but a pretty bad one,'' said meteorologist art lester in maine
the storm was blamed for 23 traffic deaths: five in arkansas; four in texas; three in tennessee and indiana; two each in new york and pennsylvania; and one each in kentucky, michigan, vermont and maryland
wind gusted to 35 to 40 mph across western and northern new york state, and about an inch of snow had fallen at rochester and buffalo. six inches to a foot was possible in localized squalls, forecasters said
up to 8 inches of snow fell along the lake erie shore of northeastern ohio
a cold front stretching from the northern rockies into central california produced scattered snow showers and gusty wind. snow was reported across northern utah as well as west-central and south-central montana. mountain areas of utah received 2 to 5 inches of snow with valleys getting up to an inch
wind-whipped snow in utah contributed to a collision involving about 30 cars, a tractor-trailer rig and a horse trailer saturday that closed southbound interstate 15 at point of the mountain for two hours, police said
wind gusts to 51 mph were recorded on the southern end of the great salt lake. in wyoming, wind blew at 30 to 45 mph at casper, and a gust of 62 mph was reported near casper mountain
snow and blowing snow advisories were posted for the northern and central mountains of coloradom with up to 6 inches of snow expected
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 11 degrees at champaign, ill., to 77 at el cajon, calif. the early-morning low for the day was 21 degrees below zero at hibbing, minn., and gunnison, colo
for sunday, scattered snow showers were forecast from eastern wyoming through the upper third of the mississippi valley and upper great lakes, with snow also scattered in northern maine. showers and a few thunderstorms were forecast from eastern texas into louisiana and arkansas, with showers also scattered from central and eastern kansas into northern missouri, across southern ohio and in northwestern washington state
highs in the teens and 20s were predicted from the northern plains across the upper mississippi valley and northern great lakes into the upper ohio valley and much of new england; in the 30s from the northern and central rockies across the central high plains and lower great lakes into southern parts of new england; in the 60s and 70s from central and southern california through the desert southwest, all of texas except the panhandle, the lower mississippi valley and the gulf coast into florida; and in the 40s or 50s across most of the rest of the nation
a man shouting that the democratic party was encouraging homosexuality disrupted the televised debate by presidential candidates saturday and was removed from the auditorium by police and security agents
the man, who identified himself as paul morrissey of jackson heights, n.y., was ordered off the campus of st. anselm's college, where the debate was being held. he was not arrested
morrissey disrupted the debate during its opening minutes, just as moderator edwin newman addressed a question to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis. the debate halted as the man stood shouting and secret service and other officers subdued him and took him from the building
morrissey, interviewed after being released by authorities, said he was objecting to the use of the church-supported school's facilities for a democratic party function
we are fed up and outraged at the democratic party using church facilities to promote their homosexual and abortion agenda _ both of which are part of the democratic plank,'' morrissey said
asked to explain, he cited ``special privileges'' for homosexuals included in the party's 1984 platform
morrissey identified himself as chairman of morality action committee inc. he said he did not actively support any of the presidential candidates but would vote for republican pat robertson ``if i had a chance.''
lt. paul lambert of the goffstown police said the man was told to leave the campus or he would be arrested. monday</head>
organizers of a much-delayed voyage to israel by palestinian deportees said they chartered a new vessel saturday and would leave monday, but some european politicians dropped plans to go along
really, we are going on monday,'' said hanna nasser, a member of a committee for the voyage by 130 palestinians deported by israel and hundreds of journalists and observers who have gathered in athens
the ``journey of return'' is designed to focus attention on israel's use of deportations to punish palestinians in the territories it captured in the 1967 middle east war
it was initially set to start tuesday, was rescheduled for wednesday and then for saturday
plo officials said israeli pressure led ship owners to back out of charter deals. prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel has referred to the trip as ``an act of war.''
early saturday, sources among the organizers said no contract had been signed for a ship
but fouad al-bittar, the plo's diplomatic representative in athens, said a contract to charter a vessel was signed at midday
plo officials refused to give details about the ship, citing security concerns
i have a ship name, but i'm not going to give it to you,'' bassam abu sharif, chief spokesman for plo chairman yasser arafat, told reporters
the new plan was announced at a 5 p.m. (10 a.m. est) meeting set as a deadline by european parliamentary observers for a final word on the voyage
even so, some who had planned to make the trip said they had to back out because of the delays
i simply can't clear one more week'' on the schedule, said lord christopher mayhew of britain
others expressed fears that the latest plan might fall through
i have been told this (that the boat would sail) every day .. . and it hasn't happened,'' said michael ferris, an irish senator
but several other observers, including an italian senator, raniero lavalle, promised to make the voyage
a small group of greek and italian leftists staged a demonstration outside the israeli diplomatic mission in athens on saturday to protest alleged israeli efforts to block the trip
luciano neri, a member of italy's proletarian democracy party, chained himself to the mission fence for two hours
there were no arrests
the trip is modeled after the voyage of the exodus, which tried to take jewish refugees to palestine in 1947 but was turned back by british authorities. miriam algazi, who took part in the exodus voyage, also planned to journey on the palestinian ship
thousands of moviegoers packed west berlin theaters saturday as the 38th international berlin film festival began its first full day
more than 60 films were scheduled to be shown saturday, among them is american director woody allen's ``september.''
the 11-day festival features 750 films from 48 countries
the festival officially was opened friday night by mayor eberhard diepgen of west berlin. the opening ceremonies were followed by the showing of west german director reinhard hauff's subway musical, ``line no. 1.''
a festival official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said many showings were sold out, including those of ``september'' and american director oliver stone's ``wall street.''
twenty films are competing for silver and gold bear awards
a host of international film and entertainment personalities are scheduled to attend the festival, including cher, alec guiness, richard attenborough, omar sharif, jean-luc godard, chuck berry, and eric clapton. picking up 3rd graf, `bueschel was...'.</note>
an airport bartender who was fired for giving a $4.95 sandwich away to mayor eugene sawyer was offered his job back saturday, but he said he didn't want it
i'm hoping to hear from the mayor's office in reference to a job instead,'' michael bueschel said. ``but i don't want to be pushy. i will sit back until they call me.''
bueschel was fired friday from his $5-an-hour job at a midway airport restaurant for giving away food without permission, manager guy accettura said
the dismissal was rescinded saturday
we felt there was a major misunderstanding on mike's part and our part. with everything involved _ it was the mayor _ we full-heartedly invited michael back to his position,'' accettura said
the mayor, waiting for a flight to alabama on thursday, gave one of his security men $10 to buy a sandwich. the guard returned with the money, a sandwich and a note from bueschel, which read: ``mr. mayor, keep up the good work. compliments of cafe volare.''
bueschel, 23, a college student, said police officers routinely received free coffee, doughnuts and sandwiches at the airport
i figured if chicago police officers could get a free sandwiches, why couldn't the mayor? he's the boss,'' he said
the mayor is a fair, good man. i like the way he came into office and took charge,'' said bueschel
it's a big city to take care of and it seems he is keeping things under control,'' he said
sawyer heard about bueschel's firing friday and vowed he would soon have a new job
i'll help him find one,'' sawyer said at the time. ``if we can't find one for him, i'll give him one myself.''
sawyer's spokesman, monroe anderson, could not be reached for comment on bueschel's comments saturday about a job. his home phone was unanswered
i would like to get on the fire department _ that's a real long shot, but my dad is a fireman and i'd like to keep up the family tradition,'' bueschel said. report, details on positions that had been closed to women; picks up 7th graf, ``in fact ...'. adds 1 graf on end with connecticut woman saying she hopes to lead new troop.</note>
officials of the boy scouts of america have voted to allow women in leadership positions, including scoutmaster, ending a policy often challenged in court of providing only male leadership, a spokesman says
the boy scouts had successfully defended legal challenges over its policy for the past 12 years, but decided to drop the restrictions because the court challenges had become too costly, a spokesman said saturday
david corti, a spokesman in dallas, cited the ``great cost to the organization, both in terms of money and in the perception of what we are.''
we have, however, won our court cases and probably would continue to do so,'' corti said
the boy scouts' national executive board voted for the change thursday during a meeting in washington, d.c., said barclay bollas, national news editor for the boy scouts. the organization is based in irving
our volunteer hierarchy felt boys of this age group should have the opportunity to be associated with male role models,'' bollas said of the former policy
it has cost the organization millions of dollars to defend a position that makes common sense,'' said ron phillippo, executive director of the indianhead council, which includes eight counties in eastern minnesota and four in western wisconsin
experts are saying men must spend more time nurturing and providing male role models for youth and boy scouting has provided this in spades,'' phillippo said
women had been barred from becoming scoutmasters _ the job of leading a boy scout troop, as well as assistant scoutmasters, varsity or assistant coaches, or leaders of webelos, the program for the age group between cub scouts and boy scouts
but many positions already were open to women, including the job of leading a cub scout troop, officials said. of the 1.1 million volunteers within the program nationwide, about 500,000 are women, bollis said
in fact, there are many instances of women serving as trainers of scoutmasters,'' he said. ``there was never a question of the ability of women. it was just that the boy scouts felt there ought to be male role models for boys.''
other boy scouts officials agreed
i think it is important to provide men an opportunity for nurturing. too many institutions do not afford men that opportunity. we feel we have that role in society,'' said clarence hammett, executive director of the viking council, which includes 15 minnesota counties
that viewpoint was supported by judith erickson, a consultant for the viking and indianhead councils and an associate professor at the university of minnesota's center for youth development and research
the value in scouting's former policy has been that it provided boys with a nurturant male role model,'' she said. ``with this change in policy, men must be serious about taking on the nurturant role in this and other organizations, or this will be one more instance of women alone developing that type of close relationship.''
but a 69-year-old grandmother who waged a 14-year legal battle to become a scoutmaster said saturday that ``we straightened out a wrong.''
i think that it is a great thing that happened and i think it's about time, after trying hard for 14 years, to get this stupid situation straightened out,'' said catherine pollard of milford, conn., who fought an unsuccessful court battle over the issue
i do think that this is marvelous because there have been women all over the united states, in fact all over the world, that have been doing these things for the boy scouts because they could not get a male leader but we could not get recognition for the things we've done,'' she said
mrs. pollard, the mother of two boys and two girls and grandmother to seven boys and four girls, said she has proven that a woman can be a successful scoutmaster
mrs. pollard, who has been involved with the boy scouts since 1950, ran a milford troop from october 1973 to january 1975 because no men volunteered to lead it. her formal application to attain scoutmaster status was denied by the boy scouts in 1974 and 1976
as long as your character is good and you haven't done anything wrong for the position you'd like to hold, i think we should hold those positions,'' pollard said
mrs. pollard said she plans to become scoutmaster for a new troop, adding, ``i have some irons in the fire. i had them before the news came out.'' victory</head>
police used electric prods to break up thousands of opposition supporters demanding ``free elections'' saturday, the eve of an election that government leaders said president alfredo stroessner will win by a landslide
we are sure the number of votes cast on sunday for president stroessner and colorado party candidates will not be less than 80 percent of the total,'' said sabino montanaro, interior minister and president of the ruling colorado party, during a news conference saturday
stroessner, a 75-year-old army general, has governed since 1954, longer than any other head of state in the western hemisphere
the government's predictions contradicted a poll by the national catholic university and west germany's friedrich naumann foundation of 18,000 urban voters
the poll indicated 43 percent favor colorado candidates, 31 percent said they will abstain from voting and 11.6 percent plan to cast a blank vote. balloting is required by law among paraguayans aged 18-60
about 1.4 million of the country's 3.7 million population are registered for the election. voters are to choose a president, 36 senators and 72 deputies who form the two-house congress
voting was scheduled for 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at 7,192 polling places. all sports and social events are banned during the balloting
police used electric anti-riot prods and tear gas saturday to break up a rally of 5,000 anti-government demonstrators in front of the national pantheon, which contains the remains of the country's heroes
roman catholic radio station radio caritas said the demonstrators included domingo laino, president of the authentic radical liberal party _ not recognized by the government. in a brief speech, laino described the elections as ``a new farce and new fraud.''
but the people want freedom and we will continue making demands in spite of the regime's savage bullies,'' said laino, who police had held under house arrest for two days last week
the radio said no one was arrested although several suffered slight injuries
colorado party leaders meanwhile made last-minute calls for voters in this landlocked, california-sized nation to turn out en masse sunday to re-elect stroessner to an eighth straight term
it's a shame stroessner can't be elected for life,'' said central bank president cesar romeo acosta at a rally in raul arsenio oviedo, 250 miles east of asuncion. ``he represents the greatness, the splendor, the freedom and the independence of paraguay.''
sen. luis maria vega of the liberal party and rep. carlos ferreira ybarra of the radical liberal party are running against stroessner, but men admitted they have no chance of winning
the party winning the majority of votes takes two-thirds of the congressional seats. the remaining third is divided proportionally between the two other parties
stroessner seized power in a may 1954 coup that ended nearly two decades of political chaos in paraguay. the u.s. state department, in its 1987 human rights report released wednesday, said, ``paraguay has not had a democratic government since its independence in 1811.''
a newspaper reported saturday that more than 80,000 files have been stolen from a nazi documentation center in berlin
the berliner morgenpost tabloid claimed many of the missing files from the berlin document center were sold to collectors around the world, and some were used to blackmail former nazis
the report, which is to be published in the newspaper's sunday edition, quoted unnamed west german investigators and could not immediately be confirmed
the newspaper telexed a copy of its report to other news media in advance
many of the documents contained ``secret information about leading figures in the third reich,'' the newspaper said
the newspaper said west german investigators believe the documents were sold for ``incredible sums.''
few politicians in massachusetts have more interest in the success of gov. michael s. dukakis' presidential campaign than the woman who would fill his statehouse office if he captures the white house
but lt. gov. evelyn murphy, the first woman ever to hold a constitutional office in massachusetts, is neither overwhelmed by the prospect of occupying the governor's seat nor pressing for that power
murphy, 47, spent ``eight years, day and night, seven days a week, 16 hours a day'' to get where she is today, she said in an interview last week. ``by anybody's measure, it was a long time to get elected.''
but for murphy, an economist with a ph.d. from duke university, it was an investment made not so much as a stepping stone to the governor's office one floor above her own
i looked at it as a place in which i could show people what i could do,'' she said
murphy finds herself at a moment that may be unique in the history of the ill-defined no. 2 seat of authority in massachusetts' state government
when she campaigned for the job in 1986, she had to pitch a need for the post as much as her ability to fill it. john kerry, who had defeated her in her first bid for the job in 1982, abandoned the office after being elected to the u.s. senate in 1984. for the next two years the office was vacant, without much concern to anyone
then, shortly after she won the lieutenant governorship in 1986 on a platform of turning the office into a long-range planning arm of state government, dukakis launched his white house bid. three months into her term, murphy found her job had taken on new importance
when we started out, i wasn't quite clear what an acting governor does when the governor sets out to be president,'' murphy said. her role has slowly expanded as dukakis spends more time on the campaign trail
but during her first year, murphy had her own agenda to keep. she had her blueprint 2000 project, a two-year series of regional hearings, statistical analysis and predictions aimed at assessing the commonwealth's needs into the 21st century and developing ``some very basic, simple, fundamental directions'' for the decade ahead
then there was there requests from groups across the state wanting to get a look at the first female lieutenant governor
there were 1,000 requests in the first six months alone, she said, ``and you feel an obligation to go out and speak because people want to see what this `thing' is all about.''
murphy's role as dukakis' surrogate has been eased by the ``philosophic agreement'' they achieved working together off and on over a dozen years, first as his environmental affairs secretary and later as his economic affairs secretary
murphy compared her development as lieutenant governor to dukakis' as a presidential candidate
michael and i both have the same kind of attitude towards how you step into uncharted waters _ step by step, learn from each move what else can be taken over.'' ...</note>
democratic presidential candidates michael dukakis and richard gephardt swapped charges and drew fire from the rest of the pack saturday in a high-voltage debate reflecting the importance of tuesday's lead-off new hampshire primary
gephardt, the narrow winner in monday night's iowa caucuses, apologized to sen. albert gore jr. for profane remarks made by his campaign manager
but when gephardt complained that commercials being run by paul simon's campaign were ``over the line,'' he was brought up short by gore
what paul simon has done is simply to spell out the record. and you ought to respond to the substance ... rather than taking it personally,'' said the tennessee senator
dukakis, the runaway front-runner in the polls for next week's primary, came out swinging with an attack on gephardt's acceptance of contributions from political action committees and his call for an oil import fee. but then he was forced to field criticism from gary hart and bruce babbitt, both men struggling for survival in the presidential race
dukakis and gephardt were the frequent targets of barbs because of their position in the race, the massachusetts governor as front-runner in the new hampshire polls and the missouri congressman as victor in iowa
gore continued his assault on gephardt after the event ended. he told reporters his rival ``has changed an incredible list of positions...of course it's fair for paul simon to say your positions are 180 degrees different,'' he said
jesse jackson and gephardt engaged in an intense conversation afterwards, with jackson waving his finger at his campaign competitor. neither man would say what they were talking about
jackson sought to play peacemaker during the debate as he urged his rivals to address the issues rather than engaging in a game of ``how bruised i am.''
it was babbitt, the former arizona governor, who spoke most frankly about the importance of new hampshire where he said voters have the ``power of life and death over my candidacy.''
in a bid to attract voters from the audience watching the debate on cable news network, the gore campaign aired a 30-second commercial within a half hour of the conclusion of the event
the candidates exchanged barbs from the very beginning in a reflection of the struggle for survival that the new hampshire primary has become. they spent only a few moments at mid-debate criticizing the reagan administration
hart and babbitt continually chided the top-three in iowa for failing to provide specific proposals, hart complaining that dukakis didn't have an energy policy or a budget plan either. ``where's the beef?'' he asked, in a reprise of the line that walter f. mondale used effectively against him in the 1984 race
you don't know anything about'' putting together a budget, replied dukakis, who has served as governor of massachusetts for 10 years and has said that now is not the time to deliver a detailed federal spending plan
and what is your energy policy?'' hart said. ``i haven't heard a dukakis policy yet.''
that's because you haven't been campaigning,'' shot back dukakis. ``gary, wait a second, if you'd been around in the long hot summer and fall months you'd have heard about my energy policy,'' he said in a reference to hart's withdrawal from the race after questions were raised about his relationship with miami model donna rice
babbitt, supporter of a national sales tax to reduce the deficit, taunted dukakis, saying, ``where's your budget plan?''
simon, locked in a battle for second place with gephardt according to the polls, was the first candidate to speak during the debate sponsored by the league of women voters
he began with an attack on the missouri congressman, complaining that gephardt's support of president reagan's ax bills had led to the huge budget and trade deficits
at one point gephardt defended his own shift in positions on several issues, noting that simon had endorsed republican tom dewey for president in 1948 and ``now you base your campaign on harry truman.''
the 60-minute debate was interrupted at the outset by a heckler who stood at his seat and began shouting ``when is the democratic party going to do something about aids?'' he was quickly hustled from the hall by security officials
where were we?'' said dukakis as the commotion died down
where they were was a dukakis attack against gephardt's practice for taking pac funds. ``you can't beat up on the establishment and take their money,'' said dukakis
where are the pacs for the homeless, where are the pacs for the working people who don't have health insurance,'' he said
babbitt, who finished fifth in iowa and places the same in new hampshire polls, took a shot of his own at gephardt for being a congressional insider but campaigning as an anti-establishment figure. ``that's not a flip-flop; that's a triple back somersault with a half twist,'' he said
the democrats have been trading attacks and counterattacks in speeches and television ads this week as the battle moved into the final 72 hours
the sharpest exchanges came between gephardt and simon, concerning a new television ad attacking gephardt for his votes on nuclear power, the b-1 bomber, taxes and other matters. simon said the ad reveals inconsistencies in gephardt's record but the commercial infuriated gephardt, who demanded it be taken off the air
gephardt's apology came when gore asked him about comments made earlier in the week by campaign manager william carrick disparaging gephardt and his staff. gephardt first said that carrick was sorry, but gore persisted and asked if he was, too
of course al, of course. you're my friend.''
the league debate is the latest in the long series of confrontations between the 1988 presidential hopefuls. by one campaign's count, it is the 19th such debate in 1987 and 1988. and describe it; picks up 4th graf pvs, but when; moved in advance as b0713</note>
when george bush canceled an appearance at the last minute, former gov. hugh gregg raised a copy of bush's speech before the jilted audience and asked, half-heartedly, for a show of hands from those who wanted him to read it
so few responded that he pocketed the papers and sat down
it's like promising your wife arpege and giving her vigoral,'' a vitamin tonic, gregg said
but when the arpege is spread too thin, or being applied in other parts of the country, candidates often apply a substitute in the form of movie stars, members of congress, sports figures and local heroes to draw crowds and drum up support
george bush has gov. john sununu and rep. judd gregg, son of the former governor
jack kemp has been getting a boost in person and in television ads from sen. gordon humphrey and rep. robert smith
bob dole often has sen. warren rudman of gramm-rudman and iran-contra committee fame at his side, accounting for the fourth and final member of an all-gop congressional delegation that has been working overtime in advance of tuesday's earliest-in-the-nation new hampshire primary
rudman is so highly thought of that when bush mentioned him during a nationally televised debate, dole quickly reminded the audienc that dole, not bush, is rudman's candidate
kemp has brought football stars and television celebrity chad everett into the state
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, though a neighbor, has called on boston sports stars to represent him while he campaigns in other places
early in the campaigns, surrogates are used to make phone calls and enlist party activists who fan out to help round up the rest of the troops
i can't say how many people will vote for george bush because john sununu is supporting him, but a lot of people who are working to see that george bush wins the primary are working because john sununu asked them to,'' bush's new hampshire political director, will abbott, said
when i do anything, i stick my fingers in the pie,'' said sununu, who has made phone calls, walked in parades and even traveled to iowa on bush's behalf
kemp's people say humphrey and smith are more valuable
they are true grass-roots conservatives, and it's the conservatives who turn out for republican primaries,'' kemp's state director, paul young, said
paul jacobson, dole's new england press secretary, is one of several members of rudman's staff on leave to help dole's presidential effort
they, and rudman, have a knowledge of new hampshire, and access to rudman's campaign files
you can't transfer popularity, but you can eliminate legwork,'' said jacobson, adding that rudman can be used as a surrogate ``on almost the same level of credibility as dole.''
rudman, humphrey and sununu have been at odds, holding news conferences to complain about the others' candidates
sununu complained that kemp's tactics and ads have been ``stretching the fabric of the republican party.'' rudman said kemp has been ``engaging the politics of fear and distortion ... that could cause major rifts in the party.''
humphrey complained that bush and dole are distorting their gun-control records
but they all say they will bury the hatchet when the primary is past
this is an intramural contest. you expect some bumping and jostling and that's good. that's healthy,'' humphrey said
sununu said, ``those guys are my good friends.'' he said he and the senators and congressmen ``will keep tweaking each other's tails'' during the final days of the campaign, ``but afterward we'll have a big party. ^eds: recasts first 3 grafs to put saturday in lead. pickup 4th graf pvs ```don't get...'''; inserts graf of detail after 7th graf pvs ``the financial...''</head>
the european economic community on saturday reached an agreement to end its cash crisis by limiting farm subsidies, putting the trading bloc on course toward a bigger role in the international economy
the deal also has allowed the group to step back from political stalemate at a time when improved relations between the superpowers have stirred new efforts by western europe to reassert itself on the world stage
even so, few of the european leaders who worked out the four-point agreement were willing to predict how long the new momentum would last
don't get too cheerful,'' said british prime minister margaret thatcher, who has been at the center of a series of fierce negotiating battles to limit eec spending since she took office in 1979
she and leaders of the 11 other eec, or common market, countries said the brussels accord, while important for its new approach to controlling farm spending, did not necessarily mean the common market had seen its final budget crisis
over the past decade, bickering over money has been the main cause of stagnation in the eec. it has retarded the organization's development and hampered its efforts to keep up with a fast-changing world economy
the financial pressure will ease now, assuming the brussels agreement is, as expected, ratified by the 12 national parliaments and implemented as drafted
it was the first time in the eec's 31-year history that leaders fixed a limit to farm spending, which eats up two-thirds of the eec's annual budget. the agreement set a $34.4 billion limit on farm spending in 1988, slightly higher than last year
the deal contains four main points:
_ subsidies to grain producers will, for the first time, be legally limited. if effective, the system of production ceilings and punitive price cuts for farmers will ease one of the eec's biggest farm problems
_ the total budget of the eec will grow substantially by revamping the way member countries chip in from national treasuries. the new system will gradually make the governments' contributions correspond more closely to their national wealth
_ aid to the group's poorest members will be increase by 80 percent over five years. this serves two main purposes: to put all the members on a more even economic footing and to help the poorer ones cope with stiffer foreign competition once the common market has completed its drive to remove all internal barriers to trade by 1992
_ annual increases in overall farm spending will, for the first time, be strictly limited. under a new formula, each 10 percent increase in the eec's total economic output would allow a 7.4 percent rise in the budget
mrs. thatcher said she would approve only if eec foreign ministers approve additional controls on farm subsidies. that should happen soon
the summit accord was reached in the early hours saturday after two full days of debate. two previous eec summits, last june and december, had failed to bridge gaps between an austerity-minded faction led by britain and a west german-led group that wanted looser spending controls
the previous failures had left the common market without a formal budget for this year. it was due to run out of money by late summer
henning christophersen, the eec budget commissioner, said saturday that the eec could get its 1988 budget approved by the european parliament by may. leaders of the 518-member legislature, which shares the budget writing authority with the member governments, have given the reforms a grudging approval
while the immediate crisis now appears to have passed, future harmony is not assured
a fundamental split remains in the member countries' views about how far the common market should go in transforming itself from a trading bloc dealing mainly with economic issues to a true political union
britain stresses the need to remove trade barriers between eec countries to give european business a wider ``home'' market from which to compete on a global scale with the united states and japan. the brussels accord is likely to make this goal more attainable
france and other members want to keep alive the dreams of the eec's founding fathers: to create a single political entity, a kind of united states of europe in which the 12 member countries would share common foreign, defense and economic policies
reflecting this hope, jacques delors, the eec's chief executive and a former french finance minister, told reporters that the significance of the brussels accord went beyond the issues of budgets and agriculture
we now have the political tool for the relaunching of the european union,'' he said
still, the eec's track record would suggest that new progress toward political integration will come only gradually, and only after new, unforeseen financial crises emerge and threaten serious setbacks
robert burns has covered the european economic community for the associated press from his base in brussels since 1984
about 2,000 supporters of impeached gov. evan mecham turned out to sing songs, sign petitions and bash a car symbolizing his foes with sledgehammers saturday at a fund-raising picnic
mecham and his wife, florence, wearing boots, blue jeans and checked cowboy shirts with silver and turquoise bolo ties, barely finished their meal before fans began lining up for hugs, autographs and words of encouragement
there were ``mecham for president'' t-shirts and cassette tapes of his january 1987 inaugural address. there were leaflets and former mecham administration aides and an auction in which a bidder paid $15,600 for the $20,000 car that mecham's auto dealership had let mecham drive as governor
mecham brought the crowd gathered at a park here to its feet with a prediction that he would prevail despite what he said was the unwillingness of his opponents to abide by the 1986 election results that saw him win a three-way race on his fifth try at governor
you know, in some countries they'd call it a coup,'' he said. ``but in this state, it's not going to work.''
he added, ``without my threatened veto, you're going to get your taxes increased this year unless i get back there before the appropriations bill goes through.''
booths offered voters petitions to force recall elections on mecham's political opponents, much as the republican governor's foes have forced one on him for may 17 if he survives impeachment and a criminal trial
supporters flocked to a battered chevy chevelle with the words ``media bias'' ``special interest groups,'' ``hidden government,'' and ``selective prosecution'' painted on it
for $1, they bought three whacks at their favorite target with a sledgehammer. a stream of children and adults, some in coats and ties, kept up a steady rain of blows until the sledgehammer broke
additional hammers were found, and the battering continued
tucson chef greg seader put huge dents in a panel labeled ``media bias.'' as his wife, cheryl, took her turn, he said, ``too bad it wasn't a couple of reporters.''
don ruzicka, chairman of a mecham support group known as concerned arizona voters, had already taken his whacks but said ``oh, i see what i want to hit'' and promptly ponied up another dollar
i had a hard time choosing,'' he said. ``i'm going to have to spend more money to hit all of them.''
organizers say they sold 3,000 tickets at $25 each. actual turnout was estimated at 2,000. mecham comments saturday at fund-raiser; picks up 11 graf, `but senate ...'</note>
gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial is embroiled in controversy even before it begins, with disputes over closed state senate meetings and whether the trial should be delayed
the senate is scheduled to begin hearing testimony feb. 22, but mecham's lawyer says he wants the trial put off until after the governor stands trial on separate criminal charges
senate leaders are being criticized by the news media for having decided to hold closed meetings periodically during the impeachment trial. the first closed meeting was held thursday, minutes after the senators were sworn in as trial judges
part of the confusion, according to state sen. greg lunn, is that arizona senators aren't used to acting as judges and jurors instead of lawmakers
we don't do this very often,'' said lunn, who was one of the republican governor's earliest critics in the party. ``certainly impeaching a governor is an unprecedented situation in this state. everyone feels the burden.''
mecham was impeached feb. 5 by the house on 23 separate articles alleging that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership and tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
two-thirds of the 30 senate votes are required to convict him. a conviction would automatically remove him from office, and the senate could bar him from holding any political office in the future
mecham also faces a march 9 criminal trial on six felony charges involving the $350,000 loan. and he faces a may 17 recall election, in which he plans to run, probably against a number of opponents
mecham's lawyer, murray miller, said he will file a motion this week asking that the senate trial be delayed until after the criminal case, on grounds the impeachment trial could endanger mecham's constitutional right to a fair trial in criminal court
you know, in some countries they'd call it a coup,'' mecham told cheering supporters saturday in glendale. ``but in this state, it's not going to work.''
about 2,000 mecham supporters attended the fund-raising picnic, many paying $1 to take whacks with a sledgehammer at a battered car labeled with the words ``media bias,'' ``special interest groups,'' ``hidden government'' and ``selective prosecution.''
if the senate rejects the motion to delay the impeachment trial, miller said, he may take the matter to court, adding that he believes courts have jurisdiction in such cases
but senate president carl kunasek, a republican, disagreed
i would be interested in finding the judge that would do that,'' kunasek said. ``it's called the separation of powers, i do believe.''
miller said he will probably also bring a motion challenging the ``sufficiency'' of the impeachment articles, an effort to get a senate vote on whether the allegations in the articles of impeachment warrant a trial
miller also doesn't like the senate's decision to hold closed meetings
majority leader bob usdane, a republican, said the meetings are intended to permit lawmakers to consult with their lawyers, discuss which witnesses should be called and go over questions
usdane said the senators also could conduct final deliberations behind closed doors before voting on whether to convict mecham
in thursday's meeting, senators hashed out final details on procedural rules for the trial. the rules then were adopted on the floor with no debate
kunasek promised that the trial itself will be held in the open. and senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, contended the issue was being blown out of proportion by the media, since the final vote will be public
each and every member will be on the verge of tears or whatever ... because we're going to have the same traumatic decision that was made in the house,'' stephens said
lunn said he thinks closed meetings fuel unnecessary controversy
the only issue should be whether evan mecham should be impeached in light of the facts and the law,'' lunn said. by having closed meetings the senate will play into miller's hands by giving him something to criticize, he said
rep. mark killian, a republican who cried during the house impeachment vote when he bitterly criticized the governor but voted against impeaching him, said he thought the senate should have closed meetings only when consulting with attorneys
otherwise, killian said, ``if he's convicted everyone will say, `well, they were scheming to convict the governor,' or if he's acquitted they'll say, `they were scheming to acquit him.'''
the trial is becoming expensive. house special counsel william french already has been paid $200,000 to $250,000 for conducting the investigation that led to the impeachment
additional fees for french and the other house counsel, paul eckstein, and for their assistants could go over $100,000, house leaders say. the senate has hired a lawyer, john lundin, at $175 an hour
mecham is the 16th governor impeached in u.s. history. if he is convicted, he will be the seventh to be removed from office by an impeachment conviction
he would be succeeded by secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat who is acting governor pending the impeachment trial's outcome
a high-ranking sandinista party official threatened potential draft evaders with jail saturday and charged that recent anti-draft demonstrations were deliberately organized by rightist elements
also saturday, the defense ministry reported that troops loyal to the leftist sandinista government battled contra forces in southeastern nicaragua, killing 12 rebels in two firefights
a communique from the ministry said government troops killed 10 rebels near el jobo, a village 174 miles southeast of the capital, and two other rebels in cano dos bocs, about 150 miles southeast of managua. the communique said both battles took place friday but did not list government casualties
commander bayardo arce castano, deputy coordinator of the ruling sandinista national liberation front's political commission, said evaders of the government's compulsory military service, ``will be sent to jail, to make the boots and the uniforms of the sandinista soldiers.''
arce castano made his comments before 1,000 young people at a military induction ceremony in masaya, 20 miles southeast of managua and the site of two days of protests against the draft
the ceremony was held in the monimbo district, where anti-draft demonstrators clashed with sandinista youth supporters and police on monday and tuesday
two persons were injured and police arrested 13, including several opposition political leaders, during the protests
arce castano accused 14 conservative and ``pseudo-leftist'' opposition parties of attempting to weaken compliance with the compulsory service law, which he called ``the basis of defense against the north american aggression.''
noting the protests surfaced after the u.s. congress rejected additional military aid for the contra rebels on feb. 3, arce castano charged opposition parties were seeking ``to give the reagan administration time to obtain illegal resources and other means to continue its criminal war against our people.''
the government estimates about 43,000 people have been killed in the war
presidents of five central american nations signed a central american peace plan in guatemala last aug. 7. the plan calls for amnesties, cease-fires and democratic reform to end insurgencies in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala. alleged racism</head> saturday morning, but was again refused meeting, picking up 3rd graf, `duffey said...'.</note>
black students occupying a building at the university of massachusetts to protest alleged racial harassment stockpiled food and sleeping bags saturday and said they would stay until their demands are met
protesters refused to meet with chancellor joseph d. duffey when he went to new africa house on friday afternoon. on saturday morning, duffey again went to the house, but was stopped on the landing by two students who said no meeting would be held until he met all their demands
duffey said the school would take no reprisals against the protesters. ``they're not disrupting anything, yet,'' he said
but he declined to outline what action might be taken if the building is still occupied when school reopens tuesday after the washington's birthday holiday
we consider the third world control of the new africa house to be a permanent one,'' said rudy krigger, a protester. he said saturday afternoon there were about 125 minority protesters still in the building
the students took over the building friday after talks with duffey on a list of demands, which include prosecution of five white students accused of attacking two blacks after a dormitory party last weekend
gov. michael s. dukakis, taking time from his democratic presidential campaign swing through new hampshire, called the racial incident ``intolerable behavior'' and said he discussed the situation with duffey and franklyn jenifer, chancellor of the statewide higher education system
they know i want this kind of (racial) problem dealt with firmly and promptly, not only at amherst but throughout the system,'' dukakis said. ``they've assured me that's exactly what is happening.''
the students also asked duffey to suspend a campus police officer who they say arranged a police lineup of black men after white and minority students complained of harassment, and called for new africa house be returned to use as a cultural center for the black community
but arthur hilson, head of the campus police, denied saturday that any such lineup occurred, adding that it was a rumor that was blown out of proportion
the new africa house building now contains the afro-american studies department in addition to other academic offices and classrooms. about 7 percent of the school's 18,000 undergraduates are black
this place being turned into an academic building is robbing them of their cultural base on campus,'' said dwayne warren, a senior acting as liaison between protesters and administrators
my first responsibility is education and this building is committed to education in a range of ways,'' said duffey. ``i'm not about to put black, afro-american professors out of this building.''
the protesters, who have so far declined to talk publicly, are not affiliated with any group and numbered 150 at the height of the takeover friday night
the protesters were allowed free access to and from the building and no banners or other indications of the takeover were visible to spectators
within hours of receiving the demands friday, duffey issued a statement condemning racism and asked campus police to no longer use lineups
two of the five white students accused in the beating were ordered to move out of campus residence halls friday after a disciplinary hearing. a feb. 24 court hearing is scheduled to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to charge the five students with criminal violations
the head of campus police met saturday with students and black community leaders ``to line up creature comforts'' in case of arrests
i want to be prepared to do something in a sensitive, caring and humane way'' said hilson, a black baptist minister who came to the police department from the career planning office amid criticism of police handling of a 1986 racial clash
i think there is a way to do it other than the ways i've seen in the past,'' said hilson. ``we're talking about students making a statement, not criminals. these are students who have a belief in what they're doing.''
food, money and sleeping bags had been donated to the students
mark codling-dave, a sophomore and spokesman for the protesters, said earlier the group had received an ``inadequate response'' to its demands
the protesters cited racial tensions that have surfaced at the school since 10 students were injured in a racial clash on oct. 27, 1986, following the boston red sox loss to the new york mets in the final game of the world series
blacks at the university, which has a total of 25,000 students, said an undercurrent of racism has not abated since that clash
police investigating the fatal stabbing of a senior nuclear scientist on saturday arrested a woman found collapsed near his body from a drug overdose, authorities said
thames valley police said georgina stuart, 51, was detained by detectives immediately after her release from a hospital in oxford, about 65 miles west of london. she was taken to a police station in didcot, about 10 miles south of oxford
police said mrs. stuart was being questioned about the death of dr. colin fisher, 50. fisher was a nuclear scientist at the rutherford laboratories in chilton, near didcot, for more than 20 years
fisher was at the home of mrs. stuart, a team manager in the laboratory's nuclear physics department, when the stabbing occurred thursday, police said. police, in a statement, raced to the house after receiving a telephone call from mrs. stuart and found fisher dead of stab wounds and mrs. stuart collapsed nearby. when mrs. stuart was found thursday, police said she had collapsed from a drug overdose
fisher's death was the eighth reported since august 1986 among scientists working on defense-related projects in britain. some were recorded as suicides while no cause has been given for others
fisher was married and the father of two children. mrs. stuart, who was divorced and also has two children, lived alone
rutherford director paul williams described fisher as a ``most respected'' scientist whose work on nuclear particle physics was known internationally. graf, robertson said, to remove incorrect reference to gadhafi being injured during u.s. bombing raid of libya</note>
pat robertson predicted a strong finish as his new hampshire campaign entered its final weekend, while a television interview aired in which he said libyan leader moammar gadhafi should have been captured or killed
robertson, in a wide-ranging interview with david frost, said he would not have hesitated to kill gadhafi, that repeated acts of adultery would disqualify a potential president and that homosexuals should receive no special legal protection
meanwhile, in an interview with the associated press, the former television evangelist said a strong showing in tuesday's primary will boost his republican presidential campaign as he heads toward friendly territory in the south
robertson said gadhafi, whose adopted infant daughter was killed during an attack on his headquarters by u.s. navy jets in 1986, should have been taken out of the picture completely
my sentiment was that we should have taken him prisoner, gone after him, somehow taken his power base away from him, whatever that took,'' robertson said. ``i wouldn't have hesitated to kill him. he's a madman and he was a terrorist.''
regarding adultery, he said: ``how could we be secure if we thought that the president of the united states was bedding down with a girlfriend of a mafia boss, as john kennedy did _ or gary hart, who knows who his girlfriends would normally be?''
in today's world, i think, repeated dalliances and lies to cover them up, i think are a disqualification'' for a presidential candidate, robertson said
robertson said homosexuals should be treated like other citizens, but ``i cannot see that we would write this sexual practice into our law ... and give it a protected status.''
robertson, who finished second in the iowa caucuses, trailing senate minority leader bob dole but ahead of vice president george bush, told the ap he expects to finish no lower than third in new hampshire
whether i come in third, second or first, i will be beautifully positioned to go out of here into the south,'' robertson said. ``i have a very strong organization in the south.''
my polling shows that 38 percent of the new hampshire republican and independent voters are still undecided with only a few days left to go,'' he said
he said the second-place finish in iowa has helped his fund raising, but he would not reveal how much money has come in
he said former secretary of state alexander haig's withdrawal from the gop race friday and his endorsement of dole is not going to make a great deal of difference in the outcome in new hampshire
i'm going to pick up some of the haig support and some may go to bob dole but i don't think there's going to be much of a ripple for any of us,'' he said
abu nidal's radical palestinian guerrilla group on saturday denounced as ``blackmail'' and ``a disgrace'' an italian court verdict that convicted him of masterminding a 1985 bombing attack at rome airport
the verdict is an attempt to overshadow the glorious uprising of our people in the west bank and the gaza strip against israeli occupation. it is a disgrace to italian justice,'' said a statement issued by abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council faction
the statement was issued in beirut a day after a rome court handed down the conviction verdict and sentenced abu nidal in absentia to life in prison
sixteen people were killed and more than 80 injured in the grenade and rifle fire attack at rome airport on dec. 27, 1985. an almost simultaneous bombing attack at vienna airport killed four people and wounded 47
the statement signed by atef abu bakr, the group's chief spokesman, accused the italian judiciary of bias
italian justice closes its eyes to the crimes israel is committing against our people in the occupied territories. these crimes place israel on the top of the terrorists' list,'' it said
why has italian justice failed to make any move when israeli secret agents assassinated several palestinian leaders on italian soil? isn't that evidence that italian justice covers up for israeli crimes? isn't that blackmail?,'' the statement said without elaborating
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, is a former official of yasser arafat's fatah group. he split with arafat in early 1970s and heads the fatah revolutionary council. his group is not part of arafat's palestine liberation organization. mass is 90 percent of mass of galaxy, sted universe. picks up 12th graf pvs, `it could...'.</note>
the disk-shaped milky way galaxy is not flat, but resembles instead a warped phonograph record and is adorned with a delicate, scalloped edge, new observations show
the scalloping is something we don't understand,'' leo blitz, an astronomer at the university of maryland, said saturday
speaking at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science, blitz said, ``our picture of the galaxy has changed significantly in the last five to 10 years.''
the milky way, once considered merely a typical example of a spiral galaxy, is now thought to be a much more exciting and interesting aggregation. among the recent findings reported saturday were:
_ ninety percent of the galaxy is invisible, and nobody knows what this huge ``dark halo'' is made of
_ the galaxy is powered by two compact objects at its center that might be the remnants of starburst formation or that could be associated with a black hole
_ the galaxy's dark halo could be full of remnants of the big bang called weakly interactive massive particles _ or wimps
the galaxy consists of a slim star-studded disk about 100,000 light-years across, blitz said. (a light year is about 6 trillion miles
surrounding that visible disk is a cloud of hydrogen gas extending another 25,000 light-years
it is at the edge of that gaseous disk that radio astronomers have found warping and scalloping, blitz said
beyond that lies 90 percent of the mass of the galaxy. it is invisible, and astronomers don't know what it is, said martin rees of cambridge university
it could be made of a trillion very small, faint stars, each one-tenth the size of the sun. another possibility is that it is composed of black holes, the remnants of massive stars
or it could be made of wimps, an explanation that rees said is more radical than the others
what we want to do is narrow down the possibilities,'' rees said. ``what we see is a trace of sediment in a universe where galaxies in a cosmic sea are dominated by this missing matter.''
the galaxy's oddities are not limited to its outer edges, however. ``the inner 10 percent of our galaxy seems to be unique,'' said leonid ozernoy of the harvard-smithsonian center for astrophysics in cambridge, mass. ``the star density is huge there.''
it is also a powerful source of radiation, emitting infrared, x-rays and gamma rays, ozernoy said
a black hole could lie at the center of the galaxy, driving its rotation. such a black hole ``could be the remnant of starburst formation,'' ozernoy said
observations yet to be made could resolve some of the puzzles that remain, rees said
it might be possible, he said, to use gravitational lenses _ areas in space in which gravity bends light in the same way that a magnifying glass does _ to see small, faint stars in the dark halo, if they exist
experiments are being planned in the united states and europe to try to identify the wimps, if they exist, rees said
the problem of missing mass is one that extends across the entire universe, not only in the milky way, rees said, and the discovery of new particles in this invisible matter would have a payoff ``so colossal that the modest investment in such experiments seems more than justified,'' rees said in his prepared remarks
nato's american commander was quoted as saying saturday that new u.s. chemical weapons should be deployed in europe but acknowledged that objections by european allies could prevent the move
in an interview with the munich-based newspaper sueddeutsche zeitung, gen. john galvin, chief nato commander in europe, was quoted as saying the new binary chemical weapons ``should be stationed where the troops are.''
the view is at odds with an agreement between the united states and west germany not to replace aging chemical weapons stored in west germany with a new generation of such weapons
the newspaper said galvin acknowledged there were ``objections'' to his position among nato allies
if these objections cannot be resolved, then we will have to find an alternative. that alternative appears to be not to station the weapons in europe,'' galvin was quoted as saying
chancellor helmut kohl, foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher and other west german officials have repeatedly called for the worldwide destruction of chemical weapons
horst jungmann, a security expert for the opposition social democrats, on saturday criticized galvin's comments and the u.s. decision to build the weapons
the u.s. decision to begin production of binary chemical weapons has set back any hope of achieving an agreement to eliminate such weapons in the near future,'' jungmann said in a radio interview in hamburg
he said the social democrats would oppose the deployment of new chemical weapons in west germany
in december the u.s. army resumed producing chemicals for the weapons. president richard nixon ordered u.s. production of chemical weapons halted in 1969, but president reagan said the resumed production was needed to offset the increasing soviet arsenal of chemical weapons
the binary weapons are composed of two chemicals kept separate until a bomb drops or an artillery shell is fired. the two then mix, forming a deadly gas. picks up 3rd graf, `in all ...'</note>
thousands of people grabbed for cheap beads and aluminum doubloons tossed from parade floats saturday, the opening day of an unusual four-day mardi gras weekend, and thousands more queued up to board a giant aircraft carrier
the glitziest, the krewe of endymion, boasted party pooch spuds mckenzie _ accompanied by his corps of non-canine cuties, the spudettes _ as its grand marshal. spuds is the first animal to serve as grand marshal of endymion, which always invites a celebrity of some sort to lead off its fancy floats
the beer company spokesdog rode low in a tall director's chair, snout between paws, nose pointing down and sporting a hangdog look
spuds' float followed those of country-western charmer dolly parton, who tossed doubloons; ``dynasty'' star heather locklear, whose black sequined gown drew shouts from the crowd; and soulful crooner smokey robinson
in all, nine parades were scheduled saturday in new orleans and its suburbs, starting at noon and ending well after dark. there will be parades every day through fat tuesday itself
a line five deep and about four blocks long snaked from the uss forrestal, which docked at new orleans to give its crew of 5,000 a great weekend and to give civilians a look at the largest warship ever to come to the city
announcements over speakers from the ship and military police on shore patrol advised people in line that it would take those at the end three to four hours to get aboard
for those unwilling to wait that long or uninterested in seeing the 1,039-foot-long ship and its fighters, attack bombers, anti-submarine jets and electronic warfare planes, there were the parades
mardi gras is a state holiday, and the federal government's celebration of washington's and lincoln's birthdays gave state workers monday off as well
all new orleans parades have one thing in common _ the masked and costumed riders throw beads and plastic toys to the crowds, which scream, scramble and sometimes even scuffle for the trinkets
why?
i've been here for 22 years and i still wonder what makes people go bananas over junk jewelry,'' said dr. fred koenig, a sociology professor at tulane. ``it's not even jewelry. junk.''
still, the parade watchers will go to extremes for the plastic beads, whistles, dolls and so on _ and maybe even once in a while a doubloon, a big aluminum coin designed for each parade group
even babies perched high atop step ladders are encouraged to beg for the trinkets as the crowds scream, ``throw me something, mister.''
it's having a chance to get something that is free, that is not easy to get,'' koenig said. ``that has some appeal. you get this kind of gratification. prestige. like knowing somebody on a float.''
it's competitiveness that is engendered there on the sides of the parade routes,'' explained dr. cameron camp, an assistant professor of psychology at the university of new orleans. ``you want to get it before someone else does.''
forty percent of americans believe japanese products are better than those made in the united states, and half favor tougher trade barriers against imports to protect american jobs, a newsweek poll released saturday said
the products of other asian countries didn't fare as well among the people surveyed, with just 3 percent describing taiwanese products as better than u.s. products and 53 percent describing them as worse. by comparison, the fraction rating japanese goods as worse was just 19 percent
the survey was conducted by telephone on feb. 3 and 4
pluralities also rated the u.s. goods better than those from hong kong (47 percent), south korea (42 percent) and china (40 percent)
while 50 percent felt the u.s. needed tougher trade barriers, 54 percent felt japanese trade barriers were already unfair to the u.s. and 39 percent thought it was at least ``somewhat likely'' that japan will become an enemy of the u.s. in the future
fifty-four percent said china could become a u.s. enemy and 53 percent said south korea could as well. asked which asian country could become dominant by 2050, 49 percent chose japan and 42 percent chose china
sixty-nine percent of those polled also said asian allies of the u.s. such as the philippines, japan and south korea pay too little of their defense budget
the poll of 613 adults was conducted by the gallup organization, and the margin of error is plus or minus 6 percentage points
a white man accused of threatening blacks with a baseball bat and yelling racial slurs would be ordered to work for the naacp, under a proposed sentencing agreement
i think working 200 hours for the naacp is certainly going to teach him something,'' cook county judge stuart nudelman said. ``he's going to learn how to be a responsible human being.''
james kalafut, 22, is charged with aggravated assault and ethnic intimidation. he is accused of joining a group of six whites and hispanics who brandished baseball bats and threw bottles as they chased two blacks from a transit stop last august
neither black was injured, police said
nudelman said he plans to sentence kalafut feb. 23. officials of the national association for the advancement of colored people could reject the court-arranged agreement after interviewing kalafut
kalafut's lawyer, barry silver, said his client will accept the agreement to perform community service work for the naacp. if the agreement falls through, kalafut would stand trial and would face up to a year in jail on each charge if convicted
the sentencing is a very good move by the judge to help the young man remove a prejudice ...,'' silver said. ``it is a terrific idea _ it lets the punishment fit the crime.''
perhaps with his gang he could be a terror, but when he has to survive in the middle of the black community, he might have a whole different presence,'' said edward mcclellan, executive secretary of an naacp branch on the south side
if there's a new way to deal with old kinds of problems, why shouldn't we interact?'' he said
still, mcclellan said, he wants to interview kalafut to gauge his attitude about the sentence. ``if it is not constructive in nature, then i give him back to the judge,'' he said
kalafut's teen-age brother, larry, was sentenced last march to six years in prison for firebombing the home of a black family who moved into gage park, a predominantly white neighborhood
an underground nuclear weapons test will be conducted monday at the nevada test site and may produce off-site ground motion, a department of energy spokeswoman said saturday
the test, code named kernville, is the first announced test of 1988 and will range between 20 and 150 kilotons in size, department spokeswoman barbara yoerg said. it is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. monday
because of the size of the test, there is a chance there will be ground motion off the test site. managers of tall buildings should be aware this is going to happen,'' ms. yoerg said
the test could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including weather, ``which does not look great,'' she said
the blast will be conducted 1,800 feet below pahute mesa, about 105 miles northwest of las vegas
the test is weapons-related and sponsored by livermore national laboratory, ms. yoerg said
kernville will bring to 675 the total number of announced blasts at the nevada test site since testing began there in 1951. it will be the 470th test announced by the united states since the limited test ban treaty of august 1963, she said
the most recent test was mission cyber, conducted dec. 2, 1987
here are some comments saturday from candidates for the presidency:
pat robertson, on tuesday's primary voting in new hampshire: ``it's a horserace all the way, and i think we might see some surprises come tuesday night. but the momentum is on my side right now and that's the good way to be at this stage.''
george bush, on remarks by rival bob dole: ``i think bob is making some statements that are pretty extravagant. bob dole says when ronald reagan wants something done he calls bob dole. but when he wanted somebody to be the vice president of the united states, he called me.''
bob dole: ``some people say bob dole is pretty tough. you better hope i'm tough. we're talking about our future. we're talking about our children's future. we're talking about our grandchildren.''
jack kemp, on whether he will defeat front-runners dole or bush: ``no, i've got to be competitive. i've got to be up in the pack among the leaders. and that's what our goal is.''
pete du pont, on his goals in the primary: ``you have to do well, you have to start beating somebody.''
albert gore jr., talking to richard gephardt about anti-gephardt television commercials by rival paul simon: ``what paul simon has done is simply to spell out the record. and you ought to respond to the substance ... rather than taking it personally.''
paul simon, on his anti-gephardt ads: ``i think as long as we strictly comply with the record and talk about the issues, i don't see any problem.''
bruce babbitt, calling gephardt a congressional insider who is casting himself as an anti-establishment figure: ``that's not a flip-flop; that's a triple back somersault with a half twist.''
gary hart, asking michael dukakis to specify what his energy policy would be as president: ``where's the beef?''
michael dukakis, responding to hart: ``gary, wait a second, if you'd been around in the long hot summer and fall months you'd have heard about my energy policy,''
jesse jackson, on economic policy: ``the issue to me is not borrow and spend. it's fair taxes for the rich and the powerful.''
nearly 850 airline flights to and from florida and the southeast were delayed when a flight data computer system failed for three hours, federal officials said
the malfunction friday night affected flights in airspace bordered by central florida, alabama and north carolina, said paul pascel, supervisor at the federal aviation administration's jacksonville air route traffic control center
you could call it a major problem, but not a safety problem,'' said faa spokesman jack barker in atlanta. ``it slowed down flights at any airport within the center or through the center area.''
a severed cable left the jacksonville center idle between 5:09 p.m. and 8:14 p.m. friday, barker said. orlando international airport and tampa international airport both reported 25 flights delayed as much as an hour, he said
the computer system automatically logged the name of the airline, type of aircraft, route and altitude. when the system crashed, all departures and arrivals were halted until the information could be transmitted among the various airport control towers by telephone and teletype
the jacksonville center controls thousands of miles of airspace and about 6,250 flights a day, pascel said. it is one of 20 such traffic control centers in the united states. three ports</note>
a ferryworkers union in liverpool and the isle of man, whose dispute sparked a national strike, reached a tentative agreement saturday to return to work, a union spokesman said
roger wilkins, deputy general secretary of the national union of seamen, said he expected the workers to approve the agreement with the isle of man steam packet co. and return to work sunday
the strike, begun at the end of december, led to a nationwide walkout feb. 2 that crippled ferry service at 12 ports. the high court ruled the strike illegal
union leader sam mccluskie had ordered men who were striking in support of their isle of man colleagues to return to work, but said other seamen striking because of their own local grievances could stay out
sealink company crews at the ports of holyhead, liverpool and fleetwood, and p and o crews at dover, have remained on strike. the agreement would not affect their walkout
wilkins said management, which had wanted to lay off 80 of its 161 crewmen in economy moves, agreed to fire 47
i think the members will accept it, because we have got the best possible deal in the circumstances,'' wilkins said. from balcony</head>
agents seized 106 pounds of heroin valued at $38.5 million in raids saturday in bombay and a man died after jumping from the balcony of an office where drugs were seized, the united news of india reported
the narcotics control bureau said it was acting on a tip when it raided two buildings in the bombay dockyard, uni said. opium and hashish also were seized, it said, and one man was arrested
in new delhi a businessman being questioned after a raid friday by narcotics agents ``jumped from the balcony of his office during interrogation'' and later died of his injuries at a local hospital, the news agency said
more than 6{ pounds of heroin valued at $2.7 million were confiscated in the raid on the commercial office, it said. two other people were taken into custody
india increasingly has been used by drug smugglers to transfer drugs moving to europe and north america. agreement</head>
a couple locked in a legal tug-of-war over baby m will meet with mary beth whitehead-gould in an attempt to reach a settlement on visitation for the surrogate mother, a newspaper reported saturday
william and elizabeth stern agreed to a private meeting ``after much soul-searching,'' said their attorney, gary n. skoloff, the star-ledger of newark reported
when the state supreme court ruled on the case earlier this month, it directed a superior court judge to set visitation guidelines for mrs. whitehead-gould and the nearly 2-year-old child
the state's highest court overturned a lower court decision that upheld a $10,000 contract under which mrs. whitehead-gould was artificially inseminated with stern's sperm and bore the child for him and his wife
in addition to stripping her of her parental rights, the lower court last march 31 awarded custody of the baby to the sterns
the supreme court maintained custody for the sterns, but voided the contract and and the termination of mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights, and ruled she was entitled a hearing on visiting her child. she now gets to visit the child two hours a week, under a temporary visitation order
as of late last week, a court date for a visitation hearing before superior court judge birger m. sween had not been set
harold cassidy, attorney for mrs. whitehead-gould, did not say what visitation she would seek during the meeting with the sterns, or when the meeting would take place, the newspaper said
the proposed meeting marks the first time the sterns have pursued an out-of-court settlement in the dispute over baby m, named melissa by the sterns
the sterns ``have decided, after much soul-searching and additional professional advice, that it is in the best interest of melissa stern to seek a meeting'' with the surrogate and her husband, dean gould, skoloff said
cassidy did not return a phone call to his home on saturday. there was no answer at skoloff's office
nelson benton, a broadcast journalist who covered the vietnam war, the civil rights movement and the nation's capital in more than 20 years with cbs news, died saturday of cardiac arrest. he was 63
benton died at sibley memorial hospital in washington, a day after collapsing at the city's union station
he began his broadcasting career at radio station wsoc in charlotte, n.c. in 1960, he joined cbs news in new york as an assignment editor and reporter. he worked in dallas when president kennedy was assassinated in 1963 and became cbs news new orleans bureau manager and reporter in 1964
he covered the civil rights movement in the south and the vietnam war from saigon, then spent the next decade as a washington correspondent
in 1982, he left cbs news to become a news anchorman at wmar-tv in baltimore. he left in 1984 and worked for the mutual broadcasting system as white house correspondent. most recently, he was co-anchor of a daily u.s. information agency news program broadcast overseas, ``america today.''
bob schieffer, anchoring the cbs evening news on saturday, said benton was ``a fine reporter. he was also a fine person.''
he lived in mclean, va
a funeral was set for tuesday in danville, va. survivors include his wife, mildred, of mclean; a son, joseph nelson benton iii of washington; his mother, margaret o. benton, and a sister, kathryn wyatt, both of danville, and two grandchildren. who...'' each with one graf to restore dropped letters</note>
u.s. television evangelist jimmy swaggart thanked president daniel ortega for letting him take his religious crusade to thousands of nicaraguan enthusiasts in managua's plaza of the revolution
we have not come to involve ourselves in the politics of the nation, but to exhalt jesus christ,'' he declared friday night in an apparent reference to the 6-year-old civil war between the leftist sandinista government and u.s.-supported contra rebels
the service was the first by a u.s. minister in the central plaza since the sandinistas came to power in july 1979, and swaggart thanked ortega ``for the facilities lent by his government.''
swaggart also brought power generators to prevent his service from being uninterrupted by managua's frequent blackouts. government officials have blamed the country's energy shortage on the rebels' sabotage of power installations
swaggart, who preached in english and was translated into spanish, sang his first song in spanish
the state-run radio station la primerissima cautioned listeners that swaggart ``generally assists the foreign policy of the united states administration,'' but did not specify how
government radio, television and newspapers had advertised swaggart's arrival, as did the opposition paper la prensa
in a letter published by la prensa, a roman catholic reader complained of the advertisement on sandinista television, ``which has been denied to catholic bishops, especially his eminence cardinal miguel obando y bravo.''
obando y bravo, the archishop of managua, has been a frequent critic of the government. the country is predominantly roman catholic
former president jimmy carter, speaking saturday at the dedication of a new national historic site in his hometown, praised the integrity and compassion of his neighbors, saying they have traits that could benefit the rest of the country
this is not just an opportunity to tell a story about a little farm boy who became president,'' carter told 450 shivering well-wishers gathered at the 19th century railroad station that served as his 1976 campaign headquarters
it is an opportunity to tell the story to visitors from this nation and around the world of what america is all about
you can talk to almost anyone who lives here and see characteristics of strength, of honesty, of integrity, of compassion, of understanding and of support,'' carter said
legislation signed into law dec. 23 designates carter's home, the railroad depot, a vacant brick building where he graduated from high school in 1941 and his boyhood home in nearby archery as a national historic site
john tucker, who will manage the site in addition to his duties as superintendent of the andersonville national historic site, said the park service will open the depot for tours and preserve carter memorabilia displayed in a small museum there
the park service also will offer tours of plains and eventually will restore the depot, the high school and carter's boyhood home. the carters will donate their four-bedroom, ranch-style house built in 1961 to the park service, but will continue to occupy it throughout their lifetimes
on hand for the ceremony were sen. wyche fowler and rep. richard ray, two georgia democrats who led a six-year effort to win congressional approval for the site
ray, whose district includes plains, said the success of a farm boy who went on to become a state senator, a governor and the nation's 39th president is an ``example of what this country is all about.''
president carter was an excellent president, and during the past five to seven years, we've found out he was an even better president than we thought he was,'' he said
william penn mott jr., director of the national park service, said plains has the potential to become one of the top visitor attractions in the south
by itself, the life story of jimmy carter has earned a place in our hearts as well as our history,'' he said. ``but it struck me that we also have an opportunity to tell another story here _ the story of the rural south, its agricultural heritage, the strength and character of its people.''
currently, about 80,000 visitors a year stop at plains' small welcome center. in a few years, after the park service has improved some of the attractions, plains could attract up to 300,000 visitors a year, tucker said. u.s. hostage</head> after 20th pvs: `anderson, chief ...' to update with hundreds of valentines sent to hostages, details. pickup 21st pvs: `in all ...' edits to trim</note>
a note purportedly from the kidnappers of two u.n. relief workers said saturday the hostages would be freed within a week if their interrogation proved their ``innocence.''
also saturday, palestinian refugees set fires and blocked roads to protest the kidnappings, which the u.n. relief agency blamed on palestinian individuals acting without a political motive
in other developments, a beirut newspaper printed a valentine from the heartsick family of an american hostage and received hundreds of other cards supporting other foreigners held hostage in lebanon. also, a christian militia freed eight men and a 15-year-old boy taken seven weeks ago from a danish ship it claimed carried arms for a druse militia
the handwritten note in arabic, left at a western news agency office in beirut, was the first claim of responsibility since jan stening, 44, and william jorgensen, 58, were abducted by gunmen on the outskirts of lebanon's southern port city of sidon feb. 5
the abduction ... was not a stupid or silly action,'' the note said. ``it was carried out for security purposes. they will be interrogated in light of the information in our possession.''
if their innocence is established they will be set free within a maximum period of one week,'' it added
it was not clear what the reference to ``innocence'' meant, since the note did not make any specific accusations against the two men
the note did not identify the kidnappers. but it carried the alleged signatures and thumbprints of the two captives
an official at the lebanon headqarters of the u.n. relief and works agency in beirut, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the signatures appeared to be authentic
earlier saturday, palestinians in five south lebanon refugee compounds burned tires and closed roads to their camps to show anger over the abductions
a general strike called by palestinians upset with the abductions closed schools and shops in refugee camps in sidon and tyre
the u.n. relief organization removed four other foreign staffers from lebanon after the abductions. the evacuations apparently sparked fears among the palestinians that agency might suspend services that cover 270,000 refugees in lebanon if the two scandinavians were not released
in an interview published saturday in the daily al-ahram newspaper in cairo, plo chairman yasser arafat was quoted as saying that his forces have surrounded the hideout of the kidnappers, but that the swedish and norwegian governments requested that it not be stormed
in beirut, the leftist daily as-safir on saturday published a picture of the family of american hostage thomas sutherland, along with a valentine's day message
the message read: ``to tom sutherland. a christmas picture with valentine love, loyalty, strength, perseverance, and steadfast hope and faith.''
the photo was signed by sutherland's wife, jean, and other members of the family in fort collins, colo. mrs. sutherland, three other women, a man and a child appeared in the picture
sutherland, acting dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, was kidnapped in moslem west beirut june 9, 1985. the group islamic jihad, or islamic holy war, has claimed his abduction
the group, believed made up of radical shiite moslems loyal to iran's ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, also claims it holds american journalist terry a. anderson
anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, was kidnapped march 16, 1985, and is the longest-held foreign hostage in lebanon
sateh noureddine, an editor at as-safir, said that hundreds of letters of support for the hostages had arrived at his office and he would ``try to publish some of them,'' the rochester (n.y.) democrat &amp; chronicle reported in its sunday editions
former hostage david jacobsen, who was released nov. 2, 1986 after 17 months in captivity, had suggested that valentines be sent to the newspaper and the state department for the hostages
in all, eight americans and 16 other foreigners are missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon since 1985
captivity ended saturday for eight seaman and a 15-year-old boy, who boarded a ferry saturday for cyprus after seven weeks of captivity in lebanon. they included three poles, three danes, two sri lankans and a trinidadian
they have all been released,'' said ole neustrup, danish charge d'affaires in damascus, syria, who took charge of the danes after they were freed by the lebanese forces militia
neustrup would not release the names of those freed
the danish captain, two danish officers, the crewmen and the boy were taken prisoner dec. 27 after their vessel, the ingawebb, arrived from north yemen with a cargo of food, said herluf hansen, a danish foreign ministry spokesman in copenhagen
the christian militia accused the crew of unloading arms for druse warlord walid jumblatt's progressive socialist party militia at its port south of beirut before sailing into the city's harbor, news reports said
the party is the main foe of the christians in lebanon's nearly 13-year-old civil war. add details on textile agreement. picks up 34th graf pvs bgng: another accord ...</note>
president reagan and mexican president miguel de la madrid met in this sun-drenched resort saturday, stressing positive relations but acknowledging sharp differences over central america policy and illegal drug trafficking
de la madrid, at a luncheon with reagan, complained that mexico's efforts to curb drug production and trafficking ``are still not appreciated to their full extent'' and are the target of ``disinformation.''
he said it was unlikely that any country devoted as much resources to the fight as mexico
in a pointed reference to the united states, de la madrid said the battle against drugs cannot be won unless drug consumption is attacked with the same vigor as the fight against production and trafficking
although about 25 percent of the mexican army is engaged in the antidrug campaign, the united states says the effort is not enough, is hampered by official corruption and that the flow of drugs is increasing
reagan, in his luncheon remarks, said, ``the people in the united states are now turning away from drugs'' and that development ``should curb the demand that fuels the trafficking.''
the two leaders held private talks in a seaside hotel in mazatlan, which is in the state of sinaloa, the main center for mexico's illegal drug trade. following the four-hour meeting, reagan was flying to california for a four-night stay at his santa barbara ranch
the leaders conferred privately for 45 minutes with only notetakers present. reagan told de la madrid that mexico has been very cooperative in fighting drugs but urged him to work harder
this is the year we have to show results,'' reagan told the mexican leader, according to a white house statement
reagan pronounced himself ``extremely pleased with our discussions and the remarkable record of achievements'' of their talks
as they posed for pictures, reagan was asked if he agreed with de la madrid that drug use was the root of the whole problem. ``it always has been,'' reagan replied.''
elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, told reporters on air force one there was ``a serious possibility'' the united states would find that mexico should remain eligible for aid from international financial institutions even though its drug program falls somewhat short
a firm opponent reagan's campaign to fund the contra rebels in nicaragua, de la madrid called for negotiated settlements in central america ``that take into account the legitimate and essential interests of the parties in conflict, with a sense of fairness and even-handedness.''
he said peace would be possible only if all the governments of central america ``comply with the commitments that they have made at the highest level.''
for his part, reagan said ``our commitment to democracy in our hemisphere must be unshakeable.''
he said totalitarian systems in the soviet union, cuba and nicaragua ``have demonstrated for all to see that tyranny doesn't work. mexico and the united states have a common interest in stable, free and democratic governments in this hemisphere.''
he expressed hopes for a common u.s.-mexican stand ``against the expansion of totalitarianism.''
the white house statement said reagan, in his private talks, underscored his support for the contras and ``repeated his commitment to the peace process.'' it quoted de la madrid as saying mexico is supportive of the four-nation peace accord signed in guatemala
later, at a briefing for reporters, secretary of state george shultz said that while differences over central america were discussed, ``there were no heated words.'' asked whether the two sides had come closer on the subject, he said, ``that was not a particular focus'' of the talks
asked if mexico should do more to combat drugs, shultz said, ``yes, and so does the united states. so do we all. it's a tremendous problem.''
in his luncheon remarks, de la madrid said mexico's huge foreign debt _ $105 billion _ ``continues to be one of the major obstacles to development in my country.''
he said ``there is an urgent need ... to find new formulas to adjust debt servicing to the capacity of debtor countries to pay and to permit them to boost growth and recover their living standards, which have been so greately affected by this long crisis.''
reagan said there is ``reason for optimism'' on the debt problem. he said mexico's plan to exchange some of its debt for special bonds which are backed by u.s. zero coupon bonds was an innovative idea
reagan got a red-carpet welcome and a 21-gun salute as he stepped off air force one
in his welcoming remarks, de la madrid said, ``today, we affirm that our relations are conducted on a very positive level.''
he said their summit _ the sixth and final meeting of the two outgoing presidents _ would ``strengthen the basis for good and productive relations'' and be a forum for discussing problems ``as frankly as we always have.''
reagan cited u.s.-mexican steps on trade, economic problems and law enforcement and said, ``we can be proud of what has been accomplished in so short a period.''
he said their meeting paved the way for ``a new generation of political leaders in both our countries who will soon follow us and build on the foundation we've laid
that foundation is cemented by our shared values and common goals _ a better quality of life for our peoples, opportunties for our children and the dignity of living peacefully in free and democratic societies,'' reagan said
he said much remains to be done ``but we can be proud of the legacy we leave.''
while the two leaders met, senior officials from both countries held talks of their own, focusing on foreign policy trade, drugs and law enforcement
reagan was accompanied by shultz, treasury secretary james a. baker iii, attorney general edwin meese iii, and trade representative clayton yeutter
one agreement was signed, allowing more mexican textile and apparel exports into the united states
the agreement, already in the process of being implemented, gives mexico, the sixth largest supplier of textiles to the united states, an automatic 6 percent increase in exports to that rich market in the next four years
although minor in scope, the pact symbolizes the cooperation between the two countries as mexico seeks to increase its exports and at the same time open its own market to more u.s. products by reducing tariffs
another accord, dealing with telecommunications, had been expected to be signed, but was pulled back because of a ``last-minute minor screw up,'' said abrams. he said he expected it would be signed in a few days
reagan also devoted his weekly radio address to the summit
while avoiding direct criticism of mexico's support of the leftist government of nicaragua, reagan said the establishment of soviet- and cuban-backed totalitarian regimes is ``a threat to stability and freedom
nowhere is that threat more acute than in central america,'' reagan said. ``i would hope that the united states and mexico will find common interest in opposing any such totalitarian threat.''
the summit falls just two weeks before reagan must ertify whether drug trafficking nations such as mexico have made adequate progress attacking the problem
for nations that fail to win certification, the united states is required by law to vote against proposed loans in the world bank, international monetary fund and other international financial institutions. reportedly hardens</head>
upcoming u.s.-soviet negotiations on nuclear testing are expected to finalize a plan on joint test blasts to be held in both countries by june, a soviet envoy said saturday
in a related development, the new york times reported that moscow wants limits on sea-launched, non-nuclear cruise missiles, a move that appeared to toughen the soviet position at the arms talks
igor palenykh, moscow's chief delegate, said the test blasts will help the two sides reach agreement ``preferably in the first half of 1988'' on anti-cheating measures intended to lead to the ratification of two 1970s superpower treaties limiting the power of test blasts
palenykh said that after ratification on the 1970s test ban treaties, both sides should proceed to limit and ultimately ban nuclear tests
he spoke to reporters at geneva airport after arriving for a second round of nuclear talks to begin monday
in the first round of talks in november, u.s. and soviet negotiations reached basic agreement to demonstrate technology for detecting blast yields during experiments at the main u.s. and soviet test ranges
the second round is expected to set the dates and settle all questions of ``the preparation and conduct'' of the joint tests, palenykh said
in january, teams of u.s. and soviet scientists made five-day inspection tours of the soviet test range at semipalatinsk and the u.s. site in the nevada desert
the times, in its sunday editions, said the reagan administration officials thought the two sides agreed during the december summit meeting in washington that cruise missiles carrying conventional warheads will not be covered by a new strategic arms treaty
the soviets are asking that the number of the long-range sea-launched weapons armed with conventional warheads be limited to 600, the newspaper reported
it said the soviet proposal calls for a limit of 400 nuclear-armed sea-launched cruise missiles, for a total limit of 1,000 of the guided long-range, subsonic weapons
the united states, which is planning to have 2,643 conventionally armed cruise missiles for use at sea, opposes the inclusion of such missiles in a new treaty, arguing they are needed to improve the united states' capability to fight without nuclear weapons, the times said
the times said some experts speculate that the soviet union wants a cap on the total number of sea-launched cruise missiles because it is difficult to distinguish between cruise missiles armed with nuclear and non-nuclear warheads
communist east german authorities released four protesters who had been arrested during a visit by west berlin's mayor, officials in west berlin said saturday
the protesters were seized last week when they gathered in front of west germany's mission in east berlin during a visit by mayor eberhard diepgen
a west berlin government spokesman, winfried fest, said that according to information received from east german authorities, the four will not face criminal charges
delegates at a gathering of east german church officials in dresden meanwhile criticized the government's recent handling of dissidents in the country
east berlin's lutheran bishop, gottfried forck, told conference members he was ``deeply troubled'' by the recent expulsions of dissidents to west germany
east germany has expelled more than 60 protesters who tried to demonstrate at a state-sanctioned rally last month
several leading dissident artists were among those expelled. with rains leading to seizure of heroin. pickup 7th pvs: `viroj said ... '; adds byline</note>
customs agents seized 1.4 tons of heroin hidden in bales of rubber sheets bound for new york in what is believed to be the world's largest heroin bust, officials said saturday
the 2,822 pounds of no. 4 grade heroin with a street value of $2 billion, were aboard a freighter at klong toey port in bangkok, said viroj laohaphan, director general of the customs department. no. 4 grade heroin is 97 percent pure
viroj said the drug was discovered when customs officials, acting on a tip, began opening the 665 bales earlier this week. heroin had been found in 62 bales by the time the search was completed friday night, he told a news conference
the packing in rubber sheets prevented police dogs from smelling the heroin,'' viroj said. ``if this amount of heroin had left thailand, it would have killed an uncountable number of people.''
viroj said thai authorities have questioned an employee of the shipping company, but made no arrests
the ship was to leave for new york later this month, authorities said
customs officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a rainstorm thursday aroused suspicions about the cargo. the officials said nothing was found until officials noticed the white powder seeping out of bales wet with rain and noticed that some soaked bales weighed more than others
viroj said the previous largest heroin bust was of 2,640 pounds, seized in france in 1972
ross petzing, spokesman for the u.s. embassy in bangkok, said the biggest previous heroin seizure that u.s. drug enforcement administration officials in thailand could recall was a haul also of 2,640 pounds
that seizure was made several years ago on a shrimp boat off the coast of a central american country, petzing said. he said he had no further details of that bust
petzing said no. 4 grade heroin, cut, diluted and sold on the streets of new york, would fetch about $1.6 million a kilogram, which equals 2.2 pounds. he quoted dea agents as saying the drug probably was bought in northern thailand for about $4,400 a kilo
the officials said the heroin was believed to have come from southeast asia's ``golden triangle'' _ a major drug producing region where the borders of thailand, laos and burma converge
he said the rubber bales were to have been exported by the rubber plus import-export company to the a.i.c. company in the new york city borough of queens. he said u.s. authorities had inspected 300 bales at the company's elmhurst, queens, warehouse but did not find incriminating evidence
viroj said he received information, however, that a woman representative of a.i.c. was arrested
news reports said the manager of the rubber plus import-export had disappeared and police found its offices in bangkok deserted
thai authorities seized 1,496 pounds of heroin aboard a trawler off the southern province of chumphon last oct. 20 in what was then described as thailand's biggest heroin bust
a team of engineers has urged nasa to change the heat-resistant lining on the nozzle of the space shuttle's booster rockets because of questions about the material's durability, a published report said sunday
four of the six engineers who took part in the study believe that the lining could produce a ``borderline performance'' and should be altered before the next shuttle flight, scheduled for august, the washington post reported
the two other researchers dissented, stating that the problem was not quite so serious
tests have resulted in ``fractures ... so numerous, so large, so closely spaced and so extensive that the integrity of the entire (nozzle) came into question,'' said the scientists' study, obtained by the post
the report was prepared by a team of engineers from morton thiokol inc., the shuttle rocket's manufacturer, and from the national aeronautics and space administration. it was presented to nasa two weeks ago
the nozzle is a sort of exhaust pipe at the bottom of the shuttle's two booster rockets, more than 12 feet in diameter, through which superhot gases are blasted during lift-off
the nozzle's interior is coated with an inch-thick carbon-and-resin material in which nasa scientists have noted erosion in flights as long ago as 1983
the report blames the erosion on excessive water and gases trapped in the material during its manufacture, and recommends changes in processing techniques
but one of the two dissenting engineers, former thiokol engineer g.c. lamere, wrote that the changes would ``unnecessarily'' increase costs and that there is ``insignificant data'' to show that they would be effective
former philippine first lady imelda marcos has asked the u.s. government to allow her daughter into the united states for medical treatment, a senator said friday
sen. daniel inouye, d-hawaii, said mrs. marcos visited his office here friday morning and asked that the government drop a warrant for her daughter's arrest
mrs. marcos has maintained imee marcos manotoc is ill in morocco and needs care in the united states
philippine officials have called mrs. marcos' plea an attempt to get imee into the united states without having to testify against her father. a grand jury in virginia is investigating alleged corruption during ferdinand marcos' 20-year rule
u.s. officials have said imee would be arrested upon arrival in the united states because she failed to answer a subpoena and appear before the grand jury
a federal judge friday sentenced a former state auditor general to six years in prison for racketeering and tax fraud related to ``a sickening pattern of soliciting, accepting and paying bribes.''
al benedict, a one-time gubernatorial hopeful, also was fined $20,000 by u.s. middle district senior judge malcolm muir, who said the sentence was intended as a deterrent for other public officials
the judge ordered benedict to surrender to u.s. marshals on march 14
benedict, 58, pleaded guilty last month to charges of racketeering and tax fraud. the racketeering charge encompassed 10 state bribery-related charges, which the government said occurred between april 1976 and november 1984
benedict acknowledged accepting bribes in return for hiring and promoting state workers and for awarding no-bid contracts. he also admitted making a $6,000 payoff to a lawmaker in return for a bigger state appropriation for his department
i could never express to you how i feel ... the pain, suffering, embarrassment, humiliation,'' benedict said in court. ``all i can attempt to do is atone for my transgressions and sins.''
benedict refused to answer reporters' questions as he left the courthouse. his lawyer, arthur goldberg, said benedict was surprised but not angered by the sentence
he could have been sentenced to up to 23 years in prison and $125,000 in fines. federal prosecutors asked for a light sentence, citing benedict's cooperation in a continuing investigation of state-government corruption
the defense, in a memorandum filed by goldberg, asked for a one-year sentence with early parole and a term of public service
the memorandum portrays benedict, a former television commentator who became de facto head of the state democratic party during two terms as auditor general, as a broken, humiliated man
it also places the blame for benedict's predicament on his former top aide, john kerr, who was convicted of masterminding the job-selling scheme. kerr was sentenced to two to five years in prison and remains free on bail. he led investigators to benedict late in 1986
among the spectators at the sentencing was joanne dwyer, widow of state treasurer r. budd dwyer. her husband killed himself during a news conference last year, one day before he was to be sentenced by muir on bribery-conspiracy charges
she criticized the plea-bargaining system that allowed benedict to shorten his prison term and said her husband never got a chance to bargain because he was innocent and had been framed
a texas board of education committee rejected a petition friday to ban the paddling of students in public schools
the 4-0 vote was recorded after education commissioner w.n. kirby told the committee for students he did not believe the education board had the authority to outlaw corporal punishment
schools now set their own policies on paddling of students
the petition was presented by jimmy dunne of houston, a former math teacher who is the founder and executive director of people opposed to paddling of students, inc
dunne, who said the six-year-old organization has 225 members, told the committee his group considers paddling ``legalized child abuse.''
an air force t-38 jet airplane crashed on white sands missile range on friday, killing one of two crew members, authorities said
lt. col. john m. dezonia, the pilot of the twin-engine craft, was killed in the crash, said ed ferguson, a public affairs specialist at holloman air force base
the other crew member was injured and was transported via helicopter to the 833rd air division hospital at holloman, said bob pepper, chief of media relations at holloman. he was reported in good condition
pepper said the t-38 was on a routine test mission at the time of the accident. he said a board of officers would investigate the cause of the crash
the airplane was assigned to the air force systems command's 6585th test group, pepper said
anticipating higher numbers of refugees from southeast asia and soviet bloc countries, two organizations urged the united states on friday to raise entry ceilings rather than shift immigration quotas among regions to compensate
the u.s. committee for refugees, a refugee protection agency, and the hebrew immigrant aid society, migration agency of the u.s. jewish community, urged the reagan administration and congress to invoke emergency procedures of the 1980 u.s. refugee act for raising the total number of admissions
the administration has been considering a shift of 5,000 from the southeast asian entry quota to provide for additional places for soviet jews and armenians from europe, said uscr director roger p. winter in a statement
such a shift would have a ``disastrous impact'' on the safety of vietnamese ``boat people'' refugees fleeing to thailand, winter said. this is because temporary refugee entry into thailand depends on prospects for resettlement elsewhere
the government is also proposing to reallocate 4,000 entry places originally allocated for 1988 refugees from africa, the near east and latin america, winter said
the increased refugee flow from the soviet union and other bloc countries is ``a direct result of the foreign policy successes of this administration,'' said hebrew immigrant aid society official karl d. zukerman in a telegram to secretary of state george shultz
such a challenge to our human rights and refugee policies cannot go unanswered, nor should the lives and dignity of one set of refugees be balanced against others,'' zukerman said
justice seymour f. simon officially retired friday as a judge of the illinois supreme court, ending his seven-year career on the state`s highest court with 453 opinions
i eagerly anticipate a challenging new career as a partner in the chicago law firm of rudnick &amp; wolfe,'' simon said. ``they are energetic, diligent and versatile, and i am proud to become their partner and colleague.''
simon, who served in elected public office for more than 32 years, will re-enter private practice with chicago's 10th-largest law firm on march 15 after a brief vacation. he had announced his resignation weeks earlier
throughout his tenure, simon's persistent dissents challenging the illinois death-sentence statute cemented his reputation as the odd man out on the seven-member court
the supreme court has not yet named a replacement for simon
trw inc. has told 1,000 aerospace workers here they will lose their jobs because federal budget cuts forced the pentagon to cancel several key programs
that's only about a third as many as trw had indicated earlier this month might have to be furloughed. nonetheless, the action marks a sharp reversal for trw, which has avoided major layoffs for at least 15 years
within the next few days, we will have provided notice of layoff to 1,000 people,'' said julie wright, spokeswoman for trw space &amp; defense in redondo beach. ``we believe that a few hundred layoff notices may remain.''
trw, which builds satellites, defense electronics and manages several government weapons programs, has about 18,000 employees in redondo beach
ms. wright declined to say what programs were cut, but observers speculated that one of the programs was a secret surveillance satellite
trw also has lost a major subcontract on a nasa satellite program and an air force communications system contract
the first layoff notices went out late last week, telling workers they had two to 12 weeks left with the company, depending on length of service
a televised debate scheduled for saturday between gop presidential hopefuls has been canceled, event organizers said
as of friday, only rep. jack kemp and pete du pont had agreed to participate in the forum, which was to be sponsored by the boston herald and boston's wbz-tv
regan communications, which was organizing the forum, issued a statement friday evening that said, ``the decision to cancel the debate came after pat robertson abruptly withdrew from the forum, prompting sen. robert dole to also withdraw.''
however, barbara gattullo, of robertson's virginia headquarters, told the associated press on thursday that he would not attend the debate. tim arche, a spokesman for dole, the winner of the iowa caucuses, said friday dole had not decided whether he would appear
vice president george bush had declined the invitation to participate
the other candidate, alexander m. haig jr., withrdrew from the republican race friday
the forum was to be broadcast to new hampshire and picked up by the nbc affiliate in atlanta, wxia-tv, for many of the southern states participating in the super tuesday primaries march 8
it was also going to be offered to more than 70 stations affiliated with wbz's parent company, westinghouse broadcast, and to c-span, the public affairs television network
a teen-ager who officials say terrorized a neighborhood was held in a youth detention center friday on charges of capital murder in the shooting death of a tennis center employee, officials said
the boy was arrested thursday in connection with the feb. 3 slaying of lerlean fuller shaw, 59, at a city-owned recreation facility, police said. the woman was shot in the head as she tried to run away, authorities said
this individual is well-known to us,'' lt. albert ortiz said. ``this individual's name kept coming up again and again as someone who was terrorizing the neighborhood. he has torched several buildings on the east side.''
the 14-year-old boy's name was withheld because he is a juvenile
a small-caliber handgun was recovered at the time of the arrest, but police have not determined if the gun was the one used to kill the woman
juvenile officials decided in a detention hearing friday that the boy should remain at the center because he is accused of a felony and could be a danger to himself and others, said tom broussard, chief juvenile probation officer
the boy was on probation for an attempted burglary in august when he was arrested thursday, according to police and juvenile authorities
police charged the juvenile with capital murder because they believe mrs. shaw was killed in a robbery attempt. the youth will be subject to a new law passed by the 1987 legislature
if convicted, he could be sentenced to as many as 30 years in a detention center, including time in a texas department of corrections facility, broussard said
a judge friday sentenced an anti-nuclear protester to 33 months in prison for sabotaging the navy's project elf submarine communications site last august
ashland county circuit judge william chase rejected a defense recommendation calling for probation with restitution through community service. a college president and local priests had offered to provide community service jobs for george ostensen in lieu of a prison term
ostensen, 33, formerly of baltimore and west hampton, n.y., was convicted by a jury jan. 8 on one count of sabotage and acquitted on a second count. the conviction carried a possible maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and $10,000 fine
authorities said he caused $11,000 damage to the elf site at clam lake. he admitted cutting down transmission poles and damaging electrical boxes at the site aug. 16 _ the date of the harmonic convergence, a time said by believers to be the peak of a period when the earth moved into a new era of peace and harmony
the damage caused the transmitter to shut down for about 29 hours. biblical references were also spray-painted throughout the elf compound, and banners with quotes from the bible were hung
the elf (extremely low frequency) transmitter sends coded signals providing worldwide communications with underwater trident submarines. the clam lake antenna has operated since the 1970s and another is under construction in michigan's upper peninsula
the judge said he shared ostensen's concern about a buildup of nuclear weaponry but said he felt compelled to give ostensen a prison sentence because committing sabotage was not the way to make his point
ostensen said he took full responsibility for the actions, but felt he had to do something to get people to think about humanitarian efforts instead of relying on a nuclear arsenal for defense
a man used sign language to dissuade a distraught deaf man from killing himself at a service station by igniting the gasoline-soaked interior of his car, authorities said
i saw the manager trying to communicate with the man and he was saying `can you read my lips?''' said mansour attia, who had gone to the station to get his carburetor fixed
attia, who has three deaf brothers and signs in english and arabic, offered to intervene after police officers and the station manager were unable to calm the man
i asked him what was the problem,'' attia said. ``he said that he felt like everyone was against him.''
robert hall, 36, had bought $2 in gas on wednesday, doused the inside of his car and threatened to ignite it with a cigarette lighter, officials said. he told attia that he thought his problems stemmed from his disability
the two men talked in sign language for an hour before hall agreed to come out of the car
he was very hurt and very frustrated,'' attia said. ``i told him, just because a few people rejected him did not mean that everyone else would.''
hall was taken to san bernardino county medical center for 72-hour observation, sheriff's deputy pam williams said
a coalition of anti-smoking groups next fall will launch a 12-year campaign to teach first-graders nationwide about the dangers of cigarette smoking
the national cancer society, the american lung association and the american heart association want to persuade the graduating high school class of 2000, estimated at more than 3 million students, not to smoke
officials hope that at least a third of the first-graders in school this fall will be introduced to specially tailored anti-smoking material throughout their grammar school years
the momentum is with us,'' said michele kling, a spokeswoman for the lung association. ``we see these children, the class of 2000, as the ambassadors of a future smoke-free generation.''
previewed thursday at a public hearing of the national cancer advisory board in miami, the campaign is a response to u.s. surgeon general c. everett koop's challenge to make the united states smoke-free by 2000
the class 2000 project also parallels the national cancer institute's goal of cutting the annual cancer death rate in half by 2000 through increased prevention, detection and screening
the first-year goal of the campaign is to reach students in 27,000 elementary schools
lobbyists for the tobacco industry, which anti-smoking forces criticize for running ads seductive to teen-agers, were unwilling to predict what impact the project could have on the industry
although they didn't endorse the concept, they stopped short of criticizing it
we don't think kids ought to smoke either, so from that perspective i don't have a problem with it,'' said brennan moran, assistant to the president of the tobacco institute. ``my feelings about this change when we're talking about adults. when someone is an adult they have the right to make their own decision.''
during the first year, children will learn what no smoking signs mean and how to politely ask a smoker not to smoke, said dorothy marcus, spokeswoman for the american cancer society and coordinator for the project. news digest: concord _ political rdp, a0447; asuncion, paraguay _ paraguay elections, a0424; chicago _ long-distance love, a0446</note>
president reagan is talking of a ``historic restructuring'' of trade between the united states and mexico, but his meeting today with mexican president miguel de la madrid promises nothing like the free trade agreement signed last month with canada
reagan told mexican journalists friday that he and de la madrid would sign a telecommunications agreement and a new four-year textile accord at their meeting in the pacific coast resort and fishing port of mazatlan
however, officials later said the telecommunications accord needed more work and wouldn't be signed at the meeting
two u.s. warships are back to ``routine operations'' in the black sea after being deliberately bumped by soviet vessels in a confrontation off the crimean coast, the pentagon says
navy officials said the ships were struck while exercising their right to pass through international waters. the soviets said the u.s. ships violated its border
and the state department, which protested the bumping, said the incident showed once again that u.s.-soviet relations are a continuing blend of the good and the bad in what spokesman rudolph boone called a ``competitive relationship.''
an iraqi jet bomber fired a cruise missile within eight miles of the uss chandler in the persian gulf after the destroyer warned the warplane away with flares, the warship's captain said
the chandler was escorting a convoy of reflagged kuwaiti tankers and neither it nor the merchant ships was hit. no injuries were reported
the missile exploded on the horizon in the friday night incident, reported today by the pentagon's persian gulf media pool
israeli troops shot and killed two palestinian youths in the narrow streets of the nablus outdoor market, where hundreds of arab demonstrators hurled firebombs, stones and even flower pots at soldiers
prime minister yitzhak shamir, meanwhile, asked secretary of state george p. shultz to revise a new u.s. peace plan that calls for palestinian self-rule in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
shultz declined, israel television reported friday
the 12-nation european economic community today ended months of financial crisis, approving an agricultural reform package that for the first time limits farm spending
the deal to control, although not end, the community's burgeoning agricultural surpluses was reached in the early hours, averting virtual bankruptcy for the trade bloc later this year
i think it was better to try to strain for agreement today,'' prime minister margaret thatcher of britain, looking tired, told reporters. her country had made major concessions
an elderly landlord shackled by an electronic manacle brought new furniture and a security guard into his rundown apartment building as he began a court-ordered stay for failing to fix leaky pipes and other problems
greeted by angry tenants and a banner reading ``welcome you reptile,'' morris gross, 77, began serving a 15-day house arrest friday in a brooklyn building where tenants complain of bugs and rodents, leaky ceilings and a lack of heat and hot water
gross, who lives in a luxury high-rise in the brighton beach section of brooklyn, made no comment to a group of tenants who shouted at him as he walked into the lobby wearing sunglasses and a gray scarf around his face. news digest: mazatlan, mexico _ us-mexico summit; concord, n.h. _ political rdp; goffstown, n.h. _ democrats debate; wash _ bush's record; bal harbour, fla. _ afl-cio; wash _ noriega-drug probe; wash _ fbi-infiltration; newport, r.i. _ war games; west springfield, mass. _ radio readers.</note>
ever mindful of history, new hampshire voters are ready to straighten out the tangled race for the white house with their ballots in the first presidential primary of 1988
twelve candidates _ seven democrats, five republicans _ are campaigning across the granite state this weekend, looking to attract last-minute support before tuesday's balloting
to the winners in new hampshire goes history's blessing
an american destroyer wary of another stark-type attack fired flares at an iraqi bomber racing toward a convoy of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers in the persian gulf, u.s. military officials said saturday
the plane, a soviet-built tu-16 badger, veered sharply away from the convoy just before it launched two missiles friday night. the missiles exploded in a flash on the horizon a minute or so later, according to journalists aboard the destroyer chandler
on may 17, two exocet missiles fired by an iraqi f-1 mirage hit the missile frigate uss stark, killing 37 u.s. sailors. iraq said the attack was a mistake
killer bees from south america will probably begin swarming into the united states in the next year or two, and any attempt to head them off at the border is likely to fail, experts predicted saturday
the nasty, aggressive bees have already reached southern mexico and are winging northward at a rate of 200 or 300 miles a year. one authority said they might even hit brownsville, texas, late this year
u.s. and mexican officials have set up a brz, or bee regulated zone, in southern mexico in an effort to at least slow down the intruders
gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial is embroiled in controversy even before it begins, with disputes over closed state senate meetings and whether the trial should be delayed
the senate is scheduled to begin hearing testimony feb. 22, but mecham's lawyer says he wants the trial put off until after the governor stands trial on separate criminal charges
senate leaders are being criticized by the news media for having decided to hold closed meetings periodically during the impeachment trial. the first closed meeting was held thursday, minutes after the senators were sworn in as trial judges
panama began four days of carnival this weekend with the country's future as unpredictable as the route of shambling revelers wending from one sidewalk beer stall to another
the festival was expected to be subdued this year, clouded by months of political unrest and the recent indictments in the united states of the country's de facto leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega. he was charged in miami and tampa, fla., with drug trafficking and money laundering
the indictments deepened the polarization of a nation already sharply split along economic lines. they caused noriega to try to reinforce his power by criticizing the united states and left his opponents confused
from the sweaty cities on the amazon to the beaches of rio de janeiro, revelers saturday shed their inhibitions, sobriety and clothing for the first day of carnival
banks, stores and government offices closed down for the four days of drinking, dancing and abandon. they will re-open ash wednesday, feb. 17
in rio, the festival was kicked off in the morning when mayor saturnino braga handed over the keys of the city to a jolly and fat king momo, carnival's symbolic sovereign
reading, writing and arithmetic will join politics this week as communist party leaders meet to reform the country's vast public education system and clarify the futures of two fallen proteges of mikhail s. gorbachev
the 300-plus-member party central committee will convene in plenary session at a time when, as the soviet magazine new times recently put it, ``everyone seems dissatisfied with the present education system.''
gorbachev, the party's general secretary since march 1985, has repeatedly urged improvements in education as part of his drive for ``perestroika,'' or restructuring, of society
three months of violent protests have pushed this volatile nation to the point of political paralysis
at the heart of the conflict is a stalemate between president hussain muhammad ershad and his tenacious opposition. the upcoming parliamentary elections only have compounded the standoff
ershad, a former army general who seized power in a 1982 coup and subsequently was elected president, refuses to accede to the chorus of protesters demanding his resignation
president reagan this week will make one last try at rearranging the national agenda as he sends congress a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal year 1989. but it will be just a ghost of budgets past
with neither side spoiling for an election-year budget brawl, the new reagan spending plan appears more designed to shun confrontation with congress than to stake out new ground
to be sure, the budget submitted next thursday will sound encores for familiar reagan tunes: selling off amtrak, abolishing the interstate commerce commission, ``privatizing'' regional power authorities
a hard-won settlement of its cash crisis has put the european economic community on course toward a brighter financial future and a bigger role in the international economy
the deal also has allowed the group to step back from political stalemate at a time when improved relations between the superpowers have stirred new efforts by western europe to reassert itself on the world stage
even so, few of the european leaders who worked out the four-point agreement at a summit saturday were willing to predict how long the new momentum would last. capital</head>
a short ride from the white house where president reagan has waged a seven-year campaign against drugs, people are being gunned down, one-by-one, in a high stakes drug war that shows no signs of abating
the murders are coming at a record rate, double that of last year. police say ``it's just a matter of time'' before a bystander is struck in the crossfire
this drug problem is by no means unique to the district but has now reached epidemic proportions affecting the entire nation,'' inspector larry soulsby, former head of the district police homicide branch, said recently
it has now become a man-made plague acting as a cancer which eats away at the very fabric of our society,'' he said
still, the death toll in washington alone is staggering. in the first 43 days of 1988, there were 46 murders, 35 of them attributed to the drug trade. police said many were ``open hits'' in which victims were shot several times
last year, 57 percent of the 228 murders in the city were drug related, compared to 33 percent in 1986
police chief maurice turner says police will be issued 9mm semi-automatic weapons to match the firepower drug dealers from new york and miami are using to force their way into the city's drug market
police claim many of these out-of-town drug dealers are jamaicans, and they have formed a ``jamaican task force'' with officers from federal agencies and other police departments in the region
turner said the dealers are importing the highly potent cocaine derivative ``crack'' and using extreme violence to stake out their turf
crack is now the drug of choice in the nation's capital,'' replacing the hallucingen pcp, turner said
vials of crack that sell for $10 to $15 in new york may sell for more than $30 in washington, according to narcotics investigators
turner said more than 200 dealers come to the nation's capital each weekend from new york city, some carrying 1,000 vials of crack. they sublease apartments where they make their sales
on monday morning, they go back to new york richer than when they came here. they make big money. they spend big money. and they go back with big money,'' turner said
the residents here tell you about their fear and concern that drug dealers are terrorizing neighborhoods,'' said turner. ``it reminds me in some cases of wild west shoot-outs.''
the city says it is fighting back, by coordinating among city agencies, neighboring jurisdictions in maryland and virginia, and the federal government and putting more police officers on the street
mayor marion barry jr. refuses to put a dollar figure on the city's effort. ``money is not the only answer, it is only part of it,'' he said. ``we are going to use whatever resources we have. bigger doesn't necessarily mean better.''
federal spending for drug enforcement, prevention and treatment has tripled since reagan took office, rising from $1.1 billion in 1981 to $3.4 billion in 1988. the white house is requesting that $3.8 billion be allocated for fiscal 1989, said paul sirovatka, policy analyst for the white house drug abuse policy office
in washington, 15 of the murders have been in the seventh police district, a far corner of the city's poor anacostia section which police say holds the greatest share of washington's estimated 50 to 60 open-air drug markets
thirteen of the 15 have been blamed on drugs
bobby larnell parker jr.'s death last monday is an example of the ``open hit'' that has become all too familiar in the city
police said parnell had recently stolen four kilos of cocaine worth $280,000 and cash from a drug dealer
as he drove a new, luxury automobile through a busy section of anacostia in the early evening, he was shot him a dozen times with semiautomatic and automatic weapons
that was an open hit, there's no question about it. that's very brazen. very daring,'' turner said
even as the police chief spoke wednesday afternoon, a baltimore man was being killed in a hail of gunfire behind an apartment complex in anacostia
the shooting of charles edward russell, 29, also appeared to be drug related, police said later
the general public is not caught up in this now, but it's just a matter of time before someone is struck'' in the crossfire, said the police chief
we have younger and younger individuals who are arming themselves with semiautomatic weapons,'' the chief said
stressing the point to reporters, police last week displayed some of the 410 firearms they have seized in the city so far this year, 68 percent more than they had gotten in the same period last year
there were several uzis laid out before television cameras and one officer said the arsenal would be well-suited for warfare in the middle east
parents and church leaders, meanwhile, are appalled at the involvement of youths in big-time crime
nineteen of the murder victims last year under 18 years old, compared to just six in 1986
there were 1,780 juvenile arrests in the city in the first 11 months of 1987, more than twice the total of 883 for all of 1985
on jan. 26, two 14-year-old youths were arrested at a motel with $48,000 worth of drugs, police said
a 12-year-old boy was arrested in early january in southeast washington carrying a 9mm semiautomatic weapon
barbara merriweather formed a group called citizens redirecting youth after her 17-year-old son, kendall, was fatally shot on the way to school last december. his killers wanted his boom box radio, police said
our children are being killed and there's a reason why,'' mrs merriweather said. ``i know that drugs play a part, but society as a whole also plays a part. we have to put some morals back into our children and back into society.''
in ottumwa, iowa, kathy pietraszewski stood in the doorway at the place where the republican caucus was held last monday night to encourage shy voters to cross the threshhold for pat robertson
she was a oldier in robertson's ``invisible army.''
there were two of mine that couldn't come because they were sick, but there were four who surprised me,'' says mrs. pietraszewski, 35, mother of two. ``i knew them all as they came in; i went out and personally met them so they wouldn't be afraid to go to the caucus.''
when the heads were counted, there were 64, and 43 of them gave the nod to robertson
statewide, robertson finished second, behind bob dole but ahead of vice president george bush _ a shock to many, but not to some robertson people who like mrs. pietraszewski had been working for their candidate for months. (``i told my family there will be lots of other christmases, but this one's different.'')
the robertson ground troops, new to politics and excited by success, are starting to ask themselves if they have it within their power to put their man in office
a lot of people have said, well, i agree with pat robertson's stands, but i don't want to waste my vote,'' the rev. walter holder, pastor of the first baptist church told the concord (n.h.) monitor. ``that was before iowa. my impression is now he's a little more electable. there may indeed be a groundswell.''
the rev. john fortin of the faith christian center in bedford, n.h., puts it this way: ``if pat is god's man then somehow he's going to get in there. but not without a lot of hard work and prayer.''
and the rev. ken borchers, pastor of the united methodist church in ashland, tells of a lunch that a group of clergymen had with robertson. after getting to know him as a person, borchers said, ``we all laid our hands on him and prayed for him. we prayed for strength and guidance and prayed if it is god's will, that he be elected.''
jeffrey k. hadden, a university of virginia sociologist and a robertson biographer, says robertson came up with a masterstroke in insisting that three million followers sign petitions before he would decide to run. the tactic gave robertson an army
he asked people to pledge that they'd work for him, pray for him and give him money,'' says hadden. ``political historians may view it as one of the most ingenious things a candidate ever did.''
these days, robertson soft pedals the church-based foundation of his candidacy. he says he should be thought of as a television network executive and the chancellor of a fully accredited graduate university. to call him merely a tv evangelist, he protests ``is bigotry and it's an insult. and it denigrates who i am and what i am and i'm sick of it.''
for all that, most of robertson's followers come out of the evangelical churches of america. they know him best as a man of god _ and they speak of him, often, in language unblushingly tinged with theology
i just believe robertson is going to win,'' says gloria widmann of waterloo, iowa. ``he operates in miraculous wonders in terms of what the bible says _ prophecy, healing, miracles. he operates just like jesus did and he loves just like jesus did. and we need a man of god in the office.''
in port huron, mich., billye knoik, who quit her job as a church secretary to work for robertson, scoffs at the term the press has given robertson's political flock
these are just your common, everyday folks from various and sundry backgrounds and pat is touching these people,'' she says. mrs. knoik, mother of three grown children, got to know robertson from watching the 700 club on the christian broadcasting network
in new hampshire, where on tuesday robertson faces his first test in a primary, mrs. maria farris, 37, of londonderry, town chairman and robertson's local coordinator, says the conventional wisdom _ that robertson will have trouble in a primary election _ has missed the point
it's there,'' she says of a robertson post-iowa surge. ``there's a tremendous force that hasn't been really identified in the normal political process.''
registration ended last weekend in new hampshire and city and town clerks say they were so busy for three weeks they didn't have time to leave their offices and grab lunch
the lines were long. nearly 1,000 people registered in manchester on a saturday. many are first-time voters. many registered undeclared, meaning they can vote democrat or republican. secretary of state william gardner estimates the late surge added 15,000 to 25,000 voters in a state where ronald reagan won the primary in 1980 with 73,000 votes. gardner can't guess how many of the new registrants are robertson supporters
the rev. keith marsh, a pastor at the dartmouth area christian fellowship in new hamsphire, says in 1986 about 50,000 residents of the state gave money to the christian broadcasting network
after iowa, all the candidates flew to new hampshire, but robertson went to minnesota, which holds caucuses feb. 23 and where a strong ``pro-life'' movement has ties to fundamentalist churches
dole's minnesota co-chairman, carl ludeman, says jack kemp is no longer dole's greatest threat. ``we feel that in minnesota we have only one competitor in grass roots organization, that's pat robertson.''
in hawaii, where robertson won overwhelmingly in the feb. 4 republican caucuses, gop chairman howard chong credits a 60 percent rise in party registration tp robertson's appeal
says robertson co-chairman gene ward: ``we draw from mainstream conservatives, evangelicals and those who know pat from the 700 club.''
in iowa, retiree chuck underwood of des moines, a lay pastor, says robertson's appeal politicized the non-political _ like himself
i've got to get with it,'' underwood tells a reporter. ``i've got to get involved. i'm ashamed to say that's the first caucus i ever attended.''
were robertson people in iowa told to be evasive to pollsters so the robertson strength would come as a surprise?
no, underwood says: ``people have a little bit of a problem with the role of the media. they were tight-lipped on the thing.''
guy rodgers of shenandoah, iowa, a robertson activist who has worked for a number of christian causes: ``we had a lot of people support pat who we referred to as closet supporters. i saw that in my own precinct. i saw people we hadn't identified, people we didn't know. there were extra numbers here that we weren't aware of.''
the rev. david nelms, pastor a des moines baptist church, says evangelical churches didn't outright support robertson, but they sure gave up preaching that politics is securlar business to be shunned in favor of the lord's work
for years, we heard christians should stay out of politics,'' he says. ``of late, our leaders have encouraged the opposite.''
the stock market has reacted with uncharacteristic confusion to a drop in interest rates over the past several months
a long decline in interest rates from their lofty levels at the start of the 1980s was widely cited as one of the primary forces behind the great bull market in stocks. when rates surged upward last spring, the stock market ran into trouble
since the crash in october, interest rates have come down again, with yields on long-term treasury bonds falling from above 10 percent to 8.4 percent as of friday. but stock traders have shown little enthusiasm
of course, they have other worries on their minds. black monday on oct. 19 cast a long shadow
beyond that, however, analysts say the latest drop in rates doesn't fit into the kind of textbook pattern that would lift investors' spirits
sustained declines in interest rates often occur in recessions, prompted by weak demand for credit. as rates fall, they help set the stage for a rebound in business activity
this time, however, they have moved lower against a backdrop of an economic expansion that is more than five years old. and many observers see them as an early symptom of a business slump
there has been very little corroborating evidence for that view in the statistical measures of the economy so far
u.s. exports set a record for the second straight month in december, attesting to a revival in manufacturing. if the latest data on retail sales are to be believed, consumers haven't run out of spending money
over the last several weeks, there has indeed been an accumulation of positive fundamentals,'' said john connolly, an analyst at dean witter reynolds inc. ``they have moved the bond market rather than the stock market, but that still counts
it is quite normal for the bond market to react first and, in a sense, clear out a path for the stock market.''
stocks did rally in the past week, pushing the dow jones average of 30 industrials up 72.78 points to 1,983.26
the new york stock exchange composite index rose 3.51 to 144.86; the american stock exchange market value index 6.89 to 277.00, and the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market 7.52 to 353.27
big board volume averaged 179.43 million shares a day, against 192.13 million the week before
recession worries have been heightened by a run of three consecutive monthly declines in the government's index of leading economic indicators
but maury harris, economist at painewebber inc., argues that the declines only portend ``a business slowdown instead of an outright recession.''
in the past, harris says, three-month declines in the leading indicators have foreshadowed recessions in cases where the federal reserve has been constrained from easing credit by other problems _ most notably inflation
this time, he maintains, with inflation still subdued, the trade deficit improving and the dollar having apparently stabilized, ``the fed will respond to signs of weakness with an easier monetary policy.''
just a couple of months ago, the fed and its chairman, alan greenspan, appeared to be caught in a dilemma: the central bank couldn't raise interest rates without hurting the economy, and it couldn't lower them without risking a continuing slide of the dollar's value in foreign exchange
now, says connolly, the fed is ``in the most flexible position in a long time. greenspan must feel relieved.''
fresh off the biggest yearly trade deficit in history, u.s. policy-makers and economists are divided about how urgent it is to lower the gap in 1988
the trade deficit is a favorite punching bag of presidential candidates, but many economists say the reagan administration could make matters worse by trying to do away with it too rapidly
the commerce department reported friday that the gap between imports and exports in 1987 totaled $171.2 billion, up from the previous record of $156.2 billion in 1986
a big drop in the dollar, the surest method of closing the trade gap, would trigger higher inflation by raising the cost of imports and straining the production capacity of u.s. exporters
the federal reserve would try to cool off high inflation by clamping down on credit, which could very well send the economy into a severe recession
recession would become a certainty if congress simultaneously slashed the federal budget deficit, the other step demanded by presidential campaigners
a sudden, sharp decrease in the federal deficit, whether by tax increases or spending cuts, would undercut demand for goods and services that keeps the economy growing
since the united states remains the major engine of world growth, a recession here would mean recession abroad, many economists say
at the same time, few doubt the wisdom of shrinking the federal budget deficit and the trade deficit in the long run
the question, then, is how quickly the united states should be moving to cut its trade and budget deficits, given the dangers of going too far, too fast
i'm rather sick and tired of people haranguing the united states for not getting its fiscal and trade deficits under control,'' robert brusca, chief fixed-income economist for nikko securities co. international inc., said in a speech this past week
the budget deficit is rising, but the trade deficit has turned decisively downward, he and other economists note. in december the merchandise trade gap was $12.2 billion, the lowest since january 1987
brusca argues that the dollar has fallen far enough to make u.s. goods competitive in world markets. he predicted the dollar will rebound to 140 japanese yen by the middle of 1988, from about 131 yen friday
only slightly less optimistic, fred peck of first boston corp. predicts the dollar will reach the 140-yen mark by the end of the year. the united states, he says, is on a ``slow boat'' to regaining balance in trade
at the other extreme are economists such as rudiger dornbusch of the massachusetts institute of technology, who argues that the dollar needs to fall to 100 yen
dornbusch advocates a cheaper dollar even though it makes the united states a poorer country _ harder for americans to afford imported products and easier for foreigners to scoop up u.s. products and assets
the dollar must fall, he argues, for a number of reasons: latin america is too burdened with debt to buy u.s. exports at current dollar levels; asian nations have become more competitive; foreigners have gained permanent beachheads in u.s. markets; and the united states for the first time since before world war i has to pay more to foreigners in investment income than it earns abroad
dornbusch said he would like the dollar to fall, gradually, about 30 percent more in the next year or so. but if it comes to a choice between a steep, sudden fall and no fall, he would prefer the steep one
if it is locked in at its present rate, we shall have to pay for a much larger and steeper plunge sometime later,'' dornbusch said last fall in an article published by the federal reserve bank of atlanta
to a great extent, the argument over the dollar's level will be decided by the world's capitalists, who decide whether the united states is a good place to stash money
history shows the dollar's value is only loosely tied to the nation's trade performance. the dollar began to soar in value in 1982 at the very time the trade deficit was starting to worsen, notes first boston's peck
even though americans sent plenty of dollars overseas from 1982 to 1985 to pay for their mounting trade deficits, peck recalls, foreigners were hungry for even more dollars because of attractive u.s. interest rates and optimistic forecasts for u.s. economic growth
perhaps, the optimists say, that kind of confidence in the dollar is returning
in other business and economic news this past week:
_business inventories jumped 0.8 percent in december, the government reported
_the steepest climb in food prices in nearly 18 months, only partly offset by falling energy costs, pushed wholesale prices up at a brisk 0.4 percent in january
_retail sales rose 0.5 percent in january, and some economists said the gain was evidence that consumer confidence has nearly recovered from the october stock market crash
_u.s. manufacturing executives see only a one-in-four chance of a recession this year and by a wide margin expect profits and exports to exceed 1987 levels, the national association of manufacturers said
_consumer confidence continues to gain even though a quarter of adults polled in a recent survey thinks jobs are hard to come by, according to a conference board study
_the new york stock exchange and the securities and exchange commission are investigating rumors that subversion of a key selling rule may have contributed to the october crash, nyse chairman john phelan said
_a federal appeals court refused to review a federal reserve board decision allowing bank holding company subsidiaries to underwrite and deal in securities
_a management-led group offered to buy j.p. stevens &amp; co. for $666.5 million, sending the textile giant's stock soaring on speculation that higher bids would emerge
_the accounting profession announced regulatory changes aimed at increasing the responsibility and clarifying the role of auditors who review corporate financial statements
_ten men were charged with fradulent trading in commodity futures, including one scheme in which non-exchange members allegedly used wigs, makeup and phony credentials to gain access to the trading pits
_general motors corp. said fourth-quarter earnings more than doubled from the previous year, although much of the improvement was attributed to accounting changes and tax benefits
_the cost of providing health care benefits to employees jumped to an average of $1,985 per worker last year as employers hunted for new ways to control costs, according to a private survey
_carl c. icahn, single largest shareholder in texaco inc. and an ardent critic of the company's takeover defenses, nominated himself and four allies to the beleaguered oil giant's board of directors
_black &amp; decker corp. said it would attempt to gain control of american standard inc.'s board and remove a ``poison pill'' defense aimed at thwarting its $2.1 billion takeover bid
_a group led by coniston partners said it had accumulated a 6 percent stake in gillette co. and was seeking to meet with potential buyers of the company
_the board of directors of stop &amp; shop cos. unanimously rejected a $1.03 billion buyout offer from dart group corp
_the influx of women into the working world is turning the work place into marriage hunting grounds and putting pressures on managers to deal with office romances, nepotism and sexual harassment, a private study said
the recent sharp downturn in interest rates has sent corporate america on a borrowing spree
there's been ... no really big issues but a steady activity among all the higher-grade to medium-grade companies,'' explained anthony naylor, a corporate bond analyst for rodman &amp; renshaw inc. ``people had been waiting some time to see something happen.''
during the final week of 1987, only a couple of issues were put on the market totaling $152.06 million, according to securities data co. inc., which compiles financial information
but by the following week, the number of issues jumped to 30 valued at $2.76 billion, and in the last seven days of january they peaked at 76 totaling $5.56 billion, securities data said
activity slowed slightly this past week due to what traders described as a general malaise in the credit markets prior to the release of december trade figures on friday
the sudden spurt in volume had been prompted largely by the rapid fall in interest rates and subsequent rise in bond prices, which paralleled a growing spate of negative economic news
traders in the credit markets believe that the federal reserve remains poised to keep rates low to avoid sending the economy into a recession. rates had been on the rise until the oct. 19 stock market crash. in the treasury market alone, the yield on the bellwether 30-year bond had been nearing 10{ perlcent before the crash, and it's now trading slightly above 8\ percent
it's almost the same as you or i dealing with our finances, when we see rates come down, we decide at some point it's attractive enough to take action,'' said james j. drury, a corporate bond analyst with prudential-bache securities inc
a lot of (corporate) treasurers are thinking now's a good time to get into the market because the odds are that either rates won't go down much more or they might go up in the short term.''
among the companies jumping into the market were: general electric capital corp., which issued $300 million in debt in early january; quantum chemical, which issued the same amount a week later; and general motors acceptance corp., which issued $200 million in notes earlier this month
analysts say most of the bond issues have been for capital spending or stock repurchases rather than for refunding of previous debt
some have put the money (from the issues) in their corporate kitties for use down the road and what we call `prefunding,''' said drury
meanwhile, investors fortunate enough to have bought bonds prior to the recent rate decline have seen their securities rise in value
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, has risen about 6 percent since the start of the year
jon cuscani, who runs nikko securities co. intl. inc.'s corporate bond trading, notes that hydro-quebec's 30-year bond sold for around $991 per $1,000 face amount and yielded 10.81 percent when issued about the time of the crash. lately, each of those bonds has sold for around $1,100, he said
cattle futures traders have developed the jitters on indications that the three-month bull market may be coming to an end, and a report due out on tuesday may seem to support that notion
but a look at the big picture shows how deceptive the numbers can be, an analyst says
the agriculture department's monthly cattle-on-feed report for the seven largest cattle-producing states is widely expected to show a modest reduction in both the number of cattle slaughtered and the number placed on feedlots in january compared with the same month a year ago
taken at face value, a reduction in those figures would seem positive for cattle prices because it apparently would indicate tightening supplies
the problem is that supplies should not be declining, at least not in the near term
the number of cattle placed on feedlots for fattening back in august and september was higher than the placements figure a year earlier, said chuck levitt, an analyst in chicago for shearson lehman hutton inc
those animals would normally have begun reaching acceptable slaughter weights in january, which should logically be reflected by a higher january marketings figure in tuesday's usda report, levitt said
instead, analysts who track the daily flow of cattle from feedlot to market expect the january marketings figure to be anywhere from 1 percent to 7 percent below the january 1987 figure
that's creating some nervousness within the industry that maybe they're falling behind in marketings, which would mean a larger carryover of cattle from january to february of this year,'' levitt said
an increasing backlog of cattle destined for slaughter would have a negative influence on prices, especially in these days of consumer concern over the fat and cholesterol content of red meat. beef products already face stiff competition from poultry and fish, which are lower in cholesterol, and an increase in beef supplies would likely drive prices lower
those fears surfaced on the chicago mercantile exchange this past week in three straight days of declining cattle futures prices after two days of fairly sharp gains
but levitt said the monday and tuesday advances tell the real story of the market's eventual direction
the sharp surge on monday and follow-through buying on tuesday were reactions to the usda's semi-annual cattle inventory report, which was released the previous friday
that report showed the nation's cattle herd had shrunk for the sixth consecutive year, and that the number of calves under 500 pounds _ those that could be fattened for slaughter later this year _ was down 10 percent from a year earlier
feedlots are jammed now as producers attempt to take advantage of current high prices, but the decline in calf numbers eventually will become the dominant factor in the market, levitt predicted
the number (of cattle) out there that are not yet on feedlots is getting smaller and smaller,'' he said
we're supporting larger feeder inventories now, but that's not going to last forever,'' levitt said. ``halfway through this year, our on-feed number will be lower than a year ago. and that's why we're so bullish.''
here are some price trends during the past week:
grain futures retreated slightly on the chicago board of trade while soybeans posted sharp gains
the contract for march delivery of wheat settled friday at $3.32\ a bushel, down from $3.32} a week earlier; march corn fell to $2.01 a bushel from $2.01\; march oats finished the week at $1.90{ a bushel compared with $1.93{; march soybeans improved to $6.27{ a bushel from $6.08{
livestock and meat futures had a mixed week on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle for delivery in february advanced to 71.65 cents a pound from 70.62 cents; march feeder cattle improved to 83.30 cents a pound from 81.02 cents; february hogs fell to 47.25 cents a pound from 48.70 cents; and february frozen pork bellies ended at 55.80 cents a pound, up from 54.97 cents a week earlier
precious metals futures moved higher on the commodity exchange in new york
gold for april delivery advanced to $448.70 a troy ounce compared with $443.20 a week earlier; silver moved to $6.390 a troy ounce from $6.325
energy futures retreated on the new york mercantile exchange
the contract for march delivery of west texas intermediate crude oil settled friday at $16.77 a barrel, down from $17.28 a week earlier; heating oil fell to 46.60 cents a gallon from 48.98 cents; unleaded gasoline declined to 46.28 cents a gallon from 47.21 cents
ppg industries said friday it has agreed to sell its commercial biochemicals business to chevron chemical co., a subsidiary of chevron corp
terms of the deal were not disclosed
ppg said last july it would sell the business because it no longer met the company's strategic objectives. its sales were not a significant portion of ppg's $5.2 billion total sales in 1987
the product line includes cobra herbicide for broad-spectrum weed control in soybeans, genate plus and rhino herbicides for corn, and sprout nip potato sprout inhibitor
hospital corp. of america on friday reported net income of $33 million for the final quarter of 1987 but a $58.4 million loss for the full year
the company's fourth-quarter profit, which amounted to 40 cents a share, compares with a loss of $42 million in the year-ago quarter. revenue for the quarter totaled $923.1 million, compared with $1.19 billion in the year-ago quarter
the company attributed the decline in revenue to the sale of 104 hospitals in september 1987
hca's loss for the year compares with net earnings of $174.6 million, or $2.08 a share, for 1986. revenue for the year totaled $4.68 billion, compared with $4.93 billion in 1986. ever</head>
record exports helped push the nation's trade deficit down to $12.2 billion in december, but 1987 still went down as having the highest shortfall ever, the government reported
the deficit for the full year totaled $171.2 billion, the commerce department said friday
on wall street, the stock market had a subdued response to the report. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 to 1,983.26. bond prices fell as concern grew about inflation, but the dollar soared against most major currencies
december's merchandise trade deficit was down from $13.2 billion in november and from $17.6 billion in october, and was the smallest figure since a $11.9 billion trade gap in january 1987, the commerce department said
the improvement was driven by a 4.2 percent rise in exports, which reached record levels for the second month in a row
both private and government analysts pointed toward the december report as strong evidence of the long-awaited reversal in the nation's trade peformance
exports in december were $24.8 billion, a new record, up from $23.8 billion in november, the previous record. imports, meanwhile, held steady at $37.0 billion, the same as the month before
for all of 1987, americans imported $424.1 billion in goods while exporting $252.9 billion, compared with 1986 imports of $383.0 billion and exports of $226.8 billion
analysts credited the slide in the dollar _ now worth half of its 1985 value against the japanese yen and key european currencies _ as being the major factor in the recent export surge
a devalued dollar makes american goods cheaper abroad
in other economic data on friday:
_the labor department said its producer price index rose 0.4 percent in january, equivalent to an annual rate of inflation of 4.6 percent, with higher costs for a variety of items, including food, offsetting lower energy prices
_the commerce department said business inventories shot up 0.8 percent in december, the third consecutive large monthly advance, pushing unsold stockpiles on shelves and backlots up by $5.45 billion to a seasonally adjusted $701.87 billion
oil prices have closed out the week on a negative note, pulled lower by technical factors and slumping prices in europe
traders were also more interested in selling than buying because they do not want to be holding contracts over the three-day weekend. the market will be closed monday in observance of the presidents day holiday
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, closed at $16.75 per 42-gallon barrel, down 36 cents from thursday
among refined products, wholesale heating oil contracts fell 0.75 cent to 46.60 cents per gallon, while wholesale unleaded gasoline sold for 46.28 cents per gallon, down 0.37 cent
andrew lebow, an analyst at the shearson lehman hutton inc., said he did not see any fundamental reasons for friday's declines
it was really pretty much a technical market all day today,'' he said
he added that crude _ having failed to break above $17.75 earlier this week _ appeared to be on the downward path in its year-long range between $15.75 and $17.75
another factor pressuring crude prices was an overnight decline in north sea brent crude on the london exchange, said jayne ball, a broker at dean witter reynolds inc
she said the holiday also played a part
traders all closed their books and said, `forget this stuff,''' ms. ball said
