a senior commander ordered his officers sunday to view film footage of troops brutally beating arab prisoners and said the israeli army must not become ``a rabble army.''
maj. gen. amram mitzna, head of the central command that is in charge of the occupied west bank of the jordan river, gathered all officers over the rank of platoon commander sunday and showed them the footage shot by cbs news in the west bank town of nablus, israel radio reported
i'm against those who think we can sweep internal problems under the carpet just because they're not pretty,'' mitzna said earlier on israel radio. ``we have to make sure we don't become a rabble army.''
the film, which showed four soldiers in nablus kicking and beating two palestinians last thursday, shocked many israelis who believed violence by soldiers during three months of palestinian demonstrations had receded after new army orders last week limited the use of force
some members of prime minister yitzhak shamir's right-wing likud bloc defended the soldiers
i'm against the lynch atmosphere,'' said likud legislator pinchas goldstein. ``there was no need to arrest the soldiers.''
transport minister chaim korfu, also of likud, told the cabinet sunday the press should be barred from the occupied lands for three months
we are in a confrontation,'' korfu later told israel army radio. ``we must take these minimal measures when we know for certain (the media) is responsible for some of the violence.''
according to u.n. figures, 74 arabs have been killed by the israelis during the violent in the occupied west bank and gaza strip since dec. 10. hundreds have been wounded and there have been many cases of soldiers severely beating palestinians
the cbs film showed four soldiers, members of a tank unit, kicking the palestinians whose hands were tied behind their backs and smashing them on the legs and arms with fist-sized rocks
the four were arrested and their deputy unit commander, a captain, was suspended. it was announced saturday that the four soldiers would be tried by a military court. mitzna ordered the release of the two arabs
amalia harpaz, the mother of one of the four soldiers filmed by cbs, said her son saguy had changed since he began serving in the occupied territories 10 weeks ago
i educated my son to go the army, take responsibility and defend the country,'' she told israel radio. ``what has happened is that he has turned into a beater of women and children.''
she is a resident of kibbutz gesher, a communal settlement
israel radio said several lawyers have offered to represent the soldiers without charge. it reported the lawyers said if anyone was responsible for a crime, it is israel's leaders. increased estimate on surface oil spill, updated figure on amount of this spill cleaned up. picks up 7th graf pvs, `western washington ...'</note>
a salvage crew raised a sunken oil barge sunday from the murky depths of guemes channel, one month after it sank and spilled some 70,000 gallons of heavy bunker oil into washington's inland waters
with the inverted barge held at the surface by thick cables strung from two giant cranes, crews began pumping the more than 300,000 gallons of oil that remained in the vessel into a second barge. officials said they wanted to get the stricken barge floating on its own before they attempted to slowly roll it right side up
a helicopter hovered overhead to track the movement of an oil sheen that appeared as the barge was raised. the sheen was caused by 500 to 1,000 gallons of lighter oil that was detected after the barge broke the surface about 7 a.m., said mark stewart of the state division of emergency management
the barge initially held about 22,000 gallons of light oil in addition to the heavy oil
stewart said surface skimmer boats had cleaned up about 160 gallons, while absorbent pads collected an additional, undetermined amount
the oil sheen moved about two miles south. coast guard lt. eldo delong said the sheen reached some kelp beds near burrows bay, but did not touch any beaches
state department of ecology workers said three seabirds were contaminated, but they did not appear badly injured and were not captured for cleaning
marine biologists and state environmental experts were assessing the damage from the bunker oil spill, which had been difficult to determine because the heavier-than-water oil had sunk
but ats kiuchi, a doe spokesman, said it appeared the fragile, inner coastal environment had avoided a disaster that, if the barge had spilled its entire cargo, would have been the worst oil spill in the state's history
western washington university's shannon point marine laboratory has found some oil in sea cucumbers, said paul cassidy, the lab's director of operations
the u.s. coast guard tug ``spike'' used absorbent pads to clean up some oil after the barge was raised while a second boat was positioned near shannon point, 100 yards away, to prevent any oil from reaching shore
the 176-foot-long barge, operated by olympic tug and barge of seattle, sank jan. 31 in about 130 feet of water four miles west of anacortes and about 100 yards off shannon point
the barge had been loaded at an oil refinery at anacortes and was being towed by a tug to seattle when it began listing and capsized
the cause of the sinking remained undetermined
coast guard lt. eldo delong said the barge will be taken to the anacortes city dock where a boom would be put around it and any remaining holes would be patched. eventually it will be taken to seattle, he said
a london newspaper said sunday that the united states has sent a secret envoy to iran to discuss re-establishing diplomatic links
the observer, in an unattributed story, did not identify the official but said he is apparently a close friend of president reagan and went to tehran two weeks ago. it said the envoy was traveling under the name of clark
the observer said the envoy met middle-ranking iranian officials, who asked for assurances that any arms embargo against them as proposed by the united nations should be delayed until early this summer
the united states is seeking a u.n. ban on arms sales because iran has not accepted a cease-fire agreement in its eight-year war with iraq
there have been no diplomatic relations since the u.s. embassy in tehran was stormed nov. 4, 1979, and held for 444 days with diplomats and others kept hostage inside
leaping luggage and sniffing out sneaky smugglers, the latest addition to miami international airport's k-9 corps has racked up impressive credits in his first two months on the beat, his human colleagues say
king, a romping 2-year-old cross between a black labrador retriever and a german short-haired pointer, has a nose that makes news
since the u.s. customs service gave king to metro-dade police, he has sniffed out $86,000 in drug-scented cash, 347 pounds of cocaine and helped collar four suspects, said police lt. larry martin
the beloved rookie, one of three canines used by metro-dade police at the airport, has all but matched the 400-pound career total of ringo, who just retired after about a decade, martin said
he's an up-and-coming dog,'' martin said of the enthusiastic pooch, who with handler detective ken buzzi, graduated from the u.s. customs dog training school in front royal, va
king and buzzi were still getting used to the domestic flight areas of miami international after their december graduation when they made their first score dec. 17
a man carrying christmas presents on a flight from denver fit the profile of a smuggler. denver police had been suspicious
the man agreed to a search and king ``alerted'' to a drug odor in his packages. more than $40,000 in drug-tainted cash was discovered, buzzi said
the fact that a specially trained dog identified the money as having been associated with narcotics was probable cause to seize it, buzzi said
soon afterward, king found a similar amount of drug-tainted cash packed in a mercedes benz
the two occupants of the car were arrested and are awaiting trial in dade county circuit court, buzzi said
king's abilities also led to the discovery of 185 pounds of cocaine and the arrest of two eastern airlines employees on feb. 1
the next day, he sniffed out 155 pounds of cocaine concealed underneath the floor in the belly of an l-1011 aircraft. he detected 7 pounds of cocaine on an earlier search to bring his total to 347 pounds, martin said
i worked mostly narcotics for the last 16 years,'' said buzzi. ``the biggest seizure i made was 600 pounds and it took me almost 10 years. but working with a detector dog, we've found almost 400 pounds in the first two months we were back from school
we're both still a green team. i've been a police officer for 18 years but i feel like a rookie again. it's like a whole new career,'' he said
while king has a ``super-fine nose,'' he is not perfect, buzzi said
king gets tired sometimes while working his eight-hour shift, ``but so far he's been on the money,'' he said
detector dogs cannot sniff the enormous volume of luggage, freight and planes used to smuggle narcotics and money through this primary port of entry for drugs, buzzi said
any dog and its handler are only as good as the watchful authorities who suggest likely targets
it was mostly luck and being in the right place at the right time,'' buzzi said
mohammed ali abu leban, accused of hurling a firebomb at israeli soldiers, saw his lawyer for the first time five minutes before he appeared in military court
the 19-year-old signed a confession written in hebrew, a language he does not know, and said interrogators abused him
as authorities round up growing numbers of arab suspects in an effort to quell nearly three months of unrest, israel's methods of detaining and trying palestinians has drawn a hail of criticism
i feel totally helpless in this sham of a system,'' said abu leban's attorney, jonathan kuttab, a palestinian who graduated from the university of virginia law school in charlottesville
in 98 percent of the cases, lawyers cannot see palestinian clients until after they `confess,' and judges will accept the `confession' at face value, no matter what you say,'' kuttab told the associated press
abu leban, shackled and dressed in a blue-jeans jacket, flashed a v-for-victory sign as he entered the tiny courtroom in a closed army base. he waved to his father, whom he was seeing for the first time since his arrest
abu leban had been held incommunicado for 18 days, until he signed a four-page confession. he said he signed only after interrogators beat him, deprived him of sleep and forced him to squat in a corner for hours
kuttab said it was unlikely his client's contentions would be accepted in court. allegations of unfairness in the military court system prompted the attorneys' association in the gaza strip to decide to boycott all military court proceedings
but israeli officials argue the system is fair
there are some exceptions. but a defendant who feels he was mistreated during interrogation can raise the issue in court, where due process of law is ensured,'' army prosecutor amos giora, a native of ann arbor, mich., said in an interview
giora and other israelis argue the only obvious shortcoming in the military court system was redressed by defense minister yitzhak rabin earlier this month when he announced that israel, after 20 years of occupation, would establish army appeal courts
kuttab said figures assembled by palestinian lawyers show the total number of arab detainees, normally about 3,000 at any one time, has doubled and the army has set up four new prisons with tent barracks in the occupied west bank and gaza
according to the army, 1,927 palestinians were arrested and 93 placed in jail for six months without trial under emergency regulations from dec. 8 to feb. 9. the arab-owned palestine press service puts the number of arabs jailed without trial at 147
the process from arrest to trial in the military court system is well documented. a palestinian suspected of participating in anti-israeli activities is usually detained in the middle of the night because soldiers fear their presence in arab towns or refugee camps during the day might spark protests
the detainee is handcuffed, often blindfolded, and taken to a military prison. no arrest warrant is ever shown and family members are not told where the suspect is being taken
it often takes a lawyer several weeks to track down his new client, who can be held incommunicado for up to six months. a judge is required to order a detention extension after the first 18 days
during the period of interrogation, the detainee is routinely subjected to beatings, forced to spend long hours in uncomfortable positions, threatened and submitted to other psychological measures,'' kuttab said
usually before the first 18-day period is up, the defendant breaks down and confesses to a variety of illegal activities,'' kuttab said. ``only after this is he permitted to see an attorney, and only then is the attorney told what charges his client faces.''
abu leban entered court with five other arab defendants, four of whom had no attorney present. kuttab was able to see his client and the charge sheet against him only minutes before the court session began
kuttab argued in court that abu leban signed the confession only after being abused. he asked for, and was granted, a separate hearing about the admissiblity of the evidence
kuttab said he did not intend actually to present a case on whether the evidence should be admitted, but only to use the extra time to try to plea bargain a shorter sentence
if i protest, his interrogator will deny it and he will just end up getting a tougher sentence,'' kuttab said
what hurts most about the process is the pretense of propriety,'' he said. ``with a judge and a prosecutor and a defense attorney, it looks all right from the outside. but in fact, on a certain level, i feel i am a collaborator in the evil system.''
at least i brought him some cigarettes,'' kuttab said of abu leban, shaking his head as he left court. ``i've turned into a social worker more than a lawyer in this system.'' project</head>
the fertile missouri river bottom lands where the arikara, hidatsa and mandan indians thrived for seven centuries are gone forever, buried beneath the waters of lake sakakawea
the 200-mile-long reservoir drove the indians onto higher, less productive land, sliced their reservation into isolated sections and is blamed for precipitating soaring unemployment and alcoholism
the three tribes, who say they were coerced into surrendering the bottom lands without just compensation as the lake filled behind garrison dam, believe they have a chance this year to get $178.4 million that they and a special federal commission think they deserve
the problem has been with us for 40 years. the time is right for a resolution,'' said tribal chairman edward lone fight
the tribes, which total about 7,700 people, are asking the state's congressional delegation to introduce legislation that would give them $3.6 million a year for 50 years plus 4 percent interest on the unpaid balance of the settlement
the money would come from federal hydropower revenues, rather than the u.s. treasury, which tribal leaders believe should make the legislation more palatable to congress
the bill also would fund municipal water projects on the reservation and authorize, but not pay for, replacement of a hospital and other facilities destroyed by the reservoir
lone fight says the bill ``is something that's supportable'' in congress
but the federal bureau of indian affairs opposes further compensation for the tribes. rural electric cooperatives don't like the idea of dipping into hydropower revenues. and members of the state's congressional delegation have yet to support the bill
we hope that something can be introduced this session. but until we can find something that everyone feels comfortable with, nothing can be introduced,'' said mary jo vrem, an aide to the senate select committee on indian affairs
the tribes accepted $12.6 million from congress in 1950, but garrison dam was already built and lake sakakawea was forming when the money was offered. the tribes and their supporters say the indians had no choice but to take the settlement
when the indian people were negotiating for the best possible deal, the water was up to their ankles ... and the offers were going down,'' lone fight said
when dam construction began in the 1940s, 90 percent of the indians lived and farmed in the river valley, as their ancestors had for seven centuries. unemployment on the reservation was negligible
today, unemployment exceeds 50 percent and alcoholism is rampant, problems that have been linked to the disruption caused by garrison dam. about 3,400 indians live on the reservation; another 4,300 tribal members live elsewhere
lake sakakawea is named for a shoshone guide who worked for the lewis and clark expedition up the missouri river in 1804
in my 66 years, i have seen a drastic change from being self-sufficent to being a very desperate economic situation,'' said luther grinnell, a tribal judge. grinnell grew up on a family farm near elbowoods, the reservation's main town before it was inundated
the tribes grew their own vegetables and cattle, cut firewood from trees along the river and mined nearby coal deposits, grinnell said
we never heard of unemployment because everyone had their farms, and those who had jobs didn't farm,'' grinnell said
a five-member panel appointed by interior secretary donald hodel concluded in 1986 that the tribes were owed $178 million to $412 million in compensation
the joint tribal advisory committee agreed with indian claims that the lake destroyed their self-sufficient way of life and precipitated the tribes' continuing social problems
if the tribes get the settlement, the money would be earmarked for programs, such as work projects and alcohol treatment, that would attack the reservation's social ills, lone fight said
however, in a recent meeting with tribal leaders, assistant secretary for indian affairs ross swimmer claimed that the tribes have been adequately compensated through the federal services they receive
swimmer's position was characterized by ray cross, an attorney for the tribes, as ``disingenuous.''
bureau of indian affairs officials will meet soon with members of north dakota's congressional delegation to discuss the tribes' proposal, bia spokesman carl shaw said. democratic totals include ``super delegates'' in addition to results from iowa, new hampshire and maine.</note>
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days dukakis         54.50       10          0           22 gephardt        39           0          0           26 gore            10.55        0          0            0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson         17.80        8          0            0 simon           33           0          0           20 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    283.40        5          0            6
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 438.25
yet to be chosen: 3,723.75
              total                 changes
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           61           0          0           61 dole           60           0         18           42 kemp           35           0          0           35 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted    10           0          0           10
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 174
yet to be chosen: 2,103
enrollment is up and the debt is down at fisk university, where only a few years ago students shivered in unheated dormitories because the historically black private institution could not pay its gas bill
as fisk winds down its celebration of black history month, which included the dedication of a stamp honoring author james weldon johnson, faculty and students also celebrated the university's return from the brink of financial disaster
when the nashville gas co. cut off service in early 1984 until fisk paid a $170,000 debt, students brought space heaters to class and joined with faculty and staff members to raise funds to ensure the university's survival. the overall debt mounted to $4.1 million, but classes continued
henry ponder, appointed fisk's president in july 1984, led the school on a course of austerity programs and aggressive fund-raising
when ponder was told, for example, that boiler repairs would cost $350,000, he found a fisk alumnus, a maintenance expert, who did it for only $60,000
ponder acknowledged in a recent interview that things are better at fisk, but added ``you have to get the public to understand that help is still needed to get the resources to move this institution ... to the forefront of educational institutions in this country
i don't say that lightly. that's where we've been and we will get back,'' said ponder, who said the school did not lower its academic standards during its financial troubles
today, debt at fisk has been reduced to $200,000 and its endowment has reached $3.9 million. an unrestricted gift of $1.3 million by entertainer bill cosby in december 1986 gave the school a boost, but officials say they have received substantial grass-roots support, too
however, three of the university's 23 trustees announced friday that they will resign at the end of the school year. one trustee said the resignations were related to the accountability of those charged with day-to-day administration. fisk's financial aid director and assistant director were fired in december for allegedly failing to fill out forms to receive financial aid
faculty salaries have increased 30 percent over the last three years to an average of $32,000 for a tenured professor, although still below the $35,000 to $40,000 ponder said is appropriate
aggressive recruiting of students brought enrollment, which dipped to 500 at one point, up to 644 students in the 1988 spring semester, an increase of 27 percent over the 1987 spring semester, said harrison deshields, director of the office of admissions and records
bryon cobb, a student from huntsville, texas, said fisk's role in black history in america was important to him
fisk introduced the black spiritual to the world, it was active in the civil rights movement, w.e.b. dubois went to college here,'' cobb said
in addition, he said, ``my understanding is that a degree from fisk is as respected as one from harvard.''
the financial crisis at the school had some positive benefits for the fisk community, said roland hayes robinson, now a graduate student
the student body handled the crisis well, we shared space heaters. it united us. we were able to confront a problem and come through it,'' robinson sid
the university, founded in 1867 by the freedmen's bureau during reconstruction, is no stranger to struggle. in fact, the campus was purchased with $150,000 raised by the college's jubilee singers during a european tour in the 1870s
the earnings of the singers, whose tours still bring $60,000 a year to fisk, also paid for building jubilee hall, whose exterior was recently restored with a $150,000 federal grant
james weldon johnson, a poet who was a diplomat and an early organizer of the national association for the advancement of colored people, was a professor at fisk in the early 1930s. w.e.b. dubois, a philosopher and writer who graduated from fisk in 1888, also helped found the naacp and was the first black to earn a doctorate from harvard
i think students are attracted here because it has the reputation of a good community. when they get here, they find out we have a dynamic science faculty and many of our students go to medical and dental schools,'' ponder said. about 60 percent of fisk graduates enroll for postgraduate study
revais mitchell, executive assistant to the president and a history professor, said fisk's financial problems mirrored those of other liberal arts college, but were worse
in the 1960s and 1970s the philosophy of supporting a liberal arts education dried up and the interest shifted to business degrees,'' mitchell said
but mitchell said the quality of education at fisk has never suffered and that peeling paint and cold classrooms don't mean poor academics
i try to tell my students that there has always been an element of suffering in the tradition of black education,'' he said
thousands of students marched through london saturday, waving banners, chanting and banging drums to protest the government's proposed education reform bill
police, who closed several main roads to traffic, estimated about 10,000 demonstrators participated but the nationl union of students put the figure at 15,000-20,000
at one point, some 200 students sat down for several minutes at the entrance to 10 downing street, official residence of prime minister margaret thatcher. police said there were no arrests during the demonstration
student leaders say education secretary kenneth baker's measure will result in less student representation on college governing bodies and give industrial and commercial organizations too much influence in higher education and education for adults. baker claims his bill will raise standards and improve the quality of state education
the bill is now before parliament
three mexican nationals, including a former mexican police detective charged in the torture-murder of a u.s. drug agent, were convicted of conspiring to murder a u.s. customs agent
the charges grew out of a series of meetings with an undercover investigator in which defendant raul lopez alvarez offered to murder the customs agent for a $25,000 fee. no killing took place
lopez, 29, who also faces charges in the 1985 slaying of u.s. drug enforcement administration agent enrique camarena, was convicted friday of conspiracy to murder a federal agent and conspiracy to kidnap a federal agent
two men lopez hired in mexico to assist him, carlos quintero maldonado, 25, and fabian jimenez martinez, 22, also were convicted in the conspiracy. quintero was acquitted on a charge that he traveled to the united states from mexico to carry out the murder plot
the men could receive life imprisonment. sentencing was scheduled for april 18 before u.s. district judge pamela m. rymer
lawyers for the defendants had argued that lopez and the two men he hired never intended to carry out the murder, but had planned all along to stage a ``rip-off'' of the undercover drug agent with whom they were negotiating. they believed that the undercover agent was a narcotics dealer
lopez, a former homicide investigator for the mexican state judicial police, told undercover agents he was an ``enforcer'' for the powerful narcotics organization of rafael caro quintero and ernesto fonseca carrillo and had a direct role in camarena's abduction and torture
in 12 hours of government tapes presented as evidence, lopez bragged about his knowledge of camarena's torture and promised to repeat it on the customs agent
if it was part of a scam, they oversold it too much,'' said jury foreman david armas, 28, a postal worker from alhambra. ``especially when they talked about killing someone _ you looked at their faces, and they showed no remorse.''
nine people have been indicted in the camarena case, two of whom will be tried with lopez. caro and fonseca are jailed in mexico city in connection with the case. lopez had been charged in mexico with the camarena murder, but was later released. real name determined, picking up 6th graf pvs, `i'm shocked...'. subs penultimate graf, `if convicted...', to give suspect's real name.</note>
a man accused of attempting to sexually assault actress tracy scoggins, a co-host of the miss usa pageant here, was rearrested saturday after a judge's decision to set him free on $100 bond sparked protests
he later was freed again after posting a much higher bond
the man, pedro concepcion padilla, 35, of el paso, was initially arrested thursday night after the assault in a hotel elevator. he was released early friday on $100 bond set by associate municipal magistrate rodolfo romero. but the low bond infuriated state district judge brunson moore, as well as miss scoggins, and moore ordered him arrested again
padilla turned himself in at 9:35 a.m. saturday and jailed again on $100,000 bond. he posted the required 15 percent of that amount later in the day and was freed after spending about five hours in custody
officials said the man originally gave authorities a false name, antonio garcia
he was re-arrested through the help of his attorney, according to sheriff's capt. paco aguirre
i'm shocked and i'm outraged,'' miss scoggins said friday after the suspect's release. ``what this says to me is that a man like this can save himself a whole expensive night of dinner and dancing and just pay $100 to assault the woman of his choice. that's a pretty good deal.''
miss scoggins, who starred in the abc television series ``the colbys,'' suffered minor bruises during the attack. security guards and other guests who heard her screams came to her aid and subdued the attacker, she said
if convicted, padilla could be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison and fined up to $5,000
miss scoggins, who lives in malibu, calif., is in el paso to be co-host of the miss usa pageant, which will be broadcast live tuesday nationwide. bgng, `president reagan' to update with oas debate, playing of tape of mrs. delvalle; picks up 9th graf pvs bgng, `chewning said questions'</note>
reagan administration officials said saturday that eric arturo delvalle, recognized by the united states as panama's president, decided on his own to go into hiding, but that he remained in telephone contact with u.s. diplomats in panama city
delvalle is ``safe and in high spirits'' after escaping arrest, and the struggle against the country's military leader will continue, delvalle's envoy to washington said
the permanent council of the organization of american states, after a lengthy and at times heated debate saturday night on the situation in panama, took no position on the turmoil there
reagan administration officials denied participating in delvalle's escape, though they said the u.s. ambassador to panama, arthur h. davis, was in contact with delvalle by telephone
they said they were not sure what delvalle's next move would be
president reagan, who usually spends weekends at camp david, md., was at the white house receiving reports on the fast-moving situation
the 30-member oas council sidestepped a decision on whether to seat as panama's ambassador to the organization robert leyton, the current envoy who is loyal to panamanian military chief manuel antonio noriega, or larence chewning fabrega, delvalle's delegate. there had been indications from officials of the american delegation that the council would seat neither man, chosing instead to recognize soraya cano, a panamanian career diplomat who is a member of the panamanian delegation to the oas
the start of the formal council debate had been delayed for five hours while the envoys wrangled in private over the question of whom to credential as panama's representative
but when the debate commenced, shortly after 9 p.m. est, no resolutions were offered dealing with that sticky question. instead, leyton was admitted to take part in the debate, at least for the time being, and he launched into a tirade against the united states, accusing it of trying to destabilize his government
i wish to somehow resolve the crisis in the government of panama,'' leyton said. ``but this is not the forum.''
leyton steadfastly denied u.s. charges that noriega has been involved in drug trafficking, although the former panamanian ambassador to the united states, gabriel lewis, told the council, ``we are suffering a new phenomenon _ narco-militarism. this narcotic militarism knows no frontier.''
richard t. mccormack, the u.s. ambassador to the oas, said the united states could not accept the decision by the panamanian national assembly in which delvalle was deposed ``in a 10-minute rump session.''
in a riveting moment, lewis had oas technicians play an audio-cassette in which he had tape-recorded the telephone conversation with delvalle's wife, mariela, as panamanian military personnel surrounded her house after her husband had fled
mrs. delvalle, in a trembling voice, described how she had told the officers ``my husband isn't here, nor are you going to find him.''
a member of the u.s. mission, declining to be identified publicly, indicated that a part of the problem for the oas ambassadors in deciding which panamanian representative to credential was that they had doubts about what stance they should take. ``they're afraid of doing something which might prejudice the position their government has taken'' on noriega, the official said
chewning said questions also had been raised about whether el salvador's ambassador, ernesto rivas gallont, had the right to request the special session, with some ambassadors who support noriega opposing it
chewning said those who oppose having the issue debated in the oas ``simply don't want the rest of the world to know what's going on in panama.''
he said the ambassadors had not allowed him or leyton to address the gathering
jose b. sosa, the panamanian ambassador accredited to the u.s. government, said in an interview on cable news network's ``newsmaker saturday'' that he was in touch with delvalle supporters in panama city and ``we understand he is physically all right, he's safe and in high spirits,''
the struggle that president delvalle is leading now is a struggle to get the country back to civilian rule and get the country into democratic process and that's what the panamanian people want,'' sosa said. ``that's why we feel we are going to carry the struggle, carry this fight.''
the panamanian people are going to rally behind the constitutional president, he is going to win this out,'' sosa said
u.s. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the united states had nothing to do with delvalle's decision to leave his house to avoid arrest, but that the panamanian had been in touch with davis by telephone
they denied initially that the united states knew delvalle's whereabouts, but later in the day, when asked if u.s. officials knew where delvalle had gone, they said, ``he is at an undisclosed location.''
according to the u.s. officials' account, soldiers came to delvalle's house at 8 a.m. and were met at the door by delvalle's wife. while the soldiers were telling her they wanted to take delvalle, the president escaped out a back door, the officials said
it was his own decision, we did not do this,'' said one official, when asked if the united states had participated in delvalle's escape
several of delvalle's family members, including several children and grandchildren, stayed overnight at the u.s. embassy in panama city, the officials said
the officials reaffirmed a u.s. decision to continue recognizing delvalle as panama's president, despite his replacement by a cabinet minister loyal to noriega
delvalle's flight posed a dilemma for u.s. policy-makers because his departure for the united states or another country would remove a key anti-noriega symbol around which opposition to military rule could gather
administration officials said on saturday they hoped to marshal international support behind delvalle's presidency, notably among central american nations
high-level meetings continued at the state department, where officials described the situation in panama city as calm
they said the 10,000 american troops in panama _ assigned to protection of the panama canal _ were continuing to keep a low profile
the united states policy toward noriega has grown increasingly hostile in recent months and the sentiment intensified after feb. 5, when two federal grand juries returned indictments portraying him as a key conspirator in an international drug trafficking operation
delvalle had been viewed by the administration as little more than a front man for noriega, but that all changed thursday evening when he broke with the military chieftain
debi thomas' dream of olympic gold turned into disappointment saturday as east germany's katarina witt won her second straight olympic championship and canadian elizabeth manley took home the silver before a crowd of cheering countrymen
it's over. back to school,'' said thomas, who won the bronze medal despite three faulty landings. ``i'm not going to make any excuses. i was really skating well this week. it wasn't supposed to happen, i guess. but i tried.''
while the top two skaters in the world staged a shootout to music from bizet's ``carmen,'' manley was so sensational in the freestyle that she finished first with seven judges. combined with a fourth in the compulsory figures and a third-place finish in the short program earlier in the week, the performance put manley in second place
witt, a three-time world champion from east germany, became the first repeat singles champion since dick button took olympic gold in 1948 and '52. sonja henie of norway was the only woman to do it before witt, winning in 1928, 1932 and 1936
thomas, of san jose, calif., the first black to win a u.s. figure skating crown and the 1986 world champion, skated poorly saturday after doing well earlier in the games
by contrast, manley had the sellout crowd at the olympic saddledome enraptured. they cheered, hooted and stamped their feet when she finished hitting every element of her program
jill trenary of minnetonka, minn., finished fourth. she was fifth heading into the long program, worth 50 percent of the overall score
thomas' bronze was the third figure skating medal here for the united states. brian boitano won the men's crown, and a bronze in pairs went to jill watson and peter oppegard
in addition to the three figure skating medals, the u.s. team had three speed-skating medals: one each gold, silver and bronze
speed skater bonnie blair, america's only double medalist, tried again saturday in the 1,500 meters but finished fourth, well off the pace. she won the gold in the 500 and the bronze in the 1,000 meters
as the olympics winded up its next-to-last day, the soviet union had 27 medals, including 11 golds, while east germany in second place had 22, including nine golds
amy lynn hardin, the infant who won the hearts of supporters from southern illinois to the white house when she became the youngest liver transplant recipient five years ago, died saturday at her home here
she was 5 years old. the transplanted liver amy received on may 10, 1983, had begun to fail around thanksgiving, said her mother, robin hardin
on dec. 11, the family took amy to the university of minnesota hospital in minneapolis, where the transplant had been performed. but the girl returned home jan. 16 after doctors said her chances for recovery were not good
she couldn't stand it anymore,'' mrs. hardin said. ``we made a promise that we wouldn't take her back to the hospital. we brought her home and the family took turns being with her.''
she's at peace now,'' mrs. hardin said
people throughout the region rallied in late 1982 and early 1983 to raise more than $260,000 through a variety of fund-raisers to pay for what then was considered an experimental transplant operation
the rock group kiss performed a benefit concert for amy in 1983 at kiel auditorium in st. louis. that same year, amy received a letter of support from president reagan
if it wasn't for the community getting together, we wouldn't have had five years,'' mrs. hardin said. ``she was the joy of our life. she was very strong. she fought all the way to the end.''
amy was 11 months old at the time of the transplant. at that time, she was believed to be the world's youngest liver transplant patient. that record since has been broken, said mary stanik, media relations director for university of minnesota hospital
ms. stanik said the survival rate of most liver transplant patients improves with time. ``usually, but not always, doctors like to say that you are over the hump after five years, but one can never say never. there are just too many complications,'' she said
amy died nearly four years and 10 months after her transplant. she would have turned 6 years old june 1
besides her parents, amy is survived by two brothers. funeral services were set for monday
memorial services were held saturday for james h. douglas jr., former secretary of the air force
douglas, an attorney and investment banker, died wednesday at his home in this northern chicago suburb. he was 88
douglas, undersecretary and later secretary of the air force under president dwight d. eisenhower, presided over planning and construction of the air force academy in colorado springs, colo
douglas is credited with persuading the senate to approve the design of the academy's chapel, which was controversial at the time, but which has since been hailed as an architectural triumph
the cedar rapids, iowa, native graduated from princeton university after serving as an army officer in world war i. he later spent a year at cambridge university in england before attending harvard law school
after earning his law degree in 1924, douglas moved to chicago
douglas held a high post in the u.s. treasury department under presidents herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt. he returned to the army during world war ii
by 1945, he was chief of staff of the army's air transport command
eisenhower appointed douglas undersecretary of the air force in 1953, and secretary in 1957. in 1959, douglas began a two-year stint as deputy secretary of defense. he was awarded the medal of freedom in 1960
survivors include his wife, elinor, four sons and nine grandchildren. safe</head> apparently safe. no pickup.</note>
an oklahoma state penitentiary inmate who had armed himself with a screwdriver and took three hostages gave up late saturday after he was apparently overpowered by a hostage staff member
correction department spokesman jerry massie said the hostage situation ended shortly after 11 p.m. saturday, more than 12 hours after it began
there was some kind of a scuffle'' inside the office where inmate robert taylor was holding two prisoners and a staff counselor, massie said. the four men then came walking out
everyone seems to be fine,'' massie said. ``there appears to be no serious problems.''
he said the hostages, identified as prison counselor chuck ryden and inmates robert king and allen livingston, were taken to the prison's medical unit to be examined for injuries
we don't know exactly what happened yet,'' massie said. ``it looks like the officer (ryden) was able to overpower the inmate.''
taylor's only weapon was apparently a screwdriver, authorities said
linda morgan, a public information officer at the prison, said taylor grabbed ryden, a correctional counselor, at about 10:20 a.m. after they went together to an office to discuss a problem
the other two inmates were out cleaning and painting and entered the office to get more supplies at which time they became hostages themselves,'' she said
saturday afternoon, taylor's request for a pitcher of tea was granted in exchange for allowing a prison doctor to examine ryden. the counselor had his blood pressure checked and ``seemed fine,'' ms. morgan said
taylor had demanded that the warden contact the governor's office and that he be allowed to have an attorney present when he presented his grievances. ms. morgan declined to say what the grievances were, other than to say that he originally approached the counselor with a complaint about his prison diet
ms. morgan said taylor is serving a 15-year sentence for second-degree burglary and had been an inmate at the prison since 1986
warden james saffle had said he wouldn't meet with taylor or contact the governor's office until the situation has ended, ms. morgan said
ms. morgan said that approximately80 prisoners live in the cells in the section of the prison where the incident took place, and ``all are in their cells.''
the mcalester penitentiary was the site of an uprising in december 1985 when inmates protesting prison conditions held seven hostages for nearly 17 hours before releasing them unharmed. the institution has been under a 23-hour-a-day lockdown since that episode, officials said. pvs, ```i'm going ...</note>
eric arturo delvalle fled his house hours after government agents warned him to leave the country, a relative said. the deposed president later vowed from hiding saturday to fight any attempt to expel him
delvalle slipped away on foot ``to protect himself'' _ to avoid arrest and deportation by military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, the ousted president's brother-in-law, raul diaz, told reporters
i'm going to stay here and i'm going to stick it out. i'm going to fight it all the way,'' delvalle later told abc news by telephone. ``i want you to let the world to know that i'm in panama, that you spoke to me, that i'm not leaving anywhere.''
he refused to disclose his whereabouts
the u.s. state department also said delvalle remained in panama and had been in contact with u.s. ambassador arthur davis
abc news said it had been contacted by the ousted president, and quoted the state department as saying delvalle was not at a u.s. installation. panama's canal zone is headquarters to the 10,000-troop u.s. southern command, which runs u.s. military operations in latin america
the national assembly, with opposition lawmakers boycotting, ousted delvalle friday, a day after he tried to fire noriega as defense forces chief
noriega, who controls the 15,000-strong military and police and is the power behind the civilian government, is under u.s. indictment on drug trafficking charges and claims the united states was behind the attempt to fire him
diaz said security agents under noriega's command had on friday told delvalle to leave panama. delvalle refused to accept his ouster. the united states also continued to recognize him
ana raquel delvalle, sister of the ousted president, said family members had visited him and found, ``he is well, calm, in a secure place and continues carrying out his functions as president of panama.''
deposed vice president roderick esquivel and his family also dropped out of sight saturday. top officials of his liberal party said they had talked to him by telephone, but said he would not reveal his whereabouts out of concern for his safety
esquivel was dismissed early friday along with delvalle
meanwhile, a national strike called by the main opposition group got off to a slow start saturday
soldiers came to delvalle's house at 8 a.m. and were met at the door by delvalle's wife, mariela. while the soldiers were telling her they wanted to take delvalle, the president escaped out a back door, according to u.s. officials in washington
the state department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said delvalle had been in telephone contact with davis and that members of his family were at the u.s. embassy
diplomats said they expected noriega's government would file criminal charges against the deposed president
bereft of power, delvalle told reporters friday night: ``i don't have a seat of government, nor military support, but i do have 2 million panamanians who are tired and bored of living under a regime that one man has governed capriciously, and because of that i call for national resistance to paralyze the entire country starting monday.''
he also urged a worldwide trade embargo against panama
the opposition national civic crusade called an immediate general strike. the coalition of 200 groups has been calling since last june for the ouster of noriega, who has run the country since 1983
aurelio barria, president of the panamanian chamber of commerce and industry, said the crusade hoped to ``totally paralyze'' the nation by early next week
still, most shops and other businesses were open saturday morning, although they traditionally close their doors at noon for the remainder of the weekend
police threw up barricades friday and blocked the short street in panama city where delvalle's modest but modern home is located, refusing to allow davis and rep. dan burton, r-ind., to visit delvalle
other policemen could be seen in the front yard of the small house
at noon saturday, the barricades where withdrawn. diaz then came out and spoke to reporters
diaz said a police officer called at the delvalle home saturday morning and told family members the former president should leave panama
later, he said security agents had also contacted delvalle friday, warning him to leave the country
the united states has called for noriega's removal since he was indicted in florida on feb. 5 on drug trafficking charges. the indictment says noriega allegedly let colombian narcotics traffickers use panama as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states, receiving kickbacks from drug profits
noriega has blamed protests that began last summer and the indictment on efforts by u.s. conservatives to prevent transfer of the panama canal to this country by the end of 1999
american military personnel in panama were on alert and civilians were told to keep a low profile
a texas infant born with almost no brain was taken off life-support equipment that was intended to help preserve her tiny heart and other organs for transplantation, a doctor said saturday
baby evelyn continues to breathe on her own, but shows signs of gradual deterioration,'' dr. joyce peabody, chief of neonatology at loma linda university medical center, said in a statement late saturday
evelyn keys was born with a fatal genetic birth defect known as anencephaly, in which much of the upper brain and skull are missing. loma linda has developed the nation's first guidelines using such infants as organ donors
however, little evelyn never met the hospital's criteria for brain-death since she was born seven days ago, and machine-assisted breathing was stopped saturday, with her parents' consent, peabody said
although three newborns needing healthy livers had been identified during the week, the likelihood of a vital organ transplant dropped to nil, hospital spokesman anita rockwell said
baby evelyn will be allowed to die naturally, she said
it is highly unlikely that she will be able to donate organs such as liver and heart, because without continuation of assisted breathing, oxygen deprivation of these organs will occur prior to her death,'' ms. rockwell said
details about the potential liver recipients weren't disclosed, but ms. rockwell said they weren't at loma linda
evelyn was born feb. 20 in san antonio, texas, to judy keys, 22, and airman todd keys, 21, stationed at lackland air force base. the infant was flown to loma linda that same day to be used in the donor program
anencephalic babies usually die within days after birth
loma linda, a pioneer in infant heart transplants, has sought to establish a practice of sustaining anencephalic babies so vital organs can be used after brain death is certified by two independent physicians. under the hospital's rules, however, no baby is kept on life-support longer than a week, whether brain death has occurred during that time or not
loma linda doctors anticipate that baby evelyn's heart valves, and perhaps corneas will be donated after her heart stops, ms. rockwell said
the same day evelyn was born, another anencephalic baby, identified only as baby john, died at loma linda after efforts find a suitable liver or heart recipient were unsuccessful. he had been declared brain dead two days earlier. in his case, doctors were able to use a heart valve after he died
a sikh extremist wanted in the 1986 murder of former army chief arun s. vaidya was killed saturday in a gunbattle with police, the united news of india reported
the news agency quoted punjab state police chief j. f. ribeiro as saying surindra singh was killed after he was challenged by a police patrol in chandigarh, the state capital
one of the militant's accomplices, identified as harjinder singh, was also killed while another was injured, ribeiro said
surindra singh is one of the more than 20 militants believed to be involved in the aug. 10, 1986 assassination of vaidya in pune, in western india. two others, ranjit singh gill and sukhminder singh, were arrested in new jersey last year and are facing extradition proceedings
another eight suspects have been arrested in india
vaidya was the army chief when soldiers stormed the golden temple in the sikh holy city of amritsar in 1984 to dislodge sikh extremists who were using it as a base. prime minister indira gandhi was assassinated by two of her sikh bodyguards later in the year
meanwhile, police in amritsar, 130 miles northwest of chandigarh, blamed sikh extremists for the killing of seven members of a sikh family in a nearby village
amritsar district police chief izhar alam said the family was slain friday night by six sikhs armed with automatic rifles. the killings occurred in talwandi chamchuk village, 25 miles west of amritsar
uni quoted unnamed police sources as saying the family apparently refused to pay extortion money to the khalistan liberation force, one of several sikh militant groups active in punjab
in other militant-related violence in the state, a hindu policeman was killed by sikh radicals early saturday near the town of ludhiana in central punjab, police said
the killings raised to at least 304 the numkber of people killed this year in attacks blamed on sikh militants. nearly two-thirds of the victims have been sikhs
sikh militants have been waging a guerrilla war since 1983 for a separate state in punjab, which they propose to call khalistan
last year, more than 1,000 people were killed in punjab by the militants
sikhs, whose religion is an offshoot of hinduism, claim they are discriminated against by india's hindu majority. sikhs comprise about 2 percent of india's 800 million population but are a majority in punjab. occupied lands</head>
arab reports said israeli soldiers opened fire to quell riots sparked by jewish settlers who tried to enter a west bank village at night. the army on sunday confirmed two arabs were shot to death
meanwhile, israel's navy sank a boat carrying guerrillas who were en route from lebanon to launch an attack on israel. lebanese police said two palestinian fighters were killed in the incident saturday night and three swam to shore
also, three arab guerrillas were killed in southern lebanon early sunday after they stormed an outpost of pro-israeli lebanese militiamen in beit yaoun near israel's border, the army said
the violence came as secretary of state george p. shultz arrived in cairo for talks with president hosni mubarak, continuing his efforts aimed at starting arab-israeli peace talks and helping restore calm in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
but the bloodshed has increased since he arrived thursday on the five-day mission. at least 11 palestinians have been killed and dozens more wounded in the occupied lands in the period
israel's 24-member cabinet debated the violence on sunday, and israel radio said transportation minister chaim corfu proposed closing the west bank and gaza to media coverage. no decision was reported on the issue
israeli soldiers on sunday sealed the west bank village of abud, 20 miles northwest of jerusalem, where the two arabs were killed saturday night. they twice turned away a reporter who tried to talk to witnesses
army spokesmen said the shootings were being investigated
the arab-run palestinian press service said jewish settlers had tried to enter the village after nightfall and were turned away by the 3,000 residents
soldiers arrived about 8 p.m. and clashed with villagers who hurled stones. they fired flares to provide light and later opened fire with live ammunition, the agency said
israel radio said arab demonstrators blocked a main highway outside the village and stoned israeli soldiers. it said a number of jewish settlers also arrived on the scene. shots were fired, and the army was investigating the source of the gunfire, israel radio added
the palestine press identified the two dead as raed mahmoud awad barghouti, 17, who was shot in the head, and ahmed ibrahim mustafa al barghouti, 22, who was wounded in the stomach
the deaths brought to 74 the number of arabs killed by israeli gunfire and beatings since anti-occupation rioting erupted dec. 8, according to u.n. figures. hundreds more have been wounded
before flying to cairo, shultz met separately with shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, who told reporters the negotiations were complicated ``but not hopeless'' despite rejections by jordan and syria on saturday
nothing is dead, and nothing is at a dead end. it is a very complicated issue. it may take time,'' peres said
shultz' peace plan envisions accelerationg negotiations on palestinian self-rule in the west bank and gaza, which israel seized in the 1967 middle east war, with the eventual goal of trading land for peace with the arabs
jordanian and syrian leaders told shultz any peace talks would have to include the participation of the palestine liberation organization in an international conference. israel does not recognize the plo
if you care more about fishing than living, come to muskegon
muskegon was second to last in money magazine's ranking of places to live in the united states
but field and stream magazine's special edition, the ``1988 guide to the best in freshwater sport,'' lists muskegon lake and the muskegon river together as one of the ``25 favorite fishing trips for '88.''
the special edition, which won't go on sale until april, offers anglers tips and tactics for taking big fish
bass (largemouths and smallmouths) and walleyes are two gamefish species anglers will find in particularly good supply on muskegon lake,'' the article says. ``the muskegon river ... features one of the finest river fisheries in the state.''
an article in the july 1987 issue of money magazine put muskegon, a city of about 40,000 on the western side of michigan's lower penninsula, next to last among the ten worst cities to live in the country
most vacationing anglers come to muskegon after salmon, steelhead, bass and walleye, field and stream says
walleye _ and muskegon lake's reputation as a trophy spot for them _ are fast approaching salmon as the area's top tourist draw, it adds
the manufacturers walleye council, a group of touring professional anglers, has chosen muskegon lake as the site for its final regular-season points tournament for 1988
as many as 200 two-person teams will pay $200 each to vie for the $7,000 first prize in the aug. 27-28 tourney, which offers a purse of $32,000
muskegon professional walleye guide mark martin said that last year he took more than 60 walleyes weighing more than 9 pounds
roman catholic bishop donald wuerl says u.s. catholics should help pay the vatican's $56.7 million operating deficit
wuerl, named head of the diocese of pittsburgh on feb. 12, said the deficit was created when pope john paul ii ``raised salaries substantially,'' to help employees keep up with the cost of living
how do we pay for this?'' he said friday. ``in the past we have always said to the pope, ``good luck.'''
considering the size of the church, the deficit is not a large one and could be paid off with an endowment, wuerl said
details of the 1986 deficit were made public at the insistence of u.s. bishops. wuerl said the bishops told vatican officials that americans must ``see balance sheets'' before they would help pay
the bishop also said the vatican's administration costs have increased considerably since 1965, when reforms by the second vatican council added commissions, secretariats and other boards. church officials also have increased their missionary work, he said
wayne county has gone to court seeking an order to seize profit-sharing checks for ford motor co. employees who are behind in child support payments
the suit, filed friday, would force the company to withhold profit-sharing checks, averaging about $3,700 per worker, for 3,369 employees who are more than $500 behind in payments
the checks are to be handed out march 8
if we learn of any payments to potential child support payers who are in arrears, we are going to make every effort to get the portion that the custodial parents are entitled to,'' said wayne county circuit court administrator w. kent batty
ford spokeswoman kim adler said the company could not withhold the checks without a court order
circuit judge richard kaufman has scheduled a hearing for tuesday on the suit
congress faces a confusing choice this week between two rival versions of a plan to help the nicaraguan rebels
a vote is scheduled for thursday to decide whether the u.s.-backed contras will get an aid package drafted by house democrats, a similar one drawn up by house republicans, or nothing at all
current authority to aid the contras expires at midnight monday, and the rebels are said to be rapidly running out of items like food, clothing and medicine that the new aid plans would provide
both versions of the new aid package would keep non-lethal supplies flowing to the rebels at their positions inside nicaraguan territory. neither would provide new weapons. and both would set up a $14 million program to help war-injured children on all sides of the conflict
but while similar in what they would do for the rebels in the short term, the two versions set starkly different ground rules for an impending rematch between the reagan administration and the democratic congress over military aid for the rebels
the democratic version, which house leaders say they are confident will pass, holds out the possbility that a new military aid package could be considered sometime after june 1
but the conditions for such consideration are strict: it could happen only if the democrat-controlled house intelligence committee certifies that the contras and the leftist sandinista government have not reached a cease-fire and that it is the sandinistas' fault
then, the proposal would allow _ but not require _ the party's leadership to bring forth an aid proposal of its own design, and would allow amendment of the package on the floor
the gop aid proposal would give the president, rather than congress, the right to design the military aid package, and would leave to him the determination whether a cease-fire is in effect, and whether any failure to reach a truce is the fault of the sandinista regime
reagan could make such a request as soon as april 16, and it would have to be acted on by congress without delay
a similar expedited procedure was followed when the house on feb. 3 rejected reagan's previous aid request, which included weapons and other military supplies, by a vote of 219 to 211
another difference between the two packages is that the gop version would leave authority to deliver the aid in the hands of the central intelligence agency, which has been supervising a fairly successful airdrop program
democrats, many of whom are suspicious of the spy agency, would turn the delivery program over to the pentagon to supervise, keeping the same private contractors, planes and crews now doing the work
the showdown over the two competing aid packages was supposed to have occured last week, but democrats postponed action at the last minute, citing confusion among lawmakers over the differences between the two bills. republicans said the real reason for the delay was that the majority feared it was losing supporters to their competing version
part of the difficulty democrats have faced is division among outside peace groups which lobbied hard to defeat reagan's military aid proposal earlier this month and were reluctant to now turn around and support a contra aid package, no matter how ``humanitarian'' its terms
some groups, including presbyterians, lutherans, quakers and catholics, were supporting the democratic package in hopes it would lessen the pressure for a future request for contra weapons
but representatives of the unitarian, methodist, american baptist and brethren churches wrote lawmakers last week that ``we believe it is important that no aid in any form be provided that would assist the contras in maintaining an armed force to wage war against the government and the people of nicaragua.''
house leaders were meeting with such outside groups to try to persuade them to unite behind the democratic proposal before thursday's vote, and rep. david obey, d-wis., a supporter the party's package, expressed impatience with the groups' all-or-nothing approach
any theology student will tell you the first thing you learn is that the greatest enemy of morality is moralism,'' obey said. ``if your goal is to save lives and wind the war down, then you have to have tactics and strategy as well as good wishes. i wish liberals could count (votes) as well as they can feel.'' expert</head>
fad health diets and ``marketplace gimmickry'' are giving americans a distorted view of the type and amount of foods needed to help prevent chronic disease, according to a cornell university professor
in a paper prepared for congressional testimony on tuesday, t. colin campbell said isolated studies, taken out of context and promoted by special economic interests, often trigger changes in the american diet that may actually be harmful
too many americans believe in magic bullets. too many corporations believe in profit-rich products with very specific health claims,'' said campbell
such ``marketplace gimmickry,'' he said, does not help americans avoid the so-called ``diseases of affluence'' of osteoporosis and heart attack
in a paper prepared for the senate governmental affairs committee, campbell recommended that the government establish a national research center to collect and analyze nutrition information so americans can receive more accurate information on diet and health
campbell directed a massive study of the diet and lifestyle of 6,500 persons in 130 locations in the people's republic of china in an effort to determine how nutrition affects such diseases as cancer and heart attack
he said the study is not yet finished, but results so far cast doubt on some of the popular american beliefs about nutrition and health
among his observations:
_american studies have shown that a serum cholesterol reading of 180 milligrams per decaliter can reduce the risk of heart attack. yet, another u.s. study showed that a reduction in cholesterol raises the risk of colon cancer. campbell said that in china, the cholesterol levels are far below the typical american level, and the incidence of colon cancer also is low. this shows, he said, that the study showing an increase in colon cancer with lower cholesterol ``is an experimental aberration.''
_excess calories may not be the sole cause of obesity, campbell said. he said the chinese consume about 20 percent more calories than do americans, yet obesity is rare among the chinese. he said chinese average only about 15 percent of their calories in the form of fat _ far below the typical american
_some american studies have suggested that an increase in fiber in the diet may lead to a loss of minerals. campbell said the chinese consume about 34 grams of fiber per day, versus about 10 grams for most americans, and yet the chinese show healthy levels of iron, zinc and magnesium, all important minerals
about 1,000 people, trying to buck the chinese system of assigned jobs for life, gathered sunday at the opening of beijing's first citywide labor market
a mostly young crowd, bundled up in heavy greatcoats, peered at job description posters lining the street and discussed work opportunities with representatives of 22 factories and companies who manned desks inside the ``labor exchange center.''
the center, said deputy chief zhao fenyong, was set up by the city labor bureau to carry out the government policy of allowing people to find jobs more suitable to their needs and skills
those who pay a fee of 27 cents will have their names placed on the center's computerized list and receive help in finding a new job, he said
liu wanxin, of the tienma service co., which supplies tourist items to department stores, said many people want to find new work closer to their homes
others just don't like their present jobs,'' he said, adding that his company found seven prospective new employees sunday morning
li hongjun, 34, said she was applying for a job with a beijing wine company because it has night shifts, allowing her to care for a sick sister during the day. she said she could also take a bus to the winery, rather than commute by bicycle as she does to her current job
a personnel officer at qinghua university, which is looking for nine cooks, electricians, drivers and other workers, said factory workers are attracted to the school's long summer and winter holidays. many, said wang jingxiang, also want their children to attend the excellent kindergarten and primary schools run by the university
since the 1949 communist takeover, chinese have had little choice in determining their career
under a system known as ``fen pei,'' chinese were assigned a job for life from which they could not be fired, but neither could they leave
high school and elementary school graduates were assigned work in local businesses or, if they come from the countryside, were generally returned to the land to farm with the rest of their family
college graduates, a scarce resource here, were sent anywhere in the country that needed them. a student, majoring in english literature at prestigious beijing university, could, for example, wind up in barren qinghai province, teaching english to barely literate peasants
but in recent years, cracks have appeared in china's ``iron rice bowl'' as the country has sought to speed its economic development
the chinese government has recognized that its traditional labor system has deadened worker creativity and kept workers from fully using their talents
it also has split families, especially those of the educated classes. indeed, it is not unusual for couples with college educations to be assigned jobs in different provinces, thousands of miles away from one another
as a result, china has begun loosening restrictions on job-hopping and encouraging the 20 million people who have gone off on their own to set up small private businesses
however, the work units to which each chinese is assigned still regard employees as the property of the unit and often refuse a job transfer or exact compensation for the loss of a worker
engineers, scientists and other trained people in particular have had difficulty leaving their old jobs because of their value to the work unit
that creates the ironic condition that the better one does one's job here, the less of a chance one has to leave it for something better
it's true that if a person has a position of responsibility it will be more difficult for him to change jobs,'' said the center's zhao. ``but if his work unit refuses to let him go, we will do what we can to help, including assist in finding a replacement.''
similar labor markets have appeared at the city district level in beijing, but the center that opened sunday is the first to cover the entire city
illegal work markets have also sprung up in beijing and in several other chinese cities. their purpose generally is not to help employed people find a new job, but to help unemployed peasants enter the urban labor force, allowing them to abandon the difficult life in china's countryside
zhao said the city-wide labor market will also stay open in the evenings and on sundays to accommodate people who have difficulty getting away from their jobs to look for new ones
louis zhang jiashu, bishop of shanghai under china's independent catholic church, has died at the age of 96, the official xinhua news agency reported sunday
mass was said saturday for zhang, who died thursday, at the xujiahui cathedral in shanghai, the city's largest, the agency said
among those attending where zong huaide, bishop of jinan diocese and chairman of the china patriotic catholic association
the ``patriotic'' catholic church in china broke with the vatican in 1957 after accusing rome of interfering in china's internal affairs. the church claims more than 3 million followers in china
xinhua said zhang studied in britain and france for 10 years before returning to china in 1924. in 1960, he was elected bishop of the shanghai diocese, which has an estimated 100,000 parishioners and about 20 churches
the report said he was vice chairman of the china patriotic catholic association, director of the national administrative commission of the catholic church and a member of the standing committee of the national committee of the chinese people's political consultative conference
shanghai's more famous bishop is ignatius kung, who was imprisoned for 30 years on treason charges stemming from his refusal to sever his ties with the vatican. when kung, then 84, was released in 1985, he went to see zhang, kissed his ring and promised to act under his guidance
archaeologists said sunday they discovered the remains of a roman amphitheater 15 feet below london's financial district in one of the most important finds in britain this century
historians had been looking for london's amphitheater for 300 years. amphitheaters were used for weapons training and military parades, as well as fights with animals and gladiatorial combat
archaeologists from the museum of london uncovered the eastern end of the amphitheater's stone walls during excavations going on since last july, said john maloney, the museum's excavations officer, in an interview with the observer weekly
the corporation of london, which administers london city, gave the museum $176,000 to dig on the site next to the medieval guildhall, where the corporation meets
an art gallery and an office building has been planned for the amphitheater's site
the observer reported that the corporation will talk with the archaeologists and architects this week to discuss preservation of the uncovered amphitheater remains
a clash could develop if the corporation wants to rebury the site and proceed with the art gallery and offices, the observer said
london was founded by the romans, who called it londinium. the romans stayed in britain from a.d. 43 to 410
the excavators think the amphitheater was built between a.d. 70 and 140, during the heyday of roman london
corroded coins found on the site may help to date the ruin more exactly
the center of the amphitheater is under the open courtyard in front of guildhall. almost all the area where the seats and walls would have been is under guildhall itself, the art gallery site and neighboring buildings
the excavators say the amphitheater was oval shaped, 100 yards from east to west and 80 yards north to south
that is small compared with roman amphitheaters found in southern france and italy, but about the same size as four others in england _ at cirencester, chester, chichester and silchester
india will halt its military operations in eastern sri lanka for 48 hours because it wants to persuade two tamil women to give up a death fast, a senior sri lankan government official said sunday
the women, anamma david and nesamma vadivel, have been fasting inside a hindu temple in eastern batticaloa city for the past nine days and are reported to be in a serious condition
the women have threatened to commit suicide unless india declares a cease-fire and tamil separatists agree to discuss a settlement in their five-year civil war with the majority sinhalese
a statement by the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the most powerful rebel group, meanwhile, said it was prepared for ``unconditional talks'' with the indian government
the tamil statement, issued in the southern indian city of madras and addressed to the fasting women, said ``we accept your appeal in toto and with immediate effect.''
there was no immediate reaction from the indian government
the sri lankan government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the halt in indian military operations in the east would go into effect at midnight sunday
a spokeswoman of the indian high commission said she had no information on the cease-fire but added that india had scaled down operations since the beginning of february
more than 45,000 indian peacekeeping troops are battling tamil militants in northern and eastern sri lanka to enforce an indian-sponsored peace pact
the pact was signed last july to end the tamil separatist war in the island nation but it has been rejected by the tigers
the peace accord grants some autonomy to tamil-dominated areas in the northern and eastern provinces, but tamil rebels want a separate nation
jyotindra nath dixit, the indian high commissioner, last week appealed to the tamil women to give up their fast. he said they were being used and ``instigated'' by the rebels to pressure india
dixit said the tamil tigers had the habit of using old women to fight their battles
the sri lankan official said arrangements had been made by both governments to halt the offensive and save the lives of the women. he said that efforts also were underway to contact tiger leader velupillai prabhakaran to persuade him to begin negotiations
his response is awaited. this is a joint indo-lankan move and it is part of the contacts both governments have been making with the tigers,'' he said
president junius r. jayewardene on sunday reiterated his general amnesty offer to both tamil and sinhalese extremists, who have opposed the peace accord
i am prepared to grant all terrorists amnesty provided they give up violence,'' he said at the opening ceremony of a pagoda at ampara, 126 miles east of colombo
the predominantly hindu tamils make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. they say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and the army
india, predominantly hindu, intervened in the conflict largely under pressure from its own large tamil minority
thousands of taiwanese rallied peacefully sunday to mark the 41st anniversary of anti-government riots and a crackdown that left an estimated 20,000 dead
the nationalist government owes an apology to relatives of tens of thousands of victims'' of the crackdown, said chen yong-shing, a doctor and activitist who chaired the peace day committee that planned the memorial
chen told 500 people at a church service in taipei that the riots were ``painful history that cannot be forgotten or covered.''similar church services were held in three other cities
demonstrators carried banners and listened to speeches by human rights activists to mark feb. 28, 1947, when thousands of native taiwanese rioted against the fledgling nationalist government. researchers estimate that 20,000 died when the government suppressed the riots
taiwan came under nationalist administration at the end of world war ii, when japan relinquished its 50-year rule of the island nation between the east and south china seas
the country is controlled by the remnants of the nationalist government that fled mainland china in 1949 after losing the civil war to the communists
opposition lawmakers have urged the government to include the riots in school textbooks
in tainan, 202 miles south of taipei, about 2,000 members of the opposition democratic progressive party staged a two-hour march, said party official chang kuo-tang in a telephone interview
protesters demanded official condolences to victims of the riots, chang said. he said demonstrators would place more than 2,000 floating lanterns on a canals to commemorate the victims
president lee teng-hui criticized dissidents at a press conference monday for using the 1947 riots to ``incite the public.'' he said it is ``against the principle of love to repeatedly make the tragedy an annual topic.''
lee, the first native taiwanese to become president, urged the citizenry to leave the incident to historians and ``remove the dark shadows from your mind. have confidence in your country.''
experts, however, say the deep divisions are fading with time
the tension has subdued significantly, especially during the recent years when the government loosened its political controls,'' said lai tse-han, professor of history at the national normal university
the government has lifted 38 years of martial law and a ban on new newspapers as part of its move toward democratic reforms
last year, about 13,000 people rallied to mark the anniversary openly for the first time
researchers say the 1947 rioting occurred after a group of taiwanese demonstrated in taipei to protest nationalist agents who confiscated money and belongings of a woman selling untaxed cigarettes. the nationalists fired on the crowd and killed a man in the incident
the shooting touched off a series of riots across the island and the subsequent response by the government
for nine months, the justice department has given the impression attorney general edwin meese removed himself from the pollard spy case. but now it acknowledges he was briefed twice about the case and it says he never was excluded
in what chief department spokesman terry eastland called a correction, he said meese is only excluded from the espionage case against the israeli air force officer who recruited navy counterterrorism analyst jonathan pollard as a spy
meese is free to be briefed and even to make decisions in the still-open pollard case to the extent that they don't involve the case against israeli brig. gen. aviem sella, eastland said
meese's own lawyer, nathan lewin, was unaware of that distinction as recently as last week even though it was lewin's work for meese and sella in separate cases that triggered the exclusion, known as a recusal
the turnabout comes as a government source said independent counsel james mckay is examining another meese recusal for clues about his motives in dealing with a mideast oil pipeline proposal in 1985
meese hired lewin last may to represent him in mckay's investigation of whether the attorney general and his attorney, e. robert wallach, violated or conspired to violate a federal law barring bribes to foreign officials
in may 1985, meese was recused from all matters involving wallach, but arranged for wallach to meet national security adviser robert mcfarlane to promote the pipeline. investigators say that examining that meese recusal might help determine whether the attorney general was aiding wallach's plan or, as lewin argues, directing it to the proper official
at the office of government ethics last week, general counsel donald campbell explained: ``if you're a federal official and you've hired a law firm to represent you, you should recuse yourself, that is, take no action in any matter involving that firm _ just as a matter of appearances even if you have no financial stake.''
for that reason, eastland said, meese advised justice officials last may: ``i hereby recuse myself from participating in any matter before the department in which the law firm (of miller, cassidy, larroca &amp; lewin) represents any party or is otherwise involved.''
the washington post reported then that the recusal covered the pollard affair. the justice department did not dispute that
pollard was sentenced last year to life in prison for giving reams of secrets to israeli agents. but justice officials still pursued the case, in part, because sella had fled to israel and has not been brought to trial here
so there was surprise and consternation when the post reported feb. 19: ``after being briefed on the case last month, ... meese ordered that the pollard case be kept officially open so investigators can pursue their inquiry.''
asked by the associated press last monday for an explanation, justice department spokesman john russell said, ``i have problems with that account because meese is recused in pollard.''
russell bucked the question to deputy chief spokesman pat korten. citing the same problem, korten bucked it to eastland, who was with meese in california until wednesday
on tuesday, lewin said he'd never discussed pollard with meese because ``i think he certainly has recused himself because i am representing sella.'' expressing surprise at the post account, lewin said, ``at the department, they have known all along that it has been very much up front that he is not involved in pollard.''
while eastland sought an answer, a senior department official, demanding anonymity, said wednesday there was no problem because meese was merely briefed and made no decisions
some former department lawyers dispute that view. one, who once worked in the attorney general's office, said, ``a recusal has always meant a chinese wall. you are not even kept up to date.''
a former justice career lawyer said that, to avoid making a decision by ``a wink or a nod,'' briefings were restricted to situations where the information was essential to decisions in other areas
but friday afternoon, eastland provided an official explanation that did not claim an exception for briefings
he said the client lists regularly provided by lewin's firm ``have not included the pollard case, and so the attorney general is not recused from pollard.''
the lists do include the sella case, and the attorney general has been very careful to avoid taking any action in that case or in any other related case where his action might at all affect the sella case.''
eastland denied meese kept the pollard case open. ``he didn't have to, because it has been open for some time.''
eastland acknowledged that last month and on one previously undisclosed occasion assistant attorney general william weld, head of the criminal division, had briefed meese about the pollard case ``without touching on sella.''
why the turnabout? ``we were confused about the sella case,'' eastland said. ``it was an honest error.''
rep. richard gephardt moves into super tuesday territory with an extraordinarily effective television advertising campaign that touched raw nerves and won last-minute support among voters in earlier democratic presidential contests
while critics complain that gephardt's populist image is an insider's affectation and his hard-hitting ``hyundai'' trade ad is based on bad numbers, there's little disagreement about the impact of the missouri congressman's tv campaign
the forceful spots, created by political veterans david doak and robert shrum, are credited with putting gephardt over the top in iowa and south dakota and enabling him to stop a new hampshire slide that could have jostled him out of the second place finish he needed and got
gephardt is the only candidate who struck a chord, and i suppose he struck it through his tv ads more than anything else,'' said larry sabato, a university of virginia professor with a personal collection of 1,600 political video ads
he had a different message,'' said gene mahan, chairman of the democratic party in south dakota, where gephardt won his most recent victory. ``the economy is not good out here. gephardt related to a lot of people on that. he was talking to the working people.''
in the course of his campaign, gephardt has used a biographical spot, folksy ads boosting the family farm, patriotic ads asking voters to restore america's soul, trade ads promoting his hard-nosed views, testimonials from other politicians, and negative ads criticizing his democratic rivals
most of the spots are accompanying him south this week in preparation for the super tuesday contests on march 8, along with new commercials a campaign spokeswoman said she could not discuss. some ads began over the weekend in texas; others begin monday in states including florida, oklahoma, arkansas, north carolina, georgia and alabama
undecided voters flocked to gephardt during the last few days before the feb. 23 south dakota primary, a development analysts are attributing largely to an aggressive tv campaign against massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
the ad was called ``belgian'' _ a reference to belgian endive, which a naive dukakis used at the outset of his campaign as an example of how iowa farmers could diversify their crops
a narrator in the gephardt ad cites the endive recommendation, contrasts dukakis' trade and farm positions unfavorably with gephardt's, and calls the governor ``one of the biggest tax raisers in massachusetts history.'' in a version designed for possible use in super tuesday states, the narrator concludes: ``those are some of the reasons why southerners are for gephardt, not dukakis.'' pause, then, with dripping sarcasm, ``belgian endive?''
people don't really like negative advertising, but you'd have to say it works,'' said mahan. ``where dukakis made his mistake was in not responding back to him. he just let it sit there.''
gephardt's main television weapon in the feb. 8 iowa caucuses was his controversial ``hyundai'' ad _ 30 seconds of soothing music taking the edge off a sharp message
because of trade barriers, a $10,000 chrysler k-car costs $48,000 in korea,'' gephardt says as scenes from an auto assembly plant fill the screen
the clean-cut candidate appears onscreen in white shirt, tie and black overcoat to conclude his message. if the koreans won't change their ways, he says, they'll be ``left asking themselves how many americans are going to pay $48,000 for one of their hyundais.''
trade experts say the ad is erroneous. they also complain that it oversimplifies a very complicated issue, but that is precisely why it works
it's more in the realm of people's thinking,'' said phil roeder, a spokesman for the iowa democratic party. ``it was a good example for gephardt to use and it obviously worked here. as far as what the actual cost might be, in iowa that's irrelevant because the caucuses are over.''
one reason the hyundai ad and a hay-filled farming ad appeared to reap such dramatic results for gephardt was that they built on the type of grass-roots organization impossible to recreate across the vast super tuesday landscape
gephardt, for example, had worked iowa exhaustively for more than a year, spending hundreds of days there, meeting thousands of activists, shaking countless hands, spending innumerable hours on the telephone. he was no stranger by the time his ads went on television after christmas
his tv spots would not have had an impact had it not been for his foundation out here,'' said roeder. ``it's only at the end that tv mattered and had any sort of impact at all.''
president george vassiliou ushered in his administration sunday by promising to seek direct talks with turkey to unify this island, split between turkish and greek cypriots for 14 years
vassiliou, leader of 500,000 greek cypriots, said shortly after taking the oath of office that he would pursue a meeting with turkish prime minister turgut oza ``as soon as possible.''
but vassiliou also cautioned that ``until we reach a just and viable settlement, the constant improvement of our defensive capability is of the higest priority ... so that we may be able to face the worst eventuality.''
after the ceremony, vassiliou, 56, a millionaire businessman won the presidency feb. 21 as an independent with communist backing, announced the makeup of his 11-member council of ministers _ nine of whom are political newcomers
vassiliou said any solution to the cyprus crisis must include the withdrawal of an estimated 30,000 turkish troops and 65,000 settlers on the northern third of the island
a settlement also would have to allow 200,000 greek cypriots to return to their northern homes and include international guarantees against foreign intervention, he said
the settlement we seek for the cyprus problem is defined by the relevant united nations resolutions ... and is a settlement that safeguards the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and non-alignment of cyprus,'' vassiliou said in his inaugural address before the 50-seat house of represenatives
the east mediterranean island has been unofficially partitioned since turkey occupied its northern third in 1974. the turkish invasion followed a coup by greek cypriots and greek army officers supporting a union with greece
vassiliou charged that 14 years after the invasion, ``turkey is methodically turkeyfying our (occupied) land while the occupation troops increase and are supplied with the latest type of armaments
the settlers from the mainland are also increasing, suppressing the turkish cypriots and altering the demographic composition of the population
we are faced by the worst calamity in our centuries-long history,'' he said
the turkish cypriot minority, which makes up 17 percent of the population of 650,000, proclaimed its own breakaway state in the turkish-occupied north in 1983. the state only has been recognized by turkey
talks between the two sides have been deadlocked for two years. vassiliou's predecessor, spyros kyprianou, refused to resume negotiations until turkey withdrew its troops and settlers
during the campaign, vassiliou said he would be flexible in negotiations, but maintained that the issue of troop withdrawal should be tackled first
addressing the house of representatives, composed only of greek cypriots since the turkish and greek cypriot communities split in 1963, vassiliou said ``it is sad that the representatives of the turkish cypriot community are absent
we hope to have the turkish cypriots among us again soon, so that in a democratic, free cyprus, we shall be able to build a better, peaceful tomorrow, for the good of the whole people of cyprus
vassiliou, who built the largest business consulting firm in the middle east, said he supported a free enterprise economy. he also said cyprus would remain a non-aligned nation
rampaging elephants trampled a man to death in southeastern kenya, and a hippopotamus emerged from a sewage pond and attacked a bicyclist on the capital's outskirt, a newspaper said sunday
the elephants rampaged through vuria village near the tsavo national park in southeastern kenya, crushing to death 60-year-old john mwakise, the daily nation said. it did not say how many elephants were in the friday attack
in embakasi, on the capital's eastern edge near nairobi national park, a 35-year-old man riding by a sewage plant was bitten on the head, buttocks and thigh thursday by a hippopotamus that emerged from the waste water, the paper said
the man, identified as michael oboyo akaye, was reportedly hospitalized in serious condition. cruel kings</head>
when the arizona senate opens gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial monday, it will embark on a course laid out in england as a way to remove cruel kings and brought to america in colonial days as a way to protect democracy
but despite the long and sometimes colorful history of impeachment, legal scholars say the seldom-used laws are ill defined. arizona lawmakers grappling with mecham's fate have to make up many rules as they go along
the arizona constitution provides few standards or procedures for how the senate is to perform its role,'' said university of arizona law professor robert glennon
mecham was impeached feb. 5 by the arizona house of representatives on allegations of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from a special fund and attempting to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat involving a state official
the impeachment amounts to an indictment, and the senate process to a trial. the 30 senators will act as both judge and jury for the embattled republican governor
but an impeachment trial is not a criminal trial _ it's purely part of the political system. the only penalty the governor faces is removal from office
it's basically _ `you're fired,''' glennon said. ``impeachment is a way to get out of office those officials that violate the public trust.''
even before mecham's impeachment trial begins, political arguments arising from the legal vagueness have abounded in the republican-controlled senate
while setting the rules, the senators have agreed, for example, that the evidence against mecham must be ``clear and convincing'' in order to find him guilty. that's not as rigid as the requirement in criminal trials that guilt be ``beyond a reasonable doubt,'' but it is tougher than the civil standard of a ``preponderance of the evidence'' _ more than half _ for a verdict
there is nothing in the constitution about that and the senators can do whatever they want,'' glennon said
it's typical of the constitution to leave things so open. `due process' and `equal protection' are very vague words but we have thousands and thousands of cases that define what they mean. in impeachment, we have so few cases, it's not always clear,'' he said
senators are constitutionally required ``to do justice according to law and evidence.''
even the definition of an impeachable offense has been argued through history
former president richard nixon, whose watergate activities were probed by an impeachment committee in the u.s. house of representatives, argued that a misdeed had to be dastardly enough to deserve a criminal indictment to be impeachable
but that's not necessarily true, glennon said. impeachment doesn't have to involve illegal activities _ only ``high crimes, misdemeanors, or malfeasance'' in arizona
no court in arizona has specifically defined high crimes and misdemeanors regarding impeachment, but the arizona supreme court has said malfeasance occurs if an elected official commits ``an act which is either positively wrong or unlawful,'' according to arizona supreme court chief justice frank gordon
the trial may look to observers like a criminal trial, but all 30 senators will have a chance to question witnesses, much like a congressional hearing. a two-thirds vote _ 20 senators _ is required to convict the governor
gordon, the chief justice, will sit as a referee and be called the ``presiding officer.'' five members of the house, through their attorneys, will sit as the ``board of managers'' and handle the prosecution. mecham will have his own defense attorneys
and there won't be any attempt to have an impartial jury
it is quite clear that the framers of the u.s. constitution (from which the arizona law is drawn) chose to make the senate as judge and jury,'' glennon said. ``the governor has no right to 12 ignorant lay people in this deal. in impeachment, there is no intent to have an impartial jury. the framers thought the fact that the senators would know something about the case was good.''
mecham also has been indicted in state district court on six felony counts involving the $350,000 loan, which amounted to about a third of his campaign war chest, and faces a criminal trial march 22. he faces a recall election may 17
he is the 16th governor to be impeached in u.s. history; six have been convicted and removed from office. he is the first arizona governor to be impeached
if convicted by the senate, mecham would be succeeded by secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat who is acting governor pending the impeachment trial's outcome
the death toll from a rockslide that demolished a squatter's camp climbed to 52 on sunday, and rescue workers were searching for more victims beneath the debris, officials said
at least six people were injured, one seriously, when a rock wall overhanging the camp collapsed about saturday after a week of heavy rains
officials said the victims, asleep at the time of the disaster, included 27 males and 25 females. they did not specify how many of the dead were children
the camp is in an old quarry outside fez, which is about 125 miles east of the capital, rabat
several hundred inhabitants of the squatters' camp were evacuated to emergency centers around the city
a young man whose body was used for a medical experiment while he was in a deep coma died on sunday, family members said
the revelation last tuesday that an anesthesiologist had performed an experiment on pacal louette, 24, considered at the time clinically dead, touched off a scandal about the ethics of using human beings as guinea pigs
louette, injured in an auto accident earlier this year, died sunday morning at amiens north hospital, his father-in-law, emile collard, said
it was not immediately known whether there was a link between the death and the experiment in which dr. alain milhaud of the regional hospital center of amiens placed louette on a sabotaged medical device
milhaud was trying to see if the effects would match those of a similar case which has resulted in a trial of three doctors
last wednesday, health minister michele barzach suspended milhaud from his duties as chief anesthesiologist at the hospital center
president francois mitterrand condemned such medical exercises, saying neither scientific progress nor the search for truth could justify them
milhaud had told his superiors about the experiment, which he videotaped
it was the second time milhaud said he had used a comatose human being for an experiment. in 1985, he experimented on a 20-year-old comatose man in a chronic vegetative state, setting off a scandal. that person also died, but no link was established between the experiment and the death
at the time, milhaud called such patients ``almost perfect human models, who constitute intermediaries between animal and man.''
the latest experiment was made public in testimony tuesday by dr. jean lassner, a medical expert at a trial in the town of poitiers where three doctors are charged in connection with the 1984 death of a 33-year-old woman
the woman, nicole berneron, died after the removal of a tumor. she apparently had received nitrogen oxide instead of oxygen during resuscitation. a report showed that the tubes of the resuscitation system had been switched
milhaud had informed lassner of his experiment but has refused all comment since the court testimony
lisa carlson borrowed a truck to take her husband's body to the crematory after he shot himself in 1981. in the early hours of the morning, she could think clearly enough only to know she didn't have the money to pay a funeral home
his ashes are buried in the garden behind their country home, the spot marked by a slab of granite on which she etched his name, john brackett, with a pocket knife
she regrets only that she didn't share the intimate farewell with her husband's mother and the couple's children
now carlson has written a book to help other people make their own funeral arrangements. she began writing it after her current husband, stephen, and his three brothers buried their mother in a pine box atop a ridge
it's very easy to understand why people give it away to a funeral home, and indeed, if i had had the money, i would have given away a very special opportunity,'' carlson said during a recent interview at her home
her book, ``caring for your own dead,'' includes a directory of each state's laws on funeral arrangements, cremation and home burial, a glossary of terms and instructions on completing a death certificate. it also includes a listing of medical schools that accept body donations
i really tried to take the mystery out of body disposition,'' carlson said
many states allow funerals to be handled privately, but carlson said there may be obstacles to obtaining needed information on short notice, including some funeral directors reluctant to offer prices over the telephone and local officials unaccustomed to the idea. she credits many in the funeral industry for their help during her nine months of researching the book
she found that anyone in vermont can do a home burial as long as technical requirements involving the death certificate are met. if the burial is to be on private property it must be away from power lines and water and may be subject to local zoning restrictions. the town clerk keeps a map of private burial plots
according to carlson, a cremation could cost as little as $130, including a permit. transportation and a box would add to the cost
the professional services and cost of the casket are two of the major expenses,'' carlson said
in 1987, the average cost of a funeral, including professional services and a casket, was $2,935, according to an industry newsletter, funeral service insider
carlson took on her husband's funeral first from financial necessity. but then she realized that ``not only was it all right, it became clear to me that i needed to do it.''
one funeral director whom she had interviewed for the book called her after his 7-year-old son died
he didn't realize until afterwards how important it was for him to be involved personally,'' she said
most states do not limit the family in caring for their dead, but some prohibit home burial and limit the scattering of ashes, her book says. about 80 percent of the 500 crematories carlson contacted across the country will accept a body from someone other than a funeral director
no state requires a body to be embalmed in every case, but many require it if a person died of a contagious disease, the book says
in alaska, a body may not be closed after an autopsy. in most of california, burial must be in an established cemetery. colorado has no state licensing requirements for funeral directors, so anyone may handle a funeral
in new england, according to carlson's book, there are limits on private funerals and home burial in new hampshire, connecticut, massachusetts and new york
other states where the family's involvement in funeral arrangements may be limited are indiana, louisiana, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, nebraska, nevada, new jersey, ohio and west virginia, she says
presidential candidates from congress work in a system where it's hard to avoid some flip-flopping on issues but when a candidate can't offer convincing explanations, those charges take root with voters, experts say
two democratic candidates battling for super tuesday votes, missouri rep. richard gephardt and tennessee sen. albert gore, have been the most frequent targets, even trading those accusations themselves. both, as legislators, have voted on two sides of several issues
gephardt has taken fire for moving to the left after deciding to run for president, on abortion, trade and social issues. gore has become more conservative, especially on defense matters
gordon jones, vice president of the heritage foundation, a conservative washington think tank, said, ``there are a lot of reasons to vote differently at different times.'' legislative strategy means ``sometimes you've got to hold your nose'' and vote, he said
but that doesn't mean voters should dismiss flip-flops lightly, he said, and the candidates should provide substantial reasons
the most damaging thing to dick gephardt is his response to why he voted for the (1981) reagan tax cut'' said norman ornstein, who studies congress and politics at the american enterprise institute
during his campaign, ``first he said he fought it,'' voting for it only after a democratic alternative failed, ``then he said he was proud of it,'' ornstein said
jones said gore stumbled when he recently tried to deny voting for an anti-abortion amendment. then, jones said, the question becomes ``whether he remembers his record right, and if he's falsifying his record.''
few members of congress can keep their voting records pure. often several issues are packaged together with neither side getting a clear victory
for example, the house is scheduled this week to consider a compromise bill. liberals might support it because of its general broadening of legal protections for women and minorities, but to do so they've got to swallow an anti-abortion provision
to take an individual vote and say that that means somebody stood for this or stood for that sometimes takes a lot of stretching,'' ornstein said. ``you can't pay a whole lot of attention to the individual charges being made, not as much as to the defense being made,'' he said
liberal and conservative groups who release annual studies of congressional records carefully select votes they believe show the true stance of a politician. sometimes, the tallies are on procedural motions or other technicalities obscure to voters
only a handful of lawmakers get 100 percent ratings from either the conservative or liberal groups
marc pearl, national director of americans for democratic action, a liberal organization, said his group's ratings can help voters look at the bigger picture rather than individual votes. on single issues, voters should be most aware of when candidates abandon long-held positions, he said
i would define a flip-flop as when a person had a consistent position for a number of years ... then recently, for whatever reasons not explained, there has been a change in attitude,'' he said
it might be unfair, for example, to say vice president george bush flip-flopped because six years he praised ousted philippines president ferdinand marcos and now he supports the new government
gephardt was a consistent abortion opponent until he started to run for president and gore consistently opposed military aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua. now they have changed their positions and ``i think it is legitimate to ask, `tell us what the change process was,''' he said
i don't want my president locked into an ideology,'' he said. ``but i think it's legitimate to ask them what were the reasons why.''
voters are willing to accept changes in position if they believe they are sincere, he said. ``ronald reagan was on the board of ada forty years ago _ you want to talk about flip-flopping,'' pearl said
bob canavan, director of the voter education project of the american association of retired people, said his organization avoids releasing voting-record scorecards on the politically explosive issues surrounding social security
there are so many other things, such as committee activities, putting together legislation, which don't show up'' with a vote tally, he said. the organization also questions whether an objective scorecard can be produced,
candidates, meanwhile, don't always see the inconsistencies in their own positions
politicians don't lie,'' jones said. ``they just have an infinite capacity for self-delusion.'' shadows</head>
during the first month of a cigarette liability trial, anti-tobacco attorneys have introduced stacks of documents and presented 10 witnesses. through much of the evidence runs a common thread: lawyers and more lawyers
attorneys for the plaintiff argue that cigarette company attorneys kept a keen eye on smoking and health research, helped shape corporate policy and vetoed putting safer smokes on the market
one reason, according to the plaintiff's theory, is because the companies felt that if they acknowledged the dangers of smoking _ either through public statements or marketing of a less dangerous product _ they would be open to lawsuits over existing cigarettes
the trial of philip morris co., liggett group inc. and lorillard inc., makers of the brands that rose cipollone smoked for 40 years before she died of lung cancer at the age of 58 in 1984, enters its second month monday. her husband, antonio, is pursuing a suit she filed before she died and is asking for unspecified damages
attorneys for the tobacco companies say legal concerns did not dictate research
lawyers are involved in decisions of industry all over the place,'' said chuck wall, an attorney for the kansas city, mo., of firm shook, hardy &amp; bacon, which represents morris and lorillard
he said lawyers need to be familiar with research and scientific developments because of the rising tide of lawsuits against the cigarette-makers since the early 1950s and to advise clients on advertising and testimony before public bodies
the evidence so far has addressed three of the plaintiffs' allegations _ that the defendants knew how to make a safer cigarette but didn't; knew of potential health hazards from the 1920s through 1940s but did not act enough on the knowledge and failed to tell consumers; and sought to suppress or shape in their favor research on the hazards of smoking
the jury has heard the testimony of former in-house and external researchers, top corporate executives and an expert on smoking and health
testimony during most of last week was from joseph f. cullman iii, chairman emeritus and former president of philip morris
marc z. edell, representing the cipollone estate, asked cullman, for example, if the company's general counsel ``advised'' him on cigarette smoking and health issues
he wouldn't advise,'' cullman said. ``he would monitor them, i'd say.''
several confidential documents introduced into evidence thursday appear to indicate the role of lawyers
a letter dated april 29, 1974, from the chairman of r.j. reynolds to an official of the council for tobacco research, describes a committee of manufacturers formed to study industry-funded research programs. the council itself was funded by tobacco companies
the reynolds executive named the committee's chairman as david r. hardy, the named partner in the shook, hardy firm handling the current trial
a july 3, 1974, memo to committee members from another shook, hardy attorney speaks of ``gaps in knowledge'' in the smoking-health field
included is mention of a paper by tobacco council lawyer ed jacob with a section described as ``a summarization and slight updating of research recommendations.''
before hardy assumed control of the manufacturers' research study committee, he corresponded with a tobacco council scientist, another memo showed
a dec. 24, 1969, letter indicates the researcher, arthur furst, had discussed with jacob the work of a british cancer researcher
furst recommended to hardy that the british researcher, h.j. eysenck, a psychologist at the bethlem royal and maudsley hospitals in london, be given money for a pilot project. the letter said eysenck had a theory that ``there may be a relationship between the appearance of cancer for some people and their emotional make up.''
twelve years later, eysenck wrote to jacob to ask for more research council funding, although it is unclear from the letter, also introduced last week, what the project involved
president hafez assad has hinted that syria may be able to help free kidnapped lt. col. william r. higgins, a u.s. official said sunday
the official, who spoke in jerusalem on condition of anonymity, said assad told secretary of state george p. shultz during his visit to damascus on saturday that he had ``some ideas'' about higgins' case
the official said shultz and assad talked about the situation in lebanon but declined to elaborate. ``we can't get into it,'' he said when pressed for details
higgins, 43, of danville, ky., headed a u.n. observer team attached to the u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon. he was kidnapped feb. 17 while returning to u.n. headquarters in naqoura from the port city of tyre
the kidnapping brought to 25 the number of foreign hostages held in lebanon. terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest held. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
a pro-iranian shiite moslem faction calling itself the ``oppressed on earth'' claimed responsibility for higgins' abduction and said he was a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the accusation
in beirut, a senior militia official said sunday that higgins' kidnapping has imperiled lebanon's shiite moslem sect
this is the first abduction that has brought the sect's two giants close to a head-on collision,'' said abdul-majid saleh, chief political officer of justice minister nabih berri's mainstream shiite amal militia in south lebanon
the syrian-allied amal has been at loggerheads with the iranian-backed extremist hezbollah, or party of god, for several years, but the kidnapping has increased tensions
amal has viewed the abduction as a challenge to its dominance in the tyre region and has vowed to leave no stone unturned in south lebanon to rescue the combat-decorated vietnam veteran. hezbollah praised the abduction and called higgins a ``filthy american.''
saleh told reporters in tyre that the abduction was ``more of a peril to the shiite community than to the united states. it has been threatening to kindle an intercommunal strife.''
saleh said an unidentified third party was currently engaged in a mediation effort to ensure higgins' release and head off an amal-hezbollah clash
in damascus, information minister mohammed salman said sunday that syria had assured shultz of its continued efforts to gain higgins' release
in an interview with the associated press, salman said syria's policy is to work with friendly organizations in lebanon, in particular the amal militia, to obtain the release of the one-time aide to former u.s. defense secretary caspar weinberger
salman said president reagan had asked assad for help in securing higgins' release
syrian officials noted with irony reagan's request and the recent parade of u.s. officials to damascus. just two years ago the united states accused syria of terrorism, brought its ambassador home and slapped sanctions against it
salman said he believed the turnabout came when washington realized that no middle east settlement was possible without syria and the palestine liberation organization
last october, u.s. ambassador william eagleton returned to his post in damacus
salman said eagleton informed him 10 days ago that another sanction, restrictions on visas for syrians tarveling to the united states, had been lifted
shultz, explaining the u.s. shift, has said syria had distanced itself from terrorism
last year syria closed the damascus office of palestinian terrorist mastermind abu nidal
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, split from the plo in the early 1970s. he was convicted in absentia in italy earlier this month of masterminding a 1985 terrorist attack on a rome airport in which 16 people were killed
sen. al gore is looking into borrowing money for extensive tv ads in the super tuesday states critical to his presidential campaign, but a spokesman said sunday he has taken no loans yet
we've been exploring options about borrowing money because we want to have a comprehensive media buy,'' said press spokesman mike kopp
the tennessee senator is running a son-of-the-south campaign and has vowed to spend more than any rival campaign on the super tuesday primaries
but campaign finance reports through january show gore was well behind rival michael dukakis in spending
gore began running his commercials three weeks ago on cable tv nationwide and on local tv in the 14 southern super tuesday states, and a new series of ads begins tuesday, kopp said
to date no loans have been taken,'' he said, but added that, ``our finance people have talked to banks,'' to line up the possibilities
aftern ending january, with $2 million in the bank, gore has boosted that to more than $3 million through fund-raisers and mail, kopp said
campaign finance reports show that dukakis as of jan. 31 had spent more in 13 of the 20 super tuesday states than any democrat in the race, and close to $1 million in all the super tuesday states. the massachusetts governor had $4 million in the bank at the end of january and his campaign says he is now raising $20,000 a day
gore was a distant second, spending only $287,542 by the end of january
that was less even than the $345,280 spent by his cash-poor democratic rival sen. paul simon of illinois who has now decided to sit out super tuesday
rep. richard gephardt of missouri reported spending $482,697 on super tuesday states through january
the figures are from the latest financial disclosure statements the candidates filed with the federal election commission, covering the period through jan. 31
on the republican side, vice president george bush had husbanded his ample resources while rivals sen. bob dole and pat robertson both swept past him in laying groundwork for super tuesday
most of the campaigns, with gore the notable exception, turned their attention to feb. 8 iowa contest and feb. 16 primary in new hampshire, then directed their resources to the super tuesday states in the latter part of this month. figures for february have not yet been released
robertson, the former tv evangelist, spent more than anyone in early super tuesday efforts. his total of $3.2 million included $1.1 million in texas, which was the biggest allocation reported by any of the campaigns for a single state
bush, on the other hand, spent $335,743 in his adoptive home state of texas, and $1.7 overall in the super tuesday states; and dole reported $81,645 in texas expenditures and $2 million overall
aside from texas, bush was putting most of his money, $416,449, into florida as of jan. 31. dole had spent $150,744 in florida and robertson $617,933
super tuesday spending could spell strategy problems for robertson because as of the end of january he had already spent $17.6 million against the $23 million overall ceiling imposed on candidates who receive federal matching funds
the other republican candidate, rep. jack kemp of new york, whose campaign has rowed through turbulent financial waters, reported spending of $11,312 in texas, $8,529 in florida, and $819,311 overall. however, $723,027 of his money was allocated to massachusetts, where several campaigns bought heavily on boston tv stations because that market includes viewers in neighboring new hampshire
kemp adviser charlie black said last week that the campaign does not anticipate any new loans, after borrowing heavily against his federal matching funds last year and in january. kemp planned to run tv ads in seven super tuesday states
the democrats have raised and spent less money overall than the republicans
dukakis, the democratic leader, had put most of his resources into texas, $301,829; florida, $206,861; and north carolina, $146,582
gephardt had spent $482,697 on the march 8 contests, but most of that, $316,822, was devoted to his home state of missouri, which his opponents are virtually ignoring
his spokeswoman, ali webb, said sunday that the campaign goal was to spend $2 million on super tuesday. gephardt has targeted six super tuesday states for tv _ texas, florida, oklahoma, arkansas, north carolina, alabama and georgia _ and will buy in selected markets in other states, she said
the gephardt campaign, which ended january in debt, is ``spending money as fast as it comes in,'' webb said
as of jan. 31, his biggest super tuesday state outside missouri was texas, where he spent $69,809
gore's biggest spending was also in texas, $74,921
simon, who last week announced he would skip super tuesday but stay in the race for later contests, had devoted most of his $345,280 in super tuesday spending to north carolina, where he spent $153,582
jesse jackson had spent less than $10,000 in just three super tuesday states, north carolina, maryland and kentucky. jackson is expected to run strongly across the south, where 14 states are among the super tuesday battles
he has raised considerably less money than his competitors, but his campaign concentrates on the free media that he engenders by virture of his international personality status and his ability to draw large crowds virtually everywhere he goes
gary hart, the former senator from colorado, had spent $37,814 in texas as of jan. 31, and just $12,000 in five other super tuesday states
several thousand people marched though madrid's main streets on sunday to protest the failure of police to protect citizens from petty crime and get drugs out of the schools
the rally organized by numerous civic and neighborhood groups drew 10,000 people, said enrique castro, spokesman for the organizers. police said the march drew 5,000 people
citizen groups for years have criticized the government of socialist prime minsiter felipe gonzalez for failing to stem a sharp increase in petty crime and drug trafficking. last week, gonzalez said there were plans to hire more police
the marchers protested drug trafficking in schools and said the government's plans to beef up police ranks were inadequate
police have made several drug sweeps in the nation's schools as media attention has focused on the problem and on the rise in crime
an allegheny county judge has sentenced a rapist to 80 to 160 years in prison, calling him ``a walking crime wave.''
millard bowles, 27, of bethel park, who stalked women in grocery store parking lots, was convicted in january of kidnapping two women at knifepoint and sexually assaulting them in separate incidents on march 19 and april 7
bowles forced the women to withdraw cash from automated teller machines after the attacks, police said
despite the brutality of the assaults, bowles would leave his telephone number with the victims or try to telephone them later to arrange another meeting, police said
millard bowles, you are a walking crime wave,'' said judge robert e. dauer after handing down the sentence friday. ``i hope you serve every moment of it.''
anglican archbishop desmond tutu and other religious leaders called sunday for a sweeping campaign of defiance against new restrictions on opposition groups
prominent clergy told their congregations that the church would become more active in opposing apartheid now that the government has banned political activity by 18 opposition groups. they called for a church-led campaign against the latest crackdown
we have no option but to engage in activities that now are prohibited,'' said the rev. frank chikane, general secretary of the south african council of churches
no matter what the consequences, we will continue to seek the unbanning of democratic organizations and the transfer of power from the white minority to all the people,'' chikane told about 200 people at central methodist church in johannesburg
the government on wednesday banned the 18 black-led groups from political activity and placed restrictions on the activities of 18 senior black leaders
church groups weren't included in the crackdown and theoretically still were free to engage in resistance campaigns, but most forms of peaceful protest still are banned under existing regulations
the outlawing of the country's leading anti-apartheid groups, most of them affiliated with the united democratic front coalition, is viewed as a clear sign that the government intends to maintain a hard line against all political opponents
rev. peter storey, a prominent white minister and anti-apartheid activist, compared the crackdown with the government's 1960 decision to outlaw the african national congress guerrilla group and the 1977 banning of 18 black political organizations
to do a third time what has failed twice is rank stupidity,'' storey said at the central methodist service. ``what the government has done flies in the face of history, exhibits a moral bankruptcy and is a declaration of war on peace.''
in cape town, tutu said he would defy government laws he considers unjust
apartheid is evil, apartheid is immoral and apartheid is un-christian,'' tutu told about 200 people at the bonteheuwel anglican church
tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize, described the south african government as ``illegitimate'' and suggested church leaders would initiate a civil disobedience campaign in coming days
none of the church leaders specified what activities they would engage in, but there are several ongoing resistance campaigns that were led by groups now restricted. those include rent boycotts in black townships, keeping track of dissidents under police detention, and a push to restructure black education
church services to express opposition the government's measures also were held in pretoria and durban, the country's other leading cities
under south africa's apartheid policies of racial segregation, the nation's 5 million whites maintain political and economic control over 26 million blacks, who have no vote in national affairs
high maple syrup prices after two abysmal sugaring seasons have prompted more people to tap more trees as the sap starts running this year, new hampshire's agriculture chief says
new hampshire syrup sells for as much as $43 a gallon, nearly double the price before back-to-back bad seasons. but demand has not lagged, said agriculture commissioner stephen taylor
what's really kept it up there is packaging in ever smaller packages. we talk about the price per gallon but nobody ever buys a gallon of syrup anymore,'' taylor said in an interview last week
the 150,000 gallons of maple syrup sold annually in new hampshire, most of it in gift shops and country stores, comes in jugs as small as a pint or less, taylor said. but not all of it comes from new hampshire
there's some new production coming out of the woodwork in ontario, ohio, indiana'' that is sold bulk to packagers in new hampshire, taylor said. ``but we have the aura _ a geographic chauvinism'' favoring new england maple syrup
state law ensures that ``if you call it new hampshire maple syrup, it has to be made in new hampshire,'' he said
taylor estimated there are 400 commercial maple syrup producers in new hampshire and 1,000 ``backyard farm-type people.''
we will tap a lot more trees this year, as a result of high prices,'' he said. ``sales of equipment and tubing indicate a lot more people are getting in this year.''
sap runs when temperatures dip below freezing at night and rise to the 40s in the day _ conditions that began to occur in some places earlier this month
new hampshire produced 100,000 gallons of syrup in its best year, 1984. but during the last two years, warm weather day and night predominated, and production was around 30 percent of normal
technology is revolutionizing the sugaring industry, taylor said. he estimated more than 80 percent of taps this year will feed into tubing that carries sap directly to evaporators and other processing equipment, rather than into buckets
taylor says higher syrup prices staying around for awhile, regardless of how good this season is
if we go in with cupboard bare, no carryover syrup from last season, prices will be substantially higher than previous years, even with a bumper crop.''
a co-owner of the state's largest syrup producer, bascom's sugar house in acworth, said she was puzzled that demand has remained stable despite the price
i don't buy maple syrup. i can't explain it,'' liz bascom said. ``we made less gallons at a higher price (last year) and we came out about the same.'' found</head>
the brevard county courthouse has been ordered sealed and workers were being relocated to shopping centers and hotels following the discovery of extremely high levels of asbestos
brevard circuit judge dean moxley ordered the closing saturday after asbestos technologies inc. reported asbestos levels as high as 3.642 fibers per cubic centimeter in the office of judge gil goshorn
levels were as high as 0.182 in hearing rooms used by goshorn and judge charles harris, said county administrator tom jenkins
the u.s. occupational safety and heath administration consider levels of 0.2 to be unsafe and warrant evacuation. acceptable levels normally fall below 0.1
3.642 is absolutely alarming. the courthouse is not fit for human occupation without protection,'' said moxley, who moved his office and staff to a courthouse annex last week after levels of 0.175 were reported in his office
ati said it's probably the worst reading they have ever encountered,'' he said
moxley's order prohibits anyone from removing any items, including civil and criminal files, and traffic, child support and land records stored in the courthouse, without going through a cleansing room. violators will be held in contempt of court, said county commission chairwoman sue schmitt
ati officials planned sunday to test courthouse records for asbestos. test results were expected monday or tuesday, she said
meanwhile, officials tried to set up temporary quarters while a decision is made on what to do with the building
the murder trial of christopher scott lawrence, scheduled to begin monday before harris, will be held at the north brevard service complex, officials said
county judge peter haddad planned to set up offices in a board room at the north brevard service complex and circuit judges harris and goshorn were to be moved to the titusville quality inn
the state attorney's office was being moved to the southern bell building
the clerk of county and circuit courts office will have a skeleton crew at the gibson school gymnasium to direct other employees
the rest of our employees will be furloughed until we see what is going on. we can't get access to any of our records and that's our biggest problem,'' said harry bennett, chief deputy of the clerk of county and circuit courts
ati workers will be setting up a ``cocoon'' made of plastic sheeting on the first and second floors of the courthouse building, enabling operations there to resume later this week, jenkins said
brevard-seminole state attorney norm wolfinger said his staff would probably remain in the southern bell building for up to six months
two norwegian soldiers serving with the u.n. peacekeeping force in lebanon were wounded in a mine explosion in a southern lebanese village on sunday, u.n. spokesman timur goksel said
he said both soldiers underwent surgery at a u.n. field hospital in the border town of naqoura. a norwegian officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the leg of one of the soldiers had to be amputated
goksel said the mine exploded at 3:25 p.m. near the soldiers' position in blat, in israel's self-proclaimed security zone. the zone overlaps with the peacekeeping force's area of operations in south lebanon
he would not disclose the peacekeepers' ranks or names, pending notification of their families
norway has an 881-man contingent serving with the nine-nation, 5,800-strong peacekeeping force. they were deployed in 1978 after a brief israeli incursion into south lebanon
never mind columbus. never mind the globes in classrooms everywhere. never mind those pictures from space of earth as a big blue marble
when you ask children in the early elementary grades what they really think, most believe what their eyes tell them: the earth is flat
that, at least, is what alan lightman, a harvard physicist, and astronomy teacher philip sadler say
the two, writing in ``science and children'' magazine, suggest that educators are living in a dream world if they assume young children understand the earth is round
nearly 500 years ago, columbus proved that the earth was round. today's students still don't believe it,'' they write in the february issue of the science teachers' journal
they cite several studies done in the united states, israel and nepal in the 1970s and early 1980s in which school children in the early grades consistently turned out to be flat-earthers
one of the first scientific facts we announce to our children is that the earth is round. that flat, flat ground we walk on, ride on and play on, stretching endless miles in perfect and reliable flatness, actually wraps around on itself to form a giant ball. preposterous, yet a scientific fact,'' they said. but ``if we expect young children to believe this story, we're wrong.''
lightman, a research physicist at the smithsonian astrophysical observatory and lecturer at harvard, and sadler, director of project star, a high school astronomy curriculum, recently asked 65 elementary teachers to predict how pupils would draw the earth
the teachers thought 65 percent of kindergarteners knew the earth was round, 85 percent of the first-graders, 95 percent of the second graders and everyone in third grade
actually, according to past studies, only 5 percent of second graders know the earth is round, 40 percent of third graders, 55 percent of fourth graders and 75 percent of fifth graders
even fourth graders who say the earth is round often ``picture a flat part where people live in the interior of the ball,'' they said. ``others draw the earth as a giant pancake or as a curved sky covering a flat ground.''
the authors offer a solution for enlightening junior flat-earthers
they recommend teachers buy a big latex weather balloon at an army-navy or surplus store and inflate it to 10 feet
while a child holds her cheek against the balloon and looks at its horizon, ``slowly move a toy ship across the surface of the balloon toward the child.'' as the ship comes over the horizon, it is revealed in parts, the top mast first, just as it would be in the ocean
but on the flat surface of a large table, the child sees the entire ship at once, no matter how far away it is
demonstrating this experiment on the cover of ``science and children'' are lightman's own 7-year-old daughter, elyse, and a classmate at alcott school in concord, mass
lightman acknowledged in an interview that ``there aren't many flat-earthers by the fifth or sixth grade.''
so why bother to disabuse them of the notion at an earlier age?
it's never too early an age to begin appreciating that the world is not always as it seems,'' said lightman
a 5-year-old boy was killed when a 27-inch television set fell off a stand and onto his head, police said sunday
dennis yau died of a massive skull fracture in the accident saturday in the city's chinatown neighborhood, police spokeswoman jane sheehan said
he had been playing in the living room and his mother heard a crash,'' sheehan said. ``when she went inside she saw the television on top of him.''
the mother, mei yau, rushed him to the new england medical center but the boy was pronounced dead at 6:25 p.m., she said
it was not known how the television fell off of its stand, sheehan said
anti-government protesters sunday exploded homemade bombs and set vehicles ablaze in the capital to protest parliament elections. an opposition leader said three people were killed
sheik hasina, leader of the opposition awami league, blamed the blasts on ``government intruders'' and said that ``police took away the three bodies.'' there was no immediate confirmation from the police
after the explosions, helmeted riot police broke up crowds with tear gas shells and charged with bamboo staves
at least 10 people were injured, three critically, including local reporters and photographers, witnesses said
the violence began shortly after hasina and opposition leader khaleda zia addressed separate rallies at the city's main square
the women have led a series of strikes and demonstrations since nov. 10 to try to oust president hussain muhammad ershad, the former army general who took power in a bloodless coup in 1982
both women have pledged to boycott thursday's parliamentary election and have called for a nationwide strike wednesday and thursday to discourage voting. they contend that fair elections cannot be held while ershad remains in power
ershad's jatiya party and several minor opposition parties have put up candidates for the 300 elected seats of parliament
ershad, who has vowed not to resign, has ordered army troops deployed to allow balloting to be held. officials say 300,000 soldiers and police will be on duty election day
but a big turnout is not expected
honestly speaking, i do not even know the names of the candidates for the parliament from my constituency,'' said rafiqul islam, a 45-year-old farmer in the village of konnapara, 15 miles west of dhaka
there is no campaigning by the candidates this time,'' he said. ``even the people are not talking about it.''
more than 80 percent of bangladesh's 105 million people live in rural areas. during recent visits to villages in the savar district and neighboring manikganj, the only signs of politicking were stray posters showing the plow symbol of ershad's jatiya party and the torch used by a grouping of small opposition parties
but a lack of interest doesn't mean the campaign has been uneventful
three candidates have been shot to death. in cities like dhaka, the capital, and chittagong in the south, homemade bombs have been thrown and other strong-arm tactics used to disrupt campaigning
in addition, the anti-ershad campaign has led to at least 25 deaths and seriously damaged the already downtrodden economy of bangladesh, among the world's poorest nations
this election is not going to resolve the political and economic crisis confronting bangladesh,'' said a senior asian diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``the election will only accelerate the process of bloody confrontation.''
on sunday, about 5,000 people attended the opposition rallies, which ended peacefully
but then some protesters split away in groups of about 20 or 25 and rampaged through the downtown area, hurling bricks at shops and passing cars, witnesses said
the protesters set fire to at least 12 vehicles, some of them cars and jeeps belonging to the government, they added
demonstrators also damaged and burned some makeshift camps set up by candidates for their campaign workers
a number of homemade bombs were thrown near the city square, and blasts were also heard around the dhaka university campus, a hotbed of anti-government protests
the rioters were dispersed by about 300 policemen, who were stoned near the campus
hasina repeated her appeal to the military and civilian administration to try to block ``the farcical polls'' called by ershad
the military has been the driving force in bangladesh's politics. in the country's 17-year history, every change in government has been by coup. after he seized power in 1982, ershad, 58, was elected president in a 1986 vote that the opposition boycotted and contends was rigged. political future</head>
casually dressed and moving easily on his artificial limb, edward m. kennedy jr. greeted democratic activists at the core of the kennedy family's political base, a union hall in a heavily irish-catholic section of boston
the younger kennedy's first priority is winning re-election for his father to the u.s. senate. but as to the inevitable questions about his own political future, he admitted saturday he is getting ``good practical experience.''
kennedy, 26, resigned his position as head of facing the challenge, inc., a non-profit group he founded in 1985 devoted to eliminating barriers for the physically and mentally disabled
as co-chairman of his father's fifth re-election campaign along with his sister kara, kennedy spends all his working time at campaign headquarters or on the road across massachusetts, meeting local supporters, drumming up new backers and fighting to get people excited about a race which to date has only one candidate
whether my father draws a strong opponent or a weak opponent, it's still necessary for him to know what's going on in different communities and for my father to be able to tell people what he's done for massachusetts,'' kennedy said
when news of ted jr.'s involvement in the campaign became known last fall, observers assumed the post amounted to a training ground for the younger kennedy to seek political office
kennedy said saturday he has not decided whether to return to facing the challenge after the senate campaign concludes. and while he didn't rule out seeking office, he said he has no specific plans
if you're asking me, am i going to be involved and active in my community, the answer is yes,'' said kennedy, who lives in boston. ``i am always going to be active and concerned about issues
i don't have any plans right now... i'm concentrating on my father's re-election.'' but he added, ``it is good, practical experience.''
kennedy got some good, practical experience in boston's dorchester section saturday where he attended a state democratic party caucus at florian hall, home of one of boston's firefighters union locals. democrats of irish descent formed the backbone of john f. kennedy's political base in the 1940s and the kennedy family appears to have held onto that popularity
anybody in the kennedy family has his head on straight,'' said camilla duffy of dorchester, who is gathering nomination signatures for the senator's re-election campaign
many of the roughly 100 democratic activists recognized kennedy from his work for the disabled and greeted him warmly
kennedy lost his right leg above the knee to cancer in 1973. he has remained active in skiing, swimming and weight lifting
i'm lucky to be alive,'' kennedy said. his own return to a full and active life, he said, was all too exceptional. ``there are other people who don't have the same opportunities.''
state democratic party chairman chester atkins, also attending the caucus, said democrats would welcome a campaign by the younger kennedy. ``he's been a great campaigner. he cares deeply about people,'' atkins said. and as for kennedy's political career, ``i have to assume he'll have the opportunity.''
joseph kennedy ii gained some attention before running for office by saying he was unsure of the ability of government to help people _ a position he modified after his election to congress. on that score, edward kennedy jr. said he has no doubts
i am one who really believes that public service is an honorable profession. it's what my whole family has believed. i've had a couple of uncles who gave their lives for public service
people who think they don't have a say _ i really reject that. they can, whether in this hall or a parish, a homeless shelter,'' kennedy said
actor bruce boxleitner, who co-starred in the television series ``scarecrow and mrs. king,'' will receive the buffalo bill award at the 1988 nebraskaland days, officials said
plans for the june 18-26 celebration were outlined saturday night at the annual buffalo bill birthday dance, one of nebraskaland days' biggest fund-raisers
nebraskaland days president kim baxter said boxleitner has western connections through television movies and his interest in quarter horses
to be honest, they're not making as many westerns as they used to,'' baxter said. ``it lessens the field when you limit it to people in westerns. we've gone to choosing a person who represents good family entertainment. but it's good when you can get someone who has been in westerns.''
boxleitner appeared as james arness' nephew in ``the macahans,'' which inspired the ``how the west was won'' series. he was kenny rogers' co-star in three ``gambler'' television movies
boxleitner lives in the san fernando valley, north of los angeles
the annual celebration features rodeo performances, a parade and many other events with a western theme. gov. kay orr has designated nebraskaland days as one of the key events in her ``celebrate nebraska '88'' tourism promotion
chrysler corp.'s plans to close a wisconsin assembly plant and its admission that it might sell its acustar inc. parts subsidiary are fueling worker anger and distrust as the two sides head into this summer's national contract talks
chrysler's parts operations were grouped into the subsidiary last spring, but most of acustar's 28,000 workers have been with chrysler since it battled back from the brink of bankruptcy early in the decade, when they granted concessions to keep the company afloat
chrysler workers think the potential sale, now that the no. 3 carmaker is again earning billion-dollar profits, indicates they won't be able to trust the company in the contract negotiations
more than 1,000 workers vented their anger last week outside chrysler's highland park headquarters, waving signs and shouting ``strike! strike!'' at an emotional rally led by united auto workers vice president marc stepp
one sign read: ``concessions in '79, the shaft in '88.''
stepp, who will lead negotiations with chrysler, said he will give uaw locals permission to strike on a plant-by-plant basis, based on local disagreements but because of the acustar issue
workers also are threatening to stop participating with management on a variety of joint programs, like quality control
the acustar controversy comes on top of chrysler's announcement that it will close its assembly plant at kenosha, wis., this year and idle 5,500 workers. chrysler acquired the plant last year when it bought american motors
state and local officials charged that chrysler had promised to keep the plant running for five years. wisconsin's governor threatened to sue, and last week the uaw went to court on its own in an attempt to keep the plant open
many of these workers gave concessions and made considerable sacrifices to help the company make it,'' said harley shaiken, a labor and technology expert at the university of california at san diego
they thought they were investing in their future, and acustar represents an uncertain future if it's sold. chrysler underestimated the strength of the reaction and the fact that it has spread beyond acustar workers and affected the entire company,'' he said
one of those workers is roger fitzpatrick, a member of uaw local 1435 at an acustar machining plant in perrysburg, ohio
yes, we will strike,'' he said at last week's rally. ``whatever it takes to keep them from selling it. ..
we're also going to shut down all (quality) meetings, anything that's joint with management and the union. we will not attend, none of them.''
chrysler vice president baron bates said the company is still weighing the acustar sale. he said the workers' anger and their future under a new owner will be factors in the decision
bates said chrysler views the bitter responses to the kenosha closing and the backlash against the acustar sale as two separate issues rather than a snowballing deterioration in labor relations
there is also tension over chrysler's continuing efforts to get more work out of fewer employees
what's irritating workers is not simply acustar. that has served as a lightning rod for other issues,'' shaiken said. ``there's a lot of pressure in chrysler plants.''
workers see another threat. with the sale, chrysler could become the first big three automaker to follow the japanese model of treating parts and assembly workers as two distinct classes
if acustar is sold, its workers face lower wages and benefits and probably won't receive the job protections the uaw won in the three-year contracts negotiated last fall with ford motor co. and general motors corp
chrysler has until sept. 14, when its current three-year contract expires, to sell acustar and restructure itself as a japanese-style maker that builds engines and transmissions, assembles vehicles and depends on outside suppliers for all other parts
after the 70,000-worker contract expires, chrysler almost certainly will have to accept the pattern contract established at ford and gm last fall that makes layoffs for reasons other than slow sales costly and difficult
the contract also discourages moving work to outside suppliers
the uaw successfully resisted attempts by gm and ford to establish separate pay and benefit scales for parts workers last fall and doesn't want a precedent that would encourage them to try again in 1990
the stakes here go well beyond chrysler,'' shaiken said
the pay of chrysler workers, who gave concessions from 1979 through 1983, returned to parity with workers at ford and gm in a 1984 contract that included a base-pay increase in 1987. auto workers earn an average $12-$15 an hour in wages and $8-$10 an hour in benefits
prince charles, heir to the british throne, should continue to speak out on controversial issues, according to a public opinion poll published in the mail on sunday
the survey of 1,086 adults, conducted by national opinion poll, said 56 percent of britons believe their future king should speak out more and only 14 percent believe he should say less
more than half, 57 percent, said speaking out on controversial issues is what charles should spend most of his time doing, followed by 23 percent who feel he should be a diplomat or work full-time for a charity and 15 percent who would limit him to a purely ceremonial role
when asked who they would rather have as prime minister, the 39-year-old charles or the incumbent, margaret thatcher, 38 percent said mrs. thatcher and 31 percent said the prince
the poll follows a week in which charles made news for revealing he has banned aerosols from his household for fear they damage the environment
he was also quoted as telling newspaper editors he had to fight royal protocol to develop his role as prince of wales and that sometimes he wished he were bob geldof, the irish rock story who raised millions of dollars for african famine relief
singer massimo ranieri won a yearly competition of italian popular music with a song about middle-age love, despite critics' complaints that most of this year's songs sounded alike
ranieri, now 37, made his first appearance at the san remo song festival when he was 17. he won on sunday with ``perdere l'amore'' (losing my love)
twenty-six singers competed for the first prize in the four-day festival, which was broadcast live on state-run rai television and ended early sunday morning
the winners don't receive prize money, but some have gone on to stardom. domenico modugno shot to international fame after winning the song fest in 1958 with ``nel blu dipinto di blu,'' also known as ``volare.''
foreign artists such as paul mccartney, who opened the closing night with his song ``once upon a long ago,'' stole much of the spotlight. other foreigners who performed included george harrison, ben e. king, joe cocker, bon jovi, art garfunkel, robbie robertson, bryan ferry and belinda carlisle
however, the foreigners came in for criticism because, unlike the italian competitors who sang live, most of them lip-synched their songs
carmel mayor clint eastwood won a lengthy battle when the state coastal commission approved a two-story commercial and office building on a lot adjacent to the actor's hog's breath inn
eastwood was on location filming his latest ``dirty harry'' film and couldn't be reached for comment about the action taken friday, six years after the project on the 7,500-square-foot lot in downtown carmel was proposed
eastwood's fight with city planning officials was partial inspiration for his entry into politics in a community he considered hostile to developers, and it provided a plank in his 1985 mayoral campaign
he recently announced that he will not seek a second term when his current term expires in may
eastwood sued the city when planners and the council said his project was too bulky, then compromised on the design to gain approval
a penthouse once owned by texas gov. john connally was sold at auction for $225,000 to an unidentified dallas buyer
the buyer, whose bid came by an audio hookup, gained a penthouse overlooking the gulf of mexico with 3,845 square feet of living space and 3,405 square feet of tiled balconies
the spacious, two-story marble-floored penthouse was once valued at $1 million, but like the rest of texas' real estate market, things have gone soft on this resort island
more than 60 units, located on the island and in nearby brownsville, went on the block saturday. none among the standing-room-only crowd responded to a request for a $250,000 bid for connally's penthouse
connally has filed for personal bankruptcy and last month had his personal property auctioned off, raising $2.7 million to help pay his creditors
academy award nominee robin williams will be the featured performer at an american cancer society benefit on april 7, officials have announced
williams will appear with singer amy grant and grand ole opry humorist minnie pearl at the society's annual black-tie fund-raiser at the grand ole opry house
williams is an oscar nominee for best actor as a disc jockey during the vietnam war in the movie ``good morning, vietnam.'' he formerly starred on the television show ``mork and mindy.''
fourteen months afer he grasped his long-sought prize, the governorship of arizona, evan mecham returns to the state capitol from exile monday for a senate impeachment trial which could end his political life
in recent days, mecham has battled to stop the trial. he has said that his constitutional rights are being violated. he hired new lawyers who petitioned senators and the state supreme court to halt the proceedings
but the senate would tolerate no delays, and the supreme court said it could not breach the separation of powers doctrine by interfering in a legislative matter
the people of this state should be as scared and frightened as all get-out,'' mecham, 63, said at a weekend news conference. ``this isn't ev mecham's rights we're talking about. this is basic rights in the state of arizona.''
the conservative republican governor renewed his vow that he would not take the easy way out and resign
my resignation would write a bad chapter in the history of arizona,'' he said as he stood before reporters in down home western garb: boots, blue jeans, a powder blue jacket, plaid shirt and a string tie with a huge silver and torquoise clasp
that would be giving in to the powers who have schemed and planned to put so much pressure on me that i would eventually resign,'' he said
mecham insisted he should be allowed to resolve a march 22 criminal trial before the impeachment trial and its publicity
as governor of the state, i ask nothing more than is accorded to any garden variety criminal,'' he said of the due process rights he demanded. ``i certainly do not think that as governor i should be accorded anything less.''
some members of the senate suspected that what mecham really wanted was to delay the impeachment trial until after his scheduled may 17 recall election, hoping for an outpouring of support from constituents who elected him on his fifth try for the office
but the 30-member senate refused to allow any delay
we've got to get going. the people of arizona deserve a fair break and the fair break is that the trial moves forward,'' said senate democratic minority leader alan stephens
to convict mecham, two-thirds of the senators must find that mecham committed ``high crimes, misdemeanors or malfeasance in office.''
upon conviction, the senate could bar him from ever holding public office again
although mecham is best known outside arizona for a series of public gaffes and outrageous comments which offended many minority groups, he is not on trial for those acts
mecham is charged with three misdeeds _ concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his car dealership and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
the house of representatives, which impeached mecham feb. 5, detailed the allegations in 23 articles of impeachment, the equivalent of an indictment in a criminal case
after his impeachment, mecham was required to step aside as governor pending outcome of the trial. however, he is still addressed as governor and draws his regular salary. he set up offices in suburban glendale in what he calls his ``government in exile.''
secretary of state rose mofford is acting governor in his place
frank x. gordon, chief justice of the arizona supreme court, who will preside over the impeachment trial, has called it ``perhaps the most important proceeding in the history of arizona.''
clearly these are volatile times,'' gordon said. ``perhaps never in arizona history have so many of our citizens had such fervent beliefs on a given subject. we should be thankful that our system of government is equipped to peacefully and fairly resolve such a volatile situation. it is up to all of us as citizens to let the system work.''
mikhail s. gorbachev met with two prominent armenian writers in an unusual personal campaign to allay concerns of armenians demanding annexation of land in a neighboring republic, two activists said sunday
the writers, silva kaputikyan and zori balayan, met with the soviet leader on friday, said sergei grigoryants, a moscow-based dissident, and hovik vassilian, an armenian activist and editor of the underground journal, the armenian matter
they said the writers met thursday with politburo member and propaganda chief alexander n. yakovlev
gorbachev said he'd take the matter under his personal control and see to it that it gets the proper attention,'' vassilian quoted kaputikyan as saying of the meeting with the soviet leader. vassilian spoke in a telephone interview from yerevan, the capital of the armenian republic
the official media carried no report on the gorbachev meeting
it was the second time that gorbachev had become involved in the sensitive armenian dispute, which erupted last week into street demonstrations that witnesses said involved thousands of protesters
on friday, gorbachev appealed for ``civil maturity and restraint'' in an address read on armenian television by a senior party official. in the address, gorbachev promised that the communist party central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
until now, the 56-year-old leader had never injected himself into an ethnic dispute since becoming party general secretary in march 1985
he may have stepped in now as a defense of his policy of ``glasnost,'' or openness on social issues
vassilian said that organizers of last week's massive protests in yerevan announced friday they would hold no more protests until march 26 so national authorities could have time to review the dispute
the unrest has focused on the delaware-sized region of nagorno-karabakh, in the caucasus mountains. the region is inside the republic of azerbaidzhan, but armenians want it to be annexed to their republic
more than 80 percent of nagorno-karabakh's 157,000 residents are aremenian
the official news agency tass and central soviet television on saturday tried to calm the population and play down reports of ethnic trouble by taking up the theme of brotherhood
they carried interviews with ethnic armenians and azerbaidzhanis saying they live together in harmony and that it was important for everyone to return to their jobs
the media said some workers in yerevan even showed up voluntarily for work sunday, their day off, to make up for time lost while they were away from their jobs demonstrating
grigoryants and other witnesses said hundreds of thousands of armenians took to the streets of yerevan last week to press their demands after the ruling politburo rejected an annexation proposal
the decision to hold off on more protests apparently was a result of gorbachev's address and of an armenian central committee decision to ask for a review of the dispute by national leaders
vassilian said about 150,000 demonstrators gathered saturday on yerevan streets to continue the protest, but he said the city was calm sunday
armenian activists have sent a lengthy report to the central government in moscow outlining why they believe nagorno-karabakh should be made part of armenia, vassilian said
grigoryants said that during a two-day visit to yerevan, he learned that ethnic russians had been brought in to replace the mostly armenian local militia force and that 28 planeloads of soldiers had been flown into the capital to help keep order
at one point last week, grigoryants said, workers at the state broadcasting authority, gostelradio, threatened to stop all transmissions unless soldiers were withdrawn from broadcast studios
the workers also demanded the right to broadcast reports on the demonstrations. within a day, the soldiers were pulled out of the studios and reports on the demonstrations appeared on armenian television, grigoryants said
cream pies flew, old flicks rolled and fans talked to to an old three stooges supporting actor when about 1,000 die-hard fans of the celebrated knuckleheads gathered for a weekend of _ nyuk, nyuk _ stoogemania
i've loved larry, moe and curly ever since i was 5 years old,'' said virginia riviera, 30, who came with two friends from salem, mass
they and others swapped memorabilia, threw pies and watched such films as ``three little pigskins,'' ``all the world's a stooge,'' ``dizzy doctors'' and ``disorder in the court.''
i'd go anywhere there's a three stooges convention,'' said riviera, ``as long as i don't have to fly.''
curly impersonator david knight ``was involved in everything,'' joe jerrier, one of the convention's organizers, said sunday. ``when he showed up the place was just jammed.''
knight, an iron worker from palmyra, n.y., who bears a pate much like his cinematic hero's, tweaked ears and performed curly's outrageous antics to the delight of fans who came from as far away as san francisco for the two-day exercise in stoogery
jerrier said nostalgia has sparked a resurgence of interest in an act famous for head-knocking, face-slapping, belly-butting slapstick, pratfalls and endless buffoonery
the original three stooges, created in the vaudeville days of the 1920s, were morris ``moe'' horowitz, who later changed his last name to howard; his brother samuel ``shemp,'' and larry fineberg, a.k.a. fine
by the early '30s, shemp had left in a pay dispute and jerome ``curly,'' another horowitz brother, took over
the stooges made more than 190 short films and about 50 feature-length films until the '60s, said jerrier. moe was the last stooge to die, in 1975
in one room, three stooges postcards, t-shirts, belts, ceramic masks and hand puppets were displayed on tables
also on display were books, publicity stills, movie posters and a canceled check from moe. a stooge trivia contest was in progress when the pie fight _ a highlight of the event _ broke out
i was emcee and i didn't even get a chance to close my eyes,'' said jerrier, 37, a firefighter from gardiner, maine. ``i got four of 'em.''
a telephone call was placed to emil sitka and fans were allowed to chat with the man who played a host of older men's roles in more than 60 stooge films
sitka, who is in his 70s and now lives in camarillo, calif., was one of the few actors who played alongside shemp as well as curly, said jerrier, who claims one of the country's largest videocassette collections of stooge flicks
jerrier said shemp quit because each of the stooges was making $100 a week while their manager earned $2,000
the convention raised more than $4,000 by sunday afternoon for cancer research, said jerrier. ron eugley, another organizer, said at least 1,000 fans showed up
in addition to footage from stooge films, fans were treated to rare footage of curly's wedding, moe barbecuing, the stooges in baseball uniforms in the chicago cubs dugout in 1938, and on the queen mary in 1939
george likar said he's been a member of the national three stooges fan club since 1985
i got hooked 10 years ago, watching them on tv,'' said likar, who flew in from joliet, ill. ``the stooges are great! curly's my favorite. he gets to do all the things i wish i could do.''
israel's navy sank a boat carrying palestinian guerrillas who were planning an attack against israel, killing two arabs on board, police said sunday
an israeli patrol intercepted the vessel off the southern lebanese port city of tyre shortly after nightfall on saturday, police said. three of the five guerillas on board swam to safety and were captured, they said
police said the squad belonged to the libyan-backed popular front for the liberation of palestine-general command, which is based in damascus, syria
but fatah, the palestine liberation organization's mainstream guerrilla faction, said the guerrillas were fatah members
fatah sources in sidon, provincial capital of south lebanon, said the squad had planned to attack the northern israeli coastal town of nahariya to avenge the killing of three plo officers in cyprus two weeks ago
the plo had blamed the feb. 14 car bombing in limassol, cyprus, on israel's secret service, mossad. the victims were identified as col. marwan kayyali, lt. col. mohammed sultan and lt. col. mohammed buheis
police in tyre who interrogated the surviving guerrillas quoted them as saying they belonged to the popular front, which is headed by former syrian army captain ahmed jibril
the front claimed responsibility for a dec. 26 attack on an army base in northern israel by a guerrilla who flew a motorized hang-glider across the border from lebanon. six israeli soldiers were killed and eight wounded by hand grenades and gunfire before the attacking guerrilla was shot and killed
israel radio reported sunday that palestinian guerrilla organizations and anti-israel lebanese militia groups were developing small navies to infiltrate israel. it said guerrillas receive their training in arab countries and eastern europe
the israeli navy carries out routine patrols off the lebanese coast, frequently stopping and searching suspicious vessels
on dec. 11, guerrillas of the pro-iranian shiite hezbollah, or party of god, organization opened fire on an israeli patrol vessel, killing one soldier. the israeli boat sank the hezbollah craft, and four militiamen drowned
three years ago, an israeli navy vessel sunk a ship carrying 28 guerrillas who the navy said were on their way to attack targets inside israel. to forums, sted fora; subs last graf, at their, to fix time to this week, sted next week</note>
the seeds of this week's summit meeting at nato's sprawling headquarters were planted nearly 16 months ago when president reagan faced mikhail s. gorbachev across a plain wooden table in a house in iceland and seemed to forget western europe's interests
it was october 12, 1986, and as dusk crept over the windows at hofdi house in reykjavik and the whole world waited, reagan and gorbachev got into a hot negotiation about the possibility of scrapping all their nuclear missiles
they failed. but when details of the talks came out, western european allies who had depended on a no-surprise u.s. defense and arms control style for 39 years wondered if reagan had forgotten to take their needs into consideration
we don't think it's a fair accusation,'' said a reagan administration official. ``we've consulted with the allies assiduously before and after reykjavik, but there's no denying the perception is there among europeans that the u.s. was willing to make drastic reductions in nuclear weapons, over their heads.''
the summit in brussels will give them a bully pulpit to get their views across,'' said the official, one of several u.s. summit planners who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity
that's not to say we don't want a summit; we think it's important to have this meeting at this juncture, for sound, alliance reasons,'' the official said
it will let president reagan show that despite some of the recent dents in his teflon shield, he is an active and commanding presence. but on a scale of one to 100, the europeans want it 60 or 70 and we want it 40 or 30.''
the europeans' aim for the first nato summit since 1982 is not just to remind reagan of their interests as he heads for another meeting with gorbachev, in moscow in the spring
it is to talk ``through him'' to whoever replaces reagan as president next january and to set the stage for what is likely to be several years of alliance-wide agonizing over the future of its internal relationships and its dealings with the soviet union
the leaders will gather at the sprawling nato headquarters on the outskirts of brussels on wednesday and thursday. the public will be barred from all but a brief opening and brief closing session and several hours have been devoted to meetings without large numbers of aides
at the end, the leaders will issue a declaration summarizing their goals and ideals for nato's future. there also is talk of issuing a separate statement on conventional weapons
rozanne ridgway, assistant secretary of state, said sunday that two summit issues would be: ``how do we stay strong so that we don't make the world safe for conventional war or invite it'' and how to get the soviets to reduce their now-stronger non-nuclear forces?
the europeans fear that with the possibility of a nuclear-free world, they may end up with no protection against the superior soviet forces. ridgway, interviewed on cable news network's ``newsmaker sunday,'' said, however, she believes the nato alliance will always have ``a combination of conventional and nuclear deterrents.''
on an issue prompted partly by domestic budget pressure on reagan, ridgway said the president will take nato a message on ``burden-sharing,'' nato jargon for dividing up the manpower and financial load of maintaining western defenses. she did not say what the message would be but said, ``they can do more. we can do more.''
any private understandings at the meeting will be transmitted to lower-level groups that have been working for months to provide answers to some of the questions posed by a new climate of east-west relations ushered in since gorbachev's accession
the leaders are less likely to dwell on the nuts and bolts of defense and arms control problems facing the alliance in the short run
nato has already committed itself to a u.s.-soviet plan to reduce long-range nuclear weaponry by 50 percent. granted, there is still some haggling within nato on the pace and scope of negotiations on short-range nuclear forces, chemical weapons and conventional forces. but the leaders are not expected to spend much time on these details, leaving those tasks to other officials and other forums
nor is reagan expected to get into a general discussion of problems the united states is having with some of the allies over the continuation of american base rights. talks with those countries _ portugal, spain and greece _ are being handled elsewhere
beyond the internal problems, perhaps hovering over them, is the broadest issue of all: the relevancy of the western alliance at a time when the soviet union is exhibiting signs of major reform and appears to be more forthcoming than ever in meeting western demands _ like one for a withdrawal from afghanistan
the alliance has stuck together for four decades out of fear of an expansionist and untrustworthy soviet union dominated by its military leaders
after nearly three years of gorbachev and no sign in letup in the ferment in his country and among some of his allies, nato leaders are wondering how their alliance should respond
at their summit this week, ``i think it's going to be both a moment of looking at the success that the alliance has had and getting down to the hard issues ahead _ the analysis of the current situation in the soviet union, the opportunities it might present,'' one official said
henry gottlieb has covered nato affairs in brussels and washington since 1980
more than 10,000 people crowded a hillside in this coastal city sunday to witness an apparition of the virgin mary that never appeared, and some went away with sore eyes
people came from all parts of italy to gather at the foot of a 16-foot high cross and stare into the sun
a local woman, maria fioritti, claimed that she had seen a vision of the madonna each week and invited italians to join her to see for themselves. the claim received wide publicity in the italian press
but the crowd stared in vain and, according to state-run rai television, many complained that the sun had hurt their eyes. no pickup</note>
the leader of the main opposition social democrat populist party stepped down sunday as party chairman, the anatolia news agency said
the agency said erdal inonu, son of the late president ismet inonu, did not give a reason for his resignation from the party post. he was elected chairman in may 1986
anatolia said that after inonu announced his resignation, the party's secretary-general, fikri saglar, announced that he also would give up his post
the agency said that inonu told reporters that he also would resign as a member of parliament. but hikmet cetin, deputy head of the party's parliamentary group, later announced that inonu retracted that decision
the social democrat populist party was formed in december 1985 by a merger of the social democratic party and the populist party. it has 99 deputies in turkey's 450-member parliament
four dominican stowaways who were locked in the cargo hold of a container ship set a fire to get the crew's attention, but the blaze burned out of control, the coast guard said
coast guard spokesman alan burd said no one was injured in the fire aboard the 560-foot nedlloyd singapore
when the ship's crew went in to fight the fire, they found four dominicans that had stowed away in the ship's last port of call,'' he said. ``it appears that the four stowaways set the fire intentionally to attract the crew's attention because they were locked in this cargo hold.''
burd said the dominicans were rescued unharmed and turned over to local police
one crew member fell while fighting the fire and appeared to have broken a leg, but no other injuries were reported
the dominicans boarded the ship friday night in the dominican republic port of haina, about 10 miles west of the capital santo domingo, a spokesman for the puerto rico police department said. it docked in san juan early sunday
burd said the fire was first reported around 2:30 a.m. and raged out of control about an hour later
there was no immediate estimate of damages
five people were killed and 28 were injured, 14 seriously, when the bus they were in missed a curve and plunged off a highway, police said sunday
the accident occurred on the tibet highway saturday. the passenger bus was headed to lamosanghu from katmandu, a 50-mile drive
at the halfway point, the overcrowded bus, carrying 100 people, failed to make a sharp curve, police said
an ethiopian airlines pilot trainee landed a small plane at khartoum airport and asked for asylum in sudan, an official source said sunday
the source said gabre getahon, 22, was handed over to sudanese security authorities and the cessna, which belonged to ethiopian airlines, was under guard at the airport
other sources said getahon decided to defect to sudan on saturday, while on a training flight in the small aircraft
he was quoted as saying that he first planned to land at ed-damazin, in southeastern sudan near the ethiopian border, but could not land there because of maintenance operations under way at the airport. he then followed the blue nile to khartoum airport, where he put down the plane
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said getahon is from tigre province in northern ethiopia, where a rebellion has been going on for years
he told sudanese authorities he fled to escape ``repression'' in his homeland, the sources said
he also reportedly claimed to have made several previous defection attempts via kenya before joining the airline but was caught and returned to ethiopia
a fire in an apartment building early sunday killed five people and seriously injured 10, fire officials said
the blaze in paris' 12th district, in the southeast part of the city, started in a second-floor apartment and spread through the six-story building via the wooden elevator cage, officials said
up to 100 firefighters battled the flames, containing them in about an hour, by 6 a.m
five people died in the flames and 10 others suffered burns, smoke inhalation or fractured bones from jumping from windows, according to rescue workers
about 40 people lived in the building, which was destroyed
the cause of the fire was not immediately known. fabrega and add that leyton has been the envoy; inserts 1 graf after 24th graf pvs bgng, `we are' to update with drug trafficking charges against noriega</note>
the governing body of the organization of american states sidestepped a position on political instability in panama, refusing in an extraordinary eight-hour session to chose between two men claiming to be the country's ambassador
in panama, there are two presidents _ one who represents civilian authority and one who represents military power,'' costa rican oas ambassador guillermo villalobos arce told the oas's permanent council
most of the speakers during the session, which ended at about midnight saturday, voiced support for ousted panamanian president eric arturo delvalle
delvalle sent lawrence chewning fabrega to represent panama, while military strong man manuel antonio noriega sent roberto leyton, who has been the envoy. leyton protested that the discussion violated the organization's charter and said the permanent council was an inappropriate forum for an airing of his country's ``internal affairs.''
over the course of the session, the oas ambassadors heard bitter recriminations about promises the nicaraguan sandinistas failed to keep, allegations the united states seeks to destabilize panama, invocation of the name of the late panamanian strong man gen. omar torrijos, and questions about america reneging on its commitment in two 1979 treaties to completely transfer control of the panama canal to panama by the turn of the century
just for good measure, gabriel lewis, a former panamanian ambassador to the united states who is now part of noriega's political opposition, had oas technicians play a tape-recording of his telephone conversation earlier in the day with a distressed mariela delvalle, wife of the deposed president
in it, she told lewis what she had told military officers who came looking for delvalle: ``my husband is not here, nor are you going to find him.''
but the council failed to come to grips with the question of whether to recognize the portfolio of leyton or chewning
representatives of several non-oas countries, seated in a section for official observers, gave chewning an ovation when he briefly entered the mahogany-walled council chamber and conferred with sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., who came as an observer
but from the time the council meeting was supposed to start, at 4 p.m. est, until shortly after 9 p.m., the action was away from the council chamber, as the roughly 30 ambassadors wrangled in private over whether to seat leyton or chewning
a carnival atmosphere developed as lewis, chewning and kennedy alternately met with reporters in the ornate lobby of the oas building, while musicians, waiters and waitresses prepared one floor above for a dinner-dance
at one point, the u.s. ambassador to the oas, richard t. mccormack, shrugged his shoulders, and told a reporter, ``i'm supposed to be up there. i'm the host for that thing.''
this was just moments before the formal debate began _ and just after a rumored deal to settle the credentialing problem had collapsed
a member of the u.s. mission, talking on grounds of anonymity, said the oas council members had seriously discussed seating neither leyton nor chewning. this official said they came close to giving the seat to soraya cano, a career panamanian diplomat
but paraguay's juan alberto llanes, chairman of the oas permanent council, ruled that for purposes of the debate, leyton must be seated _ and he was. and that's when the fireworks began
the chairman feels it is important and necessary to have a representative of the sister republic of panama present,'' he said
given the floor, leyton declared: ``a precedent is being set here because the representative of panama considers that the events taking place in my country are strictly matters of our own internal affairs.''
guatemala's ambassador, francisco villagran, countered with an assertion that ``we are faced with a historic decision. will we be in favor of autocratic governments?''
mccormack denounced delvalle's ouster by panama's national assembly
what we do or do not do ... could have a strong bearing on the decisions of other generals as they decide whether or not to let democracies survive,'' he said
nicaragua's carlos tunnermann took up for leyton, saying the oas debate could not be allowed ``to serve as a pretext for interventionist action.''
lewis gave the debate its most riveting moments as he came to the table as a specially appointed representative of the government of el salvador
when leyton vehemently opposed lewis' seating, waving his arms to emphasize his points, lewis reminded the panamanian that ``it was here, where we condemned (former nicaraguan strong man anastasio) somoza. he repressed the nicaraguan people, and now the sandinistas take away the right of self-determination.''
we are suffering a new phenomenon _ narco-militarism,'' lewis said in attacking noriega. ``this narcotic-militarism knows no frontier. it is dedicated to the illicit trade that respects no borders, no boundaries.''
two federal grand juries in florida accused noriega of drug trafficking charges earlier this month
this was not the kind of government torrijos envisioned when he joined president jimmy carter in signing the panama canal treaties in 1979, he said
mccormack took the opportunity to say the united states had no intention of ``backing down'' on the treaty commitments _ as leyton had suggested
leyton persisted, nonetheless
we demand that the government of el salvador furnish proof of these allegations,'' he said. leyton directed his fire at el salvador because that country had requested the emergency oas session
this forum is being used like a political circus,'' leyton screamed. chief...' to clarify.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz finally made a little headway sunday in his uphill fight to gain arab and israeli support for negotiations on a middle east settlement
they liked the package,'' said a senior u.s. official after shultz outlined his proposal in a three-hour meeting with egyptian president hosni mubarak in cairo
shultz then flew to israel to resume his discussions with prime minister yitzhak shamir sunday night over dinner and with foreign minister shimon peres on monday before flying to amman for a second round of talks with jordanian officials
we have a package that is promising _ at least we think it is promising,'' shultz said after seeing mubarak. ``whether anyone else thinks it is promising is a question.''
egyptian foreign minister ismat abdel-meguid, standing alongside shultz under cloudy cairo skies, did not respond
but a u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity on shultz's flight to jerusalem, said that egypt had endorsed the u.s. proposal
on saturday, syrian and jordanian officials rejected the plan as unacceptable
shultz's plan, which he outlined for mubarak on notepaper, calls for immediate negotiations to provide some self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip. the second stage would involve negotiations by december on an overall settlement of the decades-old jewish-arab dispute
what we are seeking is a comprehensive peace in the middle east,'' shultz said after the meeting. ``that means we have to consider all the countries, security issues, the palestinian people, their aspirations, their legitimate rights.''
mubarak saw shultz to the door and shook his hand, but did not emerge to face reporters and cameras
egypt's attraction to the plan could be based in part on the fact that mubarak last month in talks with president reagan in washington pushed very hard for an overall settlement instead of an interim arrangement on the palestinian issue
shultz's reference to a comprehensive agreement echoed the advice from the egyptian leader
egypt also has had a peace treaty with israel for nine years and is in the midst of improving relations with its jewish neighbor
jordan's king hussein, on the other hand, has ducked and weaved for some 20 years on the issue of negotiating with israel. he has held back until now because he cannot be sure how much of the west bank would be returned to his control. jordan occupied the territory from 1949 to 1967, when israel captured the land in the middle east war
syria, meanwhile, takes among the hardest lines towards israel in the arab world and has been reluctant to approve any u.s.-negotiated initiative. it also is a close ally of the soviet union, which shultz is not inclined to give a major role in peace negotiations
indeed, syrian and jordanian officials stressed saturday after meeting with shultz that they want the soviet union and the palestine liberation organization to take part in negotiations for a middle east peace
the united states and israel want the plo excluded and soviet influence limited
plo chief yasser arafat said saturday the plo has named a delegation of palestinians to meet shultz. but shultz was not expected to meet with the plo delegation
fifteen palestinians from the occupied territories of the west bank and gaza strip earlier rejected an invitation to meet with shultz
shultz will return to amman on monday to review again the u.s. plan with crown prince hassan, prime minister zaid rifai and foreign minister taher masri
but a final decision is unlikely, at least until shultz sees hussein in london on tuesday
the king has steered clear of shultz's shuttle, reportedly to have dental surgery
a shamir aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, ``it's a very strong signal that he (hussein) doesn't want to get involved.''
in the meantime, the u.s. official said, ``the chances are still good that shultz will return to the middle east after attending the north atlantic treaty organization summit meeting in brussels on wednesday and thursday.''
while a charity was collecting money to help a man keep his electricity flowing, a city worker quietly went to the power company and paid the bill out of his own pocket
i went down there to take care of that thing ... and i found out it was paid,'' nelson johnson, who is unemployed, said friday
he said he was told that george tanner, a deputy city marshal, had paid the bill wednesday, the day after a newspaper described johnson's problems
i thought (johnson) was in need and god has been good to me,'' said tanner. ``my heart always goes out to those in need,'' he said
johnson's troubles included not only the $63.41 bill, which was 90 days overdue, but the need to keep his 4-month-old daughter on an electric heart monitor because of seizures and breathing problems
southwestern electric power co., which had threatened to cut off johnson's electricity, had agreed to give johnson until friday to pay the bill
christian services, which helped him work out the delay, also collected money to pay the bill
johnson said he would use the gifts to pay for food and medicine for his wife, 4-year-old son and his infant daughter
a college student who pedaled 367 miles from the tennessee state line to the gulf of mexico decided there was an easier way to return _ by car
jeff lindner, who rode in a low-slung bicycle enclosed in a synthetic fabric, had an average speed of 18.3 mph for the 20-hour ride. the specialized vehicle, designed by students at the university of alabama at huntsville, is worth more than $14,000
he's probably pretty danged tired. i know i would be after 20 hours,'' bill lindner, the cyclist's brother, said saturday
the ride on friday, sanctioned by the ultra-marathon cycling association, was a tune-up for a coast-to-coast attempt scheduled for october. lindner previously rode the bike across alabama
in almost reverential tones, they spoke of tortuous twists and corkscrews, free falls and backward loops
for the 100 members of the american coaster enthusiasts club who met saturday for their sixth annual midwinter conference, roller coasters are more than a mere weekend amusement. they are serious fun
we like rides that make you find religion, if you will,'' said randy geisler of minneapolis, president of the organization. ``we like full gonzo scares.''
the chicago-based american coaster enthusiasts counts 1,500 members worldwide, said geisler, who said he will head a group visiting japan this summer to sample tokyo's rides
even the well-off accept charity
officials of this affluent community have published a list of tax-deductible gifts they will accept to spruce up town _ among them a $450 popcorn maker, a $12,000 copy machine, or several $500 wood benches ``to provide attractive, uniform seating at each tee area on the golf course.''
the gift suggestions are listed in a glossy pamphlet entitled ``donations guide to community giving.''
i think it's a wonderful way for people to enhance the town, and it's been done by other cities,'' mayor yvelyne ``deedy'' marix said of the three-year-old program
the palm beach teen association is seeking the $450 popcorn maker to ``provide healthy snacks'' and the police department wants the $12,000 copying machine to replace its 14-year-old model
for gifts of $100,000 or more, palm beach promises a ``personalized plaque in a significant location.''
an enclave of great wealth since the turn of the century, palm beach boasted a per-capita income of more than $37,000 in 1985 _ the nation's most affluent suburb with a population of 10,000 or more, the palm beach post reported saturday
it's been compared with the colonies' fight to overthrow king george iii. it's the little guy against the establishment, the underdog fighting for a principle
and it's all about congress, which changed the name of clarks hill lake to strom thurmond lake, after the veteran republican senator from south carolina, without asking local residents what they thought of the idea
i think we should change the constitution from `we the people' to `you the congress.' they could tell us what we need and what to call everything down here,'' said dan elswick, owner of ridge road bait and tackle in appling, ga
some cite an emotional attachment to the name taken from this nearby tiny town when the 70,000-acre army corps of engineers lake was first filled 44 years ago. others say they've built a business reputation on the name, bringing national fishing tournaments and speedboat races and investing in souvenirs
others are upset about the way the name of the lake on the georgia-south carolina border was changed
rep. butler derrick, d-s.c., introduced a bill suggesting the change on dec. 3, two days before thurmond's 85th birthday. the senate approved a similar measure on dec. 4, and by dec. 23, president reagan had signed it into law
derrick said he was approached by the chairman of the clarks hill-russell authority of south carolina about changing the lake's name
the eight-member authority was created in 1946 to ``assist, promote and cooperate'' in the development of the clarks hill and russell lakes on the savannah river
chairman john mcallister said the board members, appointed by the governor, decided amongst themselves that naming the lake after thurmond would be a good idea because of all he's done to support the area
he said they didn't seek any public opinion because ``we were not making the final decision. we had no control over congress.''
but when senate minority leader bob dole, r-kan., introduced the measure for the name change in the senate, the authority's unanimous support was entered into the congressional record
it was our impression that the local folks in the area were supportive of the change ...,'' said dole aide jim whittinghill
a number of businessmen around the lake have posted petitions asking for a compromise _ change the name of the lake back to clarks hill and leave the dam and the road across it named after thurmond, whose name is already on schools, federal buildings and streets around the state
the petitions are being distributed by a group called ``keep our lake clarks hill,'' led by roy giles of lincolnton, ga., and phillip white of clarks hill
the two say they have more than 20,000 signatures so far, and they've taken out newspaper ads, gone on television and radio and are applying for status as a non-profit agency so they can accept donations for the fight
they realize the compromise also will take an act of congress. and they think that will require support from thurmond
thurmond has said he was deeply honored by the lake's new name, and he won't comment on the proposed compromise. he said he doesn't consider the issue a serious problem and ``i do hope the controversy will subside.''
it's not the first time the lake's name has been changed. when it was first created, a typographical error caused the name to officially go down as ``clark hill lake'' instead of ``clarks hill lake.''
it took 26 years before congress restored the missing ``s.''
the person who sponsored that legislation was thurmond. birds</head>
the piping plovers and roseate terns due to arrive in nesting areas here in the coming weeks will be met by thousands of gulls, renewing a battle blamed for the decline of the endangered birds off cape cod
thirty years ago, piping plovers and roseate terns outnumbered the gulls nesting on monomoy island during the spring and summer
but last year just two pairs of piping plovers and seven pairs of roseate terns nested at the monomoy wildlife refuge, fighting for survival against an estimated 70,000 gulls
the u.s. fish and wildlife service, which runs monomoy, this month released a new master plan for the refuge that permits poisoning the gulls to protect the endangered birds
the gull population explosion has coincided with rampant residential development on the coast, where garbage in landfills has given the gulls a new food source
we're giving them a free, hot lunch every day and the terns and plovers just aren't adaptable enough to take advantage of that opportunity,'' said thomas french, director of the state's endangered species program
they are competing for the same piece of land and the gulls are much more aggressive,'' french said. ``they will eat the terns for lunch.''
there will be no poisoning this year because the plan was released too late to conduct the necessary environmental study before the migrating shorebirds arrive from winter habitats in the south
but refuge manager jack fillio believes the plan will be used next spring
i'm of the opinion that the gull population has expanded to the point where this seems to be the most viable technology to use,'' fillio said in an interview last week. ``you could study the issue until the plovers and terns are gone.''
animal rights activists have denounced the plan. but state and federal environmental officials say they reluctantly endorse it as a means of restoring balance to the habitat
only one pair of herring gulls was spotted at monomoy in 1961. more than 15,000 pairs have nested there since 1980. there were no black-backed gulls nesting at the refuge 25 years ago, but more than 5,000 pairs have made it their summer home in recent years
chris lahey, conservation director for the massachusetts audubon society, said provisions in the new master plan endorsing gull poisoning only as a last resort ``sound like a step in the right direction.''
because poison cannot be used this year, fillio said refuge staffers will use wire mesh to fence off tern and plover nests and disrupt gull nests near areas the endangered birds's nests
bradford blodgett, a state ornithologist, said nature may have provided an alternative to poison. he said a new barrier island created last year when a winter storm cut through a huge sandbar off chatham has created what could be a gull-free home for terns and plovers
by breaking up gull nests established on the new island, the terns and plovers could prosper undisturbed if they settle there, blodgett said
if the new island helps protect the piping plovers and terns, it will be the second time in 50 years that nature helped the birds in their fight against man's influence
many species of shorebirds, particularly piping plovers, were hunted almost to extinction in the latter part of the 19th century. their populations began to recover after passage of the migratory bird treaty act of 1918, and then rebounded dramatically 20 years later when a 1938 hurricane reshaped the land and provided new nesting areas. arabs... also changes hometown and gives age of benvenuto in 15th graf bgng: in ramallah...</note>
jewish settlers and israeli soldiers clashed with palestinians in this west bank village, leaving two arabs dead, the army said sunday. israel radio said one settler was jailed
israeli police released two american teachers jailed overnight after they were arrested while carrying posters listing the names of two slain palestinians
details of the saturday clash in abud were sketchy and the army said it was investigating to find out who fired the fatal shots in the village 20 miles northwest of jerusalem
police interrogated three civilians in connection with the slayings and arrested one, israel radio reported. the man, from the nearby neve zuf jewish settlement, was to appear before a judge on monday, the radio said
the latest fatalities came as u.s. secretary of state george shultz pitched his mideast peace plan, visiting cairo for talks with president hosni mubarak
shultz's mission is aimed at opening arab-israeli peace talks and halting violence in the occupied lands. but 11 arabs have died since shultz arrived thursday, and dozens more have been wounded
by u.n. count, 74 arabs have been killed since the unrest began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank of the jordan river and the gaza strip
israel's navy sank a boat carrying five guerrillas who were en route to carry out an attack in israel, the military said. lebanese police said two palestinians belonging to a syrian-backed guerrilla group were killed and the three others jumped overboard and were captured by the israelis
in another development, a military spokesman said the army has arrested a soldier on suspicion of killing a palestinian protester a month ago. the daily yediot ahronot quoted witnesses as saying the soldier caught a stone-throwing protester in the gaza strip and shot him in the stomach
three arabs were killed sunday in southern lebanon when guerrillas attacked an outpost manned by pro-israeli militiamen at beit yahoun near the israeli border, israeli military sources reported. they said four militiamen were wounded
according to two abud residents who did not see saturday's clash but said they learned of it from neighbors, about 15 military and civilian vehicles entered abud in the evening
the two witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they heard gunshots and were told soldiers and civilians were shooting in the village of 3,000. one arab was shot in his house and the other outside, they said
officials in the ramallah hospital identified the victims as raed mahmoud awad barghouti, 17, who was shot in the head; and his cousin ahmed ibrahim mustafa barghouti, 22, who was shot in the stomach
an arab source, who spoke with a relative of one victim, said villagers also blamed the settlers
in ramallah, two american teachers were released on bail after spending a night in jail on suspicion of incitement, said their lawyer, jonathan kuttab. he said police freed the two, alison glick, 25, of cincinnati, and john benvenuto, 42, of boston, after they refused to sign a confession in hebrew. no charges were filed, but kuttab said police told them they were still under investigation
glick and benvenuto, who teach at a quaker-run school in ramallah, carried felt-point pens and a poster with the names of two palestinians killed in the violence, kuttab said
they were freed shortly after they were visited by a representative of the u.s. consulate in east jerusalem, said benvenuto's mother, marian benvenuto of rochester, n.y., who said she spoke to her son following his release
israel's 24-member cabinet debated the violence. israel radio reported that transportation minister chaim corfu proposed closing the west bank and gaza to the media, but no decision was made
at ein arik, villagers said six carloads of settlers entered the village saturday night, smashed the windows in a van and several houses, stoned homes and fired guns into the air
touring halhoul near a village where two arabs were killed over the weekend, defense minister yitzhak rabin heard complaints from arabs about beatings and shootings
go to the village, and tell the people that if they will be quiet, we'll be quiet, too,'' he said. ``as long as there will be riots, residents will be hurt.''
amy lynn hardin, who underwent a liver transplant at the tender age of 11 months thanks to vigorous community fund-raising, has died at the age of 5
there will never be another one like her, not like my amy,'' said her mother, robin hardin. ``she's at peace now.''
amy died at home saturday. she would have turned 6 on june 1
amy was born with biliary atresia, in which the bile ducts malfunction and the liver becomes hard. she underwent surgery when she was 6 weeks old and again at 3 months, but the operations were unsuccessful
doctors said her only chance for survival was a liver transplant
amy's health became a cause for community residents, who rallied in late 1982 and early 1983 to raise more than $260,000 for the transplant
the rock group kiss performed a benefit concert in 1983 at kiel auditorium in st. louis. that same year, amy received a letter of support from president reagan
if it wasn't for the community getting together, we wouldn't have had five years,'' mrs. hardin said. ``she was the joy of our life. she was very strong. she fought all the way to the end.''
the transplanted liver amy received on may 10, 1983, began to fail around thanksgiving, mrs. hardin said
on dec. 11, the family took amy to the university of minnesota hospital in minneapolis, where the transplant had been performed. she returned home jan. 16 after doctors said her chances for recovery were not good
she couldn't stand it anymore,'' mrs. hardin said. ``we made a promise that we wouldn't take her back to the hospital. we brought her home and the family took turns being with her.''
amy's transplant was termed a success, but her recovery was hampered by a series of setbacks caused by rejection of the new liver, viruses and side effects from medication
doctors like to say that you are over the hump after five years, but one can never say never. there are just too many complications,'' mary stanik, spokeswoman for university of minnesota hospital, said saturday
besides her parents, amy is survived by two brothers
funeral services will be monday at holy family church in cahokia. than human</head>
missi broussard says christ saved her from a life of drugs, sin and barroom brawling through one of jimmy swaggart's ministries
now swaggart's fall has shattered her belief in a man she had thought incorruptible, but she said her faith in god is unchanged
i had this image built of him (swaggart). he could do no wrong,'' she said. ``now i know differently. he can do wrong, he has done wrong, and he can do wrong again.''
broussard said swaggart's confession to an unspecified sin didn't sway her belief in god
jimmy swaggart did not change me. he did not have the power to do so. jesus christ changed me,'' she said
she wasn't at church sunday because she would have had to leave halfway through the service, but she did go to a service wednesday
usually, she said, about 1,500 people meet in the crossfire building, which will hold about 5,000. ``this past wednesday night it was packed. they had to pull out seats for people to sit in.''
broussard, 21, said she will continue to attend co-pastor jim rentz's services. but she doesn't know what she will do when swaggart, who reportedly paid a prostitute to pose nude for him and tried to cover up the scandal, returns to the pulpit
the lord is the one who led me to the church,'' she said. ``if he wants to lead me away, i'm open for him to do so. but i'm not going to sway on my own opinion of jimmy swaggart to decide whether i go or stay
i really do feel like that speaks to most of the church. they're looking to god now because they've learned their lesson looking to a man.''
michael and lisa sexton never saw swaggart as anything more than human
he's a man, and all men make mistakes,'' said sexton, who left his home state of idaho last year to be closer to swaggart and his ministry
i feel nothing but love in my heart for him and his family,'' said mrs. sexton, 21. ``he is a man of integrity for being able to stand there and confess.''
the sextons met about seven years ago at an assembly of god youth group in idaho, where they began watching swaggart on television. they began donating to his ministry about four years ago, and first visited his family worship center in baton rouge 15 months ago
i felt the lord wanted us to relocate,'' said sexton, 27. he got a job at the waterford 3 nuclear power plant in taft. they moved last august to luling and drive 90 minutes every sunday to and from swaggart's church in baton rouge
sexton said he was shocked by swaggart's confession, but thinks it was a good thing
it needed to happen. i sense he was somewhat relieved, because he's going to get the help he needs.''
and he said the sin doesn't change the good done by swaggart's ministries, which feed thousands of children a day and provide medical care and other services to the poor
no one will ever know how many lives it (ministry) has touched,'' he said
after sunday's worship service during which swaggart thanked the congregation for their support, irma keel voiced faith in her troubled minister
i think brother swaggart's a great pastor and i think god will bring him out,'' she said. ``you see, god forgives us for everything we do. he has the advocate with the father. he's my brother in christ.''
you have to forgive and forget,'' said david wilkerson, another congregation member. ``you have to go on in the lord.'' sted this week. subs 19th graf, `the really...', to clarify that entire quotation is attributed to gunson.</note>
it has been 10 months since the trial began, seven months since the first witness appeared and an incredible five years since the mcmartin pre-school molestation case hit the courts
and there is no end in sight
prosecutors say they will conclude their presentation by july, but the defense isn't saying how long it may take
sometimes it irks me when people talk about how long it's been,'' says defense attorney dean gits, one of the players in this long-running drama on the 15th floor of the downtown criminal courts building
this has to be put into perspective. the case is absolutely unique,'' he said last week. ``we are dealing with allegations that cover four to five years. murders don't take that long; it's a split second. rapes and robberies don't take that long
how do you reconstruct a period of time that happened many, many years ago and covers four to five years? if people don't understand that then they don't understand why it's taking so long.''
gits represents peggy mcmartin buckey, 61, who is on trial along with her son, raymond buckey, 29, charged with 100 child molestations at their now defunct family owned preschool in suburban manhattan beach
with time, the case has changed
five teachers originally charged had their cases dismissed for lack of evidence. the prosecution, which once involved 41 children, now focuses on 13 youngsters who have grown from toddlers to pre-teen-agers
and the children's sometimes bizarre stories of satan worship, animal mutilation and trips to remote places have all but vanished
i sense that they have weeded out those (children) who went into fantasyland,'' says gits
the latest child witness, a slender, 11-year-old boy, took the stand last week, telling jurors in 15 minutes what he remembered of his alleged molestation by buckey and mentioning briefly that he once saw buckey kill a horse
in a now familiar pattern, the cross-examination by gits and buckey's attorney, danny davis, extended for days as the lawyers tried to elicit details which the prosecution never sought
details of the horse incident, for example, were almost impossible to extract from the young witness who repeatedly answered, ``i don't know.''
but the boy, nervous and embarrassed, told of being fondled and forced into oral copulation by buckey and said he felt ``sick and dirty'' when he drew pictures of the incident for his mother
davis says he sees a pattern of fading memories. but deputy district attorney lael rubin, who has guided the case almost from its inception, says the child witnesses have improved with age
the children are more articulate. their memories may not be as detailed as several years ago, but they're older, more articulate and less intimidated,'' she says
so far the jurors, who have sworn to stick with the trial no matter how long it lasts, have heard from only five of the children. other prosecution witnesses called so far have included doctors, police officers and parents
the really important witnesses are the children themselves,'' says ms. rubin's co-counsel, deputy district attorney roger gunson. ``and the children have testified very well.''
the trial's duration has had a personal impact on all participants
the jurors, initially restless, have settled into a routine, taking copious notes. many of them carry lunchboxes as if they are going to work
they've become part of the case and the commitment is coming through,'' says gits
gunson jogs and rides a bicycle to relieve tension. ms. rubin and davis found that they had enrolled in the same health club, and they often encounter each other working out in preparation for their courtroom battles
gits shuns exercise, saying, ``when i want to relax i smoke a cigarette and drink a cup of coffee.''
the greatest strain is on the defendants. the gray-haired mrs. buckey, free on bail, sits and knits during recesses, chats with courtroom spectators or thumbs through a small bible
she has her faith and believes very much that god has helped carry her through this,'' says gits
her son, who has been jailed without bail for nearly five years, was granted $3 million bail just before christmas. in spite of pledges of property, he has been unable to raise the necessary $300,000 in cash to gain release
but davis says his client is in ``pretty good spirits,'' sustained by the knowledge he will one day get to tell his side from the witness stand
perhaps the most powerful figure in the courtroom is superior court judge william pounders, who tries every day to move things along quickly
last november, one year after he took over the mcmartin case, pounders marked the date by declaring, ``i don't intend to see another anniversary date. i intend to conclude the case within the next year.''
when a small fire broke out above the stage of the marquis theater, ``me and my girl'' star jim dale kept cool, as did the full house of 1,600
nobody was hurt in the incident, which interrupted saturday's matinee about 15 minutes into the first act of the tony-award-winning musical and sparked dale's sense of humor
you've got to expect this if you come to see the hottest show on broadway,'' dale told the playgoers after they filed back into the theater after a 40-minute interruption
an overheated cable ignited a piece of rope in the proscenium arch, out of view of the audience, said stage manager john bonanni
there was a smell of smoke during the first scene, and after i made my exit, i said, `something's burning,''' dale recalled sunday
then i heard a commotion, and i thought, `that's not in the scene, shouting and carrying on.' i looked out, and people were rushing out, up the aisles.''
one of the show's managers calmed the crowd, which filed out in an orderly fashion, bonanni said. the fire was quickly extinguished by stagehands
after city firefighters made a safety check, the audience was let back in
a few jokes ``got them in a damn good mood,'' and then dale recapped the play's action up to the point of the fire and retreated backstage
dale, who plays a cockney commoner who lands in the lap of english aristocracy, said he ``couldn't resist an ad lib'' in a later scene
i say to the butler, `you haven't got a cigarette, have you, mate?' then i turned to the audience and said, `i promise i won't light up,''' he said
he thinks the incident cast a warm glow over the audience _ figuratively speaking
they love to be involved in something fresh and new,'' he said. ``we can't supply a fire every day, though.''
a swarm of earthquakes shook the desert on both sides of the california-mexico border but no damage or injuries were reported from the late-night tremors, authorities said sunday
six quakes measuring between 3.0 and 4.1 on the richter scale struck between 9 p.m. saturday and midnight, clustered 19 miles southwest of el centro in the imperial valley and 75 miles east of san diego, said spokesman robert finn at the california institute of technology in pasadena
the last three tremors were felt in mexicali, a mexican border town that was shaken by damaging quakes on nov. 23 and 24, said fire department lt. antonio makallon
many panicked and fearful people called, but only those who were in their houses felt the tremors,'' he said in spanish
the november quakes caused four deaths, at least 94 minor injuries and millions of dollars in damage on both sides of the border. those quakes registered 6.2 and 6.6 on the richter scale
the richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. an earthquake of 3.5 on the richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage. bowing out of debate next week; subs 16-18th graf pvs with 2 grafs new from kemp</note>
sen. bob dole charged on sunday that vice president george bush condoned trading arms for hostages in the iran-contra affair, saying in a republican presidential debate, ``we shouldn't do those things.''
in a key confrontation before the march 8 super tuesday primaries across the south, rep. jack kemp slammed bush and dole _ the party's front-runners _ as two moderates who would raise taxes and end the reagan revolution
they sound alike. they talk alike. they've supported every single tax increase over the last eight years,'' kemp said. ``if they're nominated, the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead.''
bush and dole objected, saying they have fought against tax increases and for the reagan administration's agenda for the past seven years
they fired back at kemp for what they contend is his casual attitude toward the federal budget deficit
jack's never met a deficit he didn't like,'' dole said
bush told the new york congressman, `you don't care about deficits. you never have, and they're public enemy no. 1.''
on the recent turmoil in panama, both dole and kemp warned that the united states will not tolerate instability near the panama canal
if we've learned anything from iran-contra, we ought to give (military strongman manuel antonio) noriega 30 days to get out of panama or tell him we're going to have a trade embargo,'' dole said, adding the united states should ``de-recognize'' noriega's regime
kemp said, ``if the panamanians want to keep noregia, the united states of america is going to keep the panama canal.''
it was the first debate with all four hopefuls since the new hampshire primary and it may be the last one for bush
campaign manager lee atwater told reporters that bush is not scheduled to do any more debates, including the league of women voters confrontation next sunday in nashville, tenn. dole campaign manager bill brock said bush is following a ``front-runner's strategy'' by skipping the debate
bush tried at one point in the debate to say republicans should not be criticizing each other, but that didn't stop dole from attacking the vice president for the reagan administration's decision to trade arms for hostages in the iran-contra affair
we never should trade arms for hostages. we shouldn't issue these reports and say we shouldn't trade arms for hostages _ the vice president's report _ and then later go to a meeting and say it's all right. we shouldn't do those things,'' dole said, holding up a report on terrorism that was written by a commission headed by bush
bush did not respond directly, but did say ``mistakes were made'' in the iran-contra affair. asked later if the affair had occurred on ``his watch,'' bush replied: ``i think when the president found out what happened, he took the proper steps.''
bush has maintained throughout the affair that he did not know the arrangement was an arms-for-hostage deal
measures to protect the south's textile industry also caused sparks, with kemp accusing dole and pat robertson of changing their stands to please southern voters. more than one-third of the republican nominating delegates are at stake in contests across the south and elsewhere on march 8
pat robertson and bob dole sound like dick gephardt to me on trade, and george bush and bob dole say the budget deficit is public enemy no. 1. i want to say i belive the soviet union is public enemy no. 1,'' kemp said after the debate
democratic rep. richard gephardt of missouri is the sponsor of a tough trade measure that would require u.s. retaliation against unfair practices by other countries
kemp claimed that robertson and dole had said in iowa, ``we'll raise exports of food and grain _ and then go to south carolina and say we're going to put up barriers to imports.''
robertson retorted that he didn't want american jobs being lost to workers in china with its communist regime
there were also sharp exchanges on the question of how to reduce the federal deficit, although each denied that they would raise taxes as president
the problem is not revenues. it's spending,'' kemp said. ``we have a deficit because we have a congress who spends too much money...and interest rates are too high.''
bush, outlining his ideas, said: ``i've proposed a four-year freeze that allows for inflation....that gives the president flexibility.''
dole defended his own voting record, displaying a multi-page list of what he said were his votes against tax increases since 1975. he complained that some campaign ads distort his record on taxes _ a reference to bush ads _ and then hit at bush directly
i've been leading the efforts to reduce tax rates,'' dole said. ``you don't go the bush route. it's a four-year cop-out...we've got to reduce the deficit ... no one in this group is advocating raising taxes.''
later, bush fired back at dole, saying the kansas republican's plan for a one-year spending freeze would hurt defense
it will cut into the muscle on defense,'' bush told dole
and he defended his own four-year idea: ``i wouldn't call it a cop-out. it disciplines the spending side.''
robertson said the problem is not one of economics
it's a question of will,'' he said, asking if congress can make hard decision to cut spending
robertson, who has spent much of the past two weeks explaining various statements on missiles in cuba, hostages in lebanon and the source of the expose of problems afflicting fellow tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, said the press is a big problem for candidates
i know it's very difficult dealing with the press of america to get the truth out. they love to distort our words,'' robertson said. ``we are making it so difficult in our society for anyone to serve.''
the debate was sponsored by the atlanta journal-constitution newspapers, moderated by the papers' washington correspondent john mashek and televised live on the cable news network. the democrats took part in a similar debate on saturday
the newspapers sponsored a similar forum saturday night for the six democratic presidential candidates
most of the nation enjoyed sunny skies sunday, with temperatures seasonably cool in the northeast and seasonably mild in many other sections
light snow fell in scattered sections of wisconsin and upper michigan and rain dampened the southern coast of california and parts of nevada. a few patches of dense fog remained along the texas gulf coast
about one-third of an inch of rain fell at lovelock, nev., and los angeles during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est. an inch of snow fell at houghton, mich., during the same period
at noon, temperatures were in the 30s in much of new england, the 30s and 40s from the great lakes through the upper missouri valley, and the 40s and 50s in the pacific northwest. across the south, noontime temperatures were in the 60s and 70s across florida, the 70s and low 80s in much of texas and the 60s and 70s across the desert southwest and southern california
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 25 at jackson, wyo., and limestone, maine, to 84 at cotulla, texas. the low for the nation sunday morning was 7 below zero at houlton, maine
for monday, snow showers were predicted in the lower great lakes, the upper ohio valley and upper michigan, while rain showers were expected to fall in much of california and be widely scattered in idaho and utah
highs will be in the teens and 20s in northern maine, upper michigan, wisconsin and much of minnesota; the 30s and 40s from southern maine across maryland, the remainder of the great lakes, the ohio valley, the central mississippi valley, the northern half of the plains and the northern rockies; the 70s from southern georgia and florida across the lower mississippi valley; and in the 70s and 80s in texas and the desert southwest. elsewhere, the highs will generally reach the 50s and 60s. on two iranian cities. pickup 4th pvs: tehran's war ... deletes last four grafs which moved up and edits to trim.</note>
iranian warplanes, usually crippled by shortages of spare parts, bombed three key economic targets in iraq on sunday. iraq retaliated with air raids on two iranian cities
baghdad's state radio said iraqi jets bombed the cities of hamadan in eastern iran and dezful in the southeast in simultaneous raids at 9 p.m
the broadcast, monitored in nicosia, said the attacks were in retaliation for ``recent atrocities and crimes committed by the charlatans of iran.''
iran did not immediately confirm the iraqi raids
in a separate dispatch, the iraqi news agency said iranian artillery over the weekend shelled ``purely civilian targets'' in six iraqi border towns and cities. it said said several people were killed or wounded but gave no casualty figures
an earlier communique said two women and a child were killed and several people, including four women, were wounded in sunday's shelling. it said seven civilians were killed and 16 wounded in basra and al-qurna on saturday
tehran's war information headquarters said in a statement that iranian warplanes bombed a petrochemical plant in the southern port of basra, oil installations in abul khassib and a bridge linking umm rassas island, in the disputed shatt al-arab waterway, with mainland iraq
the tiny island is a forward iraqi position southeast of basra on the southern sector of the front with iran
all iranian planes returned safely to base from the ``successful'' midmorning raids, said the communique, broadcast by tehran radio and monitored in nicosia
an exchange of air raids that began saturday have prompted fears that a new round of the ``war of the cities'' is beginning
thousands of civilians have been killed in iraq and iran during such attacks. hostilities on population centers generally are preceded by accusations and warnings similar to those tehran and baghdad exchanged this weekend
the iranian air force was out of action for most of 1987. in january, iranian warplanes resumed combat missions against iraq, an indication that tehran had somehow acquired spare parts for its u.s.-built jets
western military analysts say iran has about 70 operational combat aircraft, including f-4 and f-5 fighter-bombers and f-14 interceptors
iraq, with more than 500 soviet and french warplanes, has maintained air supremacy in the 7-year-old gulf war
the iranian war communique said the raids sunday were in retaliation for iraqi strikes the day before on civilian targets in a tehran suburb and in the town of saghez, in the northwestern azerbaijan province
iran's islamic republic news agency reported 25 civilians killed and an unspecified number wounded in the iraqi raids saturday
the iraqi news agency denied iraq hit any civilians targets over the weekend
iraqi air force commander air marshal hamid shaaban also warned the iranians against carrying out their threats
it is an illusion that iran believes iraq will succumb to threats of attacking the cities,'' shaaban said in an interview with baghdad's official ath-thawra newspaper
shaaban said iraq had drawn plans to ``strike at strategic iranian targets and also at the nests, where the rotten heads are being sheltered.''
that was a reference to headquarters of iranian leaders
a 77-year-old soviet jew who battled for 13 years to leave the soviet union embraced his daughter when he arrived sunday in israel
some of us managed to get out _ many are still left behind,'' said mathematician naum meiman, referring to soviet emigration policies
meiman arrived in israel the same day as another leading soviet jewish activist, electrical engineer lev shapiro, who came here with his wife and two children
meiman hugged his daughter, olga plam, 50, of boulder, colo., after she arrived at ben gurion airport aboard a flight from the united states. she left the soviet union 14 years ago and had not seen her father since then
soviet authorities said they delayed meiman's emigration request because of his ``access to state secrets.'' meiman had worked in classified mathematical calculations in 1955
meiman linked his release to the policy of glasnost _ greater political openness on some topics _ initiated by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
it is true that it's easier to breathe in the soviet union nowadays, after glasnost,'' he said. ``however, in essence nothing has changed.''
the soviet union allowed 8,011 jews to emigrate in 1987, up from less than a thousand annually in recent years but still far short of the more than 50,000 permitted to leave in 1979
meiman was met by representatives of the weizman institute of science and tel aviv university. both institutions have offered the scientist opportunities to continue his work in israel, where meiman plans to settle
meiman left moscow friday and rested in vienna saturday. his wife, inna kitrosskaya, struggled for years for an exit visa for cancer treatment in the united states. she received permission and left the soviet union last year, but died 15 days later of a stroke
meiman was not allowed to accompany his wife or to attend her funeral
shapiro, of leningrad, was accompanied by his wife leah, 38, his son yisrael, 13, and the 9-year-old daughter naomi
the shapiro family, which had been refused emigration permits for 11 years, gained international prominence when naomi wrote a letter to gorbachev, saying:
you are known as a kind and good grandfather. why don't you let me meet my grandparents who live in israel?''
prime minister margaret thatcher of britain and u.s. and french authorities also intervened on behalf of the shapiros. with diaz saying delvalle not with family, telephoning international leaders. pickup 11th pvs: `the panamanian ...</note>
deposed president eric arturo delvalle stayed in hiding sunday and defied gen. manuel antonio noriega, the military strongman who ousted him and ordered him out of the country
the ex-president's whereabouts were a closely guarded secret, but family members said he was in a ``safe and secure place'' in panama, in ``good spirits'' and determined to regain his job
i am going to stay here (and) stick it out,'' delvalle told abc television in a telephone interview saturday night. ``i'm going to fight it all the way.''
delvalle did not reveal his hiding place
roderick esquivel, delvalle's vice president, also was in hiding
both men were ousted from office early friday in an action by the national legislative assembly orchestrated by noriega, the defense forces chief
delvalle ignited the latest crisis in eight months of continuing civil unrest in panama on thursday when he tried to fire noriega, who is charged in florida with corruption and narcotics trafficking. the united states also has urged noriega to step down as military chief
on friday, delvalle returned to his home in an upper-class neighborhood. police surrounded the house friday evening and delvalle's telephones were cut, leaving him incommunicado and under an undeclared house arrest
sometime that night, he reportedly climbed over a patio wall at the rear of the house and escaped through a neighbor's yard, avoiding the policemen who had been posted on the street in front of his home
raul diaz, a brother-in-law, and other family members said military officials had warned delvalle that if he didn't leave the country voluntarily he would be arrested and forcibly deported
diaz said sunday that delvalle was telephoning leaders throughout the world seeking their support
he said delvalle was not with his wife and three children, but that all were safe. ``they are in one place and he is alone in another,'' diaz said
the u.s. state department said saturday some of delvalle's children or grandchildren were at the american embassy or the home of u.s. ambassador arthur davis. the u.s. embassy declined to comment sunday on that report
the panamanian government claimed u.s. officials were hiding delvalle at an american military installation in panama
but gabriel lewis, a former panamanian ambassador to washington, said sunday he was ``under the protection of a good panamanian family and they will never find him.''
cynthia farrell, a spokeswoman for the u.s. embassy, said she could not ``confirm or deny anything.'' she said the embassy was under orders from washington ``not to discuss the situation.''
delvalle's hopes of regaining the presidency suffered a setback saturday night when the permanent council of the organization of american states, meeting in washington, declined to take any action on panama
delvalle and the reagan administration in washington had hoped the oas would agree to impose trade sanctions against panama, or at least approve a resolution condemning the president's ouster by the military
on the eve of a planned nationwide protest strike, priests in roman catholic churches throughout the country read a communique to parishoners from archbishop marcos g. mcgrath
the communique, first issued two days ago, decried ``corruption (that has) spread throughout the public and private sectors'' of panama and said the events of the past few days ``had deepened the crisis and damaged the credibility of the government and the constitutional process.''
but the archbishop urged his followers not to resort to violence in an attempt to resolve what he called ``the grave national and international problems'' facing panama
the strike was called by the national civic crusade, a coalition of about 200 professional, business, labor and political groups that has been seeking noriega's ouster since last june
crusade leaders said they hoped to ``totally paralyze'' the country early this week, but there were indications the strike would not meet its goal
osvaldo velasquez, president of the panama human rights commission, predicted sunday that many store owners would open for business monday ``out of fear of government repression.''
he said ``military people'' already had threatened some businessmen, telling them they would ``kick in their doors'' if they tried to close monday
delvalle was dismissed by the legislative assembly in a tumultuous, 10-minute meeting friday, about seven hours after he went on national television thursday afternoon and announced he had fired noriega
noriega's followers command a majority of 45 seats in the 67-member assembly. delvalle's backers boycotted the session, leaving the outcome a foregone conclusion. issues</head>
democratic presidential candidate paul simon got the highest rating from an environmental group sunday, but no candidate in either party graded better than fair on the southern environmental assembly's ``toxics report card.''
six of the candidates _ all the republicans and two democrats _ got ``failing'' grades from the group made up of 10 environmental organizations from southern states that held a two-day conference in atlanta
the assembly graded simon, a senator from illinois, at 76 percent on issues such as reducing use of toxic chemicals, cleaning up dumpsites and recycling waste
but according to the study released sunday, that grade only rates as ``fair.'' none of the democratic or republican candidates scored in the ``good'' or ``excellent'' categories
republican candidates scored much lower than democrats, with sen. bob dole of kansas getting the highest score at only 18 percent. vice president george bush was next at 8 percent, followed by rep. jack kemp of new york, 4 percent, and former television evangelist pat robertson, 3 percent
among democrats, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee trailed simon with a rating of 72 percent. gore and simon were the only two candidates to appear at a forum saturday before the assembly, which figured into their ratings
jesse jackson was next at 64 percent, followed by rep. richard gephardt of missouri, 60 percent; former sen. gary hart of colorado, 50 percent; and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, 47 percent
the assembly's report card said the grades were based on a candidate's ``past voting records, their written responses to our questions and their personal presentations'' to a toxic prevention conference
ninety to 100 percent was considered ``excellent,'' 80-89 percent ``good,'' 70-79 percent ``fair,'' 60-69 percent ``poor,'' and below 59 percent ``failure.''
patty frase, an arkansas enviromental congress member who attended the weekend conference, said the ratings show that the 1988 candidates are not addressing environmental issues
these candidates debate about many important issues, but they neglect to address the environment,'' ms. frase said. ``how can we focus on national defense when we can't defend our drinking water supplies against chemicals that cause birth defects and cancer?''
an estimated 100,000 people demonstrated peacefully sunday to protest an art exhibition in which a print of marilyn monroe's face was imposed on a picture of the virgin of guadalupe, mexico's patron saint
the demonstration was organized by four roman catholic religious organizations and the people gathered in the capital's main zocalo square. they then marched five miles to the basilica at la villa, where an image of the virgin of guadalupe is enshrined
many marchers carried signs denouncing the museum of modern art exhibition. the museum is run by the institute of fine arts, an agency of the department of education
on jan. 23, about 1,000 people chanting ``long live christ the king!'' stormed the museum in the city's central chapultepec park and authorities closed the exhibit by painter rolando de la rosa
the museum director, jorge alberto manrique, resigned last thursday at the government's request. manrique had criticized the closing of the exhibition
more than 100 mexican artists and intellectuals expressed in a statement their ``profound indignation'' and called for manrique's reinstatement
more than 90 percent of mexico's 80 million people are catholics
in one work, de la rosa, 36, superimposed the face of the late actress marilyn monroe on an image of the virgin of guadalupe
in another, styled after leonardo da vinci's ``last supper,'' jesus christ had the face of the late mexican actor and singer pedro infante. in ``the sacred family,'' the baby jesus was replaced by a soccer ball
a welsh nationalist group claimed responsibility sunday for four incendiary attacks on offices of real estate firms that have been selling vacation homes in wales to english people
four offices in the english city of chester near the welsh border were damaged in the saturday night attacks
police said the incendiary devices were placed through the letterboxes of the buildings
a group calling itself meibion glyndwr (sons of glendower, in the welsh language), asserted responsibility in a telephone call to a journalist, saying speculators and ``collaborators'' must get out of wales
named after the 15th century welshman owen glendower who failed in a bid to win independence from the english, the organization has previously claimed responsibility for starting fires at english-owned vacation cottages in wales
no arrests have been made
dafydd thomas, president of the welsh nationalist political party plaid cymru and a member of the british parliament, condemned the attacks and urged welsh people to give any information about extremists to police. `the boeing ...</head>
a british airways jumbo jet carrying 281 passengers to the united states sunday returned to britain and made an emergency landing because its wing slats malfunctioned, an airline spokesman said
a piece of a wing flap fell from the jet as it landed at heathrow airport and two runways were closed temporarily for inspection but no debris was found, according to press association, the british domestic news agency
the boeing 747 took off just after noon. shortly into the flight the pilot found he could not retract the slats on one wing, said the spokesman
wing slats project at an angle at the edge of each wing. by increasing the area of the wing, the slats increase a plane's lift
the airline spokesman said the pilot dumped the aircraft's fuel and returned to london about an hour later
the wing slats would not go back in but the problem would not have caused any serious control difficulties,'' he said
the pilot decided to return as a precaution and because he did not want to fly the atlantic with a fault on the aircraft. there was no danger and the aircraft made a perfectly normal landing.''
british airways said the passengers would either be flown to the united states on another one of its aircraft or rebooked on another airline
the plane had been heading to washington, d.c., and pittsburgh
vice president george bush is planning to skip the league of women voters' debate next week in nashville, his campaign manager said sunday, in what one opposing camp called a ``front-runner's strategy.''
at this time, there are no debates on the schedule,'' lee atwater told reporters after a debate sunday in atlanta. ``we're simply at a point where we've got 20 states; you've got to maintain control of your schedule.''
bush was the last republican candidate to agree to participate the league's first debate in new hampshire two weeks ago. he had not publicly committed to attending the league's debate in nashville next sunday
atwater said bush had no plans to participate in future debates but added ``never say never.''
the league has also scheduled two debates _ one for the republican candidates and one for the democrats _ later in the primary season
senate minority leader bob dole would like to debate bush one-on-one, his campaign said after the atlanta debate on sunday
we're looking for a one-on-one debate with the vice president, '' said dole campaign manager bill brock, ``but i think he's following a front-runner's strategy.''
bush is far ahead in the polls on the primaries to be held on march 8, dubbed super tuesday, when nearly a third of the delegates to the gop convention
the democratic league debate is also scheduled next sunday in nashville. the gop debate was moved by the league from its original saturday date to sunday to accomodate candidates' schedules
the south carolina gop primary will be held on saturday
travellers were frustrated sunday by a new wave of airport and railway personnel strikes while italians had few newspapers to read about their olympic skiing hero alberto tomba
alitalia, italy's state-run airline, canceled hundreds of flights to and from rome's airports because of a 24-hour strike by ground personnel. it was the latest in a series of walkouts to protest lack of progress in contract renewal negotiations
alitalia's intercontinental flights and its connections to italy's islands operated normally, as did flights by other airlines. passengers, however, often had to wait for more than hour for their baggage
new contract talks are set to begin monday
long-distance train service from rome's main station suffered disruptions from a 24-hour strike by railway employees that started at 9 p.m
italy's major daily newspapers did not publish sunday as a result of a 48-hour nationwide walkout by journalists protesting stalemated contract talks. only a few regional papers exempt from the strike came out sunday
television and radio ran limited news broadcasts sunday without film reports. on monday, television and radio stations are to cancel all newscasts
the journalists' strike prevented most italians from reading about the exploits of tomba, who won his second olympic gold medal saturday in alpine skiing
paese sera, one of the dailies exempt from the strike, ran a front-page headline saying ``alberto tomba is already a legend.'' regulators</head>
five u.s. senators who accepted a total of $297,000 in contributions from an arizona company and its employees met with federal bank examiners investigating one of its subsidiaries, a newspaper reported sunday
within three months of the meeting, examiners backed off and ultimately cleared the subsidiary, lincoln savings and loan association of irvine, calif., of wrongdoing, the detroit news quoted unidentified sources as saying
the thrift is owned by phoenix, ariz.-based american continental corp. executives of the company and its subsidiaries made the donations over the past several years, the newspaper reported
those accepting the contributions and the amounts, according to the news, were: alan cranston, d-calif., $41,900; dennis deconcini, d-ariz., $43,000; john glenn, d-ohio, $34,000; john mccain, r-ariz., $112,000; and don riegle, d-mich., $66,100
riegle said there was no connection between the contribution toward his 1988 re-election campaign and the april 9, 1987, meeting in which he and the four other senators discussed the investigation with federal home loan bank board examiners
if there was the slightest suggestion or hint that somehow somebody was going to contribute in return for some kind of favorable consideration, we don't want that money,'' riegle said. ``i wouldn't accept it.''
aides to the other senators said none was available to comment late last week, the newspaper reported
the banking investigators were looking into high-risk investments made by lincoln that could threaten its solvency, the news said
the contributions were permissible under federal election laws. riegle's campaign chairman, kevin gottlieb, said the timing of the donations and the meeting with regulators was ``an interesting coincidence.''
riegle told the newspaper he attended the meeting because he is a senior member of the senate banking committee and wanted to ensure lincoln savings received a fair review
he said he was invited to the meeting by the other senators and was concerned lincoln was being harassed
the newspaper quoted an unidentified source as saying that after the meeting, the probe changed direction
san francisco bank examiners ``were ready to ask for an enforcement action against lincoln,'' an unidentified california bankig official was quoted as saying. ``but that has changed. the scope of the examination has changed.''
american continental spokesman andy baer characterized the events differently
i wouldn't say (the examiners) backed off; i would say there is a new spirit of cooperation,'' baer said
the final bank examiner's report recommended no sanctions against lincoln, said robert kielty, american continental's corporate counsel. cockpit</head> spokeswoman, flight resuming. no pickup.</note>
a midway airlines 737 flying from tampa to chicago made an unscheduled landing here sunday after its pilot reported an electrical problem that produced smoke in the cockpit, authorities said
flight 793, with 119 passengers and five crew members aboard, landed safely at gainesville regional airport about 1:20 p.m. with no injuries reported, said federal aviation administration shift supervisor v.h. steed
it was a precautionary measure,'' he said. ``none of the passengers were ever in danger.''
gainesville fire department spokesman stew schwartz said the pilot asked that fire crews be ready because of an unusual odor and some smoke in the cockpit
midway spokeswoman sandra allen in chicago said smoke apparently came from an electrical problem
at this point, we don't know exactly what caused the smoke,'' she said. ``two of our mechanics from miami are being sent to gainesville to inspect the plane.''
the passengers waited in the airport's terminal for about two hours until another midway plane was flown in and the flight resumed, ms. allen said. the boeing jet will remain in gainesville until the mechanics declare it fit to fly, she said. officials</head> woman. no pickup.</note>
one of two american hostages released sunday after their arrests by israeli authorities in the occupied west bank said the most frightening part of the ordeal was being denied access to u.s. authorities or an attorney
it was confusion and of course fright, because when you're denied access to a lawyer and you're denied access to your own government, it's frightening to realize that you're cut off from any sort of legal protection,'' alison glick, 25, said in a telephone interview with wcpo-tv in cincinnati
ms. glick said the arresting authorities didn't tell the two why they were being held
israeli officials allege that ms. glick, of north college hill, ohio, and john benvenuto, 42, of boston were carrying posters bearing the names of slain palestinians in ramallah, a west bank city. they were arrested saturday on charges of incitement
benvenuto's mother, who talked to her son by telephone sunday morning, said she was relieved that the two were unharmed during the ordeal, which lasted more than 24 hours
he said if he hadn't been an american, they would have beaten him,'' said marian benvenuto of rochester, n.y. she said her son had written to her of israelis beating palestinian protesters
mrs. benvenuto said her son told her the two were not demonstrating at the time of their arrest, though she said her son has been involved in past demonstrations against the israeli occupation of the west bank
benvenuto and ms. glick teach at a private school in of ramallah
israeli police tried to make benvenuto, an art teacher, sign a confession in hebrew that he was guilty of incitement, said mrs. benvenuto. however, she said, her son doesn't speak hebrew fluently and refused to sign
authorities didn't allow the two to consult a lawyer or american officials until early sunday, when david goode, a representative of the u.s. consulate in east jerusalem, was permitted to see them, said mrs. benvenuto. the two were released shortly afterward
the israelis have been trying to quiet three months of protest against their 20-year occupation of the west bank and gaza strip. more than 70 palestinians have been reported killed by israeli forces during that time
benvenuto and ms. glick were arrested in a street near the friends girls' school, a quaker-run facility in ramallah, mrs. benvenuto said
he was just walking down the street, he and this other teacher, going home for lunch,'' she said. ``soldiers (from the israeli army) stopped them and searched them and then turned them over to the police in ramallah
he said he and this girl each had a plastic shopping bag and inside the bag, he had pieces of cardboard with names of different palestinians who had been killed (allegedly by israeli occupation forces).''
she said she wasn't sure if the names were intended for use in a protest, but that the two were not protesting at the time
he was in different protest marches, he's been tear-gassed, and obviously they have a picture of him,'' she said. ``the american consul (goode) told me it was a warning to john to back off and mind his own business.''
mrs. benvenuto said her son believed press coverage of the arrests prompted the israelis to release the two americans early. he was initially told he would be detained for 48 hours
gold dropped 60 cents an ounce monday, opening at $431.74. it closed saturday at $432.34. members who used a0684, am-obit-oslund, sent feb. 27 under a honolulu dateline, or a0697, am-deaths, sent the same day, are asked to use the following story.</note>
the associated press incorrectly reported sunday that lula e. ``tiny'' oslund, 91, who died here thursday, was silent screen star blanche sweet
ms. sweet, who worked with filmmaker d.w. griffith, died sept. 6, 1986, in new york
mrs. oslund's son, wilman f. oslund, said sunday that he had honored a request from his mother that her obituary identify her as ms. sweet. ``in her mind, she was blanche sweet,'' said oslund, 55
oslund said his mother had always told him she was the silent screen star who played heroines for griffith in such films as ``the lonedale operator'' (1911) and ``judith of bethulia'' (1913)
oslund said he saw no harm in complying with his mother's request. he said that he believes his mother worked as a stand-in for ms. sweet and that mrs. oslund closely resembled the actress
author joseph f. clarke identified ms. sweet as daphne wayne in his 1977 book ``pseudonyms: the names behind the names.''
albania has allowed its first group of yugoslav tourists into the secluded and closely guarded eastern european nation, yugoslavia's official tanjug news agency reported sunday
the weekend trip by 130 tourists, organized by a slovenian travel company and albantours, included visits to the albanian capital of tirana as well as durres, elbasan and shkoder
the communist nation of 2.8 million has permitted very limited tourism and trips by a few foreign journalists since the late 1940s, but the nation's attendance of a meeting of balkan foreign ministers in belgrade last week was seen as the latest sign of albania's slow abandonment of isolation
at last week's meeting, foreign minister reis malile of albania became the first albanian government minister to visit neighboring yugoslavia since world war ii
the democratic presidential candidates debated the problems of the south on sunday _ minus front-runners michael dukakis and richard gephardt
it was the democrats' second debate in two days, with one more talkfest on the schedule monday
apparently, they don't care much about texas and the south,'' former colorado sen. gary hart said of the missing contenders
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. also criticized the two absent candidates at the first opportunity
maybe they didn't enjoy the debate last week in dallas,'' gore said. ``we miss them and i want them to know they're missed,'' he added
simon, who announced last week he would not campaign actively in the super tuesday states, said his presence sunday proved he was not writing off the south
i need and want and care for your votes,'' he said after the debate. he said there were no winners or losers in the debate ``with the exception'' of dukakis and gephardt
the massachusetts governor and the missouri congressman have been trading victories in the early contests. gephardt won iowa; dukakis won new hampshire. gephardt won south dakota; dukakis won minnesota. on sunday, dukakis won maine's democratic caucuses
jackson was the only candidate who did not criticize gephardt and dukakis for not coming to houston
i do not know why they chose not to be here. i do not think it reflects a lack of interest or lack of integrity. they simply made other priorities,'' he said
debate spokeswoman dee shoup said gephardt and dukakis cited scheduling conflicts
about 800 people attended the debate at the george r. brown convention center, and the forum was televised
former cbs anchorman walter cronkite hosted the debate, but he did not question the candidates. television journalist linda ellerbee was the moderator
several of the candidates described themselves as providing leadership to the rest of the field
my presence has influenced the other leaders,'' jackson said. ``you now hear gephardt saying we must challenge the multinational corporations _ that's jesse jackson. when you now hear congress saying stop the drug flow _ that's jesse jackson. when you hear other candidates talking about south africa for the first time _ that's jesse jackson.''
hart, too, said he was showing the way for the rest
i'm the only one who has put out a budget, although i see each of these people gradually creeping towards that inevitability that i think they are going to have to face
the fundamental point here is that paul talks about his programs, jesse talks about his programs, and al talks about his. i'm the only one who puts out a budget to tell americans the truth,'' he said
on another subject, gore said he supports a national energy policy that includes a price floor, incentives for domestic oil production and discouragement of oil imports
we have got to have a national energy policy,'' he said
the candidates appeared before the national association of television program executives
world merchandise trade grew more quickly last year than in 1986 and, barring economic upheavals, should expand at least as quickly this year, a report by a world trade group said monday
the crash of world stock markets last october does not appear to ``have had an immediate adverse impact'' on global commerce, said the secretariat of the general agreement on tariffs and trade
early estimates show the volume of world merchandise trade rose by 4 percent last year compared to 3.5 percent in 1986, the world trade agency's analysts said
barring a further major upheaval in financial markets or a serious recession in the united states, it should grow at least as rapidly in 1988,'' they said
last september, gatt had predicted only about 3.5 percent growth for 1987
the report expressed concern about trade imbalances among the world's largest economies. also, third world debt and protectionist pressures still burden the world economy, it said
but consumer and investor confidence has survived the stock crash better than analysts forecasted immediately after the crisis, the report said
the improvement in the outlook for trade in recent months means that, all other things being equal, the risk of a recession in 1988 is smaller,'' gatt chief economist richard blackhurst said
the value of merchandise exports rose 15.5 percent in 1987 to a new record of $2.45 billion, partly reflecting the depreciation of the u.s. dollar and higher prices for crude oil and other commodities, the report said
manufactured goods led the expansion with a 5 percent rise in volume, up from 3.5 percent in 1986. farm exports rebounded to an estimated 4 percent rise after a decline of 1 percent, the report said
reduced petroleum trade helped push trade volume in mining products down 1 percent
imports by industrialized market economies remained the strongest force in world trade expansion, though growth slowed to 5 percent from 8.5 percent in 1986, the report said
another factor cited was fast growth in asian economies such as hong kong, south korea, singapore and taiwan. these countries have become significant buyers of manufactured goods on world markets as well as exporters, gatt said
export growth in developing countries slowed to 6 percent from 9 percent in 1986, but remained more vigorous than in other parts of the world
the report noted improved trade performance by a group of 15 heavily indebted countries, including 10 in latin america
state-controlled economies like china and the soviet bloc expanded their trade less than other countries, particularly because they squeezed imports to adjust to lower export revenues from fuels and debt service requirements, the report said
the gatt includes about 100 member nations and was set up after world war ii. it is both an agreement and a forum for removing trade barriers and ensuring the free movement of goods around the world. it is administered by a permanent commission by the same name in geneva
time ran out for the u.s. athletes when the winter olympics ended sunday, with a team headed by brent rushlaw a tick away from a u.s. bobsled medal and dutch speed skater yvonne van gennip a triple gold medalist with time to spare
the best america could do was six medals, its worst winter games showing in 52 years. two of the six were gold medals, won by brian boitano in figure skating and bonnie blair in speed skating. blair also won a bronze in speed skating, making her america's only double winner
the olympics wrapped up sunday evening with a rousing closing ceremony before 60,000 people in mcmahon stadium. the 250 figure skaters who performed included past and present medal winners as well as young skaters from albertville, france, site of the 1992 winter games, and seoul, south korea, site of this year's summer games
athletes marched in carrying miniature olympic torches, and banners reading ``until we meet again'' in eight languages were draped along the top of the stands
earlier sunday, rushlaw and his three team members missed winning the first u.s. bobsled medal in 32 years when they was beaten by .02 seconds for the bronze
van gennip took more than six seconds off her own world record in the 5,000 meters to win her third gold medal. american mary docter was 22.87 seconds behind. east germans finished 2-3 in the race
finland won the hockey silver medal, handing the soviets their first loss of the games, 2-1. the soviets clinched the gold medal friday night, and america finished seventh for the second straight time
in 1936, america won just four medals, but only 51 were available then. this time, 138 medals were handed out
the soviets finished first in both number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record for the winter olympics. east germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while switzerland's team came in third in both gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15
four other teams also bested the united states in terms of overall medals: austria, west germany, finland and the netherlands
bow-tied drivers in refrigerated vans are rushing prime rib and triple-layer carrot cake to upscale homes here to test the water for home-delivered gourmet meals in an industry dominated by pizza
the creation of ``the order inn,'' an experimental division of food giant general mills inc., was spurred by some compelling demographics, industry analysts say. the secretive test targets affluent singles and professional couples
what we're seeing is the beginning of an escalating delivery war, not just with pizza but with all kinds of home-delivered food,'' said charlie henderson, vice president of marketing for godfather's pizza, an omaha, neb.-based division of pillsbury inc
people are time-short and dollar-rich,'' said henderson, whose company is shrinking sit-down areas in its new restaurants and mobilizing larger road forces. ``they don't want to eat out. they're more than willing to pay to have it brought to their houses and i don't see it ending.''
the explosion of convenience food in all its frozen and home-delivered variations can be traced to two late-'80s phenomena, said stephen carnes, managing director of research for the brokerage firm of piper, jaffray &amp; hopwood
carnes said his company's research shows 65 percent of u.s. homes now have microwave ovens and 55 percent of all married women work. households typically are short on time for cooking and long on money to pay others to do it
but restaurants have shortcomings as an alternative to kitchen toil, henderson and others note. costs can be high and there's usually a wait
moreover, food industry analysts say that, in an age of vcrs, staying at home _ ``cocooning,'' as it's been dubbed _ is becoming an end in itself
grocery stores around the country have scurried to meet the demand with wider offerings of prepared and semi-prepared dinners. the choices range from macaroni and cheese on the low end to london broil and rattlesnake at the top
even a drive to the grocery store can sometimes be too strenuous for the work-weary, said peter flatow, president of the new york market research company brainreserve, inc
the goal is delivering a nice dinner to them; the challenge is overcoming high cost and logistics
domino's pizza has done it. now all you've got to do is get veal marsala there and you've got it,'' flatow said. ``the need is there. nobody has fulfilled it yet.''
a general mills spokesman would not discuss the order inn venture, citing competitive factors. local analysts say it has been under way for roughly six months
industry watchers describe it as a logical step for general mills, which also owns the red lobster, york's and olive garden restaurant chains. based in golden valley, a minneapolis suburb, the company also has takeout experience. it recently sold its chain of leann chin's chinese restaurants, which offered both sit-down and eat-at-home meals
order inn menus being dropped off at twin cities homes in recent months promise free delivery, usually in less than 20 minutes. both lunches and dinners are available, seven days a week
the menu offers four selections in the appetizers and salad section, including chilled shrimp and popcorn chicken. two sandwiches are available and five entrees, ranging from $5.75 for lasagna to $10.95 for prime rib. white-chocolate macadamia nut cheesecake highlights the three dessert choices
the menus include detailed instructions on reheating in a microwave or oven,. and a questionnaire asking what was ordered and how the food and service ranked
no verdict is in sight on the order inn, but experts say general mills seems to have the right idea
i don't think there's any question there will be more to follow,'' said craig carver, senior vice president of the minneapolis brokerage firm of dain bosworth
a chief obstacle to success is keeping costs under control. with pizza, for example, gasoline, drivers, insurance and other costs take a $3 to $4 slice out of a $10 pizza, godfather's henderson says
an extra hurdle for order inn is the daily gamble on how many orders will be placed for each item. leftovers must be disposed of at day's end, general mills spokesman craig shulstad confirmed
whatever the future of the experiment, industry watchers predict scratch cooking will become ever more a recreational, weekend pastime. and restaurants, they say, should beware
it's really a fight for share of stomach,'' carver said
angolan rebels claimed they killed 172 government soldiers and captured three soviet-built tanks in recent fighting, the independent south african press association reported sunday
the guerrillas destroyed three angolan military units friday in a battle east of cuito cuanavale in southeastern angola, the news agency reported. it cited a statement released at rebel headquarters in jamba
unita, the national union for the total independence of angola, also claimed its guerrillas killed 10 cuban soldiers and destroyed seven soviet-made t-55 tanks, the report said
the statement said five rebels were killed and four were wounded in friday's battles
both angola's marxist government and the u.s.-  and south african-supported rebels have reported heavy fighting around cuito cuanavale in recent weeks
unita said in january that it forced government troops to flee cuito cuanavale and guerrilla forces encircled the vacated town. unita leader jonas savimbi has been predicting his rebels would defeat the remaining government in the area and then move into cuito cuanavale
the town was used as a government base in annual dry-season offensives against unita strongholds in the southeast
angola gained its independence from portugal in novermber 1975, and unita lost to the marxist forces in the civil war that followed. government forces are backed by some 40,000 cuban troops and more than 1,000 soviet military advisers
also sunday, south africa announced that two of its soldiers were killed in angola. the military statement said the troops were slain thursday by ``indirect enemy fire.''
south africa announced in november that it had intervened militarily in southern angola on behalf of unita. a month later south africa said it had begun to withdraw its troops, but it remains engaged in the fighting
south africa has announced the deaths of more than 30 south african military personnel since november, but has not disclosed the extent of its involvement. angola claims 9,000 south african troopers are in angola
a taiwanese dissident arrested trying to board a flight to taiwan with a false passport said monday he agreed to leave the philippines and would depart for the united states
hsu hsin-liang said he would leave monday aboard a korean air flight for seoul, south korea, and would travel on to hawaii
hsu, who edits the taiwan times newspaper in los angeles, was banned from taiwan in 1979 for political activity
immigration officials said hsu agreed to self-deportation, meaning he would be free to return to the philippines. philippine authorities had offered to accept him as a political refugee but he declined, saying he wanted to return to taiwan
hsu was arrested feb. 11 while preparing to board a flight for the taiwanese capital of taipei
taiwanese officials refused to allow him to return to taiwan because people charged with sedition are not allowed to enter the country under the national security law, which replaced martial rule last july
taiwan had been under martial law since 1949, when the nationalist chinese lost a mainland civil war with the communists, fled to the island and established a government
hsu was charged with sedition for his alleged involvement in an anti-government riot in taiwan's southern port of kaohsiung in 1979. the riot occurred two months after hsu had left for the united states, but taiwanese officials said he helped organize it
in september 1986, hsu organized a u.s.-based taiwanese group, the democratic progressive party overseas that is affiliated with taiwan's opposition democratic progressive party. not hold caucuses. they are counted below as reporting, but their vote totals are counted as zero.</note>
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses in maine
406 of 504 precincts reporting - 81 percent
babbitt, 0 - 0 percent
dukakis, 3,170 - 36 percent
gephardt, 282 - 3 percent
gore, 139 - 2 percent
hart, 87 - 1 percent
jackson, 2,722 - 31 percent
simon, 378 - 4 percent
uncommitted, 1,966 - 23 percent
madonna's divorce plans were created by the press, says her husband, sean penn, who vowed in an interview published sunday to ``refocus'' himself to avoid outbursts like the one that landed him in jail
penn, filmdom's bad boy, discussed the strain of being married to the darling of american pop in a chicago tribune interview billed as the first since he was jailed for 32 days last summer after striking a movie extra
i feel uncomfortable commenting about my family situation because i'm no expert on the subject. obviously making any family work is an endless job that's hard enough even when the family isn't public,'' penn said
madonna filed divorce papers in santa monica, calif., on dec. 4, citing irreconcilable differences. two weeks later, she asked to withdraw the petition and the court granted the request the same day, court records show. no reason was given in the court papers for her change of heart
but penn, 27, said nevertheless that talk about the possibility of divorce ``was more people magazine than reality. my attitude with the press right now is that i hope they've had their share of me. they've been very busy trying to find or make dirt. i'd like to get back to acting.''
penn said his reported marital problems with madonna, 29, stem from her fans' view of him as less-than-ideal marriage material
the couple were married aug. 16, 1985, in a lavish ceremony on a malibu, calif., bluff overlooking the pacific ocean, while news helicopters buzzed overhead
she belonged to them, to the public,'' penn said. ``and if anybody took her, i think they thought it should have been someone more acceptable, like donald trump
the public is very possessive about rock stars,'' penn said, ``and about her in particular. they don't want to share their love.''
penn may not be able to shed his reputation, but he said he plans to try to avoid future confrontations
certainly i've thought about it,'' he said. ``i just have to refocus myself in another direction.''
of his california jail experience, penn said he was never afraid
i was in a jail with all the big shots, one person to a cell _ solitary confinement for 24 hours. so afraid, no. but bored, yes. after about two weeks of that kind of boredom, i think i would have preferred some fear.''
penn spoke with the tribune after dinner. he had fettuccine with shrimp. madonna ``had a caesar salad,'' he said. ``she always has caesar salads.''
the body of a 23-year-old northern ireland man fatally shot at a british army checkpoint was exhumed sunday for another autopsy in ireland
aidan mcanespie's family requested the new autopsy. they said he had been harassed at the border and disputed the army statement that the bullet that struck him while he was near the border checkpoint at aughnacloy, in northren ireland, on feb. 21 was fired accidentally and ricocheted
an 18-year-old soldier has been charged with unlawful killing in the death and is being held on bail in military care
the british and irish governments are conducting separate investigations
mcanespie's body was buried tuesday in clara, county monaghan, in the irish republic across the border from aughnacloy following an autopsy by british medical examiners
prime minister charles haughey of ireland on saturday approved the exhumation after receiving a request from the family
an overnight police guard was placed at the cordoned-off grave, and after the exhumation the coffin was transferred to monaghan general hospital for the autopsy
the dead man's sister, eilish mccabe, claimed sunday that her brother had received a number of death threats from british soldiers
she said in an an irish radio interview that her brother received ``continuous harassment'' during border crossings from his northern ireland home to his job in the irish republic
haughey is to make a statement on the incident to the dail, ireland's parliament, tuesday
northern ireland is a british province. guerrillas of the mainly roman catholic irish republican army have been fighting since 1969 to unite the province, where protestants outnumber catholics 3-2, with the predominantly catholic irish republic
eds: leads with 5 grafs, bush claims victory, picks up 5th graf pvs, bgng: the maine caucuses
george bush, claiming a solid victory sunday in maine's republican presidential caucuses, was attacked by chief rival bob dole on the iran-contra affair, while rep. jack kemp blasted the two gop frontrunners on taxes
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the maine democratic caucuses, scoring another victory on his new england home turf, and jesse jackson scored a surprisingly strong second, followed by an uncommitted bloc
today our message continued to shine,'' the massachusetts governor said in a statement. ``today's victory gives our national campaign another push toward success on super tuesday.''
the state republican party provided no official count, but various campaigns agreed bush, who makes his summer home in maine, was far ahead, with former television evangelist pat robertson next, followed by the uncommitteds
i am delighted with what appears to be an overwhelming victory in the maine caucuses, assuring my campaign of all 22 national delegates,'' bush said from washington
the maine caucuses pick delegates to the parties' state conventions this spring, where national convention delegates are chosen
four of the six democrats, meanwhile, gathered for a debate in houston, where the absentees _ dukakis and rep. richard gephardt _ came under fire for skipping the event
at a republican debate in atlanta _ the first full-scale gop face-off of the southern campaign _ dole took aim at bush for the reagan administration's decision to trade arms for hostages in the iran-contra affair. that, he said, was a big mistake
we never should trade arms for hostages. we shouldn't issue these reports and say we shouldn't trade arms for hostages _ the vice president's report _ and then later go to a meeting and say it's all right. we shouldn't do those things,'' dole said, holding up a report on terrorism that was written by a presidential commission headed by bush
bush did not respond directly, but did say ``mistakes were made'' in the iran-contra affair
kemp, whose campaign has been faltering after poor showings in early contests, accused bush and dole of supporting tax hikes
they sound alike. they talk alike. they've supported every single tax increase over the last eight years,'' the new york congressman said. ``if they're nominated, the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead.''
dole hit back, saying: ``jack's never met a deficit he didn't like.'' and bush told the new york congressman: `you don't care about deficits. you never have, and they're public enemy no. 1.''
bush is planning to skip the league of women voters' debate next sunday in nashville, his campaign manager said
at this time, there are no debates on the schedule,'' lee atwater told reporters after the atlanta debate. ``we're simply at a point where we've got 20 states; you've got to maintain control of your schedule.''
the gop contest was sponsored by the atlanta journal-constitution newspapers, which also organized a democratic face-off on saturday. there, dukakis made stinging attacks on rivals gephardt and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee
gore, who largely bypassed early contests in new hampshire and iowa, is pinning his hopes on a strong showing on super tuesday, march 8. on that day, 20 states, mostly in the south, will hold primaries or caucuses
sen. sam nunn of georgia, who disappointed many democrats when he decided to sit out the presidential race, said sunday he still hasn't decided whether to lend his backing to his fellow southerner
i like al gore,'' nunn said in an interview on nbc-tv's ``meet the press.'' ``i like what he says on national security.''
but, he said, ``i also like dick gephardt. ... i'm not ducking it. i just haven't decided who i'm going to vote for yet. i like gore and i like gephardt.''
gephardt and dukakis, responsible for the sharpest sparring among the democrats lately, did not attend sunday night's democratic debate in houston. gary hart attacked the absentees
apparently they don't care much about texas and the south,'' the former colorado senator said. those who did attend the debate, however, admitted they're getting a bit tired of such gatherings
we really are kind of trapped in these 90-second sound bites trying to say a thing that makes a difference,'' said jackson
there really is a problem in these debates, in that we have to answere in 60 seconds, or 90 seconds, and in some debates 30 seconds,'' said paul simon
dukakis campaigned sunday from the deck of a fire boat in baltimore's harbor, and pledged to make affordable housing a priority if elected. maryland is one of the states voting on super tuesday
jackson, in tampa, fla., visited a crime-ridden neighborhood and decried the despair and frustration that has led to clashes between residents and police
jackson has pledged to raise the minimum wage, provide long-term health insurance for all americans and to make fighting drugs his top priority
the sandinistas are not threatening the streets of tampa this morning,'' he said. ``the no. 1 threat is coke, crack and heroin.''
in another development, a poll published sunday suggested dukakis and gephardt have the lead among democrats in texas, the biggest super tuesday state. on the republican side, bush had a clear lead, with dole a distant second
the poll was conducted for the houston chronicle and the dallas morning news
among 301 likely democratic primary voters surveyed, dukakis had 22 percent; gephardt 21 percent; jackson 12 percent; gore, 10 percent; hart, 8 percent; and simon 1 percent
among republicans, bush had the support of 60 percent of the 298 likely republican primary voters surveyed. dole had 14 percent; robertson 8 percent; and kemp 3 percent. fourteen percent were undecided
the poll's margin of error is plus or minus 6 percentage points. it was conducted by university of houston political scientist richard murray through the university's center for public policy. news digest: panama city _ panama; wash _ oas-panama; jerusalem _ shultz; abud, occupied west bank _ israel; lod, israel _ military courts; nicosia, cyprus _ iran-iraq; wash _ summit; undated _ political rdp; atlanta _ republican debate; hinesburg, vt. _ home burial.</note>
the united states, its u.n. prestige and influence already at an all-time low, faces a showdown monday when the general assembly convenes an emergency session to condemn u.s. efforts to close the plo mission
some arab leaders say they want to shift the next general assembly meeting to geneva to punish the united states for harassing the palestine liberation organization, which the united nations recognizes
the entire u.n. operation here, including the general assembly, funnels $400 million to $700 million year into the u.s. and new york economies, according to the u.s. mission
mikhail s. gorbachev met with two prominent armenian writers in an unusual personal campaign to allay concerns of armenians demanding annexation of land in a neighboring republic, two activists said sunday
the writers, silva kaputikyan and zori balayan, met with the soviet leader on friday, said sergei grigoryants, a moscow-based dissident, and hovik vassilian, an armenian activist and editor of the underground journal, the armenian matter
they said the writers met thursday with politburo member and propaganda chief alexander n. yakovlev
when the arizona senate opens gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial monday, it will embark on a course laid out in england as a way to remove cruel kings and brought to america in colonial days as a way to protect democracy
but despite the long and sometimes colorful history of impeachment, legal scholars say the seldom-used laws are ill defined. arizona lawmakers grappling with mecham's fate have to make up many rules as they go along
the arizona constitution provides few standards or procedures for how the senate is to perform its role,'' said university of arizona law professor robert glennon
chrysler corp.'s plans to close a wisconsin assembly plant and its admission that it might sell its acustar inc. parts subsidiary are fueling worker anger and distrust as the two sides head into this summer's national contract talks
chrysler's parts operations were grouped into the subsidiary last spring, but most of acustar's 28,000 workers have been with chrysler since it battled back from the brink of bankruptcy early in the decade, when they granted concessions to keep the company afloat
chrysler workers think the potential sale, now that the no. 3 carmaker is again earning billion-dollar profits, indicates they won't be able to trust the company in the upcoming contract negotiations
it has been 10 months since the trial began, seven months since the first witness appeared and an incredible five years since the mcmartin pre-school molestation case hit the courts
and there is no end in sight
prosecutors say they will conclude their presentation by july, but the defense isn't saying how long it may take
for nine months, the justice department has given the impression attorney general edwin meese removed himself from the pollard spy case. but now it acknowledges he was briefed twice about the case and it says he never was excluded
in what chief department spokesman terry eastland called a correction, he said meese is only excluded from the espionage case against the israeli air force officer who recruited navy counterterrorism analyst jonathan pollard as a spy
meese is free to be briefed and even to make decisions in the still-open pollard case to the extent that they don't involve the case against israeli brig. gen. aviem sella, eastland said
presidential candidates from congress work in a system where it's hard to avoid some flip-flopping on issues but when a candidate can't offer convincing explanations, those charges take root with voters, experts say
two democratic candidates battling for super tuesday votes, missouri rep. richard gephardt and tennessee sen. albert gore, have been the most frequent targets, even trading those accusations themselves. both, as legislators, have voted on two sides of several issues
gephardt has taken fire for moving to the left after deciding to run for president, on abortion, trade and social issues. gore has become more conservative, especially on defense matters
rep. richard gephardt moves into super tuesday territory with an extraordinarily effective television advertising campaign that touched raw nerves and won last-minute support among voters in earlier democratic presidential contests
while critics complain that gephardt's populist image is an insider's affectation and his hard-hitting ``hyundai'' trade ad is based on bad numbers, there's little disagreement about the impact of the missouri congressman's tv campaign
the forceful spots, created by political veterans david doak and robert shrum, are credited with putting gephardt over the top in iowa and south dakota and enabling him to stop a new hampshire slide that could have jostled him out of the second place finish he needed and got
congress faces a confusing choice this week between two rival versions of a plan to help the nicaraguan rebels
a vote is scheduled for thursday to decide whether the u.s.-backed contras will get an aid package drafted by house democrats, a similar one drawn up by house republicans, or nothing at all
current authority to aid the contras expires at midnight monday, and the rebels are said to be rapidly running out of items like food, clothing and medicine that the new aid plans would provide
the fertile missouri river bottom lands where the arikara, hidatsa and mandan indians thrived for seven centuries are gone forever, buried beneath the waters of lake sakakawea
the 200-mile-long reservoir drove the indians onto higher, less productive land, sliced their reservation into isolated sections and is blamed for precipitating soaring unemployment and alcoholism
the three tribes, who say they were coerced into surrendering the bottom lands without just compensation as the lake filled behind garrison dam, believe they have a chance this year to get $178.4 million that they and a special federal commission think they deserve
enrollment is up and the debt is down at fisk university, where only a few years ago students shivered in unheated dormitories because the historically black private institution could not pay its gas bill
as fisk winds down its celebration of black history month, which included the dedication of a stamp honoring author james weldon johnson, faculty and students also celebrated the university's return from the brink of financial disaster
when the nashville gas co. cut off service in early 1984 until fisk paid a $170,000 debt, students brought space heaters to class and joined with faculty and staff members to raise funds to ensure the university's survival. the overall debt mounted to $4.1 million, but classes continued
cream pies flew, old flicks rolled and fans talked to to an old three stooges supporting actor when about 1,000 die-hard fans of the celebrated knuckleheads gathered for a weekend of _ nyuk, nyuk _ stoogemania
i've loved larry, moe and curly ever since i was 5 years old,'' said virginia riviera, 30, who came with two friends from salem, mass
they and others swapped memorabilia, threw pies and watched such films as ``three little pigskins,'' ``all the world's a stooge,'' ``dizzy doctors'' and ``disorder in the court.''
does anyone pay attention to a 6-foot-7 kibbitzer who used to be the second most powerful man in washington?
paul volcker is beginning to find out
the former chairman of the federal reserve recently broke a self-imposed vow of silence to resume offering opinions on deficits, taxes and the health of the economy
he seemed to show a little of the old magical influence last thursday when stock and bond prices sank soon after he called for a tax increase and predicted that interest rates would rise
but some skeptics said the markets' behavior had nothing to do with what volcker said
he's not even associated with the fed anymore,'' said hildegarde zagorski, a market strategist at prudential-bache securities inc
when you get a day like (thursday), everybody tries to say what killed the market and they drag out every news item that would have passed unnoticed,'' she said
so is volcker capable of moving the market? ``no. not at all,'' ms. zagorski said
volcker still has not settled down to a new job since his departure from the federal reserve last august, when he was succeeded by alan greenspan. but volcker is expected to announce his career decision within the next few weeks
meanwhile, he is borrowing an office on wall street and heading a washington-based commission on how to improve the quality of the nation's civil service
speaking on the lecture circuit helps pay the bills and gives volcker a forum to express his views on the need to cut the federal budget deficit
the forum for his remarks thursday was a luncheon meeting in san antonio of the national association of industrial and office parks
the night before, volcker had spoken in peoria, ill., at the washington day banquet of the creve coeur club
in peoria, volcker was chosen as a contrast to the 1987 speaker, bob hope
we certainly know it's difficult to upstage a bob hope, so we said let's go back to something that's not comparable,'' said henry allovio, the club's vice president
according to those who believe in volcker's continuing influence, his remarks in san antonio triggered a selloff in the bond market, which scared owners of stock-index futures, which in turn dragged down stock prices
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which had been up as much as 33 points, ended up with a loss for the day of 22.38 points, most of it in the final hour of trading
i have deep respect for paul volcker and in my opinion there is not a single more influential economist in this country,'' said john v. sebastian, executive vice president and chief economist of clayton brown &amp; associates in chicago
but can volcker influence trading decisions even without the control over the nation's money supply that he once had? yes, sebastian said
as an example, he mentioned henry kaufman, a prominent economist for the giant wall street investment firm salomon brothers inc. whose outlooks used to move interest rates in the bond market. in december kaufman announced plans to start his own consulting firm
henry kaufman in his heyday had no authority and yet he was able to influence the markets,'' sebastian said
more than 5,000 automotive engineers will meet this week to talk about everything concerning the life of a vehicle, from computerized conception to disposal on the junk heap
the society for automotive engineers 1988 congress and exposition also will be attended by more than 700 industry suppliers, who will display their latest developments in automotive plastics and other materials, lubricants, design systems and maintenance. they'll occupty 167,000 square feet of exhibit space at detroit's downtown cobo hall from monday through thursday
the convention's theme is ``engineering for the '90s _ imagination, innovation.'' among featured speakers will be general motors corp. president robert stempel and anthony rudd, deputy chairman of lotus engineering
special sessions include a panel's look at the growing problem of disposing of automotive plastics as their use expands internally, in the engine and passenger compartment, and externally, as more and more body parts are composed of stronger, reinforced plastic substances
the engineers also will discuss efforts to reduce release of ozone-depleting chloroflourocarbons, or cfcs, used in production. automaking has been the main source of cfc emissions since the united states ended cfc use in aerosol sprays in the 1970s
ford motor co. vice chairman harold poling will be honored monday at a luncheon hosted by automotive industries magazine, which named him its man of the year for 1988. the trade magazine noted poling's stabilizing, corporate-wide strategy of cost-cutting and balanced production while focusing on quality and cooperation with workers, dealers and suppliers
the strategy has allowed ford to run factories at profitable levels, introduce attractive innovations and eliminate most plant closures, the magazine reported in a cover story on poling
as a result, ford outearned gm, the much larger industry leader, in 1986 and 1987 and is expected to remain the biggest money-maker in the industry in 1988, while gm is still fighting to cut costs and balance a huge modernization and new products program
described as the largest vehicle engineering conference, the gathering will include engineers from ford, gm, chrysler corp., toyota motor corp., honda motor co. as well as hundreds of suppliers including allied automotive, borg-warner, dupont automotive, general electric, united technologies and dow chemical
irving bank corp., target of a $1.08 billion hostile takeover proposal by bank of new york that was sanctioned last week by government regulators, said sunday it would brief shareholders on why they should reject the bid and predicted a bitterly fought battle for their votes
irving plans to bring to the attention of its shareholders all the factors they should consider regarding the offer, as well as questioning exactly how bank of new york intends to meet the numerous conditions to which its offer is now subject,'' the bank said in a press statement
it was irving's first official reaction to the approval given last thursday by the federal reserve board and new york state banking board bank of the bank of new york's hostile $60 a share bid in cash and securities
the takeover fight has attracted attention because hostile acquisitions are unusual in the normally staid banking world. some analysts have said government approval portends hostile takeovers of other banks
fed and state officials dismissed the unfriendly nature of the bid as irrelevant and said they saw no competitive threat to a merger of the two new york banks, which would create the nation's 12th largest banking company with assets of nearly $42 billion
nevertheless, the fed imposed one important condition of approval by requiring bank of new york to sell additional stock to replenish the $264 million cash portion of the takeover. in addition, the fed said at least 60 percent of that amount must be raised before the transaction can be completed
although bank of new york officials expressed confidence they could meet the condition, irving called it significant hurdles because it will dilute the stock's value and must be approved by bank of new york shareholders
the bank of new york's offer depends on receipt of two-thirds of irving's shares. the offer could encounter more difficulty because of a new york law that impedes hostile takeovers
irving said the fed's approval ``clearly opens the way for a bitterly fought proxy battle.''
proxies are written statements authorizing others to vote stock on the behalf of shareholders, a normal arrangement in publicly held companies. management routinely solicits shareholder proxies but they are also used by others attempting to win control away from management
the fed's approval does not change the nature of the proposal, which continues to make no business sense and is not in the best long-term interest of irving,'' said the irving statement
it said the bank ``is fully committed to continue opposing this grossly inadequate and highly conditional proposal, which the corporation's unanimous board is convinced is not in irving's best interests.''
