lude additional details on cirumstances surrounding mrs. meese's job and salary; edits throughout to cut</note>
in a move that reportedly shocked attorney general edwin meese iii, the justice department's no. 2 official and the head of the department's criminal division abruptly resigned tuesday as the nearly year-old criminal investigation of meese expanded into a new area of possible impropriety
deputy attorney general arnold burns said in a letter to president reagan, ``unfortunately, i have regretfully concluded that i must return to private life at this time.'' he did not elaborate
william weld, who as an assistant attorney general oversees all federal criminal investigations, resigned effective at the close of the business day tuesday, despite a personal plea from other department officials that he remain on for several weeks
two of burns' aides and two of weld's aides also quit simultaneously
meanwhile, independent counsel james mckay subpoenaed payroll records and other documents of the washington chapter of the multiple sclerosis society in connection with a job meese's wife, ursula, got with the group
washington attorney james bierbower, legal counsel for the society and a board member, said the records were delivered to mckay on monday
the independent counsel is trying to determine whether longtime meese friend e. robert wallach used his influence to help get mrs. meese's $40,000-a-year job with the society in washington, said several sources familiar with the probe. speaking on condition of anonymity, they confirmed a report carried by cbs news
wallach's lawyer, san francisco attorney george walker, was quoted as saying in wednesday editions of the washington post that wallach played a ``peripheral'' role in meese's taking her position at the society
however, bierbower said the idea for hiring mrs. meese came from the chapter's executive director, jean bradley
bierbower said mrs. meese had done volunteer work for the group since coming to washington in 1981 and ``we were delighted'' to be able to employ her to supervise a program that involves placing ms victims in jobs
bierbower said mrs. meese took the ms job instead of an offer to conduct a public service job on a radio station owned by the bender family. the family operates a foundation which is contributing the $40,000 a year for mrs. meese's salary, said bierbower
another top justice department official, solicitor general charles fried, said that the resignations were leading him to reconsider his future at the justice department
the possibilities include my departure, or that this is just a tempest in a teapot or many other things as well,'' fried said
fried, who represents the government in the supreme court, said he learned about the resignations on monday, the day before meese was told
despite the departure of the top aides, meese said tuesday night he has no plans to resign. ``no,'' he responded to reporters who asked him whether he was about to step down
after receiving a standing ovation from his staff at a final meeting tuesday afternoon, weld told his aides that the continuing investigation involving the attorney general and ``wallach'' was casting a ``cloud'' that was having a negative impact on the justice department, according to department sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
wallach is a san francisco attorney who is at the center of the criminal investigation with meese. weld also told his aides that he was leaving at the end of the day because he didn't want to get into ``50 fights'' and ``blood on the floor.''
weld, who publicly declined to discuss his reasons for resigning, said he wasn't quitting because he might be upset over possible new information uncovered by mckay, who has been investigating meese since last may 11
another source familiar with events leading to the resignations said the precipitating factor at this time was an internal fight over the successor to stephen trott as associate attorney general, the department's no. 3 post
burns quickly denied that, however, telling reporters tuesday night at the justice department that it was ``very silly'' to suggest such a scenario. another department source who is close to meese said that the loss in the job fight was ``an irritant'' to burns and weld, but certainly not the reason for their resignation
burns unsuccessfully supported weld for this post, according to this source. weld was willing to stay on if he got the job, but was unwilling to do so when he lost it, in part because his two predecessors as criminal division chiefs, lowell jensen and trott, both had won the same promotion
asked whether his departure had anything to do with the independent counsel probe, weld said, ``i'm not going to go into that.''
weld said he had informed white house chief of staff howard baker at 7 a.m. tuesday of the reasons for his resignation and informed meese an hour later. ``i prefer that those matters remain confidential,'' he added
however, meese's continuing legal problems have ``everything to do with'' why the two men quit, said a department source familiar with the reasons for the resignations who spoke on condition of anonymity
the unexpected resignations were the result of the fact that ``major things aren't getting done at the justice department, nothing's moving because meese is under this cloud,'' said another informed department source
sens. arlen specter, r-pa., and carl levin, d-mich., demanded that meese explain why the officials quit
my thought is it's absolutely necessary that the american people be told why these six (burns, weld and their aides) have resigned,'' specter said. ``it appears to be unprecedented in the history of the justice department. the department isn't operating when six resign together.''
specter, a member of the judiciary committee, said it may be necessary to convene hearings if an explanation is not forthcoming
meese first learned the two would step down when burns and weld walked into the attorney general's office at 8 a.m. tuesday and informed him of the decision
several department sources characterized meese as ``absolutely shocked'' by the decision
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said president reagan accepted the resignations ``with regret'' and thanked burns and weld for serving ``with distinction.''
fitzwater said reagan continues to have ``full confidence'' in meese and the justice department and that the resignations did not cause any particular concern among the president and his advisers. ``we have people resigning all the time, especially late in the administration,'' he said
meese has been under investigation for nearly 11 months by mckay, who last may 11 began looking into meese's involvement with the scandal-plagued wedtech corp. the investigation has expanded to include his involvement in a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project
mckay's investigators are trying to determine whether meese may have been paid off by wallach or others in exchange for meese's assistance to wedtech or the pipeline
meese has predicted repeatedly that he won't be indicted and has said he won't resign
the school board voted tuesday night to withhold a salary increase in the 1988-89 school year for joe clark, the tough-guy principal at inner-city eastside high school
after meeting in executive session for an hour, the board voted 6-1 to deny clark an increase on the grounds that he expelled students from the high school without due process, was insubordinate in refusing to readmit the students when directed to do so and failed to maintain proper records and proper reporting procedures
board member elease evans said she voted against the resolution because she thought the evidence was insufficent
clark was not present, but his attorney, vickie donaldson, met with the board for about 30 minutes and emerged, saying she had ``spoken her peace.'' she did not elaborate
reached at home after the meeting, clark said he would direct his attorney to work to reverse the board's decision
but he also said the dispute ``was all worth it, because the entire nation knows what buffoons exist on boards of education. if it means that i lose an increment (raise) to make sure the nation is aware of the deficiencies pertinent to ... education, then i think it only fitting and proper that i accept that outlandish punishment.''
the board is still negotiating salary levels for next year so it is not clear how much money clark would stand to lose
clark gained fame and plaudits from the reagan administration and most of his school's students and parents for his no-nonsense approach, which included roaming the halls with a baseball bat and a bullhorn
earlier, the board had considered more severe action against clark, such as suspending him
a japanese mathematician's widely publicized attempt to solve one of the most famous problems in mathematics appears to have failed, a prominent american mathematician says
i think it's wrong,'' said gerd faltings of princeton university, who has examined a 20-page manuscript prepared by yoichi miyaoka
faltings, who has won the discipline's prestigious fields medal for work related to the problem, said monday he thought the error was fundamental enough that the proposed solution would have to be abandoned
the problem is to prove fermat's last theorem, named for the french mathematician pierre de fermat, who lived from 1601 to 1665
fermat's theorum states that if x to the nth power plus y to the nth power equals z to the nth power, there is no solution for which n is a whole number greater than two
nth power'' means the accompanying number is multiplied by itself n times. the theorem assumes that x, y and z are positive whole numbers
fermat wrote in the margin of a notebook that he had devised a proof for his theorem, but it was never discovered. coming up with a proof has bedeviled mathematicians ever since
miyaoka's proposed proof was widely reported earlier this month after he presented it at west germany's max planck institute
it looked pretty good to start out with (but now) it looks like the details are probably not going to go through,'' said peter renz, associate director of the mathematical association of america
still, ``it's a very good way to go at the problem'' and the approach, based on geometric work by soviet mathematician a. parshin, may still pay off, renz said
previous work has proven the theorum for cases in which n is less than 150,000, he said. for higher values, no proof is yet available
faltings had expressed doubt about the new work in the march 30 issue of the chronicle of higher education
biloxi blues'' shot into first place in the weekend box office movie-rankings the first week of its public release, displacing ``police academy 5: assignment miami beach.''
the neil simon film starring matthew broderick, who gets his army basic training in the deep south, earned more than $7 million in its debut week
in second place was another new movie, ``johnny be good,'' starring anthony michael hall as a high school star quarterback sought by unscrupulous college recruiters. the movie sold tickets worth $5.2 million
a re-release of the disney cartoon movie ``the fox and the hound'' earned $4.8 million for third place. the movie about juvenile innocence between two natural enemies was first released in 1981
police academy 5: assignment miami beach'' slipped to fourth place, earning $3.6 million
academy award nominee robin williams' ``good morning, vietnam,'' was in fifth place with $3.3 million, followed by another disney-touchstone film, ``d.o.a.,'' which earned $2.51 million for sixth place in its second week of release
alan alda's ``a new life,'' about the misadventures of marriage, divorce and romance, earned more than $2.5 million in its debut week for seventh place
the movie was written and directed by alda and stars him along with ann-margret, hal linden, veronica hamel, john shea and mary kay place
masquerade'' was in eighth place with $2 million, followed by ``vice versa'' with $1.8 million and ``moonstruck'' in tenth place with $1.7 million
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release, and estimated production costs when available
1. ``biloxi blues,'' universal, $7.09 million, 1,239 screens, $5,725 per screen, $7.09 million, one week, n-a
2. ``johnny be good,'' orion, $5.2 million, 1,168 screens, $4,494 per screen, $5.2 million, one week, n-a
3. ``the fox and the hound,'' disney, $4.8 million, 1,567 screens, $3,075 per screen, one week, $4.8 million
4. ``police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' warner bros., $3.6 million, 1,700 screens, $2,170 per screen, $11.1 million, two weeks, n-a
5. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $3.3 million, 1,486 screens, $2,236 per screen, $101.1 million, 13 weeks, $21 million
6. ``d.o.a.'' disney-touchstone, $2.51 million, 908 screens, $2,774 per screen, $7.5 million, two weeks, n-a
7. ``a new life,'' paramount, $2.50 million, 796 screens, $3,147 per screen, $2.50 million, one week, n-a
8. ``masquerade,'' mgm-ua, $2.0 million, 1,002 screens, $2,003 per screen, $10.6 million, three weeks, n-a
9. ``vice versa,'' columbia, $1.8 million, 1,219 screens, $1,485 per screen, $10.5 million, three weeks, n-a
10. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $1.7 million, 1,041 screens, $1,679 per screen, $55.1 million, 14 weeks
at 92, val browning piles his two dogs into a car each day and drives 17 miles to keep alive the name and reputation of the most prolific firearms inventor in history
browning is the former president and now honorary chairman of the board of the firearms company named for his father, john m. browning, who designed more than 80 military and sporting arms
a list of john browning's inventions could serve as the framework for any history of firearms over the last century. it includes the winchester model 1886 lever-action repeating rifle, america's first smokeless-powder sporting rifle, the automatic shotgun, the colt .45 automatic pistol and all the machine guns used by u.s. troops on land, sea or air from world war i to the korean war
he was a most unpretentious man. you would never know he was a man of any renown to meet. there was never any kind of show,'' says val browning, whose description of his father could apply equally to the son
respected firearms inventor himself with 48 patents, generous benefactor of colleges and hospitals, decorated by belgian royalty, val browning nevertheless has lived his life in the shadow of a giant
he was such an extraordinary genius and accomplished so much that there wasn't much left to do in firearms design except to take advantage of modern materials and methods,'' val browning said of his father during an interview at corporate headquarters
indeed, val browning's two most satisfying inventions were improvements to his father's designs _ a quick-loading feature for the automatic shotgun and a single-trigger mechanism for the over-under double-barrel shotgun
val's son, john val browning, 62, was president of browning for 14 years until just before it was acquired in 1977 by fabrique nationale d'armes de guerre of belgium. he speaks with insight about the challenge his father faced as a son of the great inventor
it's a very difficult problem for him,'' the younger browning said. ``but i think that he always understood it. he was always striving to do something on his own. he just didn't sit down and live off the fame of his father. and what he could do, he did.''
two years ago, father and son returned to belgium, where val browning had charge of his father's firearms interests from 1920 to 1935, and to northern france, where as a young second lieutenant in 1918 he instructed american troops in the use of two john browning inventions _ the .30-caliber water-cooled machine gun and the fabled browning automatic rifle, or b.a.r
i was up at the front to keep track of them and to report on their performance,'' val browning said
his father's .50-caliber machine gun was produced too late for use in world war i, a conflict triggered in 1914 when a john browning-designed .32-caliber pistol was used to assassinate austrian archduke franz ferdinand and his wife sophie at sarajevo
eight years after the war, at the fabrique nationale plant at liege, john browning, 72, suddenly took ill. val browning, who was with him, recalls the moment:
he said, `son, i think i'm dying.' i said, `no, i don't think so.' i was of course trying to encourage him. but he was, and he did.''
returning to his native ogden, utah, in 1935, val browning became president of the j.m. &amp; m.s. browning co. and browning arms co., a post he held until 1962, when he was succeeded by his son, john
but today, only val browning remains associated with the sporting arms company formed the year after his father's death. ``that's one reason why i stayed on, so there would be somebody with the name connected with it,'' he said
like his father, val browning is a habitual walker and was, before injuring his shoulder four years ago, an avid hunter of duck, pigeons and small game
if i didn't eat what i shot i wouldn't shoot it,'' he said, touching on reasons he believes the sporting arms business has a rocky future
population growth, dwindling wildlife habitat and ``the general feeling against firearms in this country make it so that it's rather an undesirable business to be in,'' he said
his son puts it another way: ``the idea of going out hunting is considered somewhat reprehensible. the same sensitivity does not seem to extend to fish.''
val browning, father of four and a widower since 1975, embraces life with an avidity and humor that belie his years. his dogs, beau and jill, join him as he drives up weber canyon to company headquarters at mountain green. he keeps busy there for three or four hours a day, sometimes test-firing browning's latest line
an early riser who walks two miles a day, he quit smoking 50 years ago when an errant cigarette ash ruined a good suit
also, ``i used to like a cocktail very much indeed. and sometimes three of them.'' but he's learned to ``sort of listen to what my system was trying to tell me'' and a single cocktail every couple of months, in social settings to ease a natural shyness, is all he allows himself
he has the blood pressure of a 16-year-old,'' says his cook, nancy clifford
more refined than his frontier father, he reads constantly, has a substantial art collection and loves music
i'm trying to understand atonal music, but i think i'm a little bit too old for that,'' he says in the deadpan that sets up the punchline. ``in other words, i can't whistle it.''
a rare first edition of edgar allan poe's first book, a collection of poetry written when he was 14, is to be auctioned by sotheby's, which calls it ``the most exciting book discovery in many years.''
in the 161 years since its publication, only 11 other copies of ``tamerlane and other poems'' have been found. published in 1827 by an obscure boston printer when the poet, short story writer and critic was 18, it could bring as much as $300,000 at auction on june 7
this 12th copy of the book was discovered in a bin of early 20th-century pamphlets on fertilizers and farming machines by a massachusetts book collector while he browsed at an antique barn in new hampshire. the price was $15
recognizing the title from an article he had once read, the collector contacted sotheby's for an inspection and appraisal
it was quite a thrill,'' said jay dillon, an assistant vice president in sotheby's rare books department. ``god, it was thrilling. ... here's a fabulous rarity, famous to anyone who's ever taken more than two courses in american literature.''
the massachusetts man, who collects books on local history, said he suspected it might be an original when he found it, though he wasn't sure. he had the book only one night before turning it over to sotheby's
i knew i had found something great, a piece of americana ...,'' said the man, who spoke in a telephone interview on condition of anonymity. ``i knew it was valuable but never dreamed that it would mean this much money.''
actually, i didn't handle it real carefully when i first got it,'' he said. ``i thumbed through it. ... i never read anything by poe in my life. i really don't know too much about books.''
poe, who was born in boston in 1809, orphaned when he was 11 and raised in richmond, va., had the volume published during a short visit to boston
the literary importance of the 40-page book, which names the author only as ``a bostonian,'' is considered negligible; rather, the work's value has to do with the fact that it's the first work of one of america's greatest writers and a limited number of copies were printed
how many were printed?
one can guess, but they are all wild,'' dillon said. ``i think the range would be from 50 to 250. i would be amazed if more than 500 were printed.''
the softbound book has its original, tea-colored paper wrappers and is in unrestored condition. ``the wrappers are frayed, as one would expect in a 161-year-old pamphlet,'' dillon said. ``there's also a light stain on the front cover running through first few pages
but the condition of a book like this is not a matter of great importance among connoisseurs. the question with this book is how can you get one at all. i would prefer it to be in better condition. ... i also would prefer to have poe's signature on it.''
nine of the other copies are in public institutions, one is owned privately and the other's whereabouts is unknown, dillon said
the first copy didn't surface until 1859 when an antiquarian bookseller in boston sent it along with a consignment of books to an agent in london who promptly snatched it up for the british museum. a second copy turned up 23 years later in a bookshop's sidewalk box. it cost 15 cents and later sold at auction in 1892 for $1,850
other copies have surfaced over the years through collections and dealers. the 11th copy was discovered in 1954 and was auctioned by sotheby's in 1974 for $123,000
the poems included in the book are ``tamerlane'' and a group poe called ``the fugitive pieces.'' they are: ``to ---,'' ``dreams,'' ``visit of the dead,'' ``evening star'' (never again printed), ``imitation,'' ``stanzas,'' ``poem,'' ``a wilder'd being,'' ``the happiest day'' and ``the lake.''
the adolescent collection was not exactly the literary hit of the day. one critic noted: ``a book the critics read without praising, and the ladies praised without reading.''
however, the complex and tortured artist was vindicated in later years through his sinister and compelling stories such as ``the pit and the pendulum'' and ``the masque of the red death,'' and his musical and sensuous poems such as ``annabel lee'' and ``the raven.''
he published two other volumes of poetry after ``tamerlane,'' in 1829 and 1831. poe died in 1849
on feb. 15, 1986, the amsterdam news printed a front-page editorial calling upon mayor edward i. koch to resign
koch ignored it
he also ignored the next week's editorial, and the one after that. he has now ignored 110 consecutive editorials on the front page of new york's oldest black newspaper, each broadside demanding that he leave office
the amsterdam's weekly diatribe has become as much a part of new york's clockwork as billy martin's hiring and firing as yankee manager, as the daily ebb and flow of commuters, as alternate-side-of-the-street parking
mr. koch is incredible. every week he gives me something new, something outrageous, something wrong'' to write about, says wilbert a. tatum, author of the editorials and editor-in-chief of the 40,000-circulation weekly
while the amsterdam news generally comes down on the left side of the political spectrum, it is considered the establishment black newspaper, less radical than some others published in the city
tatum has written anti-koch editorials while traveling in zimbabwe, sweden, britain, ethiopia. he has focused on corruption, racial tensions, homelessness _ all of them blamed on the ``weak and fading'' koch
koch is ``mean-spirited and vindictive,'' tatum wrote (march 8, 1986). he ``postures, preens and pontificates as he poses and pretends to be mayor of all the people of new york city,'' tatum declared (jan. 3, 1987)
certainly the business and social leadership in this town must realize that this city is going to hell in a basket under the leadership of koch. how long will this outrage be allowed to continue?'' he asked (dec. 6, 1986)
koch plays it cool. ``the mayor's not commenting. he's just going to let tatum have his say,'' said a koch spokesman, larry simonberg
but in the course of a letter to the editor of the amsterdam news, written earlier this year, koch mentioned the newspaper's ``incoherent diatribes against me each week `written' by a non-journalist.''
the first editorial was occasioned by the start of corruption scandals just months after koch's overwhelming re-election to a third term
tatum, along with much of the rest of the black community, already had a difficult relationship with koch. they had repeatedly accused him of insensitivity to the poor and minorities; in 1984, tatum debated the mayor on the radio in a confrontation that generated more heat than light
but tatum said he was so shocked by the scandals that he was forced to take a stand on the front page. when koch was still mayor a week later, he wrote another editorial, and resolved to keep writing them until koch left office. he said he did not think he would still be doing it 109 issues later
i thought it would take three weeks for the times, the news and the post to realize there was a real danger of what would happen to this city due to the polarizing tactics of the present mayor,'' tatum said
tatum is saddened by the failure of the city's major dailies to join him; he speculates that the ``awesome power'' of the mayor has something to do with it, alluding darkly to tax abatements, city contracts and the like
though the common wisdom is that koch is safely ensconced in city hall, tatum is convinced that he is making headway. he says the citywide papers seem to be edging his way; he says he is often accosted by people of all races who say, ``keep it up.''
he writes his editorials each wednesday at 5 a.m., 2{ hours before his deadline. ``i am not able to do other things like this. ... i type it myself and it's done in a matter of minutes. it's that powerful.''
he intends to keep at it. ``i can't allow any fool to destroy what little relationships remain between the people of this city,'' he says
how long will he do it? ``for as long as it takes,'' he says
the imminent demolition of hong kong's 86-year-old synagogue to make way for high-rise apartments has split the jewish community and enraged preservationists
a group of local jews has sought the help of rabbis in israel and britain to save the synagogue and joined last-ditch efforts to go to court to stop the wrecker's ball
i'm sorry that it has become such a controversial issue. i never imagined that it would,'' said robert dorfman, chairman of the committee that manages the day-to-day affairs of ohel leah synagogue's 230-family congregation, which includes 23 different nationalities
ohel leah has been the center of jewish life in this british colony since 1902. it was built by sir jacob sassoon, an iraqi jew who came to hong kong from shanghai
the stately white building, with two short towers and an arched portico, is set in a serene garden on a hillside above hong kong's central business district. sassoon bequeathed the synagogue and surrounding land to the jewish community and set up a trusteeship to manage the property
the plan to redevelop the site comes from the four jewish trustees who are led by lord kadoorie, an influential tycoon with vast utility and hotel holdings. the proposal calls for replacing the synagogue with a replica and putting up two apartment towers, about 40-stories high, that will include a new jewish club
supporters of the redevelopment plan argue that the old synagogue is unsafe and that bigger and better facilities are needed for a growing jewish community. they maintain that the vast majority of the congregation supports the proposal
opponents dispute the claims that the building is dangerous and argue that alternative redevelopment plans are viable under which the existing synagogue can remain
the hong kong government already has overturned a vote by its antiquities advisory board to declare the building a proposed landmark and has approved a demolition permit for the developers
but a loosely knit group of dissident congregation members, banded under the name ``save our synagogue,'' hope lord immanuel jakobovits, the chief rabbi of england, will issue a ruling that could halt the project
in a letter to the english-language south china morning post newspaper, the synagogue's general committee promised that the trustees ``intend to take his (jakobovits') advice on religious questions connected with the rebuilding of the synagogue.''
jakobovits has yet to respond
three years ago, three rabbis from israel signed an opinion that quoted ancient commentaries and maimonides, a 12th century jewish legal scholar, in concluding that the synagogue's ``destruction is strictly forbidden.''
the rabbis ruled the building is one of the world's city synagogues, which maimonides said cannot be destroyed because they are for the use of all jews and ``become the property of all jews.''
the synagogue's trustees contend, however, that opinion is based on erroneous information
save our synagogue'' members also are working with non-jewish preservationists in trying to save the building through bureaucratic and legal channels
william meachem, a member of the antiquities advisory board, said he is raising 100,000 hong kong dollars ($12,820) for legal fees to for action to require the government to put a hold on the project
he described hong kong's overall preservation record as ``atrocious, horrible, maybe one of the worst in the world.''
alan goldstein, a member of the synagogue's congregation, has a photograph made of hong kong in the 1920s showing the synagogue as the only recognizable building still standing
much of hong kong's architectural heritage has been replaced by commercial skyscrapers and high-rise apartments that crowd around the territory's famed harbor
every civilized society in this world today ... recognizes the importance of their cultural heritage and they have certain laws and regulations to protect the best examples of their heritage,'' said david russell, a senior lecturer of architecture at the university of hong kong
our only hope is to try to persuade the government of its responsibility,'' said russell, although he held out little hope of success
but dorfman insists the issue is for the jews alone
who are these people, who are they to get involved in this?'' he said. ``this is our synagogue, this is our community.''
leaders of the decade-old afghan insurgency say they are forming a government and plan to rule the nation from a mountain headquarters whatever the outcome of negotiation in geneva
they said their government will be ready to move into afghanistan within three months from pakistan, where about 3.5 million afghan refugees live
indirect negotiations between pakistan and the communist government in kabul entered their third week monday in geneva, with u.n. mediator diego cordovez as go-between
guerrilla leaders say they will not join any settlement of the war without meeting directly with the soviets, whom they describe as the only other real party to the conflict
how can the outcome of these agreements be binding on us (when) we have not participated as a real side?'' said ahmad shah, a moslem fundamentalist designated as president of the guerrilla regime
pakistan said the question of ``symmetry'' _ a simultaneous end to soviet military assistance to the government and u.s. aid to the guerrillas _ was the last unresolved issue
zain noorani, acting foreign minister, said symmetry was a ``major concern'' for the united states and pakistan although outside the formal scope of the talks. the united states and soviet union are the designated guarantors of the peace, but washington has said it will accept the role only if there is a ``balance of obligations.''
guerrillas began fighting after a communist coup in april 1978 and the soviet union sent military forces in december 1979. the estimated 115,000 soviet soldiers in afghanistan would be withdrawn under terms of a peace agreement
shah did not give a location for the proposed government's mountain headquarters. ``if the jets come we can go from place to place _ no problem,'' he said at guerrilla headquarters in peshawar, pakistan
he said the government would name a 14-member cabinet within 90 days, consisting of two representatives from each of the seven guerrilla factions
shah and zabiullah mojaddedi, a moderate chosen as vice president, are the designated administrators but real power would rest with the seven party leaders in an executive council directing the cabinet
a third tier of government would be a council formed from a cross-section of society, presumably including non-communist members of the current kabul government
according to shah, the interim government would hold elections six months after the last soviet soldiers left afghanistan
when we are convinced there is not a single russian, man or woman, civilian or military, then we can say they are gone,'' he declared
none of the negotiating parties at geneva has taken a stand on the guerrilla vision of an islamic republic but none appears likely to embrace it
pakistan speaks for the insurgents at the talks and has urged them to form a broad-based government, possibly including communists, to prevent another civil war when the soviets are gone
gulbaddin hekmatyar, chairman of the guerrilla alliance, says neither washington nor moscow wants an islamic government in kabul. he claims the united states sold out the guerrillas by striking a secret deal with the kremlin on peace in afghanistan
shah said islamic rule is misunderstood, largely because of iran's example
it is unfair for the world to judge that the real picture of an islamic government is (ayatollah ruhollah) khomeini,'' he said. ``an individual does not represent the real islam
other countries ``should not be afraid,'' shah said. ``we will be busy for 100 years to reconstruct our country. we will have no time to bother people.''
a u.s.-registered motorboat carrying 246 haitians was turned back by the u.s. coast guard about 450 miles southeast of miami, a little more than halfway to the united states, officers said
this is the first time in a long time i can think of that we've picked up a u.s. registered boat,'' lt. cmdr. jim simpson said. officials were still checking records late monday to determine ownership
a coast guard falcon jet spotted the miss kay, a u.s. boat from houma, la., on saturday morning, said petty officer luis diaz in miami
a cutter was dispatched to the boat and took the haitians aboard for interviews by immigration and naturalization service agents who were flown in monday, simpson said
anyone with a legal claim to enter the united states will be allowed to do so, but the coast guard generally turns back 98 percent of the passengers, he said. pvs, `chihuahua judicial ...'</note>
mexican presidential candidate manuel clouthier shifted his campaign schedule and attended the funeral of a 15-year-old girl fatally injured by a stone thrown at a clouthier motorcade
about 500 people attended the funeral mass for maria teresa ramirez aguilar, who died sunday of injuries suffered a week earlier
at the funeral mass, bishop manuel talamas camandari called for ``civic activism that goes beyond vain ambition'' and ``a better mexico in which we all can contribute equally.'' worshipers applauded after talamas' mass
priests are forbidden under the mexican constitution to espouse their political views publicly. clergymen have led several revolts in mexican history
about 300 people jammed the sagrada familia catholic church and about 200 others stood outside, some straining to listen to the mass
miss ramirez, a student at burges high school in el paso, texas, was hit by a rock as she sat in the back of a pickup truck in a motorcade trailing clouthier, candidate for the opposition national action party, from the airport to downtown juarez
chihuahua judicial police arrested five people and were looking for others. police alternately described the subjects of their search as ``cholos,'' or young toughs, or as members of the militant leftist popular defense committee
committee spokesman juan beltran nunez said sunday the party shouldn't be blamed
the arrested suspects admitted throwing stones in the area, jose garcia gutierrez, an attorney with the public prosecutor's office, told the el paso times. a judge will decide whether the suspects will be tried in the girl's death, garcia said
here is the text of the israeli government announcement monday ordering the closure of the occupied west bank and gaza strip for three days. it was released in english by the government:
in order to maintain law, order and security in judea, samaria (west bank) and gaza the following measures will be taken by order of the security forces:
1. starting tuesday at 0100 (6 p.m. est monday) (arab) residents of judea and samaria will not be able to enter or exit israel's borders for three days
2. a curfew will be imposed on the gaza region starting this evening (monday) at 2200 hours (3 p.m. est) and will be lifted on april 1 at 0300 (8 p.m. est thursday)
3. residents of judea, samaria and gaza will not be allowed to leave the territories via the jordan river bridges. the bridges will remain open for entry
4. starting tonight (monday) judea, samaria and gaza will be declared a closed military region
5. media personnel will be allowed to enter the territories and travel within them only upon authorization of the israeli defense forces spokesman's office
journalists authorized to enter the areas will be able to do so only if accompanied by an idf representative
signed: idf spokesman brig. gen. ephraim lapid
some contra fighters oppose the cease-fire accord signed by their leaders and the government, and reports reaching the capital say renegade rebels are staging attacks in violation of a fragile truce
the division between contra leaders and the fighters was evident monday at talks to work out the mechanics of a formal 60-day cease-fire to begin friday
after monday's session in sapoa, diogenes hernandez membreno, a rebel military commander, told reporters:
i want to tell the nicaraguan people and the world that the combatants are not going to put down their arms until nicaragua is a democracy.''
both the leftist sandinistas and the rebels declared an informal truce on march 21, the start of three days of talks that ended with a document designed to end the more than six-year war. monday's meeting was to discuss the location of zones where the contra fighters will gather during the official cease-fire
the cease-fire agreement does not say whether the contras must lay down their weapons. that issue seemingly would be one of the topics to be resolved during the technical meeting that was to end today in sapoa, the same southern border post 90 miles south of managua where last week's meeting was held
on monday, a source who has been reliable in the past told the associated press that an evangelical pastor, enrique morales, said there was fighting friday in the village of juste in central chontales province when rebels engaged sandinista troops. two soldiers reportedly were kidnapped
the same source said radio 15 de septiembre, the clandestine rebel station broadcast from honduras to nicaragua, reported that contras knocked down electric posts friday in southern zelaya province
the radio also said there was fighting saturday in paiwas, in the easternmost part of the central province of matagalpa
the defense ministry said it did not have any official reports of combat. but an officer, who spoke on condition he not be further identified, said: ``it's possible, we know there are some contras not in agreement.''
witness for peace, the american-based organization that documents contra abuses, said on monday night it had heard of no truce violations
on sunday, interior minister tomas borge said pressure from the some sectors of the united states and dissident groups within the contra ranks were attempting to obstruct the cease-fire agreements
a violation of the truce during last week's cease-fire talks was written off by both sides as a result of poor communications
in sapoa, maj. gen. joaquin cuadra, deputy defense minister and army chief of staff, said on monday there had been ``violations of the truce of a minor character but we understand that they are due to the communications problem.''
a rebel commander attending the sapoa talks, walter calderon, said it was difficult for both sides to explain the cease-fire agreement to their troops
the contra fighters reportedly were caught off guard by the pact signed by rebel leaders who live in miami. most of the combatants, supplied with u.s. goods ranging from uniforms to weaponry, live the rough life of guerrillas roaming in the northern mountains and down through the central plains
during the past year they garnered some degree of public support in the hinterlands, where peasants sold food to the rebels and passed on sandinista troop information. the war was described by military experts as stalemated
the contras' military ability grew enormously in 1987 with air-dropped u.s. supplies that were part of the $100 million package approved by the u.s. congress in june 1986. the funding ran out feb. 29 and no agreement has been reached on additional aid
the loss of american support was said to be one of the main reasons the rebels agreed to the cease-fire. the contras agreed in the pact to accept only non-lethal aid from a neutral organization, such as the red cross. but the contras also obtained promises from the sandinistas for democratic liberties
for the sandinistas, the agreement offers a chance to rebuild a shattered economy and calm widespread discontent over chronic shortages and mandatory military conscription
the pact calls for the 10,000 or so contras to move into special zones during the first 15 days of april. the cease-fire is to last until june 1. conversations to work out final details were to be held during that time, the first to be april 6 in managua
the sandinistas also agreed to gradually release 3,300 political prisoners. the first 100 were freed sunday
a quick trip across the border on april 15th no longer will bring procrastinating taxpayers an automatic two-month extension on their income taxes, the internal revenue services says
traveling taxpayers now must leave the country for at least two weeks, including april 15th, to qualify for the automatic extension which previously was available to those who fled the country for even a portion of tax day, the irs said monday
the irs had been considering such a change for about a year, but hastened its decision after seeing airline advertisements that encouraged people to leave the country to delay their filing deadline, said spokesman jeff krasney. he said the ads also inaccurately suggested the irs was endorsing such behavior
we didn't know if the ads would cause an abundance of individuals to take this (extension),'' krasney said. ``we felt this would be one way to combat those ads.''
the new ruling is effective for taxes due next month
since the instructions already distributed to taxpayers say the extension is available to travelers who are out of the country on the 15th, the irs will use some discretion in deciding who qualifies this year, krasney said
if people submit the proper documentation, such as a trip notice, we will take a look at it and determine if in fact that particular situation is legitimate,'' he said. ``the irs will weigh different types of factors to determine what is considered extenuating.''
but no more of those quickie trips across the border, he warned
prior to this ruling, if you lived in el paso, texas, and decided to travel to juarez (mexico) for lunch on april 15th ... you would be given an automatic extension,'' he noted
krasney said the crackdown wasn't being undertaken as a ``revenue-enhancing'' step, but rather to avoid ``possible abuse'' caused by the advertisements. he had no estimate on how many taxpayers have taken advantage of the travelers' extension provision in the past
under the irs rules on travel, some u.s. territories are considered part of the country and others are not. travel to puerto rico, for example, will not qualify taxpayers for the extension. but a two-week trip to guam, american samoa or the virgin islands will net procrastinators two more months
the federal fund that insures deposits in commercial banks may lose money this year for the first time in its history, but any shrinkage likely would be less than 5 percent, the head of the fund says
whether the federal deposit insurance corp. loses money depends on how much it costs the government to rescue first republicbank corp. of dallas, fdic chairman l. william seidman told reporters monday
the deterioration of texas banks, hard hit by losses on real estate and energy loans, has raised concern about the health of the fund, which backs deposits of up to $100,000 in 13,700 commercial banks
earlier this month, the fdic pumped $1 billion into first republicbank, the largest bank company in texas, to stem a run on deposits
seidman said in a luncheon speech it is too soon to tell how much more it will cost to fully restore the bank's health. but he said published estimates of $5 billion to $6 billion are ``far higher than anything likely to be required.''
a better guide, he said, would be the $1.7 billion it cost the government in 1984 to rescue continental illinois bank &amp; trust co., which was about the same size as first republicbank
if the bailout is in that range and if banks, as expected, fail at about the same rate as last year, then the fdic's 1988 loss would be ``something under 5 percent ... certainly under ... $1 billion,'' seidman said
he said he did not see any prospect for what he termed a substantial loss, one approaching 20 percent, or about $3.5 billion
last year, the fdic posted a slight increase even though a post-depression record of 184 banks failed. forty-four banks have failed so far this year and seidman said he expected the 1988 total to be roughly the same as 1987
as failures have increased, the steady growth of the fdic fund _ from $4.6 billion in 1970, to $11.6 billion in 1980 and $17.9 billion in 1985 _ has slowed. the fund finished 1986 with $18.2 billion and 1987 with $18.3 billion
seidman contrasted the relatively healthy condition of the fdic fund with that of the federal savings and loan insurance corp., which insures deposits in 3,170 savings institutions
fslic was insolvent until last fall, when money began flowing from congressionally authorized bond sales. it has had to keep bankrupt s&amp;ls open because it lacked the money to pay off depositors
lamb production is at a seasonal peak because of this year's earlier religious holidays and will ease down somewhat in the next few months, says an agriculture department report
with easter and passover coming up this weekend, lamb production in the first quarter may reach about 80 million pounds and then drop back to around 78 million pounds in the second quarter, according to the department's economic research service
lambs on feed (for the slaughter market) were up 18 percent on jan. 1, 1988,'' the report said. ``these supplies should be available during the first half of the year and could push production up about 6 percent.''
lamb and mutton take a far-back seat with american consumers but are still an important part of the u.s. food and agricultural sector. this year, for example, per capita consumption may be about 1.4 pounds, compared with an average of around 83 pounds of poultry, 72 pounds of beef, 63 pounds of pork and 1.5 pounds of veal
the jan. 1 inventory of all sheep and lambs in the united states rose 4 percent from a year earlier to 10.8 million head, which agency economists said represented ``the second year of expansion following several years of profitability'' in the sheep business
the west showed the biggest increases in the ewe flock, about 6 percent above a year ago,'' they said in the april issue of agricultural outlook magazine. ``in the great plains, sheep inventories increased a little over 2 percent from a year ago. most of this expansion occurred outside of texas, which has the largest inventory of any state.''
analysts said they were surprised by a decline in the sheep and lamb inventory east of the rocky mountains, including a 4 percent drop in the north central states. the southeast was down 5 percent on jan. 1 after a 12 percent increase a year earlier
but the declines in the inventories were not sharp enough to offset larger numbers elsewhere, which the west and the great plains made up most of the breeding flock
lamb prices averaged about $78 per 100 pounds, liveweight, last year, up from around $69 in 1986. market prices may decline somewhat in 1988, however, according to usda projections
although lambs are a major part of the sheep business, so is wool. and the rise in inventories boosted shorn wool production in 1987 to 85.8 million pounds, up 1 percent from 1986. that was the first year-to-year increase since 1981, when shorn wool output rose to 109.8 million pounds from 105.4 million in 1980
wool output peaked at 388 million pounds in world war ii before beginning its decline, reflecting the long-term slide in u.s. sheep production
agriculture department scientists are hopeful that one of the costliest crop pests of farmers and home gardeners may one day be curbed by a natural enemy, a microscopic killer worm that searches the soil for the corn rootworm
the tiny worm, or nematode, is called steinernema feltiae. after infecting the rootworm, the nematode releases a bacterium that kills the pest. then, said usda entomologist jan j. jackson, the nematode uses the larva's body as a place to reproduce while it feasts on bacteria and larva tissue
about 10 days later, hundreds of new nematodes emerge and start searching for more rootworms
that gives you an advantage over chemical controls,'' he said monday in a report by the department's agricultural research service. ``a chemical just sits there and waits for the rootworm to come to it. the nematode doesn't wait.''
but jackson found that the nematodes don't persist in the ground long enough to eliminate a rootworm infestation. in one field trial where he works at the department's northern grain insects reseach laboratory, brookings, s.d., jackson applied 100,000 nematodes to the base of each of several corn plants, reducing rootworm damage 11 percent
jackson said that is not an acceptable level of control, but he expects further research could lead to protection as good as from chemical insecticides. a separate test with a chemical reduced root damage 44 percent
rootworm larvae destroy corn roots, and adults feed on the leaves, tassels and ears. jackson said u.s. corn producers spend nearly $350 million a year to fight the rootworms. nematodes probably could be produced at about the same cost, without the risk of chemical injury to farmers and the environment
a kansas firm has been licensed by the agriculture department to market a genetically engineered vaccine to control pseudorabies in swine, a contagious disease that can be deadly to newborn pigs
the vaccine will be marketed by syntrovet inc., lenexa, kan., said james w. glosser, administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service. he said monday the new vaccine is the third live genetically engineered product licensed by the department for pseudorabies vaccination
we have concluded the new vaccine is both safe and effective,'' glosser said. ``our scientists have reviewed and analyzed the procedures used to develop the vaccine, its biological and safety characteristics, and the safety and effectiveness data gathered during field trials in three states.''
further, he said, an environmental assessment concluded that use of the vaccine would have ``no significant impact on the human environment.''
during field trials, the new vaccine was administered to more than 400 swine, including baby pigs, weaned pigs and sows,'' glosser said. ``no adverse reactions were noted.''
pseudorabies, also known as aujesky's disease or mad itch, does not affect humans. although the disease caused an estimated $22 million in losses to the swine industry last year, it is not a public health problem, he said.  night. picks up 4th graf pvs, `swaggart, who ...'</note>
elders of the assemblies of god on monday began debating how long tv evangelist jimmy swaggart should be barred from preaching
the 232-member general presbytery, meeting in a two-day, closed-door session, will have the final say on punishment against the fire-and-brimstone preacher accused of hiring a prostitute to pose naked for him
this is not a meeting to determine the guilt or innocence of jimmy swaggart; he has already confessed,'' said church spokeswoman juleen turnage. ``they are here to make a decision on what will be done with his credentials.''
the presbyters met for about six hours monday. the was no immediate word on the progress of the deliberations
swaggart, who did not attend monday's meeting, tearfully stepped down from his pulpit feb. 21, admitting to unspecified sin. published reports have said he paid a prostitute to pose naked
the church's louisiana district has proposed a three-month suspension from the pulpit, despite a request by the church's national leaders to reconsider
church leaders noted that every other assemblies minister who has confessed to moral failure has been barred from the pulpit for at least a year
the church's board of directors kept off monday's agenda a compromise proposal put forward by an arkansas church member, said mrs. turnage
the compromise reportedly would bar swaggart from the pulpit for a year but allow him to give personal testimony about what he has learned from his sin. it would also cut the assemblies of god out of an estimated $12 million a year in swaggart-raised funds
mrs. turnage said the rev. g. raymond carlson, general superintendent of the assemblies and chairman of the meeting, would brief members on swaggart's transgression and members would also be given documentation
no witnesses will be called, and the case will be decided by majority vote, she said
a new orleans tv station reportedly had been asked to show assemblies officials a videotape of an interview with a prostitute who claims to have posed naked for swaggart
mrs. turnage said carlson and others had seen a videotape monday. she would not comment on the nature of the tape and said it would not be shown to the board
the springfield news-leader reported monday that a little rock, ark., lawyer and assemblies member had helped work out a plan that would bar swaggart from preaching for a year. attorney cliff jackson told the newspaper that the plan would allow swaggart, during that yearlong period, to give personal testimony
under the plan, the assemblies of god would no longer accept funds from swaggart's multimillion-dollar ministry to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest
swaggart contributes an estimated $12 million a year to the assemblies' foreign missions programs, which had a total budget of about $142 million last year
jackson, who met with assemblies officials sunday, said the proposal had been endorsed by both swaggart and louisiana church officials
mrs. turnage said the executive presbytery, the church's board of directors, decided not to put jackson's proposal on the general presbytery's agenda
she would not comment on what the board thought of the proposal, saying only that procedures do not allow for outsiders to get items put on the agenda for such meetings
however, she said, jackson sent copies of the 10-page proposal to every member of the general presbytery, and any one of them could bring the proposal up for a vote. 3rd graf pvs, `the hairs ...'; inserts two grafs after 11th graf pvs, `carlson, who ...' with more background, quotes from newspaper editor.</note>
it was now morning, and he was in the bathroom shaving, shaving for the first time that day, but not the last; no, never the last.''
with those words, gordon ``satch'' carlson, an english teacher and newspaper columnist from anchorage, alaska, won the 11th international imitation hemingway competition on monday at _ where else? _ harry's bar &amp; american grill
the hairs kept coming,'' his entry continued, ``tiny hairs and black and there was nothing for it, nothing for it at all but shaving.''
carlson's winning parody of the late novelist ernest hemingway's manly prose went on and on for 350 words, discussing the hirsute portions of a man's body, then an estranged woman, then more shaving, drinking wine, and then drinking more wine
the dozen judges, fortified with their own glasses of wine, muttered things like ``holy cow!'' as they pored over the entries, then argued spiritedly and after some mysterious process decided upon the winner among the 21 finalists
author barnaby conrad, one of the judges, said carlson's entry contained qualities lacking in others, namely ``a beginning, middle and an end, the hemingway cliche, and the pun.''
the punny last paragraph of carlson's piece read as follows: ``she turned, lifting her thin american lip over those thin, white, perfect, american teeth, and that thin american sneer. `it's only a nick, adams,' she said.''
nick adams was a character in several hemingway stories
carlson gets a round trip for two to italy, with dinners at another harry's bar in florence
in a brief biography provided to judges, carlson claimed that he was once thrown out of reading class and that he moved to alaska about 20 years for ``reasons that remain obscure'' to him. he gave his profession as ``social gadfly.''
carlson, who was not present for the judging, did not immediately return a telephone message monday
at the anchorage daily news, where carlson writes a weekly column on state and local issues, city editor pat doughterty said: ``he can be both very funny and quite acerbic and opinionated. he basically is a humor columnist.''
carlson, who doughterty guessed was 41, also writes a column for the national magazine auto week and teaches english at bartlett high school in anchorage
he and the other 20 finalists were among 2,432 entries from all 50 states and more than a dozen foreign countries. despite the author's globe-hopping exploits, none of the entries bore a foreign postmark
the judges were to include jack hemingway, son of ernest, but he did not attend because of illness. other judges were newspaper columnist herb caen, authors ray bradbury and cyra mcfadden, and poet lawrence ferlinghetti
the entries, went the rules of the contest, had to ``sound like hemingway. read like hemingway. they know that funny is good and very funny is very good.''
entrant 66 wrote: ``there were many cows but no bulls. `i respect this place,' nick said. `it is an honest place ... this could be the capital of the world.'''
in entry 366, ``the president looked at the woman he called nancy ... other men also called her nancy.''
sticking to the political season, finalist 287 told how in spring, a fellow named gary ``took the young woman to the bahamas, avoiding reporters and living on rum and sun and the catch of the day ... he had not taken his wife.''
number 1,400 dealt with ``a farewell to arms, legs, feet and neck,'' while 923 sought glitter in ``a farewell to lunch.''
in another nick adventure, entrant no. 1,507 portrayed the hero gazing into ``a plate of trout amandine ... his eye lingered over a big, two-breasted capon, all the while leaning on a wall of pasta. above all, thought nick, it was `a farewell to qualms.'''
a private task force is recommending a series of actions to provide ``fit, livable and affordable housing for all americans'' by the year 2000, starting with a first-year appropriation of $3 billion
the report of the national housing task force issued monday urges that half the money go to the states as matching funds, and the remaining $1.5 million go to cities with no matching requirement and few bureaucratic rules on how it is to be spent
the task force said housing for most poor americans is ``unavailable, unaffordable or unfit.'' it said the $3 billion seed money should stimulate state and local efforts to develop, renovate and conserve low-income housing and to produce 150,000 to 200,000 units
james w. rouse, a nationally known developer and chairman of the 26-member task force, called attention to the growing percentages of women and children among the homeless
this isn't your typical hobo, this isn't a person who is a drug addict, or alchoholic or lazy,'' rouse told a news conference. ``these are people who want a place to live and in our country, think of it, there's no place to live. i don't think this has ever before happened in our country that people like this have nowhere to live.''
the report recommended that the government's rental assistance program be increased by 200,000 units instead of the 100,000 in the 1989 federal budget. the added cost would be $380 million a year, it said
samuel r. pierce, the secretary of housing and urban development, issued a statement saying that fresh ideas on low income housing always were welcome. but the statement went on to say that several of the recommendations call for significant increases in federal spending and will require require difficult budget decisions by the administration and congress
the national association of realtors praised the report as ``a step in the right direction.''
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., chairman of the subcommittee on housing and urban affairs, said the report is ``of historic importance'' and copies will be sent to all presidential candidates
sen. alfonse m. d'amato of new york, the subcommittee's ranking republican, said ``a decent place to live is no longer the problem of the poor and homeless (but) the call comes from millions of families, particularly young families.''
the report said that from 1973 to 1983, 4.5 million units _ half occupied by low-income households _ were lost to the rental market either through demolition or structural conversion
those who struggle with modest or minimal incomes represent a cross section of america,'' said the report. ``they are young, middle aged, elderly, disabled. they are single parents and intact families. they are working.''
the task force recommended that substantial new capital be raised by establishing benevolent loan funds, accepting deposits at low interest rates from ``socially motivated investors'' and lending it at below-market rates to low-income housing developers and home buyers
there must be greater emphasis on preserving and improving existing low-income housing and renovation of thousands of units, the report said, and it called for use of tax-exempt financing and a commitment by the federal government to adequate rental assistance. it also said the government should allow the federal housing administration to offer mortgages to more moderate income people
while the report outlined a 12-year program, it said homelessness is a problem that can't wait and recommended that additional funds be made available in 1988 to states and communities. mate</head>
as vice president george bush's grip on the republican presidential nomination tightens, more and more people are asking the no. 2 question:
whom will he choose as his running mate?
bush says it's too early to think about it
former president richard nixon suggests white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. baker says he doesn't expect to be asked because he wouldn't bring the right strength to the ticket
others propose california gov. george deukmejian. deukmejian says he couldn't accept because he would leave his state in the hands of a democratic lieutenant governor
nixon, in a forthcoming london sunday times political column, says the ideal formula is to pick your principal rival, as president reagan did with bush. but, he suggests, maybe the campaign between bush and senate minority leader bob dole has been too bitter for that
some have another idea: not principal rival, but wife of principal rival. how about secretary of transportation elizabeth dole?
and so it goes
nixon argues that baker, a tennessean and former senate republican leader, would be helpful in southern states and in dealing with congress
in a recent television interview, baker said, ``george bush needs to find someone who will bring strength to the ticket on a regional and political basis, and i think that is not going to be me.''
he didn't say he would turn it down. ``if someone asked me to do it,'' he said, ``i would have a very difficult time trying to figure out what i was going to say.'' but, he added, ``i do not wish that to happen.''
baker has mentioned former tennessee gov. lamar alexander, deukmejian of california, new jersey gov. thomas kean and former pennsylvania gov. richard thornburgh as good choices for the vice presidential slot
if deukmejian left office in mid-term, lt. gov. leo t. mccarthy, a democrat, would become governor of the nation's largest state. at a news conference in sacramento recently, the california governor said, ``even if they did ask me to accept the vice presidential nomination, i wouldn't be able to take it.'' later, he added, ``that doesn't mean i wouldn't like to be vice president.''
another possibility: rep. jack kemp of new york, who ran as a conservative alternative to bush for the presidential nomination but fared poorly
also mentioned is sen. nancy kassebaum of kansas. she was on a long list of potential reagan running mates in 1980 but took herself out of consideration because, as a freshman senator, she said she didn't have enough experience. she has eight years more of it now
if bush should decide to choose a midwesterner, to strengthen the ticket in a region that could be crucial to republican hopes, another possibility would be illinois gov. james thompson, who endorsed the vice president and campaigned for him in the illinois presidential primary
other names that have been mentioned include sen. alan simpson of wyoming, dole's deputy in the senate leadership; secretary of education william j. bennett; sen. phil gramm of texas, an architect of the congressional deficit-reduction mechanism; and colin powell, the president's national security adviser and one of the top-ranking blacks in the reagan administration
all of this, of course, assumes that the vice president wins the nomination. he is way ahead, and dole said last week, ``i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
bush, asked whether he would consider dole as a running mate, said: ``it's too early for me to start thinking about any running mates. that would project a certain arrogance or presumption that i don't want to do.''
fund raising for a proposed $4 million memorial to black revolutionary war patriots will begin soon since president reagan has approved placing the monument in the city's main tourist district
project coordinator maurice a. barboza said the memorial would be the first prominently displayed monument in washington dedicated to blacks
barboza said monday that the president signed legislation friday permitting the proposed memorial to the 5,000 black veterans to be placed in area i, which includes the mall stretching from the capitol to the lincoln memorial, the grassy ellipse behind the white house, lafayette park and west potomac park
the next step will be to study specific site plans being developed by three architectural firms and submitting the best one to the national capital memorial commission, barboza said
the commission and other agencies must recommend a site before it goes to the secretary of interior for final approval
barboza, a virginia lawyer who has devoted himself full-time to the memorial project, said he hoped to have the interior department approval and start work on a design competition in six months
construction of the memorial must begin by the end of 1991 under an authorizing measure signed into law in late 1986. barboza said july 4, 1991, is the target date for construction to begin
barboza predicted the memorial would cost about $4 million and said he hoped to announce a major fund-raising effort within several months
barboza said he hopes to built the black patriots memorial on the mall near the lincoln memorial, washington monument and constitution gardens
legislation allowing the construction of the memorial was enacted in 1986, but another measure was needed to allow it to be built in the city's monument-crowded area i. that complex procedure was established by officials who worried that the city's prime tourist areas would become cluttered with memorials
the black patriots legislation was pushed through congress by rep. nancy l. johnson, r-conn., whom barboza enlisted in his fight several years ago. he is formerly of plainville, conn., in mrs. johnson's district
richard gephardt did so poorly in michigan's caucuses that he knew his race was over. but he wasn't ready to announce it yet, and one of those ugly scenes of modern politics unfolded
in the death throes of his campaign, gephardt attracted a large press contingent. an aide to a rival muttered something about a ``death watch,'' and said to the reporters, ``stay away from us for a while.''
gephardt ended his speech and headed for a hotel room with his wife, jane. the crowd pursued, some walking backward in front of him, television lights glaring, down a maze of corridors. finally, gephardt reached the sanctuary of an elevator
one elderly man, caught up in the stampede, fell on his face onto the concrete-hard floor. the crowd stepped around him
reporters pressed gephardt to say he would get out of the race
did that do you a lot of good?'' senior aide dick moe snapped bitterly at one reporter who has covered gephardt throughout the campaign
one television reporter, perhaps not realizing gephardt was at the end of his candidacy, persisted in asking the congressman how he expected to do in wisconsin's primary 10 days later
gephardt press secretary ali webb was carrying a pair of red boxing gloves, a gift from supporters presented two days earlier
congressman, i have some boxing gloves here if you need them,'' she said
i knew you brought those along for a reason,'' said jane gephardt
on the eve of his victory in michigan, jesse jackson spent one of those campaign days a candidate hopes for _ the crowds were overflowing and raw emotion was evident
scores stayed outside the door at a church rally in flint, even after the fire marshal said the building was too full
always appealing to the nation's downtrodden, jackson even campaigned among those who are arguably the most disaffected and certainly his most captive audience: inmates at the wayne county jail
only those jailed on misdemeanors were allowed to meet him. since the inmates weren't felons, they could vote. and while his real audience may have been the television cameras, jackson reminded the inmates they could cast absentee ballots
the next day in milwaukee, jackson appeared humbled by the dimensions of his win. he spoke of ``a lot of poetry, a lot of history.''
what did he think, he was asked, of calls by party elders for democrats to nominate the candidate who leads in delegates ``at the end.''
having just scrambled the democratic race, probably assuring no one will win a majority through the primary season, jackson paused and smiled
at the end,'' he said simply
at the macedonia missionary baptist church in flint, jackson urged his mostly black audience to raise its expectations
doors shut in your face _ i understand,'' he said. ``i was born in the slum, but the slum wasn't born in me.''
but before leaving, jackson asked his supporters for a contribution and referred to the expensive designer clothing some wore
i want you to give tonight like you dress _ give gucci-ly,'' jackson said. ``give like you live.''
gephardt aide joe trippi knew the results from michigan weren't going to be good saturday afternoon. but his heart sank when he heard some shouted news
duke's ahead by 9,'' they said
stunned, he interpreted the message to mean massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, often called ``the duke,'' was winning big
it was only later that the real meaning was explained. duke university was beating temple in the ncaa eastern regional basketball game
his relief was short-lived. gephardt lost by far more
four of the democrats met at an outdoor rally in wausau, in north central wisconsin
dukakis, gephardt, albert gore jr. and paul simon sat through what must have seemed to them an interminable time on the stage, listening to each other. they'd heard it all before, but seldom under such conditions
the temperature was less than 20 degrees and a wind howled
several reporters traveling with gephardt found a respite, however. they had arrived from the airport in a local supporter's plushly appointed van, and the motorcade parked conveniently beside the rally. from inside they could stay warm, hear the speeches _ and watch that duke-temple game on a color television
wimps,'' gephardt spokeswoman webb said, pounding on the van's windows from outside. they didn't budge
vice president george bush, saying ``one of the best things that happened to me was getting my brains kicked out in iowa,'' is moving to consolidate his mounting republican support while vowing to ``whip the democrats.''
with an unassailable lead for the gop presidential nomination, bush on monday picked up the endorsement of rep. jack kemp. and with the expected withdrawal of distant rival sen. bob dole looming, bush talked of ``smooth sailing'' ahead for his campaign
here for three days of campaigning in advance of the april 5 wisconsin primary, bush told an invitation-only rally in a high school in nearby cedarburg late monday: ``i don't put too much stock in the polls, but they do look good.''
i will not project an arrogance, i will not project overconfidence,'' he added
but bush brimmed with optimism, saying kemp's endorsement was ``good, because what we want to do is to have this party unified, together, so we can whip the democrats.''
one of the best things that happened to me was getting my brains kicked out in iowa,'' bush told his audience. ``got beaten, beaten fair and square and came in third.''
everybody had me dead and buried. (but) we were resurrected right there in new hampshire. so people say now things are going pretty well for you, and they are.''
earlier monday, kemp joined bush at a news conference in milwaukee to announce his support. ``george bush is going to be the nominee of the republican party. he's earned it,'' kemp said
the new york congressman dropped out of the race earlier in the month, after poor showings in new hampshire, south carolina and in super tuesday contests
both kemp and bush said discussion of a possible vice presidential bid did not come up
kemp said ``my support is unequivocal'' for bush even though he had felt he himself was ``the best candidate for republican conservatives.''
the voters believed otherwise,'' kemp said
as to a dole withdrawal, bush said that was a decision for the senate minority leader to make on his own. ``i'm just going to keep on campaigning,'' bush said
later, he told reporters, ``i'm not in a position to be telling dole what to do.''
he said the general election contest ``will be close, it will be tough ... i cannot act like i have this nomination in the bag.''
however, bush suggested a victory in wisconsin would do just that. and his sights were clearly set on the general election contest beyond, repeatedly speaking of the importance of party unity
bush said he would take his case to the american people, reflecting efforts to lay a groundwork for the general election campaign
it's a national messsge,'' he told the rally in cedarburg
this time, i'm going all the way to the white house,'' he said, noting he had spoken at a campaign appearance in the town in 1980 in his then-unsuccessful presidential bid
as he has done before, bush blamed democrats in congress for the nation's $150 billion budget deficit, vowed to work to reduce the tax on capital gains and echoed president reagan's pledge to veto all-encompassing stopgap spending legislation
and, also taking a cue from reagan, bush declared: ``i'm not going to raise your taxes _ period.''
as sandinista government and rebel negotiators met to work out details for a 60-day cease-fire, a contra commander vowed the rebels won't lay down their arms until nicaragua adopts democratic reforms
the negotiators, who met monday, are considering the areas where the rebels, known as contras, will gather during the cease-fire, which is to begin friday under the peace accord signed last week in sapoa
after about two hours of discussions monday, the talks were recessed until today, and rebel leaders said there remained obstacles
high-level talks aimed at reaching a more permanent truce are scheduled for april 6 in managua, the capital
the leader of the sandinista delegation, maj. gen. joaquin cuadra, deputy defense minister and army chief of staff, told reporters on monday: ``we come with the same spirit, will and decision of the first meeting.''
leading the u.s.-backed contras was aristides sanchez, a director of the umbrella nicaraguan resistance alliance. he told reporters the rebels presented their plan to the government
the rebel representatives included walter calderon, a former national guardsman now known as commander tono; luis moreno payan, who uses the name commander mike lima and is chief of contra military intelligence; luis fley, or commander johnson, chief of rebel operations in northern nicaragua, and diogenes hernandez, a commander whose units operate in central nicaragua
after monday's meeting, hernandez told a news conference, ``i want to tell the nicaraguan people and the world that the (rebel) combatants are not going to put down their arms until nicaragua is a democracy.''
he said defense minister humberto ortega proposed last week that a marxist democracy be established, but hernandez said the contras want ``a real democracy like costa rica.''
cuadra declined to respond to hernandez's remarks and said monday's talks dealt with the ``mechanics of the meeting.'' he said the rebels made no proposals to define the zones where the contras would gather under a truce
we are hoping for an agreement before april 1,'' he added
a temporary cease-fire has been effect since march 21
cuadra said there had been ``violations of the truce of a minor character, but we understand that they are due to the communications problem.''
sanchez said that in a few days the rebels will free the sandinistas they are holding captive. he did not give details
others in the sandinista delegation were deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco and military intelligence chief maj. ricardo wheelock roman
on sunday, the leftist sandinista government fulfilled the first part of the cease-fire accord by freeing 100 political prisoners under an amnesty program. most of them were accused of activities linked to the contras
under the sapoa agreement, rebel forces are to gather without interference from sandinista forces in specified zones inside nicaragua during the first two weeks of april. monday's talks between special commissions of the two sides could be extended and were to define ``the location, size and modus operandi'' of those zones, according to the text of the sapoa accord
nothing is said in the sapoa agreement about the contras laying down their arms. in past talks, the rebels insisted on keeping their weapons until all provisions of an accord were carried out
once rebel fighters have moved into the truce zones, the contra leadership can send up to eight delegates to participate in national reconciliation talks on april 6
last week's pact provides a gradual amnesty for nicaragua's 3,300 political prisoners, guarantees freedom of expression, and permits all exiles to return home and participate in the political process
jackson is my third name; i'm adopted,'' the candidate told the overflow church audience
never slept in my father's house one night, never watched him shave ... stayed with my grandmother till my mother got on her feet
i understand
doors shut in your face _ i understand
born in the slum _ i understand.''
then jesse jackson drove home the point with his own life as an example of hope:
i was born in the slum, but the slum wasn't born in me.''
jesse jackson this time was speaking in flint., mich., where he won a runaway victory in saturday's primary election. but the message is about the same everywhere he goes. he tells those listening:
don't give up on yourself ... we the people can win!''
that emotional message and jackson's campaign theme of ``economic justice'' have served him well in his 1988 presidential campaign, with a string of wins in eight states and several second-place finishes making him the popular vote front-runner and in a virtual tie with michael dukakis in the delegate count
as crowds flock to hear him around the country, it is apparent that jackson's compelling oratory and celebrity status generate excitement not only among the downtrodden but also in affluent communities like georgetown, the nearly all-white domain of washington's well-to-do
on a recent visit, jackson emerged from his limousine to find 50 squealing school children who grabbed for his hands and begged him to visit their classrooms
after he led the captivated group in a chant of: ``i am somebody. my mind is a pearl ... down with dope, up with hope,'' an eighth grader giggled that he had kissed her forehead
her friend bubbled: ``it was great.''
students from nearby georgetown university rushed out to their porches to shake his hand. jackson was the spontaneous toast of the most elite neighborhood of the nation's capital, whose residents have included presidents-to-be, diplomats and senators
it is a long way from the textile town of greenville, s.c., where an illegitimate son was born to a teen-age girl and the married man next door on oct. 8, 1941
that child grew up to be a fiery civil rights leader, an electrifying orator, a presidential candidate who says he knows ``the american people better than anybody running.''
i know slave and slave master,'' he told an audience in his hometown of greenville
he recalls growing up in a segregated south where he had to ride in the back of the bus and sell soft drinks in a whites-only stadium
his mother, who married the man who adopted him and gave him the name jackson, worked as a maid for whites
but his background was not cause for despair, jackson tells his audiences
i was born in the underclass. i know how to get out because i got out.''
from greenville, he went to university of illinois on a sports scholarship. after a year, he transferred to north carolina a&amp;t, where he was the student body president, star quarterback and civil rights leader
after graduating he entered the chicago theological school, but dropped out to go south in the mid 1960s and join dr. martin luther king jr. in the struggle for civil rights
jackson's actions in the aftermath of king's death have led to speculation that he set himself up as king's heir apparent, manipulating the spotlight to himself by showing up in chicago in a shirt he claimed was stained with king's blood
while he was present at the memphis motel where king was felled in 1968, others who were there have contradicted jackson's claim that he cradled the slain leader in his arms
jackson has never held elective office, but his career since then has kept him in the public eye almost continuously
he founded the chicago-based operation push, which battled a number of corporations over hiring practices and franchise arrangements that jackson said were racist
by 1984, jackson was ready to run for president, spurred on by the chants of black audiences across the country who urged him to ``run, jesse, run.''
his powerful eloquence fired up audience after audience as he raced around the country and the world on a shoestring budget and a chaotic campaign
he flew to cuba to meet with fidel castro and nicaragua to meet president daniel ortega
he infuriated jews by using the term hymie and hymietown, and by associating with nation of islam leader louis farrakhan, who called judaism a ``gutter religion.''
he took on the democratic party, attacking party rules as exclusionary and unfair
jackson emerged from the campaign with more 3 million votes, then supported the democratic ticket and went on to help register large numbers of voters in the south
his approach in 1988 has been one of fence-mending and reaching out to new constituencies. aware that democrats saw him as a polarizing and divisive force in 1984, he has set himself up as a peacemaker
he refrains from attacks on his opponents and encourages them to focus on issues, not attacks
and jackson urges americans to look at his example to see what is possible in life. he told a crowd of union workers in detroit: ``many of you are doing less than your best because your spirit is broken.''
you think i can't win because you think you can't win. i can win and you can win. ... expect your child ought to have a first-class education. expect you should live in a decent house. you raise your expectations. ... hold your head high. know you're somebody.'' soldiers returning to california</note>
more than 700 members of the army's 82nd airborne division parachuted into their home base monday in a flamboyant end to 12 days of exercises in honduras, where they were sent in a show of u.s. might
as family members, commanders and a military band waited, seven huge c-141 planes flew over at 5 p.m. moments later, the first of the paratroopers began their descent to the base's sicily drop zone, evoking a loud cheer
i am glad you are home, baby,'' delores piper told her husband, staff sgt. charles piper, as their two young daughters clung to their father's legs
later monday night, about 100 soldiers from the 7th infantry division light returned to california, landing at travis air force base to greetings from an army honor guard and a band playing ``stars and stripes forever.''
lt. gen. john foss, commander of the 18th airborne corps at fort bragg, welcomed the troops, who were dispatched to honduras on march 17 to counter a reported incursion of nicaraguan forces into that country. the 82nd is a division of the 18th airborne corps
now, 12 days later, there are no nicaraguan forces in that country and a cease-fire exists,'' foss said. ``we were watched by everyone in the world, and everyone was impressed. i want you to know i'm very proud of you.''
some 2,000 soldiers from the 82nd airborne were deployed to honduras on march 17. there were part of a 3,200-troop force sent by president reagan. the rest of the american troops are expected to return by wednesday
the nicaraguans ran back across the border as soon as we came,'' piper said. ``we did what we had to do.'' but he added it was good to be home. ``honduran ground is too hard to sleep on,'' he said
the mission ended just in time for 1st lt. steve swimley, who said he was becoming bored
we were doing the same stuff over and over,'' he said as he hugged his wife, mary. ``it was clear to me we'd be coming home soon because we had accomplished our objective.''
his buddy, 1st lt. jim cooper, said he was looking forward ``to taking a shower and drinking a few beers.''
earlier in the day, about 200 hondurans demonstrated their support for the americans outside the palmerola air base in honduras
they carried signs saying, ``thanks for having helped us maintain our liberty'' and ``unity makes for democracy, thanks for being here.''
nicaragua denied the reported incursion and claimed the united states was preparing to invade or was using the deployment as a cover for providing equipment to the contras. u.s. officials have said the troops are taking back all the equipment they brought with them, including tanks and aircraft
in addition to the 82nd airborne, the reinforcements include soldiers from the 7th light infantry in fort ord, calif
the u.s. troops never saw action, but honduran president jose azcona hoyo said all along he expected them to back him up if the sandinistas didn't withdraw
by late last week, honduran officials said the nicaraguan troops were back on their own side of the border
nasa is taking a slow, cautious approach in returning space shuttles to flight, but a leading shuttle engineer says that doesn't mean anyone at the agency is afraid to fly
i don't see anybody in the decision-making process who is reticent about pressing on and let's get back in the air. ... personally, i have no hestitancy about returning to flight,'' john thomas said monday
thomas is manager of the team that has redesigned and is testing the solid fuel booster rocket that caused the shuttle challenger explosion 26 months ago. the accident killed the seven crew members, and the remainder of the fleet has been grounded while nasa tests the redesigned booster joint
workers here have begun assembling the first of the two booster rockets intended to propel the shuttle discovery into space when flights resume. nasa has set a launch date of aug. 4
we've been very careful with our design and test programs and we've been very cautious in the assembly process,'' thomas said at a news conference at the marshall space flight center, in huntsville, ala., which was monitored by reporters here
thomas said the redesign test program has gone so well that the stacking of the rocket segments could proceed with confidence even though three critical test firings remain for the overhauled model of the rocket
we're well on our way in the test program,'' he said. ``everything is going well with the processing at the kennedy space center.''
on may 1, the two boosters are to be mated with the huge external fuel tank, and on may 14, discovery will be attached to the stack. rollout to the launch pad is set for may 24, and a 20-second on-the-pad firing of the shuttle's three main engines is scheduled for june 15, leading to the aug. 4 launch with a crew of five
thomas said three more full-scale tests of the redesigned booster must be accomplished successfully before discovery can fly. they are scheduled for april 20, june 3 and mid-july at the brigham city, utah, facility of the manufacturer, morton thiokol
asked if there was anything that could delay the august launch date, thomas said, ``we have a very ambitious processing flow down at the cape, and we could always stub our toe someplace along the way ... or have something unusual turn up in the test program
but i don't see anything now that would prevent an august launch.''
the attorney general of colombia, alfredo gutierrez marquez, resigned after news media reported an airstrip at his brother's ranch was used by drug runners, a source at president virgilio barco's office said
the source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the associated press late monday that barco accepted the resignation earlier in the day. neither the president's press office nor the attorney general's office would comment
radio stations rcn, caracol and todelar reported the resignation monday
an intervision tv news program said on sunday night that planes used by drug smugglers operated off a 5,000-foot runway owned by libardo gutierrez marquez on a farm near medellin, a city in northwest colombia where most of colombia's reputed drug traffickers live
the runway was next to property belonging to pablo escobar, named in the united states as a top leader of the medellin drug cartel, and aircraft belonging to escobar used it, intervision said
the source said that gutierrez acknowledged in resigning as attorney general on monday that his brother did own a farm as the news reports said
caracol had reported the attorney general resigned shortly after a confiscated drug plane was stolen march 1 from a military air base and landed at the runway, but the later radio reports said he quit on monday
barco has declared war on the powerful drug traffickers, who have killed a justice minister, an attorney general, judges, two newspaper editors and scores of policemen and soldiers
the medellin cartel smuggles most of the cocaine reaching the united states, the u.s. drug enforcement administration says. escobar was among five men indicted on u.s. drug charges and named as belonging to the cartel
the army said that when it raided a country estate owned by escobar last week, it found tape recordings linking drug dealers with someone close to the attorney general's office. it did not elaborate
last year the army confiscated a twin-engine propeller aircraft, an aerocommander, that had been used for drug trafficking. on march 1, the plane was stolen from an air force base and landed at libardo gutierrez's runway, intervision said. it said air force planes strafed the plane, other aircraft and hangars and that two days later, army bulldozers destroyed the runway
the president says the government will not yield in the drug war
in the last two months, the army has attacked five homes of suspected drug traffickers, including escobar's home, and reported finding arsenals of weapons and ammunition, stolen license plates and army and police uniforms
the exit of richard gephardt from the race for president gave president reagan the opportunity to contend the public has no appetite for protectionist legislation such as the trade bill pending in congress
i think the american people have decided that one great depression is enough, and they aren't going to give the trade demagogues a second chance,'' reagan said monday during a speech at reynolds metals co., in richmond, va
protectionism isn't just bad economics _ it's bad politics,'' the president said
he pointed to the march 8 super tuesday presidential delegate selection contests and said, ``those who had predicted that protectionism would be embraced in the south were proven wrong.''
gephardt, d-mo., who had made the nation's trade woes an important part of his campaign for the democratic presidential nomination, announced monday he was ending his bid. gephardt had done poorly in more than two-dozen states, including the southern super tuesday states
reagan long has advocated a policy of free trade and fair trade. at the same time, he has resisted protectionist legislation, even as the merchandise trade deficit climbed to a record $171.22 billion in 1987
reagan derided an international trade bill that is under consideration by a house-senate conference committee and threatened to veto it unless it is drastically changed. the panel is working out compromises in the widely varying versions of the 1,000-page measure
they've got a trade bill before congress that could squelch productivity, destroy american competitiveness and make all their doomsday myths a reality,'' reagan said
he accused his critics of ``predicting economic disaster,'' and ignoring the fact that the economy is in the 64th month of recovery from the recession of 1981-82
he said the bill's mandatory retaliation provisions could ``require me and future presidents to take actions that would be in direct violation'' of the general agreement on tariffs and trades and ``seriously harm the national interest.''
if enacted, they could weaken the international trading system and could require the president to start trade wars,'' reagan said
but senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, reacting to reagan's remarks, told reporters, ``i don't think he has really studied the bill and doesn't have a full knowledge.''
bentsen is vice chairman of the house-senate conference committee ironing out differences in the two versions of the trade legislation
bentsen said reagan's remark that provisions of the bill could lead to violations of international trade rules is ``just not correct.''
what the president is concerned about is that it makes him accountable,'' bentsen said. ``most presidents don't like accountability. this legislation requires him to do something. he can't just do nothing.''
bentsen said the plant closing provisions would not cost companies any money and merely reflect practices that most corporations already are following. those provisions would require the firms to provide their employees with advance notice of closings and large-scale layoffs
reagan objects to many provisions in the trade bill, including an amendment named for gephardt that would require the president to reduce ``excess and unwarranted'' surpluses run up by japan and a few other countries in trade with the united states. if negotiations failed, the president would be required to use import curbs to lower the surpluses at a 10 percent annual rate
the president could waive such action if he found it contrary to the national economic interest or if the offending country were wrestling with serious debt. but critics say the plan is a long step toward protectionism and invites retaliation against u.s. industries
you may have been reading lately that the trade bill is making good progress _ that a lot of protectionist provisions have been jettisoned,'' he said. ``and there is some truth to that. but there's a long way to go before the legislation does more good than harm to the u.s. economy
only wholesale elimination of the objectionable provisions will produce a bill i can sign.''
president reagan and his wife will lease a $2.5 million estate in the luxurious bel air district of los angeles, the white house says
elaine crispen, press secretary to first lady nancy reagan, said the reagans signed a lease and mailed it within the last 10 days. mrs. crispen said she did not know the amount of lease payments
the 1\-acre estate is owned by wall management services, a group of about 20 friends of the reagans who bought it with them in mind
the three-year agreement gives the reagans the option to renew the lease or purchase the property, which includes a secluded house with 6,500 feet of living space and a pool
wall management bought the estate on aug. 21, 1986, from a 90-year-old woman who the investors said would lease it back from them until the reagans were ready for it. mrs. crispen said the previous owner has since died
she said the lease agreement was worked out by the reagans' lawyers, the white house counsel's office and the office of government ethics
the reagans lived in pacific palisades, in the western part of los angeles, before his election as president. that house has since been sold
they own a century-old, spanish-style adobe house of five rooms and 1,500 square feet at rancho del cielo, their ranch on a 2,250-foot-high mountaintop 30 miles northwest of santa barbara
editors: house republicans journeyed to houston in search of camaraderie, high-tech campaign themes and a political strategy to oust the democrats. they found something which isn't always in evidence in washington _ some humor
steven komorow looks at the perils of congressional travel in today's washington wire, pm-capitol notebook, a0442

washington post:

undated _ political rdp.own
washn _ gephardt withdraws. own
washn _ democrats dilemma (`stop jackson?')
washn _ gop veep speculation
jerusalem _ israel.own
panama city _ panama.own
sapoa, nicaragua _ cease-fire talks.own
washn _ us-nicaragua.own
richmond, va. _ reagan.own
moscow _ soviet-armenia. rtrs
new york _ poe book.own
washn _ playboy. ap
bonn, west germany _ spies seized.comb
manila _ philippines attack.othr
gaborone, botswana _ gunbattle.own
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,953.09 points, up 330.38 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
sen. albert gore jr., saying his approach to homelessness is ``more responsible'' than jesse jackson's, has taken a rare if mild poke at jackson in the race for the democratic presidential nomination
the point was one of the few areas of disagreement at a forum on urban policy in the bronx attended monday night by gore, jackson and sen. paul simon. all three called for a broad spectrum of improved social programs
jackson urged ``emergency assistance for the homeless.'' but gore said: ``the cost of an emergency short-term response is often far greater than the cost of a more responsible long-term effort to respond to this problem.''
gore, of tennessee, said his approach would include community mental health care programs and permanent housing for the homeless
simon said to the audience at fordham university: ``i ask you who is best prepared for the presidency.''
the other democratic leader, gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, did not appear at the forum. aides said he had a longstanding commitment to attend two fundraisers in washington
if it had been possible to rearrange the schedule we would have done so,'' dukakis said earlier
dukakis, gore and simon, of illinois, made separate campaign appearances monday in new york city, an indication of the increased importance of the state's april 19 primary, when the selection of 255 delegates is at stake
polls have indicated a lead for dukakis in the connecticut primary today, a dead heat between dukakis and jackson in the wisconsin primary april 5 and a lead for dukakis in the new york contest two weeks later
at the 1{-hour bronx forum, jackson, gore and simon agreed on a need for more spending for education and housing, a greater effort to combat aids and stronger measures to fight drugs
gore urged ``an all-out war on drugs,'' noting that it is vice president george bush, the likely republican presidential nominee, who heads a federal anti-drug effort that gore described as failed
jackson criticized the administration's drug-fighting efforts the most forcefully. he said: ``in latin america, it's becoming clear in this administration while the focus was on communism, it was fascist drug lords that in fact were overthrowing governments there and infiltrating our government and killing our people at home.''
he did not elaborate on the infiltration assertion
in a similar vein, gore called cia involvement with panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega ``a disgrace.'' simon added: ``we talk about a war on drugs. it's been mostly public relations. that's the grim reality.''
on aids, the three criticized what they said was an uncoordinated government response. but gore lauded the efforts of surgeon general c. everett koop and said koop should be considered for renomination in a democratic administration
about 70 homes were still evacuated early today, more than 10 hours after a tanker truck overturned on interstate 95 near washington and spilled a variety of chemicals, authorities said
the accident, which occurred just before the afternoon rush hour on monday and caused at least 200 homes to be evacuated, also forced maryland authorities to close part of the highway. no injuries were reported
prince george's county fire department spokesman tony destefano said crews were trying to separate the contents of the truck, which must be done before the cleanup is completed and the stretch of interstate can be opened
the accident occurred shortly after 2 p.m. on the southbound lanes of the highway
we have five separate chemicals involved, both oxidizers and peroxides, which can be explosive if they come in contact with each other,'' prince george's county fire lt. col. steve edwards said monday. ``we're being very careful.''
edwards said the vapors emerging from the spill subsided quickly and the chemicals did not present a health hazard
he said that although there was danger of the materials leaking into a nearby stream, there was no immediate evidence of water contamination. custody, quotes. picks up 3rd graf pvs, `pierce, a ...'</note>
investigators have taken two suspects into custody in the shotgun slaying of an indian activist who was running for judge, the county sheriff said early tuesday
`we do have a suspect, in fact, we have two suspects at this time,'' robeson county sheriff hubert stone said shortly after 1 a.m
i can't tell you a whole lot more about it right now, because you never know how these things will work out, but we feel pretty good about it right now,'' stone said, adding that no charges had been filed yet
on monday, commissioners in the racially troubled county called for the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate the slaying of 42-year-old julian pierce
stone had said earlier that informants had provided investigators with two or three names of possible suspects. he said a hotline set up to receive tips on pierce's death had received more than 50 calls
we are checking with all of our informants that we have working for us throughout the county ... the telephone's been busy. we're getting a lot of tips from individuals throughout the county,'' stone said at a news conference
meanwhile, pierce's supporters said they would seek to change a state law that would automatically make his opponent in the primary the winner of the election
pierce, a lawyer and lumbee indian, was slain at his rural home over the weekend by three shotgun blasts in what sheriff hubert stone called an assassination
commissioners adopted a resolution asking district attorney joe freeman britt, pierce's primary opponent, to ask the state attorney general for a special prosecutor. the resolution is not binding, said commissioner wayne oxendine
telephone calls to britt's office monday were not immediately returned
backers of pierce also said they will seek a special legislative session to allow a substitute candidate in the may 3 primary for superior court judge
harvey godwin, pierce's campaign manager, said the 25-member committee to elect julian pierce decided sunday night to ask gov. jim martin to call a special legislative session to change the law to allow a substitute candidate in the may 3 primary for superior court judge
state law says if a candidate dies 30 days or more after the filing period closes in that election, the opposing candidate is declared the winner
under that provision, britt, a white, would be declared the democratic primary winner. and since there is no republican candidate in the county, britt would become judge automatically if the law isn't changed or waived
this is a special case,'' said godwin. ``this death does not come under the law, which says death, but doesn't involve political assassinations. this whole assassination was to get him as a person and a candidate.''
jim sughrue, a spokesman for the governor, said martin would meet thursday with those requesting the special session
meanwhile, stone said a hotline set up to receive tips on julian pierce's death had received more than 50 calls. pierce was found dead early saturday
we are checking with all of our informants that we have working for us throughout the county. ... the telephone's been busy. we're getting a lot of tips from individuals throughout the county,'' stone said at a news conference
britt, who had reported receiving threats after pierce was killed, and his family were in seclusion under police protection. he issued a statement after the killing calling it ``sad and tragic.''
state rep. sidney locks, a black minister, said he also supported the call for a special session. he described the situation in the county monday as unsettled because of the slaying but he doubted violence would occur
things are very tense, but we hope cooler heads prevail,'' said locks
robeson county, which borders on south carolina, is 37 percent indian, 37 percent white and 26 percent black. it is one of the state's poorest counties, and has long been torn by racial animosity
anger at what the indians call corrupt local government and entrenched racism boiled over most recently feb. 1, when two lumbee indians took hostages at the robesonian newspaper in lumberton, the county seat. eddie hatcher and timothy jacobs said they engineered the siege in order to attract attention
james davis, a member of a u.s. justice department team sent to the county, said monday that his team had met with residents and will continue to meet with them
the tension in the community has caused the entire community to express real concern,'' davis said. ``we're here to try to evade that tension and bring calm back to the community, to do whatever we can to bring confidence back to law enforcement
i don't believe any of the minority groups are contemplating violence. they are just grief-stricken.''
godwin said the committee will ask for special legislation to ``delay the primary for this office only, and set up a way for us to find another candidate.''
the reason why we chose to do this was because julian as a candidate and a person was not a quitter. he didn't belive in giving up,'' godwin said. ``i don't think julian would've wanted his death to go in vain.''
lonnie revels, chairman of the state commission of indian affairs, said he is not sure if the lgislature can legally change the law retroactively. but he said he and legislators from the area were looking into the possibility of a special session
intervention by japan's central bank helped the dollar recover after opening lower against the yen in tokyo tuesday, while stock prices rose substantially for the second straight day
the dollar began trading at 123.88 yen, down 0.55 yen from monday's close of 124.43 yen, and then gained strength on the basis of the bank of japan intervention and fiscal year-end buying by companies, dealers said. the u.s. currency ended trading at 124.37 yen, down 0.06 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-share nikkei stock average gained 330.38 points, or 1.29 percent, finishing the day at 25,953.09
traders said most stocks were managing to maintain their gains from monday, when the nikkei index rose 301.99 points
the bank of japan began buying dollars shortly after the beginning of trading on the foreign exchange market, dealers said. they said the scale of the central bank's intervention was not immediately clear
the bank, which does not comment officially on its market activity, bought an estimated $300 million on monday
the dollar's close on monday capped a 2.72-yen fall over three trading days
traders said some market participants weren't convinced that central banks in japan and the united states were committed to maintaining the dollar's past level. recent intervention by the banks appears to have been aimed at slowing the dollar's fall, not at boosting its value, they said
despite the dollar's rise from its opening level in tuesday trading, dealers said a yen-buying mood was likely to continue after the end of the japanese fiscal year on march 31
when steve meyer and craig peden found a big, blue rock while gem hunting, meyer thought it was probably worth something _ but not enough to keep him from using it as a paperweight on his desk
that was before last month, when a master gem cutter told them the baseball-size stone they found in the smoky mountains of north carolina might be a star sapphire worth millions of dollars
gem cutter john robinson of plano, texas, said the sapphire could surpass the 1,154-carat, $4 million star of america sapphire in both size and value
robinson is cutting and polishing the crystal, trying to determine if it will display a six-ray star when exposed to light
it has a good potential for starring,'' said robinson, who also cut the star of america. ``if that happens, it will be an important gem.''
peden said that even if the sapphire doesn't star, ``it's probably worth a couple of hundred thousand dollars.''
meyer, a 32-year-old x-ray technician, said he and peden found the stone about 5 feet underground just before christmas
we'd only been out about 10 times since the end of last summer,'' he said monday. ``and we got lucky.''
peden, who operates a dental ceramics business, said he hoped to help his parents and establish a scholarship for seventh-day adventist students. meyer said he would open his own x-ray laboratory
meyer, who spent much of monday talking to reporters or doing interviews for television, said the impact of his discovery was just beginning to sink in
has he heard from any long-lost relatives?
no,'' he said. ``but i'm sure i will.''
olivia walker has sewn so much glitter and gleam onto the robes of professional wrestlers, she says she has to wear sunglasses when she begins putting needle to fabric
she has assembled the silk and sequins which have flowed over the shoulders of such wrestling stars as dusty rhodes, lex luger, the killer bees and ric flair
flair ``loves his robes, i'll tell ya,'' said mrs. walker, 44, who has been making the gaudy creations for 20 years and lives in this suburb south of atlanta
how many has she made?
it's either 972 or 792,'' she said recently. ``let's say 972. that sounds better.''
asked what makes a good wrestling robe, mrs. walker joked, ``the money.'' her creations cost up to $8,000
she said a robe's cost depends on the weight of its decorations. one robe for flair required 7,200 rhinestones, all applied by hand, and weighed 45 pounds
with less than $2 million left before he exceeds the federal campaign spending lid, republican hopeful pat robertson laid off his highest paid staffer and restructured the rest of his national staff
connie snapp, the former media coordinator and one of the brains behind the robertson campaign, will be off the payroll as of april 1, barbara gattullo, ms. snapp's former assistant, said monday
it's kind of the thing that happens when you reach the spending limit,'' ms. gattullo said. ``there were no hard feelings, i'm sure.''
ms. snapp, a former vice president and marketing director for a division of the new york-based advertising and public relations agency young and rubicam, will continue with the campaign as a consultant
r. marc nuttle, robertson's former campaign manager, who along with ms. snapp charted the early course of the campaign, also becomes a consultant
the day-to-day management of the campaign will be done by allan sutherlin who has 20 years experience in republican politics and has served as secretary and political director of the party in indiana
ms. gattullo, who will take over most of ms. snapp's duties, said many of the changes were to streamline the campaign's focus and finances. robertson has between $1 million and $2 million remaining before he exceeds the federal campaign spending cap for primaries
attorneys in the dispute over the residency of secretary of state evan bayh predict the case could reach the indiana supreme court by the middle of april
the appeals process in residency dispute picked up speed monday when a shelby county judge turned down a request to review his ruling that bayh does meet the five-year residency requirement to be governor
shelby circuit court charles d. o'connor overruled the state election board's motion to correct errors in his march 14 ruling
election board attorney michael r. franceschini said an appeal will be prepared immediately along with a request that the supreme court accept the case now rather than having it go first to the indiana court of appeals
the court action was precipitated by a request from gov. robert d. orr to have the election board rule on bayh's residency. orr said he would not back down from seeking a high court ruling on the matter despite urging from lt. gov john m. mutz to drop it for political reasons
the governor's position has not changed,'' said his spokeswoman, dollyne pettingill. ``he is interested in a final determination, one that cannot be challenged. and that must come from the state's highest court.''
mutz is unopposed for the republican nomination to succeed orr, who is barred from seeking a third straight term
movie producers dueling for the rights to the jessica mcclure rescue will pitch their proposals to a committee charged with deciding who will tell the dramatic story
mayor carroll thomas said monday he will appoint a citizens' committee to intervene in the squabble between two rescuers' groups about which producer will film the story of the girl's rescue from an abandoned well
the five-person committee will review all proposals from producers who have submitted them, although only one deal has been made so far
thomas said the commitment that one rescuers' association has with los angeles producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc., will not mean that his proposal gets preferential treatment from the committee
the only consideration is that highland will be one of the companies considered,'' the mayor said monday
those involved in the rescue have formed two associations, one of mostly municipal workers and another of volunteers, each with its own idea about who should film the story
the other two committees have indicated that they will yield to (the citizens' committee's) decision,'' thomas said. ``both groups have been saying they want what's best for the community.''
the jessica mcclure rescuer's association, a group of more than 30 volunteers, committed to a contract with spivey that includes an initial payment of $200,000, plus future revenues to be divided among members, said kragg robinson, the association's president
the other 11-member group, the mcclure rescue association, has not yet made a deal with a producer, but says it doesn't want to work with spivey
jessica, who turned 2 years old this past saturday, was pulled from the well last october after being wedged inside it for 58 hours. the rescue was televised live nationwide
the mcclures' attorney, darrell smith of midland, again said the family won't stand in the way of a movie
they also wouldn't insist on making one if it wasn't in the best interests of the town,'' he said
there were about the same number of accidents reported in the nation's commercial nuclear power plants in 1987 as there had been for a slightly smaller number of plants the previous year, according to a report by a group critical of the industry
the critical mass energy project of public citizen, a group founded with the help of ralph nader, said in a report issued monday there were 2,810 accidents in commercial nuclear power plants in 1987, as compared with 2,836 for 1986
at the end of last year, there were 105 nuclear plants in commercial operation against 99 at the same point a year earlier
the project, which publishes a compilation of nuclear regulatory commission reports annually, noted this year as the ninth anniversary of the accident at the three mile island plant in pennsylvania
however, ``the findings of this study suggest that the lesson of three mile island has been forgotten by the nuclear industry and its friendly watchdog,'' the nrc, said kenneth boley, one of the authors of the report
the report said 1987 figures could rise slightly as additional reports come in from the plants
the house has approved a bill that would make it easier for a parent to recover a child who is abducted and taken to a foreign country, even when taken by the other parent
the measure, passed by voice vote on monday and sent to the senate, would enable the u.s. government to implement an international treaty intended to overcome complex, time-consuming legal issues blocking the prompt return of abducted children from a foreign country
the united states signed the treaty in 1981. although it was approved by the senate in october 1986, the united states has not ratified the pact because the state department said implementing legislation was needed first
the treaty provides for the prompt return of children abducted from their country or wrongfully kept in a foreign country, and provides for visitation rights across international borders
the bill provides for accelerated procedures by the courts of nine foreign countries that have ratified the treaty for returning abducted children to their u.s. parents
the bill would direct state courts, when petitioned by foreign parents, to order children returned to their habitual residence abroad, even if there is no legal order establishing custody
state and local governments increasingly are considering whether men and women should be paid the same for jobs that are different but of similar value to an employer, according to a private study
the survey, released monday by the national committee on pay equity, said more than 1,500 local governments, school districts and community colleges have taken steps to identify or eliminate race or sex bias in the wages of civil service employees
cities, counties and school districts in 24 states and the district of columbia have taken some action to address the issue of pay equity, the report said
americans are rejecting compensation systems that unfairly penalize women and people of color,'' eileen m. stein, chairwoman of the washington-based coalition of women's, labor and civil rights groups, said in a statement accompanying the report
it is indisputable that pay equity is taking hold at the local and state levels,'' she said. ``employer by employer, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, race and sex discrimination will be removed as wage determinants.''
pay equity, also known as comparable worth, is the concept of paying men and women similar wages for different jobs judged to be of equal value to an employer. student weekly</head>
about 200 dartmouth college faculty members endorsed a statement by the college president accusing a conservative student newspaper of ``poisoning the intellectual environment of our campus.''
during a special faculty meeting monday, dartmouth president james freedman branded the staff of the off-campus weekly the dartmouth review as ``ideological provocateurs posing as journalists.''
chris whitman, a junior who became the review's editor on monday, called freedman's criticisms unfair
the review has been at the center of controversy since it was founded in 1980. it has been attacked as anti-minority, anti-women and anti-homosexual and has been championed by such conservatives as william f. buckley jr. and former white house communications chief patrick buchanan
freedman's public criticism of the review, the strongest to date by any high dartmouth official, came weeks after three review staffers were suspended and a fourth was put on probation for their role in an angry confrontation with a black professor described by the review as incompetent
freedman, who became dartmouth's president eight months ago, said he decided to speak out against the paper ``because i now see that the review is dangerously affecting _ in fact, poisoning _ the intellectual environment of our campus.''
the president said the college ``must not stand by silently when a newspaper maliciously engages in bullying tactics that seem virtually designed to have the effect of discouraging women and members of minority groups from joining our faculty or enrolling as students
what the review has done on this campus has not been decent. what it has done has been irresponsible, mean-spirited, cruel and ugly,'' he said
about 200 teachers at the faculty meeting gave freedman a standing ovation and approved a resolution endorsing his remarks
whitman said the review is not ``anti-diversity.'' he said students of many races and persuasions are or have been on the staff
i think we're aggressive, we pursue investigative stories, but i do not consider us ideological provocateurs or mean-spirited,'' whitman said. ``i think we have an unquestioned right to evaluate the faculty n a consumer-advocacy role.''
as freedman spoke, college spokesmen handed out a statement saying that dean edward shanahan had denied the four review staffers' requests for reconsideration of their disciplinary cases stemming from the feb. 25 confrontation with professor william cole
the students were charged with harassment, invasion of privacy and disorderly conduct after they confronted cole in his classroom to offer him a chance to rebut an article that had harshly criticized him
the college's statement also noted that review staffers in 1986 were involved in a nighttime sledgehammer attack on symbolic anti-apartheid shanties on the college green
editor's note: the writer was arrested monday during a military raid on the marriott hotel in panama city. here is his account
for three hours monday, i was detained by soldiers who stormed the marriott hotel to arrest opposition leaders and journalists. during that time, my notes were seized and i was herded into a sports field with other reporters for a lecture on panama's crisis
i was arrested at the hotel after covering a protest march that was broken up monday by panamanian defense forces troops shooting shotguns and tear gas
after getting mildly tear gassed, i returned to the hotel and heard soldiers had arrested opposition leader carlos ernesto de la lastra, whom i had interviewed during the march
i ran upstairs in the hotel to call the local associated press office, but neither i nor the operator could get a line out
when i went downstairs, i found the lower two floors of the hotel in chaos. armed troops had occupied the ground floor and civilian security agents were running around the second floor, where the national civic crusade, a leading opposition coalition, is headquartered
an agent spotted me, grabbed me by the back of my belt, and marched me down the stairwell and out into a van. eventually 10 people, some of them beaten on the back with chains, were crammed into the small van
we were taken to the g-2 intelligence division next to the headquarters of the defense forces, which is headed by gen. manuel antonio noriega. we were told to be quiet and stand with our arms against the wall, which we did
we were searched, and the interrogators displayed great interest in notes from the demonstration i had on sheets of paper still stuffed in my shirt pocket, as well as my notebook. they took all my notes and my passport and told me they were going to be photocopied
the wall i was standing against was decorated by strident pro-military local newspaper clippings that spoke about the martyrdom of those who died in 1964 anti-american riots
an unidentified man who ran the offices asked me: ``do you ever write anything good, or just bad things?''
eventually my notes and passport were returned, just as a group of several other journalists arrested in and around the hotel arrived at g-2
without being told anything, we were packed into another van and taken to what turned out to be the military baseball field
that chilled me and abidel vivancos, a mexican with abc-tv. we remembered that many of those who had disappeared in chile after the 1973 military coup were taken to the local soccer field beforehand
the first thing i thought of was chile,'' vivancos said
at the field, about 40 detained people were being interviewed. none of the top crusade leaders were there, but i later found out many of them had been arrested as well. two panamanians were caked in blood from apparent beatings
after half an hour standing in line, the military officials separated the foreign journalists
eight of us were put in a line together: vivancos; alfredo gudino, a mexican with nbc-tv; thomas haley, a u.s. photographer with the sipa agency; j.b. diedrich, a miami-based photographer with contact photos; and maria cortina, a mexican with mexican and spanish radio; jose manuel pintada and eduardo herrera, mexicans with spanish television, and myself
then, in a bizarre pseudo-news conference in spanish, maj. felipe camargo complained to us about the ``disinformation'' of the international press and how we were responsible for panama's disastrous situation
he told us to tell the world that it was only the upper class protesting, not the common people, even though those of us who had attended the protest march earlier had seen many working-class people joining the ranks
tell the truth,'' said camargo. ``this is a class struggle.''
he also told us strict instructions had been given not to arrest journalists, but all of us told him we had identified ourselves and been arrested anyway, which he shrugged off
many of us then complained that if the defense forces did not feel its side of the story was being told, its soldiers should not harass the press and routinely refuse interviews
officials in noriega's regime have frequently accused the press of misinforming and conspiring with the reagan administration and panamanian opposition to bring noriega down
camargo agreed and said he would do something about it. he then told us we were not under arrest and that we would not be expelled from the country
he said he would read the newspapers to see if we told the truth about the incident
camargo then apologized for not having a taxi to take us back to the hotel and asked if we would mind riding in a police van
we agreed quickly, and by 9 p.m., three hours after i was arrested, the eight of us were dropped off in front of the hotel
the president of a smoker's-rights group says he is organizing a protest at key airports nationwide to protest northwest airlines' plan to ban smoking on all flights over north american soil
it's very important that northwest recognize they are displacing a significant portion of passengers,'' said dave brenton, president of smoker's rights alliance, who admits to smoking about 1{ packs a day
starting april 23, northwest plans to ban smoking on all flights within the 48 contiguous states and alaska and flights serving mexico, canada, jamaica and the cayman islands
in announcing the ban last week, the airline said 80 percent of its passengers were non-smokers and that even 30 percent of the smokers had expressed a desire for smoke-free flights
but brenton, a 34-year-old electronics consultant, claimed northwest overreacted to a minor issue and predicted that the strategy would backfire, causing a loss of ridership
he said he hopes to turn out crowds of 200 to 300 next month at phoenix sky harbor international and a dozen other major airports
northwest officials did not return telephone calls to the company's headquarters in eagan, minn., for comment
here is a summary of the latest developments involving central america:
panama city, panama _ soldiers fired birdshot and beat protesters with rubber truncheons monday to break up march by 10,000 people demanding the ouster of strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega. a general strike entered its second week. also monday, police and troops swept into a hotel in the capital, arresting opposition leaders and journalists
san jose, costa rica _ former venezuelan president carlos andres perez planned a trip to panama to ask its roman catholic archbishop, monsignor marco antonio mcgrath, to mediate a peaceful solution to panama's crisis. andres perez spent two days meetings with president oscar arias of costa rica and spanish prime minister felipe gonzalez about panama
sapoa, nicaragua _ rebel and government negotiators began hammering out the details of a 60-day cease-fire outlined in the peace accord signed last week. they are to decide in what areas the contra rebels can gather during the truce. the talks, which began monday, were scheduled to resume today
managua, nicaragua _ reports reaching the capital say contra fighters opposed to the cease-fire accord are staging attacks. fighting was reported in southern zelaya province and the central provinces of chontales and matagalpa
washington _ house leaders are trying to put together a package of non-lethal aid for the contras, who under the truce agreement have promised not to accept any military aid. the closed-door talks, which also involved contra officials and the secretary-general of the organization of american states, broke up monday after five hours with republicans and democrats deadlocked over the issue. more meetings were scheduled for today
fort bragg, n.c. _ more than 700 u.s. paratroopers on monday parachuted into their home base 12 days after entering honduras the same way, where they were sent as a show of force against a reported nicaraguan incursion against the contras. altogether 2,000 soldiers from the army's 82nd airborne division were deployed to honduras on march 17. there were part of a 3,200-troop force sent by president reagan and conducted exercises during their stay. the rest of the american troops are expected to return by wednesday
a judge ordered a wealthy heroin dealer to pay $2.2 million in restitution to the city's drug users, in what is considered the first such use of a state law that allows crime victims to be compensated
the money will be given to a drug rehabilitation agency chosen by mayor edward i. koch, said state supreme court justice lewis douglass
the judge said after the monday court hearing in brooklyn that the $2.2 million figure was based on the cost of treating about 900 heroin addicts for one year
douglass said it was the first time a section of the state penal law that allows restitution to be paid to crime victims was used in a drug case, although the practice occurs on the federal level
i hope this sets a precedent,'' he said
when the defendant, agapito lopez, was arrested in 1985, police officers seized six ounces of heroin
according to the judge's calculations, if those six ounces had made it to the street, the drugs would have been used by 898 heroin addicts who would have bought 20 bags each of heroin
douglass said he contacted numerous drug rehabilitation agencies to find out what the least expensive cost per person was for treatment. he was told it was $2,400 annually for out-patient care
the judge multiplied the cost by the number of drug users to get the restitution figure
defense attorney frank ortiz said in court he would appeal the order. he argued that when the state legislature approved the restitution law, it only contemplated crimes where there was a specific victim, like robbery or rape
he also argued that the law requires a hearing to be held for any payment more than $10,000
lopez, 44, was convicted march 5, 1987, of numerous counts of drug sale and possession. according to nancy young, a spokeswoman for brooklyn district attorney elizabeth holtzman, lopez sold 2,200 bags of heroin to an undercover officer for $26,000 between june and august of 1985
douglass sentenced lopez in may 1987 to 25 years to life in prison and fined him $52,000, twice the amount of the actual heroin sale
young said lopez owned two houses in brooklyn, at least one house in staten island, a car dealership in aguas buena, puerto rico, and other real estate in puerto rico. she said lopez also had in excess of $60,000 in bank accounts in the united states and puerto rico
the district attorney's office would seize the assets needed to meet the restitution, young said
holtzman said in a statement released by her office that she was pleased with the judge's order because there is ``a desperate need'' for drug treatment
most american taxpayers say the much-ballyhooed tax ``reform'' they are experiencing for the first time has made the system worse, not better, according to a nationwide poll published today
fifty-five percent of those interviewed in the washington post-abc news poll expressed that opinion, compared to just 31 percent who said the new system is better
the poll also showed that about 3 out of 5 expect to pay more this year than they did under the old system; 58 percent said they believed their taxes are higher compared to just 22 percent who said they will pay less. twelve percent said they expect their taxes to be about the same
when the tax changes were passed in 1986, members of both political parties and president reagan promised that the new law would make the system fairer and simpler. but the poll showed that most americans wrestling with the tax changes in the first year they have taken effect disagree
the poll was based on interviews with 910 people who said they had filed or plan to file federal tax returns this year. results had a margin of error of 3 percentage points in either direction. the post did not give the dates the interviews were conducted, but said just under half of those questioned had completed their tax returns
of those, 51 percent said their taxes are now higher as a result of the changes
sen. bob packwood, r-ore., one of the chief supporters of the tax changes said that many of the people complaining about the system may not understand it. he told the post that they may be receiving smaller refunds this year but are paying less overall without realizing it
sen. bill bradley, d-n.j., who was one of the principal architects of the tax changes maintains that the system is more fair but has acknowledged that the final result did not significantly simplify the tax system. bradley blames this on last-minute tinkering done with his proposal to eliminate the great majortiy of deductions available to taxpayers
the miami herald won three distinguished-service awards from the society of professional journalists, sigma delta chi, including one for the newspaper's stories on gary hart's association with donna rice
the herald also won awards for foreign correspondence and news photography
veteran journalists from throughout the country judged the 1987 entries for the awards, presented annually since 1932 by the journalism society
the herald's tom fiedler, jim mcgee and james savage won the washington correspondence award for their series on how hart met in a washington, d.c., townhouse with miss rice after his repeated proclamations of marital fidelitly
publicity about the relationship last year led him to drop out of the race for the democratic presidential nomination. he rejoined the campaign briefly, then dropped out earlier this month after faring poorly in several primaries
the herald stories ``resulted in a major controversy in political and journalistic circles after readers were apprised of the differences between the public perception and the behavior of a prominent, national political figure,'' the society said in announcing the awards monday
the accuracy of the herald stories, while widely questioned at the time of publication, has stood up under the thorough scrutiny of critics. the stories were in the finest tradition of responsible newspaper reporting and met the strictest standards of journalism,'' the society said
the herald's guy gugliotta, jeff leen and james savage won the foreign correspondence award for a series analyzing the colombian crime ring known as the medellin cartel, which allegedly controls the trafficking of cocaine from latin america to the united states
the newspaper also won the news photography award for michel ducille's series of black-and-white pictures showing how crack, a form of cocaine, dominated the lives of impoverished people living in a public housing project
the dallas times herald won the society's public service award for a newspaper with circulation over 100,000 for its series explaining the effect of the government's immigration reform act
the alabama journal in montgomery won the public service award in the under-100,000 circulation category for its series on the state's high infant mortality rate
the society will present its distinguished-service awards at a banquet in orlando, fla., on may 7
other awards announced monday were:
_editorial cartooning, to paul conrad of the los angeles times, for cartoons on lt. col. oliver north's testimony before congress on the iran-contra affair. conrad, the recipient of six distinguished-service awards, has been honored by the society more than any other journalist
_tv spot news reporting, to allen pizzey, paul vittoroulis and georges ioannides of cbs for a report on efforts to rescue crewmen from a burning cypriot tanker in the persian gulf
_public service by a tv station in the top 50 markets, to king in seattle, for a documentary exploring the impact of sex education on teen-agers
_public service by a smaller-market tv station, to wbrz in baton rouge, la., for a documentary examining how state and city officials failed to appeal costly court judgments
_television editorials, to phil johnson of wwl in new orleans, for a series lambasting the administration of a prison for young, first-time offenders
_general reporting by a newspaper with circulation over 100,000, to jacqui banaszynski of the st. paul pioneer press for a three-part series on a political activist with aids
_general reporting by a newspaper with circulation under 100,000, to paul nyden of the charleston (west va.) gazette for a series examining malpractice claims and insurance settlements in the state
_editorial writing, to jane healy of the orlando (fla.) sentinel for a series on how orange county commissioners mismanged plans for urban development
_magazine public service, to the washington post magazine for a story by walt harrington focusing on a father's struggle to cope with the kidnapping of his three-week-old son
_magazine reporting, to stephen fried, senior editor of philadelphia magazine, for a story on how a suburban police officer sexually molested boys over the past 25 years
_radio public service, to monitoradio, a christian science monitor news program, for a series on the plight of children in developing nations
_radio spot news reporting, to the news staff of knx-am in los angeles, for coverage of an earthquake and aftershocks that rocked southern california in october
_editorials on radio, to catharine cahan of chicago's wbbm-am, for a series calling for flexible hours in city health clinics, based on the needs of the community
_journalism research, to randall p. bezanson, gilbert cranberg and john soloski, for their book ``libel law and the press.''
_print bicentennial, to john lofton, retired editorial writer for the st. louis post-dispatch for a series examining how provisions of the u.s. constitution came to be
_broadcast bicentennial, to beatrice black of whyy-fm in philadelphia, for a story on first amendment rights of individuals protesting abortion
the nevado del ruiz volcano grew calmer, but the government insisted that people continue evacuating areas close to the crater
the volcano was spouting steam on monday, but no ash was falling in areas around the volcano, the government's national emergency committee said. also, no tremors were being recorded
the volcano started spewing steam and ash on friday, becoming the most active since it erupted nov. 13, 1985, when 23,000 persons were killed
people within a six-mile radius of the volcano were ordered to evacuate
the bogota newspapers el tiempo and el espectador reported monday that many people in small villages were refusing to leave. in murillo, the largest village close to the volcano, mayor jesus maria romero aranzazu said only eight of the 600 residents there had left, el espectador reported
murillo, undamaged by the 1985 eruption, is five miles from the volcano
a fire in a northern village destroyed more than 150 mud-and-straw homes and killed at least six children
the fire on monday left 1,000 people homeless in jangaldi village, 60 miles north of dhaka, the independent bengali-language daily ittefaq said
it said the six children killed were trapped inside homes during the two-hour fire, which was put out by villagers using buckets of water
a dc9 jetliner and a two-seat training plane flew within 700 feet of each other over england, the civil aviation authority said
the incident occurred sunday two miles south of cambridge airport, the authority said monday
it involved a paramount airways dc9, which was carrying no passengers, and a piper pa38 tomahawk. the two planes were flying at an altitude of 2,000 feet
the civil aviation authority did not say what caused the planes to fly so close to each other, but said the incident would be investigated by the independent joint air miss working group
the standard safe distance between two planes is 1,000 feet
paramount airways is a new regional airline based in bristol, england
the civil aviation authority recently adopted a policy of reporting all near-collisions over british air space
the south african army's display of nazi flags at a military pageant has drawn criticism, a military spokeswoman said
the military displayed the nazi flags last week at the castle, a historic military building in cape town
a jewish visitor complained when he saw the flags, which contain a swastika, the military spokeswoman, lt. ina fourie, said on monday. a number of telephone callers also objected to the display, ms. fourie added
she said the use of the flags was ``merely symbolic in depicting world war ii. we are very sorry if we have offended or hurt anyone.''
she said the flags would no longer be displayed
south africa supported the allied side in world war ii, but a large segment of the white population was sympathetic to germany
a nationwide teachers' strike that has prevented 7.2 million children aged 3 to 18 from starting public school this year has entered its third week with no end in sight, officials said
the walkout by 505,000 primary and secondary school teachers belonging to ctera, the confederation of educational workers of the argentine republic union, began march 14 over demands to be paid a minimum of $115 a month
the government under education minister jorge sabato, while admitting teachers' salaries are low, has offered $85, saying it cannot pay more because of the economic crisis. some teachers receive only $55 a month
inflation in argentina, the developing world's third-most indebted nation, was 189 percent in 1987 and 10.4 percent in february
private schools have been mostly untouched by the strike, which entered its third week on monday
eighteen people were arrested in an investigation into attempts by the mafia to scare off competition for construction contracts
the charges against the suspects, who were arrested monday, included criminal association, extortion and illegal use of explosives
police said the probe began six months ago after a series of dynamite attacks on companies that won contracts to build part of the palermo-messina highway and a new section of track for the rail line linking the two cities
searchers have found no evidence of a fisherman who disappeared on the sandy river last weekend after tossing his life preserver to his son, sheriff's deputies said
george earl trenkle, 40, of blackfoot, idaho, was presumed drowned after a saturday boating accident in which he and two others were thrown from their driftboat
his son, george edward trenkle, 18, said their driftboat hit a log and capsized. the elder trenkle gave up his life preserver to save his son's life, then was carried by the current around a bend
the third man, roland parkhurst, 40, of gresham, was wearing a life jacket. he and the younger trenkle were rescued by witnesses
a multnomah county river patrol crew searched the bank and surface for trenkle's body saturday, sunday and monday. deputy garr nielsen said nothing was found and that the search would continue
hail the size of golf balls pounded portions of oklahoma early today, where high winds and possibly tornadoes earlier inflicted damage and killed a woman in her mobile home
other storms were scattered along a cold front that extended monday night from the upper great lakes into the southern plains
thunderstorms produced hail 2} inches in diameter at duncan, olka., monday evening as well as near comanche, okla. smaller hail fell in other parts of the state, while the golf ball-sized hail fell early today at ada and near tahlequah, in eastern oklahoma
meanwhile monday night, thunderstorm winds near 60 mph were clocked near velma, olka., and heavy rain drenched much of the state. oklahoma city received over 2} inches of rainfall over a 24-hour period
the high winds damaged a mobile home in oklahoma city, killing a woman inside and seriously injuring her husband. elsewhere in the city, about a half-dozen mobile homes where thrown onto their sides
in mustang, okla., police reported the roofs on city hall and a fast food restaurant were damaged by wind. the weather service said a possible tornado was spotted near mustang just before 5 p.m., and other possible tornadoes in oklahoma were reported at harrah and midwest city
showers and thunderstorms were scattered across kansas and missouri and eastern arkansas. a flash flood watch was issued for tonight for southwest missouri as the rains over oklahoma move northeast
showers and a few thunderstorms extended into parts of illinois and eastern wisconsin. rain was reported across parts of lower michigan into western new york state
freezing drizzle was reported in sections of michigan's upper peninsula early today, while rain was scattered across the pacific northwest and snow was falling over parts of the southern colorado rockies
skies were mostly clear across much of the southwest on monday evening, but high winds continued in sections. carlsbad, n.m., clocked winds to 70 mph late monday and phoenix reported winds gusting to around 40 mph at deer valley airport
some clouds moved into parts of the southeast late monday, while dense fog formed along the florida panhandle coast
the forecast for today called for showers and thunderstorms from southern and eastern texas across the mississippi and lower ohio valleys to the great lakes region; snowshowers in northern minnesota and northwest wisconsin, and from northwest montana to eastern washington; and rainshowers in the pacific northwest
highs were expected in the 30s or 40s from upper michigan across the upper mississippi valley and the northern and central portions of the great plains and rockies to idaho and eastern washington; the 70s or 80s from the southern atlantic states and interior portions of the mid-atlantic states across the ohio, tennessee and lower mississippi valleys to central and southern texas; and the 70s and 80s from the desert southwest to central and southern california. elsewhere, highs will be in the 50s or 60s
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from zero at yellowstone park, wyo., to 75 at kingsville, texas, and key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 51 partly cloudy; boston 35 fair; buffalo 43 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 43 fair; cincinnati 58 cloudy; cleveland 51 windy; detroit 46 partly cloudy; miami 73 fair; new york 43 cloudy; philadelphia 43 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 46 partly cloudy; portland, maine 30 fair; washington 45 fair
_central: bismarck 23 fair; chicago 55 rain; dallas-fort worth 70 windy; denver 21 fair; des moines 42 windy; indianapolis 53 cloudy; kansas city 38 rain; minneapolis-st. paul 34 partly cloudy; nashville 61 cloudy; new orleans 64 cloudy; st. louis 59 rain
_west: albuquerque 33 fair; anchorage 31 cloudy; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 65 fair; phoenix 58 fair; salt lake city 27 fair; san diego 60 fair; san francisco 48 fair; seattle 38 rain
_canada: montreal 28 fair; toronto 36 cloudy
spring thunderstorms spawned tornadoes and pounded oklahoma with hail and winds gusting to 75 mph that destroyed a mobile home, killing a woman, while in utah a snowstorm was blamed for a fatal car-train collision
frigid air followed the storm that hit utah on monday, and the national weather service warned fruit farmers the low temperatures could hurt crops today
thunderstorms swept through central, eastern and southwestern oklahoma on monday
a tornado touched down in southwest oklahoma city, and unconfirmed tornadoes were reported in nearby mustang, harrah and midwest city. another touched down just northwest of little rock, ark
in oklahoma city, high winds destroyed a mobile home in the sherwood homes trailer park, said authorities, who could not confirm reports of a tornado
lillian robinson, 69, was dead on arrival at midwest city hospital, an unidentified spokesman said. her husband, who was not identified, was hospitalized in serious condition
the wind shoved some mobile homes off their foundations and shook others, said trailer park resident mike mcfarland
it was a very loud noise,'' mcfarland said
high winds also threw half a dozen trailers onto their sides at a trailer company in oklahoma city, and damaged roofs on city hall, a fast food restaurant and a funeral home in mustang, officials said
hail up to 4 inches in diameter was reported around the state, the weather service said
to the north, thunderstorms dropped golf ball-size hail just west of quincy, ill., and marble-size hail at leavenworth, kan
the utah snowstorm caused about 50 accidents, most of them fender benders, the state highway patrol reported
at the height of the storm, a freight train collided with a car, killing driver villiami s. pauni, 39, said salt lake county sheriff's cpl. ron little. the train engineer sounded his horn and the crossing signal was working, but the car apparently slid into the train's path, little said
a snowstorm in central colorado also left roads icy, triggering numerous accidents. in montana, a snow storm left up to a foot of snow
latin american nations met in emergency session at panama's request and were asked to denounce foreign intervention in panama and call on the united states to end economic measures aimed at toppling gen. manuel antonio noriega
a formal regional position on the crisis in panama is to be drawn up later at the extraordinary meeting of the 26-member latin american economic system
the organization, based in caracas, was founded in 1976 as an economic forum for latin american countries
the organization is expected to reject any foreign intervention in panama, while urging that panamanian military and civilian leaders abide soon with the promise of free national elections, delegates at the meeting monday said
individual nations, including mexico and venezuela, already indicated their opposition to outside interference in panama's affairs, without specifically mentioning the united states by name
noriega, who as military chief also is panama's strongman, was indicted on federal drug trafficking and money-laundering charges in the united states, and president reagan says noriega must go. noriega denies the charges. the reagan administration also has frozen panamanian government funds in u.s. banks, denying this country a supply of dollars, the official panamanian currency
in an hourlong speech monday, panamanian foreign minister jorge abadia arias asked the delegates for support against u.s. ``economic aggression'' which he claimed is meant to keep the panama canal under u.s. control
panama is suffering the most cruel economic strangulation seen on our continent, within a strategy of domination with which the u.s. hopes to replace the wars of annexation that the world thought were long gone,'' abadia said
manuel rodriguez arriaga, mexico's subsecretary of international cooperation, rejected ``any act of foreign intervention to influence the destiny of panama.''
we cannot permit that someone tells us from outside what is good or bad. today it is panama, yesterday many others, and tomorrow anybody,'' rodriguez said. he called for u.s. economic measures against panama to cease
venezuela's acting foreign minister, horacio arteaga, rejected foreign intervention in panama, but reiterated venezuelan support for ``revitalization of democracy in panama.''
we fervently hope that when panama assumes full sovereignty over the canal, its people will have consolidated their democratic institutions,'' arteaga said
he said venezuela would like panama's government to make good very quickly its promise of free national elections
delegates from other countries asked panamana to call for free elections this year rather than next, sources at the meeting said, speaking on condition of anonymity
one delegate, also speaking on condition of not being identified, said, ``most latin americans would like gen. noriega to leave, not to be toppled.'' in general, latin american nations have rejected the interference of the panamanian military in the civilian government and called their ambassadors home for consultations. the meeting was expected to end today. update with 160 soldiers from 7th infantry divison now back, soldiers at base, yellow ribbons and banners; picks up 6th graf, ``the 3,200 ...''</note>
more than 700 members of the army's famed 82nd airborne division staged a dramatic finale to their mission in honduras by parachuting into their home base as wives, children and officers cheered
the paratroopers piled out of seven c-141 transport planes, filling the sky with olive-drab parachutes monday as family members and officers applauded from grandstands
we went down there to do a job, and it turned out they really didn't need us to do it,'' said spec. 4 randy beebe, 24. ``when they decided they didn't, it became business as usual, a training exercise.''
meanwhile, about 160 members of the 7th infantry division, dispatched to honduras with the 82nd after nicaraguan forces chased contra rebels into that country, returned to california as a band welcomed them home with ``the stars and stripes forever.''
the soldiers, clad in full combat gear, marched out of three planes at travis air force base before an honor guard dressed in fatigues
the infantrymen came home today to their base at fort ord about 100 miles south of san francisco, where loved ones welcomed them with yellow ribbons and banners with messages like ``good job, guys'' and ``welcome home, we missed you.''
the 3,200 soldiers from both divisions had been sent to back up the honduran army on march 17, but never got close to the nicaraguan-honduran border as they participated in training exercises with honduran soldiers
a 60-day cease-fire was signed last week between the nicaraguan government and the contra rebels
we were watched by everyone in the world, and everyone was impressed. i want you to know i'm very proud of you,'' lt. gen. john foss, commander of the 18th airborne corps, told paratroopers lined up in formation after the drop
twelve days ago, nicaraguan forces had entered honduras,'' foss said. ``now ... there are no nicaraguan forces in that country and a cease-fire exists.''
honduras, which requested the u.s. troops, had accused nicaragua of crossing its borders in pursuit of the contras. nicaragua denied the charge
at fort bragg, soldiers celebrated their return in joyful reunions with their families
it's great, it's great. oh, god, it's great,'' staff sgt. raymond gates, 29, said after hugging his wife, sharon
his sons, jarrod, 7, and christopher, 2, leaped into his arms while a friend held his rifle
spec. 4 beebe said he got a little nervous early in the stay, ``but this is what you're trained to do. we were ready to go.''
he said the first thing he wanted to do was call his parents in missouri, and ``let them know i'm ok. my mom's the worrying type.''
the paratroopers landed in the base's sicily drop zone, a name recalling the unit's glory days of world war ii. the 82nd made its first combat jump into sicily, and later dropped into france with the 101st airborne division in the normandy invasion
monday's jump ``was a good drop, a beautiful drop,'' said capt. donald m. sensing, a fort bragg spokesman. ``the first paratrooper out was three seconds early, but we're not quibbling with that.''
all 3,200 soldiers are expected to be back by friday, army officials said
the mission ended just in time for 1st lt. steve swimley, who was getting bored
we were doing the same stuff over and over,'' swimley said as he hugged his wife, mary. ``it was clear to me we'd be coming home soon because we had accomplished our objective.''
his buddy, 1st lt. jim cooper, said he was looking forward ``to taking a shower and drinking a few beers.''
i want to tell the nicaraguan people and the world that the combatants are not going to put down their arms until nicaragua is a democracy.'' _ diogenes hernandez membreno, a contra commander, commenting on the cease-fire between the nicaraguan government and the rebels
when there was a lapse of much time between press interviews or news conferences, he would be totally out of the swim on what was in the press and what had happened two weeks ago, and it would be like reinventing the wheel to get him prepared.'' _ former white house chief spokesman larry speakes, commenting on president reagan in his new book
it's great, it's great. oh, god, it's great.'' _ staff sgt. raymond gates, 29, commenting on his return from honduras with fellow paratroopers of the 82nd airborne division. treatment</head>
six people apparently injured by mustard gas allegedly used in iraqi attacks on kurdish villages arrived here today for medical treatment. more than 30 others were to be taken to other cities
dr. gerhard freilinger, department head of vienna's university clinic plastic surgery, said after talking with some of the patients, their injuries appeared to be from mustard gas that may have been mixed with a nerve gas
freilinger, who since 1984 has treated about 30 victims of alleged chemical weapons attacks in the 7{-year-old persian gulf war, said the effects on the lungs of the patients indicated they suffered from the effects of mustard gas
freilinger spoke to reporters at an airport where the injured arrived aboard an iran airlines ambulance plane
it was possible the mustard gas was ``in combination with a light nerve gas, because they all have bad headaches, are dizzy and (some) may have been unconscious,'' he said
mustard gas is heavier than air, which would explain how it seeped into cellars where the patients said they had been hiding during the march 16 and 17 attacks, freilinger said
iran has said the iraq dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on three kurdish towns in iraq, killing 5,000 people and injuring 5,000. the attacks on the towns, which were captured in an iranian offensive, occurred march 16-17
freilinger said two of the patients, a child and a severely wounded iranian soldier, were to be placed in the intensive care unit at his university clinic. the four others _ three women and a man _ were to be brought to private clinics in vienna
the remaining kurds on board the plane were to be carried on to geneva, frankfurt, london and then new york
freilinger said about 50 percent of about 30 patients he has treated since 1984 survived, but added that patients only arrived for treatment after 10 or 15 days, meaning that the damage done by the gas could not be reversed
an iranian soldier freilinger had removed from the plane in vienna was originally to go on to new york. however, freilinger said the man's injuries were so severe, that he could not continue the trip
freilinger said poison gas penetrates everything including clothes. ``they can't run away from it because if they do, they breath it in even deeper,'' he said. he said mustard gas causes changes in the lungs that can lead to suffocation. he said it could also destroy the bone marrow and causes burns on the skin
freilinger said in 1984 he had visited areas allegedly bombed with chemical weapons and had taken a sample of the gas for verification and testing
in the past iran has sent soldiers allegedly poisoned by mustard gas to vienna and other european cities for treatment. in july, iranian civilians were brought for treatment for the first time
on board the plane, patients with burns on their hands, backs and faces coughed violently or lay motionless on stretchers
one child of six who iranian and kurdish officials said had lost her entire family in the attack, sobbed constantly and called for her parents
iran's ambassador to austria, hossein noghrehkar shirazi was at the airport when the plane arrived as were representatives of several kurdish groups
in downtown vienna on monday police arrested 60 people at a kurdish demonstration in front of the iraqi embassy against chemical weapons attacks. settlement</head>
women, black and hispanic police officers who said the department discriminated in hiring and promotion practices have been offered $9.2 million in back pay and an upgrade in seniority, officials say
the consent decree signed by the city and the federal government and announced monday by the justice department must be formally approved by u.s. district judge prentice marshall
the settlement, which ended a 15-year legal battle, calls for the city to give back pay to 729 women, blacks and hispanics and to adjust their seniority dates.
attorney richard gutman, who has represented two women in the case since 1974, called the settlement ``recognition that people's rights were violated. ... but even today, there are only 30 female sergeants out of about 1,200 on the force
the current training class will yield only the first female lieutenant in the history of the department,'' gutman added. ``that speaks for itself.''
city corporation counsel judson miner said the settlement was fair
there were many components to this case that had to be tried over a period of years,'' he said. ``one of the priorities of this office has been to resolve longstanding cases and still protect the interests of the city.''
police chief leroy martin will withhold comment until he has reviewed the decree, said spokeswoman jackie kimber
before 1973, women were not hired for the department's patrol force, prompting a spate of individual legal actions. black and hispanic males had charged in similar lawsuits that police department hiring and promotion tests had a discriminatory effect
the federal government consolidated the complaints in 1973, making itself the plaintiff
marshall, who presided over the case, ruled in 1976 that the city violated the equal-opportunity provisions of the civil rights act of 1964
the proposed decree requires the city to establish an interest-bearing fund of $9.2 million for reimbursements to discrimination victims
the decree covers:
_ 233 women on the 1972 policewoman eligibility list who were hired or reclassified as police officers and who passed probation, or who were employed before march 24, 1972, as policewomen or matrons and were subsequently reclassified as police officers
_ 455 black and hispanic men who applied for the 1968 or 1971 patrol officers eligibility lists and were hired from march 24, 1972, to dec. 31, 1978, as patrolmen or police officers from those lists, and who paased probation
_ the first three women promoted to sergeant after march 24, 1972, who served as policewomen or matrons in 1968 or before that time
_ the first 38 black and hispanic men who applied for promotion to sergeant in 1968 and who were promoted to that rank from march 24, 1972, to dec. 31, 1973. film, sted tv movie, sub 2nd graf of 4th item.</head>
kevin costner and james earl jones will star in the movie ``shoeless joe,'' about the disgraced baseball great ``shoeless joe'' jackson, a producer says
the movie is based on a novel by w.p. kinsella about a ghostly return by jackson, said associate producer brian frankish, who produced the ``max headroom'' tv series and the movie ``the boy who could fly.''
we have a really magical film here,'' frankish said at a news conference monday
frankish, gov. terry branstad and dubuque area chamber of commerce officials toasted the film with champagne glasses of dubuque star brewery's erlanger beer
jackson, a chicago white sox player, was kicked out of major league baseball for his part in the 1919 ``black sox'' scandal after an investigation found that the team threw the series to the cincinnati reds on the orders of gamblers
filming in the dubuque area will begin after memorial day, frankish said
the rhine river stopped just short of pouring into a section of cologne today, and two people in bavaria apparently died when another flooded river swept away their vehicle
the rhine stabilized at 32.3 feet. at 32.5 feet, the river would have entered cologne's low-lying old town area. experts predicted the rhine floodwaters will slowly begin to recede
rescue workers searched today for a volkswagen bus with two people that witnesses said was swept away by the flooded main river in the bavarian city of wuerzburg, where streets along the banks of the river were inundated
police said the witnesses reported seeing the headlights of the vehicle in the floodwaters and heard cries for help. the vehicle had disappeared by the time rescue workers arrived in boats, police said
over the weekend and on monday, rising waters in bavaria forced the evacuation of thousands of residents and farm animals. on monday, the danube river burst through dikes in at least five locations, causing the region's worst flooding in 70 years, authorities said
if the death of the two people in wuerzburg is confirmed, the flood-related death toll would climb to five. an elderly man died monday after suffering a heart attack in the flooded upper bavarian town of straubing, and a 61-year-old koblenz man and 3-year-old boy from bamberg died over the weekend
in bavaria, 3,500 residents were evacuated from homes near straubing, 30 miles north of munich, late sunday and early monday
at least 2,500 cows, pigs, and other farm animals were also taken to higher grounds as floodwaters spilled into the farms and pastures of upper bavaria
if the rain does not stop soon, this could get much worse,'' hans voggenreiter, a straubing official, told the associated press on monday. he said residents were evacuated by rowboats, powerboats and ``whatever was available.'' he added: ``most were taken in by relatives and friends. the rest are being cared for in schools and public auditoriums.''
nearly 900 volunteers worked throughout the day monday filling sandbags and shoring up the earthen dams that line the danube near straubing, regensburg and other upper bavarian towns
floodwaters had also entered parts of the ancient city of regensburg, as well as sections of passau, 80 miles to the east
officials said flooding along the neckar and mosel rivers was receding, but the rhine continued to climb
the rising rhine forced authorities to close parts of a major highway between mainz and koblenz on monday, and disrupted train traffic through the valley. travellers reported delays of several hours for some trains, and said others were rerouted away from riverside tracks
riverside sidewalks and some streets in bonn, the federal capital, had disappeared beneath the rhine's floodwaters
residents of the large villas that line the rhine at the bonn district of bad godesberg, home to many embassies and ambassadors' residents, were using pumps to dry out their flooded cellars and preparing sandbags
evening came, and then the people were in the little room apart, drinking wine and reading, drinking and reading for hours that night. it was good wine and good reading
it was not exactly ernest hemingway, but a spirited review of loving parodies of the famed novelist's crisp, masculine style
one of the literary lampoons, chosen from 21 finalists by a dozen well-lubricated judges, won the eleventh international imitation hemingway competition on monday
it was now morning, and he was in the bathroom shaving, shaving for the first time that day, but not the last; no, never the last,'' begins the winning entry, which ends with a groanworthy pun
the parody by gordon ``satch'' carlson of anchorage, alaska, met the key rule of the lighthearted contest: to sound like hemingway and read like hemingway. to ``know that funny is good and very funny is very good.''
carlson, a high school english teacher, newspaper and magazine columnist and self-described ``social gadfly,'' said in a telephone interview that he had no trouble imitating hemingway's distinctive style
actually, i've been accused of writing hemingway parodies when i'm not trying,'' he said
carlson's work continued: ``the hairs kept coming, tiny hairs and black and there was nothing for it, nothing for it at all but shaving ....''
the 350-word parody went on and on, discussing the hirsute portions of a man's body. it then described an estranged woman, then more shaving, drinking wine, and then drinking more wine
the climax came when the man cut himself
she turned, lifting her thin american lip over those thin, white, perfect, american teeth, and that thin american sneer. `it's only a nick, adams,' she said.' ''
nick adams was a character in several of hemingway's short stories
carlson maintains that hemingway's short stories, rather than his novels, are key to the writer's work. he said most of the lines for his parody came from his favorite hemingway story, ``the short happy life of francis macomber.''
carlson, who was vacationing in seattle when he learned he won, gets a round trip for two to italy, with dinners at harry's bar in florence
the other 20 finalists, each straining the language to produce literary lookalikes of hemingway's terse, manly style, were among 2,432 entries from all 50 states and more than a dozen foreign countries
the judges included authors ray bradbury, barnaby conrad and cyra mcfadden and poet lawrence ferlinghetti. it was the first time the contest was held outside los angeles
one would-be hemingway wrote, ``the president looked at the woman he called nancy ... other men also called her nancy.''
sticking to the political season, another contestant told how in the spring, a fellow named gary ``took the young woman to the bahamas, avoiding reporters and living on rum and sun and the catch of the day ... he had not taken his wife.''
another competitor was taken with a large fellow named jose, ``a fellow who could laugh in such a large way when the bird sat on his cigar, (a) cigar the size of a monkey's arm.''
one entry dealt with ``a farewell to arms, legs, feet and neck,'' while another sought glitter in ``a farewell to lunch.''
emmy award-winning writer albert schwartz, who created scripts for such tv and radio shows as ``the bob hope show,'' ``here's lucy,'' and ``gilligan's island,'' died of complications from emphysema. he was 77
schwartz, who died saturday, was part of the original writing team for ``the bob hope show,'' when it went on radio in 1938
his first tv credits came in 1955 for ``the milton berle show'' and ``december bride.''
he later wrote for ``gilligan's island'' and three television movies based on the series. he also wrote for ``petticoat junction,'' ``chico and the man,'' ``good times'' and ``the brady bunch.''
schwartz, nominated twice for emmys, shared the award in 1961 for his work on several episodes of ``the red skelton show.''
he is survived by his wife, mimi, two sons, two daughters, six grandchildren and two brothers. attacks</head>
gunmen killed a japanese nightclub owner today, and the military said it captured two top communist rebel leaders during an early morning raid on a hideout in suburban manila
the military, meanwhile, was on alert to guard against attacks by communist guerrillas marking their army's 19th anniversary
police said akihiro sato, was shot near manila airport. he was taken to a nearby hospital where he died of bullet wounds in the neck and shoulder
police pvt. 1st class bert hipolito said investigators had no idea who sato's killers were. a japanese friend of the victim who declined to be identified told reporters at the hospital that sato, 48, was a native of tsuchiura city in japan's ibaraki prefecture, where he owned a nightclub
the source said sato frequently visited manila on business trips and was to have returned to japan today. he arrived march 20 and was reported to have a filipino wife. the japanese embassy said it was trying to obtain more information and could make no further comment
armed forces chief gen. renato de villa told a news conference today that authorities captured rafael baylosis, secretary-general of the communist party of the philippines, and benjamin de vera, central committee member in charge of operations on mindanao, the country's second largest island
this is certainly a big loss to the communist party of the philippines because these are very high-ranking personalities who have been subject of many manhunts and many operations in the past,'' de villa said
brig. gen. alexander aguirre, overall commander of security forces in the capital, said the two were arrested during a raid on a hideout at the manila suburb of san juan early today
armed forces spokesman col. oscar florendo said the military was on alert today in anticipation of possible rebel attacks. the alert covered five regions, including manila, northern, southern and central luzon and parts of the central philippine visayas islands
president corazon aquino told reporters she ordered executive secretary catalino macaraig to summon the mayors of 13 towns and four cities that comprise the philippine capital to a meeting to plan safety measures
no major rebel attacks were reported today, but reports of attacks in the countryside often take days to reach manila
the 24,000-strong new people's army, part of the outlawed communist party of the philippines, traditionally observes its founding anniversary by attacking government installations and executing ``enemies of the people.'' names of towns reported attacked. picks up 8th graf pvs ``kurdistan is ...</note>
iraq today said its warplanes attacked two supertankers off iran in the persian gulf and threatened to use chemical weapons against major iranian cities
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, quoted a military spokesman as saying iraqi warplanes hit two ``very large maritime targets,'' or supertankers, off the iran coast during the night
there was no immediate confirmation of the report, which provided no other details. news of iraqi raids in iranian tankers are difficult to verify because of an iranian news blackout on such incidents
nuri nayef, director of the cairo office of the iraqi news agency, today said an ``authorized iraqi spokesman'' told him ``iraq might choose a number of large iranian cities to be the targets of chemical weapons as a deterrent and punitive measure.''
nayef, who spoke to reporters in cairo, said the unidentified spokesman said iran deployed chemical weapons in iraq's northeastern kurdistan region and that iraq may respond to stop the iranians from doing so again
iran claims iraq dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on three towns in kurdistan, killing 5,000 kurds and injuring 5,000. the attacks on the town of halabja and the nearby villages of khormal and dojaila reportedly began march 16 and continued over the next few days
western reporters have seen victims of chemical weapons at hospitals in halabja, which they visited with iranian guides, and in tehran. survivors told them chemical bombs were dropped by iraqi, not iranian, planes
kurdistan is where the majority of iraq's 3.5 million kurds live. most of them have been fighting the baghdad government for autonomy in the mountainous region. they are backed by iran
baghdad has neither confirmed nor denied the use of the outlawed weapons. but a statement by iraq's ruling revolutionary command council on saturday said iraq has the right to defend itself ``with all available weapons.''
on monday, the official islamic republic news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said iran's revolutionary guards had killed or wounded 300 iraqis in the latest battle of an iranian thrust into the kurdistan region
the news agency quoted revolutionary guards minister mohsen rafiq-doust as saying the iranians have overrun 540 square miles of the region
the iranians also have pushed 15 miles into the darbandikhan region, east of iraq's kirkuk oilfields, communiques said
iran claims to have killed or wounded nearly 13,500 iraqis, captured more than 5,000 and destroyed 225 tanks and armored vehicles since march 16
iraq has admitted losing territory in kurdistan
but if the iranian claim is confirmed, it would mark iraq's biggest military setback since the iranians battled to within six miles of the southern city of basra early last year and occupied wetlands east of it
iran also claimed its air force fighters downed two iraqi warplanes in the kurdistan battle zone monday. iraq admitted losing only one aircraft
in another development, rebels fighting iran's government with backing from iraq said monday their national liberation army launched a major offensive on a 15-mile front in iran's southwestern khuzestan province near the town of shush
iran acknowledged the attack, but said more than 1,000 iraqi soldiers and nla ``counter-revolutionaries'' were killed and the advanced was foiled
six people were killed and one was injured when a group of young west german skiers and their guide were buried by an avalanche in the jam valley of tyrol province, authorities said
the accident happened monday morning, but authorities did not become aware of it until late in the afternoon because all electricity and telephone lines to the area had been interrupted by another avalanche, a police spokesman from the area told austrian television
the spokesman said the six people dug out of the snow were already dead and a seventh was injured. no names of the skiers involved were released
a former president of venezuela will fly to panama to ask the roman catholic archbishop to try to mediate an end to the crisis over the strongman-rule of gen. manuel antonio noriega
president oscar arias of costa rica and spanish prime minister felipe gonzalez told a news conference monday they would ask panamanian monsignor marco antonio mcgrath to seek a peaceful solution to panama's devastating political and economic situation
they said former venezuelan president carlos andres perez will go to panama to present the request to mcgrath. no schedule was given
arias, gonzalez and perez met sunday and monday in the resort of guanamara, 220 miles north of san jose
gonzalez is on a four-day visit to costa rica. he said noriega has not sought asylum in spain, but if he does it will be granted with the assurance he would not be extradicted to the united states where he is under a federal indictment in flordia on charges of drug trafficking
the spanish leader told the news conference an ``immediate solution is necessary to end the anguish and the pain of the panamanian people and we believe that if archbishop mcgrath agrees to mediate, it would be a very important point.''
he said he and arias ``are reasonably optimistic that there will be a rapid solution in panama.''
arias said he wanted mcgrath ``to serve as mediator ... not only between the civic crusade and president manuel solis palma but also with all the political parties to find a solution to the crisis in panama.''
the national civic crusade is a coalition of about 200 business, professional, student and union groups. it has been trying since june to force noriega to step down as commander of the 15,000-member defense forces that includes the armed forces and police. arias also said noriega should resign from the post, which the general has used to dominate the government
noriega picked solis palma as the new chief execuive on feb. 26, the day after president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire noriega and instead was ousted from office. delvalle is living in hiding in panama and is still recognized by the united states as the country's legal president
arias won the 1987 nobel peace prize as author of a peace plan signed last august by the presidents of the five central american countries, nicaragua, el salvador, honduras, guatemala and costa rica, designed to end regional conflicts
a day in february when millions of britons wore red clown noses reaped $25 million for british and african charities, organizers said
comic relief day'' was held for the first time on feb. 5, and accompanied by a seven-hour ``laughathon'' on television, which raised the bulk of donations through telephone pledges
two million donors also paid nearly $1 each for a red nose. bankers in pin stripes, school children, secretaries and others wearing the bulbous badge were a common sight. even prince andrew, second son of queen elizabeth ii, posed for photographers in a red nose
organizers on monday said the funds would be used to help famine victims in africa and poor youths in britain
elbert w. friday, deputy director of the national weather service, has been named head of that agency, the national oceanic and atmospheric administration announced today
friday succeeds richard d. hallgren, who has been named executive director of the american meteorological society
the national weather service is the federal agency that collects weather information and issues forecasts and warnings
friday, deputy director since 1981, is a retired air force colonel who previously headed the defense department's office of environmental and life sciences. he holds a doctorate in meteorology from the university of oklahoma
scientists seeking to explain the longer lifespan of rats fed low-calorie diets are not recommending that people follow such a strict regimen, but merely that they eat sensibly
i think the studies support the wisdom of what is commonly referred to as a prudent diet,'' said dr. richard weindruch of the national institute on aging. ``don't overload yourself with calories.''
scientists from a range of disciplines gathered monday at the university of notre dame to analyze a study in which about 200 rats fed 30 percent fewer calories than a similar-sized group lived an average of 20 percent longer. the conference continues through today
while the link between a restricted diet and longer life is long-established, the researchers are trying to find out why diet tends to slow down the aging process
an immunologist suggested suggested lower food intake kept the animals' immune systems strong. other results were less conclusive, but weindruch cautioned against issuing hasty advice
the studies at present do not justify a recommendation to the general public of severe caloric restriction, or even moderate caloric restriction, because there are so many difficulties in translation between the animal model and the human situation,'' he said
immunology researcher dr. yoon kim of chicago speculated that the restricted diet may have exposed the rats to fewer antigens _ or disease-causing agents in the food _ to which the immune system reacts by producing antibodies
in a restricted diet, the tendency is not to use up'' the immune system's ability to fight disease, said kim. ``life, and healthy life, is due to restriction of diet, maintaining the potential of the defense system, not using it unnecessarily.''
thirty-two researchers in the united states and canada were sent tissue samples for analysis from the 400 rats raised at notre dame's lobund laboratory in a study supported by the chicago-based, non-profit retirement research foundation
the study involved 400 rats, half of which were fed 12 grams of food per day, or about 70 percent of normal, with fat limited to 5 percent
animals on restricted diet lived an average of 38 months, an increase of nearly 20 percent above the control group, scientists said
the rats on restricted diets were healthier in their old age and developed fewer cancers of the prostate and liver. the rats also suffered less disease of the heart and brain and had better-functioning immune systems, scientists said
dr. gilbert boissonneault, a clinical nutritionist from the university of kentucky, said he found no difference in body fat content between the two groups of rats
dr. gibbons cornwell iii, a professor of medicine at dartmouth college, found extensive weakening of heart muscle in all rats, but less in the diet-restricted animals
additional studies will look at the glandular system and gastrointestinal tract. coasts</head>
two unarmed tomahawk cruise missiles flew 800 miles over rural florida and alabama in a simulated ship-to-land attack, then parachuted down to a test range, a navy spokesman said
the missiles, 18 feet long and 21 inches around, were fired from navy destroyers in the gulf of mexico, according to bob holsapple, a spokesman for the cruise missile project in washington
these were the eighth and ninth successful tests over the florida and alabama test range,'' he said monday. ``the flight route took the missiles over sparsely and non-populated areas only.''
the exact course of the missiles and the identity of the ships they were fired from was classified, he said
the missiles, fired at 10 a.m. cst sunday and 3 p.m. cst monday, traveled at 500 mph at altitudes varying from 500 to 6,000 feet. it took one hour and 45 minutes to complete the tests, holsapple said
seconds after being launched from the destroyers, the missiles dropped their solid-fuel rocket boosters and switched to their cruise missile engine
they flew ``a fully-guided test flight over approximately 800 miles over portions of florida and alabama and then terminated at the eglin air force base test range,'' he said
the tomahawks were guided to florida's west coast by their on-board navigation system. once over land, their guidance system adjusted course using an on-board computerized ``terrain contour matching system,'' holsapple said
the tomahawk cruise missile, which is designed to fly close to the ground to avoid radar detection, is deployed on destroyers, cruisers, battleships and attack submarines
horacio martinez-baca was a labor union lawyer in argentina when the military took control there 12 years ago. six days after the coup, martinez-baca was arrested and began a four-year nightmare of imprisonment and torture
they laid me down on a table. they tied my arms and legs. they put electric shocks on my genitals and my gums, and they asked who were my friends,'' martinez-baca testified monday
a few feet away in the hushed courtroom sat carlos suarez mason, 64, a former general who oversaw the military prisons in which martinez-baca was held
the prisoners used to call him the lord of death and life,'' martinez-baca said
the former prisoner, testifying in a $10 million lawsuit against suarez mason, said the 90-minute torture session occurred about a month after he was arrested in march 1976 and was repeated several times before his release in april 1980
there were also beatings, freezing showers, death threats, and ``probably the worst torture,'' solitary confinement in an unheated, windowless cell for days at a time, he said
suarez mason, former commander of the first army corps in buenos aires, was arrested in january 1987 at his home in foster city, just south of san francisco, more than three years after fleeing argentina
he faces extradition on charges of 43 murders and 23 kidnappings, allegedly committed by soldiers under his command from 1976 to 1979 during a military campaign against suspected leftists
the civil suit by martinez-baca is one of three by argentinians now living in the united states who say they were imprisoned and tortured, or their relatives were killed, by suarez mason's forces
u.s. courts have allowed suits against foreigners in their jurisdiction for certain types of human rights violations, including torture, prolonged detention and summary execution
u.s. district judge samuel conti declared a default march 15 after the former general failed to respond to the suit or answer pre-trial questions, claiming he had spent his last $100,000 on lawyers in the extradition case. the judge ruled that the trial would be limited to the amount in damages suarez mason must pay
at monday's session, san francisco attorney ray archuleta appeared and said he was representing suarez mason, who declared he was now willing to answer questions. but conti said suarez mason had no right to take part in a hearing after a default and ordered archuleta to the back of the courtroom
martinez-baca, a former local government official in mendoza, argentina, said his nearly blind father, a former state governor, was arrested along with his mother and brother on the day the military took power. six days later, two plainclothes police arrested him in his apartment
he said he was never told why he was beng held
one of the most frightening events of his imprisonment was being flown from one military prison to another. he had heard about other prisoners thrown out of helicopters alive, martinez-baca said. another time, when he was led away for interrogation and torture, his jailers told him to say his last words and acted as if he would be killed, he said
the military finally allowed him to leave the country in 1980 just as argentina's supreme court was about to order his release, martinez-baca said. he arrived at the home of a sponsoring presbyterian minister in berkeley speaking no english, separated from his family and about 70 pounds lighter than when he was imprisoned, he said
though he still fears retaliation from the argentine military, he said, he filed the suit as ``a deterrent for people who think they are the master of life and death.''
president corazon aquino's chief housekeeper died of cancer today with a weeping president at her bedside, the presidential palace announced
mrs. aquino stayed by priscilla ruiz aragon's side for two hours until she died at the suburban makati medical center, according to special presidential assistant flerida ruth romero. mrs. aragon was 55
the president, her eyes swollen from crying, refused to talk to reporters when she returned to the presidential palace from the hospital
mrs. aragon, popularly called fritz, was known for the exacting way she ran the president's household. a wealthy socialite, she was formerly associated with deposed president ferdinand marcos' wife, imelda, but later broke with the marcoses
she was survived by her husband, francisco. the couple had no children. details of closure. no pickup.</note>
the army today sealed the occupied west bank and gaza strip in the toughest crackdown since demonstrations began four months ago. palestinians tossed gasoline bombs and set tires ablaze in protest
the army rounded up palestinians after the three-day closure went into effect, arresting 600, israel radio said. the army confirmed it was making mass arrests, but declined to give figures
israeli troops set up roadblocks to bar nearly all journalists, israeli civilians and arab visitors from the territories, seized by israel in the 1967 war. the army said it wounded seven palestinians on the west bank
the crackdown was seen as a test of the military's ability to control the territories where, according to u.n. figures, 119 palestinians and one israeli soldier have been killed since dec. 8
it was most severe in the gaza strip, where the 650,000 arab residents were ordered confined to their homes from 10 p.m. monday night until 3 a.m. friday. telephone links were also cut
in the west bank, where 850,000 arabs live, the bridges to jordan were left open for incoming traffic, telephones were operating and residents were allowed to travel within their towns or villages. no arabs were allowed to go to jordan, however
the closure, ordered by the cabinet on sunday night, did not affect the 65,000 jewish settlers living in the occupied territories
robert slater, president of the foreign press association, said the group appealed today to the supreme court to overturn the closure order
slater said the association and israel's 2,000 member journalists association had decided not to participate in army-provided news pools into the territories
but an american television network and some israeli newspapers agreed to take part in pool coverage today
one israeli reporter and foreign television crew accompanied the army into the west bank and another into gaza
defense minister yitzhak rabin said the measures were taken to forestall large-scale palestinian demonstrations on land day on wednesday. the day marks the 12th anniversary of a clash over land confiscation. six arabs were shot to death by soldiers on march 30, 1976
many israelis say they believe news coverage of the palestinian unrest gives a one-sided view and hurts israel's image. there have been calls to restrict television coverage by those who contend the presence of tv cameras incites the protesters
in the west bank village of zaita today, 40 miles northwest of jerusalem, hundreds of palestinians threw gasoline bombs and clashed with soldiers, the army said. an army spokesman reported seven arabs wounded by army gunfire
in the gaza strip, violent protests broke out as soon as palestinians learned of the curfew, israel army radio said. in jabaliya refugee camp, troops fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse youths who set tires ablaze, the radio said
troops turned away the car of save the children director chris george at a roadblock outside ramallah, despite an army annoucement that the closure would not affect international relief workers
george said the restrictions had seriously disrupted his agency's operations, with half the jerusalem staff of 10 relief workers denied entry into the city
mona rishmawi, an attorney at law in the service of man, a human rights group founded by palestinian lawyers, said israeli troops had forcibly closed the major west bank markets in jenin and jericho as well as in gaza city
in ramallah, soldiers today forced merchants, sometimes at gunpoint, to close their stores
the action was done to defy the plo, which had ordered the stores opened for three hours a day. in earlier protests, the plo had ordered the markets closed. at that time, israeli soldiers forced them open
three days is nothing. we can go three months,'' one 70-year-old man told the associated press as he watched the soldiers. he declined to give his name
lt. gen. dan shomron, the armed forces chief of staff, was quoted by the state-owned israel radio as saying the closure order may be extended beyond three days if necessary
rabin said the territories were declared ``a closed military zone.''
the meaning is (to bar) all those who don't have to be there or there's no vital reason why they have to move around there,'' he told soldiers in remarks aired monday by israel army radio. transportation secretary.</note>
as vice president george bush's grip on the republican presidential nomination tightens, more and more people are asking the no. 2 question:
whom will he choose as his running mate?
bush says it's too early to think about it
former president richard nixon suggests white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. baker says he doesn't expect to be asked because he wouldn't bring the right strength to the ticket
others propose california gov. george deukmejian. deukmejian says he couldn't accept because he would leave his state in the hands of a democratic lieutenant governor
nixon, in a forthcoming london sunday times political column, says the ideal formula is to pick your principal rival, as president reagan did with bush. but, he suggests, maybe the campaign between bush and senate minority leader bob dole has been too bitter for that
some have another idea: not principal rival, but wife of principal rival. how about former secretary of transportation elizabeth dole?
and so it goes
nixon argues that baker, a tennessean and former senate republican leader, would be helpful in southern states and in dealing with congress
in a recent television interview, baker said, ``george bush needs to find someone who will bring strength to the ticket on a regional and political basis, and i think that is not going to be me.''
he didn't say he would turn it down. ``if someone asked me to do it,'' he said, ``i would have a very difficult time trying to figure out what i was going to say.'' but, he added, ``i do not wish that to happen.''
baker has mentioned former tennessee gov. lamar alexander, deukmejian of california, new jersey gov. thomas kean and former pennsylvania gov. richard thornburgh as good choices for the vice presidential slot
if deukmejian left office in mid-term, lt. gov. leo t. mccarthy, a democrat, would become governor of the nation's largest state. at a news conference in sacramento recently, the california governor said, ``even if they did ask me to accept the vice presidential nomination, i wouldn't be able to take it.'' later, he added, ``that doesn't mean i wouldn't like to be vice president.''
another possibility: rep. jack kemp of new york, who ran as a conservative alternative to bush for the presidential nomination but fared poorly
also mentioned is sen. nancy kassebaum of kansas. she was on a long list of potential reagan running mates in 1980 but took herself out of consideration because, as a freshman senator, she said she didn't have enough experience. she has eight years more of it now
if bush should decide to choose a midwesterner, to strengthen the ticket in a region that could be crucial to republican hopes, another possibility would be illinois gov. james thompson, who endorsed the vice president and campaigned for him in the illinois presidential primary
other names that have been mentioned include sen. alan simpson of wyoming, dole's deputy in the senate leadership; secretary of education william j. bennett; sen. phil gramm of texas, an architect of the congressional deficit-reduction mechanism; and colin powell, the president's national security adviser and one of the top-ranking blacks in the reagan administration
all of this, of course, assumes that the vice president wins the nomination. he is way ahead, and dole said last week, ``i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
bush, asked whether he would consider dole as a running mate, said: ``it's too early for me to start thinking about any running mates. that would project a certain arrogance or presumption that i don't want to do.'' agriculture department licensing of genetic vaccine.</note>
another genetically engineered pesticide is jumping through the usual regulatory hoops and the usual opponent of the technology, jeremy rifkin, is throwing up a novel argument against it
rifkin, whose campaign against genetic engineering has delayed some field tests of the organisms, says the proposed biological pesticide will cause a decline in corn yields
the decline, he claims, is an adverse environmental effect and reason to deny the developer, crop genetics inc. of dorsey, md., permission to run field tests
the company says its planned product is unique among biological and genetically engineered pesticides in that it aims to ``vaccinate'' the plant against attack by the target pest _ the corn borer, a kind of caterpillar. it works inside the plant's vascular system, and does not change the plant or the pest genetically
for that reason, the company calls it the ``incide'' technique
in a sign of the increasing importance of genetic engineering techniques in farming, the agriculture department said monday it would license syntrovet, inc. of lenexa, kan., to market the nation's third genetically engineered vaccine to control pseudorabies in swine, a contagious disease that can be deadly to newborn pigs but does not affect humans
james w. glosser, administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said safety and effectiveness had been shown in field trials on 400 animals in three states, and there is ``no significant impact on the human environment.''
when crop genetics told reporters last week that its organism causes no significant change in yields, ``they lied ... and you can quote me,'' rifkin said
the company's chief scientist, peter carlson, was asked about rifkin's assertion and statements in support of it. carlson said rifkin did not quote the relevant sections of the company's application for testing permits
some tests using the carrier organism without the pesticide have shown crop declines, notably of 17 percent in florida test plots, but the ``usual statistical tests that scientists use show there is not a significant difference'' from untreated corn, carlson said
and even if there is a decline, the company insists that's not an environmental effect or a reason to deny permits. ``if we cause a significant decline in yields, no farmer is going to buy our product,'' carlson said. ``rifkin is grabbing at any argument he can.''
it may well be true that corn will show a small decline in yields, he said. but a farmer might accept that if he could achieve a large decline in costs
the corn borer causes $400 million in crop damage, even after farmers spend about $50 million on chemical pesticides, the company said. the borer can reduce yields 20 percent in some corn belt areas
the company's technique uses a harmless bacterium to carry the toxin that kills the borer. carlson has selected one that's found normally only in bermuda grass _ clavibacter xyli, subspecies cynodontis, or cxc. cows have been eating it for centuries
the toxin is produced by a gene in another bacterium. that gene, using the techniques of recombinant dna, is inserted into cxc. the modified cxc is injected into the seed and will exist in the corn plant's vascular system, its new gene directing the manufacture of the protein toxin in the cell
when the borer eats the corn leaf or stem tissue, it also gobbles the toxin
if the environmental protection agency and the agriculture department's animal and plant health inspection service approve, the company hopes to run field tests in queen anne's county, maryland and at the department's beltsville, md. research station this year. it also has applied to test in france
the company has asked that epa waive some suggested toxicity tests, tests it says are not necessary in the light of results from other tests. rifkin is attacking the application on this grounds too, arguing that all the tests should be performed
in its campaign for public understanding and acceptance of the field experiments, crop genetics has lined up heavyweights on an advisory board that include two former administrators of the environmental protection agency, william ruckelshaus and douglas costle, and elliot l. richardson, a former attorney general and secretary of several cabinet agencies. of other detained journalists. picks up 9th graf, ``we were . ..'</note>
troops firing shotguns, tear gas and water cannon routed thousands of anti-government marchers, then stormed a hotel to arrest opposition activists and journalists
several people were injured and dozens were arrested, witnesses said
monday's march through the city shut down by a general strike was one of the largest protests in months against gen. manuel antonio noriega. about 10,000 people turned the city center into a sea of waving white handkerchiefs, the trademark of those demanding the strongman's ouster
a few hours after the march was broken up, plainclothes agents, army troops and police burst into the lobby of the marriott hotel in the southeast part of the city. firing shots in the air, they came in the front and the back, smashing one of the glass doors
leaders of the opposition national civic crusade, which sponsored the march and has been using the hotel as a headquarters, scattered down hallways and up stairwells. but the troopers caught many of them and hustled them out
the hotel is also the headquarters for most of the international press corps. the security agents forced their way at gunpoint into the offices there of nbc, cbs, abc and cnn. tapes, including footage of the day's march, were confiscated and several journalists were detained
an officer on the scene said about 40 people were taken from the hotel. most appeared to have been crusade members or journalists
richard cole, an ap reporter, was one of eight foreign journalists detained and taken to a downtown military intelligence center. they spent three hours being searched, questioned and then lectured to by maj. felipe camargo
the seven others were abidel vivancos, a mexican with abc-tv; alfredo gudino, a mexican with nbc-tv; thomas haley, a u.s. photographer with the sipa agency; j.b. diedrich, a miami-based photographer with contact photos; maria cortina, a mexican with mexican and spanish radio; and jose manuel pintada and eduardo herrera, mexicans with spanish television
we were all extremely worried because of the military campaign attacking the international press as `disinformers,''' said cole. ``my notes including interviews with pro- and anti-government figures were taken and photocopied.''
the notes were returned upon his release
during the demonstration, the crowd chanted ``justice!'' and ``noriega, tyrant, your end is near!'' as it progressed through the shopping district
more than 90 percent of the stores were closed in support of a general strike now in its second week. the strike's organizers say it will last until noriega leaves the country
about 1,000 marchers had set out from the meeting place, a church in the city center. their ranks swelled rapidly with people from buildings lining the route. those who remained in their apartments leaned out windows waving white towels, clapping and chanting
suddenly, panicked marchers shouted an incongruous warning
smurfs! smurfs!'' they cried, pressing backward, turning and running back down the avenue
panamanian police water cannons are inexplicably adorned with 3-foot-tall depictions of the elfin cartoon character, known in spanish as ``pitufos.''
the vehicles sped toward the crowd spraying a mixture of water and harsh irritant that blinds those it hits for up to 10 minutes and burns the skin. it also provokes convulsive coughing
within minutes, the street was empty except for gas-masked troopers and a few stumbling, sputtering individuals. police fired tear gas and birdshot down the avenue and side streets, even though almost everyone was in flight
a middle-aged woman sitting on the sidewalk called to this reporter. her leg was snapped just above the ankle, the shattered shinbone pierced her skin
a passing taxi was stopped and the woman, who had tripped and been trampled, was placed in it for transport to the hospital. the street was lined with scores of shoes shed as the crowd fled police
denia quintero de morales, another middle-aged woman who had taken part in the march, emerged from an alley a few minutes later, blood dripping from her gashed head. she too had stumbled and been trod on in the panic
witnesses said they saw at least 10 people injured in the stampede. some of the slower runners were beaten with rubber truncheons by pursuing riot troops
the current phase of panama's 10-month-old political and economic crisis began feb. 26, when noriega orchestrated the ouster of president eric delvalle. hours earlier, delvalle had tried to fire noriega
washington continues to recognize delvalle, who is in hiding. the reagan administration has frozen panamanian government funds in u.s. banks, denying this country a supply of dollars, the official panamanian currency
because banks have been closed for almost four weeks, currency has become precious and many people are doing without essentials. some go hungry
nearly 20 crusade leaders were arrested monday, either just after the march was broken up or at the hotel, opposition spokesmen said. they had not been released by midnight. some panamanian reporters apparently remained in detention past midnight
the state supreme court threw out a death sentence against a vietnam veteran because the sentencing trial omitted testimony that the killer of two young girls may have been driven by trauma caused by his wartime experiences
the court ruled unanimously monday that the jury might not have sentenced phillip lucero to death if it had been allowed to hear the assessment of a veterans' counselor
the ruling ordered a new penalty-phase trial with the previously excluded evidence to decide whether lucero should be sentenced to death or life without parole
justice stanley mosk, in a separate opinion, went further and said the court should forbid a death sentence for lucero
as his patriotic duty, he killed our enemies efficiently,'' wrote mosk. ``unfortunately, after returning home he irrationally killed again, this time two innocent children. there is macabre irony in the fact that the society on whose behalf lucero took an undetermined number of lives is now seeking to take his life.''
in the penalty phase of the trial, psychiatrist edward conolley testified that lucero suffered ``post-traumatic stress,'' including flashbacks to incidents in which he killed a grenade-wielding soldier who proved to be an ally and carried rotting corpses from the battlefield
conolley attributed the murders to lucero's mental impairment, compounded by flashbacks that may have been touched off by the sound of police helicopters and the cackling of a goose outside his home, because agitated animals in vietnam often foreshadowed the approach of unfriendly forces
however, then-superior court judge joseph campbell barred testimony by thomas wulbrecht, a veteran who runs a counseling program for vietnam vets at a veterans' hospital. based on a 3{-hour conversation with lucero that did not include the circumstances of the murders, wulbrecht said he would have testified that lucero probably had been driven by the same stress syndrome
justice allen broussard, in writing for the court, said the jury should have been allowed to consider the testimony as an argument favoring leniency. he said it could have been more persuasive than conolley's testimony: the prosecution sought to discredit the psychiatrist as a ``hired gun'' for the defense but could not have used the same attack on wulbrecht, broussard said
the court also ruled that campbell wrongly prevented conolley from answering questions about whether lucero was likely to repeat his crimes or could adjust to prison, broussard said
lucero's is the fifth death sentence the court has reversed out of 16 it has considered since conservatives gained a majority last year. all of the reversals have been unanimous
lucero, now 42, was convicted of murdering 7-year-old chris hubbard and 10-year-old teddy engliman, his neighbors in the town of yucaipa in san bernardino county
the girls were last seen at the back of lucero's lot on an afternoon in april 1980. a neighbor heard lucero's goose cackling and heard lucero tell the girls, as they entered his yard, that the goose would not hurt them. after helicopters were called in and a fire broke out in lucero's house, the girls' bodies were found in a nearby trash container, one beaten, the other strangled
the supreme court upheld the murder convictions, saying lucero's approach to the girls and their accompanying him into his yard would allow the jury to conclude reasonably that the killings were premeditated
after a turbulent childhood, lucero lied about his age, joined the army at 16 and served three tours of combat in vietnam, receiving a purple heart and a combat infantry badge. users</head>
off-the-road users of diesel would be exempted from payment of the 15.1-cent federal tax on april 1 under a senate finance committee amendment offered today
the committee had approved the exemption last week but, because of budget restrictions, made the change effective oct. 1. that would have required farmers, fishermen and other off-road users to pay the tax for six months and then apply for a rebate early next year
most of these users traditionally have been exempt from paying the tax. a 1987 law that goes into effect april 1 requires that they pay the tax and later apply for a refund
in introducing the new proposal today, sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, chairman of the finance committee, said that exempting off-road users april 1 instead of oct. 1 could be paid for by revising the requirements for corporations to make estimated income-tax payments
it is up to the house ways and means committee, where tax bills must originate, to determine whether the diesel provision is changed. that panel has given no indication when it will consider the proposal, meaning there is little chance it could become law by april 1
suspected sikh militants sprayed a wedding party with rifle fire, killing 10 people, and fatally shot seven other people elsewhere in the northern punjab state, police said today
among the victims of the suspected guerrillas were the bride and bridegroom and four children aged 1 to 5 who were with the wedding party, authorities said
five sikhs were slain in attacks in gurdaspur and kapurthala districts, according to police in chandigarh, the punjab capital. two hindus were also shot dead in jalandhar in the attacks late monday and today, they said
four men armed with ak-47 assault rifles opened fire at random monday night on the sikh wedding party of about 20 people in the village of johramadan, 18 miles south of amritsar, police said
the attackers escaped, leaving behind a note that claimed the victims were police informers. it was signed ``khalistan liberation force,'' according to police superintendent izhar alam
khalistan is the name sikh militants use for the independent nation they demand be created in punjab
the latest deaths raised to more than 560 the number of people killed in attacks in punjab blamed on sikh militants since the beginning of the year
the sikhs, whose religion combines hinduism and islam, make up about 2 percent of india's population. they are a majority, however, in the rich farming state of punjab. the militants say they need a separate nation to protect their faith from domination by hindus, who are more than 80 percent of india's people
the execution of a man condemned for murdering a sheriff's deputy can go forward wednesday, an appellate court said, but lawyers for the man said they will appeal to the supreme court
john henry selvage, 37, is scheduled to be executed before dawn. the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals late monday vacated the stay for selvage that was granted friday by u.s. district judge norman black of houston
selvage was convicted of capital murder in the death july 30, 1979, of harris county sheriff's deputy albert garza
black had granted the reprieve while the appellate court reconsiders the appeal of another death row inmate from harris county, leon rutherford king. king is questioning the selection of jurors during his trial
david cunningham, selvage's attorney, said he would appeal to the surpreme court today. he said the appeal will be based on several issues, including instructions to jurors on mitigating circumstances, a matter the court is considering in the case of texas death row inmate donald gene franklin
garza was trying to prevent a robbery at a jewelry store in houston but had not drawn his weapon at the time he was shot
selvage has been granted at least four postponements or stays for scheduled executions
a u.s. attorney said city police officers can be trusted to help investigate charges of corruption on their own force
affidavits released in federal court here last week revealed that fbi informants have accused several new orleans police officers working in the french quarter of crimes including drug dealing, accepting bribes and burglary
some officers will be deputized as federal marshals as part of an effort to investigate the charges, u.s. attorney john volz said at a news conference monday
police superintendent warren woodfork wouldn't say who among his investigators would be deputized. but both he and volz said they were confident the deputy marshals would investigate their own department thoroughly
we have no reason at all to have any lack of trust in the superintendent or in anyone he designates,'' said volz
the affidavits unsealed last week were filed by the fbi over two years to support requests for permission to place wiretaps on businesses and residences of reputed organized crime figures believed to be involved in drug smuggling
in those affidavits, two unidentified fbi informants are said to have accused officers of crimes. one officer is accused of selling cocaine. another is accused of burglarizing a warehouse
an informant also said officers who worked off-duty guard details for businesses sometimes made questionable arrests at the behests of their off-duty bosses. details of sumgait deaths and gerasimov comment.</note>
residents of a disputed region in the republic of azerbaijan shut down their main city for a second day today to protest the government's refusal to transfer the region to neighboring armenia, a newspaper said
my report today will be short,'' p. gutiontov, a correspondent for the government newspaper izvestia wrote from stepanakert. ``city enterprises are at standstill, people are home.''
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov also told a regular news briefing that some workers in stepanakert stayed home from their jobs
certain enterprises are not functioning or are partially not functioning,'' he said
stepanakert is the biggest city in nagorno-karabakh, a region in azerbaijan which armenians want annexed to armenia. activists said a general strike began last wednesday in the mostly armenian area
in a separate report, the afternoon newspaper izvestia provided the first breakdown of casualties in sumgait, an azerbaijani city where ethnic rioting broke out feb. 28. it confirmed the official death toll of 32, and said 26 of them were armenians while six were azeris
activists have claimed the death toll was much higher
gerasimov said residents of yerevan, the armenian capital, went to work as usual. he reiterated that the government would not be forced into appeasing armenian demands to annex nagorno-karabakh
we cannot solve the problem by mechanically transferring this region as some armenian officials want,'' he said. ``the more you study this problem the more you will see the whole thing is not as simple as that, as merely saying nagorno-karabakh must be part of armenia.''
also today, a moscow dissident said police on monday evening broke up a demonstration by more than 50 people who demanded freedom for a jailed armenian activist and carried signs saying, ``we don't believe in perestroika.''
the dissident, tamara grigoryants, said she received her information about the protest in a telephone conversation with members of a committee promoting armenian self-determination in yerevan
police did not interfere with an earlier demonstration monday in yerevan by more than 100 people, but dispersed the second group, she said
she said her telephone call was interrupted and she could not find out other details, including whether there were any arrests
both groups demanded freedom for jailed nationalist leader paryur arikyan, she said
arikyan was arrested in yerevan after being detained by police in moscow, where he had provided information to foreign journalists about events in armenia. dissident sources say they have learned he has been charged under a law prohibiting spreading false information about the soviet union
the signs against perestroika were a challenge to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and his broad effort to restructure soviet society. the soviet government last week declared armenian agitation for annexation of nagorno-karabakh intolerable but released a plan to improve economic and social conditions in the region
gorbachev has appealed for patience and said that the policy-making communist party central committee will discuss the dispute in an upcoming meeting on relations between the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
officials have pledged a cultural and economic development plan for nagorno-karabakh, apparently instead of meeting the armenian demand to annex the territorty
the newspaper sovietskaya kultura said today the plan would cost up to $640 million
these millions, which are so necessary now for restructuring, the country is giving to karabakh,'' it said in a front-page article tracing the unrest to poor social and economic conditions
sovietskaya kultura backed the soviet leadership's plan to improve conditions, even though armenian activists have said specifically that improvement of education, cultural facilities and economic conditions will not solve the problem
the newspaper said there is almost a complete absence of schoolbooks in the armenian language, no teaching of armenian history and that residents of nagorno-karabakh could not receive armenian television
it said each resident of the area would have a separate apartment or home by the year 2,000 and that the government would build two reservoirs to improve the water supply to stepanakert. soviets denying report of soviet deaths. picks up 5th graf `earlier sunday ...'</note>
a bomb planted in a jeep killed at least four soviets in kabul, and an afghan politburo member narrowly escaped assassination when a bomb blew up a bridge, western diplomatic sources said today
the politburo member was wounded and two of his bodyguards died, the diplomats said
the violence in the afghan capital coincided with reports of clashes in northern and eastern afghanistan between soviet-backed government forces and anti-communist moslem guerrillas, the diplomats said. they spoke on condition of anonymity
in moscow, a soviet spokesman denied that soviets had been killed in the attack sunday
this is not true. nothing of this kind has happened,'' said foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov. the spokesman said he had talked with the soviet ambassador in kabul
diplomats said the bomb blew up a jeep and killed at least four soviets. it also gutted a shop, blew over a tree and hurled debris several hundred yards. the explosion occurred in a shopping district of the afghan capital that is frequented mainly by soviets, diplomats said
earlier sunday, two bombs were defused near the central post office and ministry of communications, the diplomats said. two other bombs were discovered and defused in mid-march in the ministry of the interior, they said
the diplomats said other incidents in the capital indicated a new flare-up of factionalism between the mainly urban parcham wing and the rural khalq wing of the ruling people's democratic party of afghanistan
the sources said a car bomb exploded march 23 on a bridge spanning the kabul river as khalqi politburo member saleh mohammad zeary was driving by, wounding him and killing two bodyguards riding in a separate car
on march 19, national police of the interior ministry and secret police of the state security ministry got into a firefight that killed several interior police, the diplomats said
both forces are charged with maintaining security in kabul but the secret police are aligned with the parchamis of president najib, former intelligence chief, while the national police are predominantly khalqi, as is the military
despite the violence in kabul, the sources said the traditional battlefield in paghman, west of the city, has become quiet as guerrillas apparently have concentrated on resupplying with the spring thaw
the diplomats said it was unclear whether the latest pattern in fighting reflected expectations of a soviet troop withdrawal, which moscow has said could begin in late spring
the soviets sent troops to afghanistan in december 1979 to help the government battle moslem insurgents. some 115,000 soviets remain. sub 5th graf bgng ``a hartford'' to add simon poll figure; sub 14th graf bgng ``the newspaper'' to restore dropped figure to 64 percent</note>
vice president george bush was likely to win handily in connecticut's republican primary today while jesse jackson hoped to give regional favorite michael dukakis a run for his money in the democratic contest
there are 52 democratic delegates and 35 republican delegates at stake in the connecticut contest. voter registrars around the state reported a surge of last-minute registrations before the noon monday deadline
but early reports from polling places indicated light turnout. ``it's very, very slow,'' waterbury deputy democratic registrar gloria keaveney said. state officials predicted about a third of the voters would turn out
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, has won all five new england contests so far
a hartford courant newspaper poll conducted march 9-20 gave dukakis the support of 50 percent of democrats likely to vote tuesday. jackson had 16 percent and paul simon and albert gore jr. each had 3 percent. twenty-seven percent were undecided. the poll of 558 democrats had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
thirman milner, jackson's connecticut chairman, estimated jackson would win at least 24 percent and possibly 30 percent
dukakis has the support of connecticut's top democrats, including gov. william a. o'neill, sen. christopher j. dodd and state chairman john f. droney
droney, who is nominally supporting dukakis, said his loss to jackson in michigan made a strong showing _ 50 percent or better _ even more crucial in connecticut. dukakis rejected the thesis
look _ a victory is a victory,'' dukakis said at a news conference
droney said the results today will depend largely on voter turnout
if you had all 650,000 democrats in the state vote ... then i think dukakis would have 50 or 60 percent of the vote,'' droney said. ``but only 33 or 35 percent of them are going to vote and of that ... a third of them are going to be jackson people.''
bush grew up in connecticut and still retains strong links here. he was the son of a popular u.s. senator from the state and his mother and brother still live in greenwich
bush beat ronald reagan in conecticut's 1980 primary
the newspaper poll showed bush with the support of 64 percent of the 432 likely gop voters tuesday, while sen. bob dole of kansas had 20 percent and pat robertson had 2 percent. the remaining 14 percent were undecided. the poll of republicans had a margin of error of 6 percent
bush has the support of virtually all the gop hierarchy in connecticut, including its four-member congressional delegation and state chairman robert s. poliner
voter registrars around the state reported a surge of last-minute registrations before the monday noon deadline. in new haven, officials said hundreds signed up, while the estimate in hartford was 400 and in bridgeport, 200
voter registration figures provided last week by the secretary of state's office showed that an estimated 648,000 democrats and 430,000 republicans were eligible to vote in today's primary. party leaders estimated that turnout would be between 30 percent and 40 percent
soviet and american doctors participating in an international satellite teleconference differed today on whether cancer patients should be informed of their medical condition
in an exchange between specialists at the national institutes of health near washington and soviet specialists at a studio in moscow, the russian doctors said they believed cancer patients should not be told they have the disease
doctors on the american end of the satellite-linked teleconference strongly disagreed
the soviets presented an informal survey in which soviet citizens repeatedly said they would prefer not to be informed if they are diagnosed with cancer
dr. nikaolai p. napalkov, president of the oncological society of the ussr, said patients usually are not informed in the soviet union of such a diagnosis because of the widespread belief that cancer automatically means death
only in rare cases when a patient refuses treatment does the doctor have an obligation to tell the patient'' that he has cancer, napalkov said
he said generally soviet doctors believe that ``it is hardly a good idea to tell the patient directly that he has cancer.''
dr. natalya peredodchikova, another soviet cancer specialist, said that ``unless there is an acute necessity, such as their refusing treatment, there is no need to tell the patient.''
but dr. steven a. rosenberg, chief of surgery at the national cancer institute, said he feels compelled to tell patients precise details of their condition in order to maintain a solid patient-doctor relationship
the sense of trust that exists between doctor and patient is very important,'' he said
it's improbable for me to imagine treating a patient without that free exchange of information,'' rosenberg said
the television exchange between cancer specialists of the two countries lasted just over two hours and begand with pre-recorded remarks from president reagan and his wife, nancy
mrs. reagan, who has undergone surgery for breast cancer, said that ``cancer is bigger than any one country; it is a problem of all mankind.''
the first lady said that she had ``always thought cancer would strike someone else, another family.''
then her husband and she both developed cacers which were surgically removed
we have been fortunate recipients of advanced medical science,'' she said
reagan struck the same theme in his brief remarks, telling the doctors of both countries, ``we are depending on all of you in your combined wisdom to win the battle over this disease and, in doing so, to improve the length and quality of human life for all mankind.''
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, in a statement read during the telecast, said cancer is an enemy that is striking humans in countries everywhere
though there has been progress, he said, ``the enemy is far from routed, he is not retreating and is threatening everybody, and the fight calls for vigorous and concerted action.''
a spokeswoman at nci said the cancer researchers wanted to exchange ideas on treatment, diagnostic techniques and methods of prevention
organizers arranged for the conference to be broadcast to about 1,500 u.s. hospitals and health care facilities on the hospital satellite network. the u.s. information agency also arranged to carry the conference on its worldnet system to 57 cities in europe, africa and the middle east. in the soviet union, an edited version of the conference will be broadcast to an estimated 150 million people
a ban on state-funded abortions for poor women has been put off at least until voters decide the issue this fall
the ban had been scheduled to take effect wednesday, but attorney general frank kelley on monday postponed it until after the nov. 8 election
we simply have to accept his decision. we would like to emphasize that the law was a duly enacted law, passed by overwhelming majorities in both houses of the legislature, and we felt very strongly that it should go into effect,'' said barbara listing, president of right to life of michigan
kelley said the law should be delayed because pro-choice forces apparently gathered enough signatures to put the issue on the fall ballot. under the state constitution, getting a law put to a vote suspends it
the signatures aren't expected to be certified until next month, but kelley said because the petitions appear to meet legal requirements, the signatures must be presumed valid
his opinion carries the weight of law, unless overturned by a circuit court
we have to be pleased that there will be no cutoff and that health care for poor women will continue and we're pleased that their health is going to be protected at least until november, when voters go to the polls and settle this issue,'' said judith frey, a spokeswoman for the people's campaign for choice
the measure easily passed the legislature last year, and because it had been initiated by a petition drive, it escaped the gubernatorial veto that has scuttled 17 previous efforts to cut off the funding
after the law was passed, anti-abortion forces contended it should take effect immediately, but pro-choice groups sued, and the courts ruled that it would take effect 90 days after the end of the 1987 legislative session
meanwhile, the pro-choice forces started their own petition drive, leading to the delay until voters decide the issue
michigan is one of 14 states that uses taxpayer money to finance abortions for the poor. in 1986, the most recent year for which a final tally is available, michigan paid $5.8 million for 18,600 abortions
the king county council has approved an ordinance requiring sex offenders give up blood samples, which will provide a ``genetic fingerprint.''
under the law, which was passed monday and takes effect oct. 1, people convicted of sex offenses will be required to surrender a blood sample. police will build a genetic library for future investigations
it will be a huge step forward in our ability to apprehend and prosecute rapists,'' said king county councilman ron sims, one of eight council members taking part in the unanimous vote
a spokesman for the american civil liberties union endorsed parts of the law but urged the council to delay final action
this would be the first in the nation, and we therefore are responsible to be sure all issues are understood and agreed to. take time to analyze. don't be hasty,'' jerry sheehan said
but the king county prosecutor's office urged the council not to be intimidated by being first
the fact that we may be the first jurisdiction (to adopt the genetic fingerprinting legislation) gives us a sense of responsibility, but we should not shy away from its extreme value,'' said jeffrey baird, a deputy prosecutor
baird said identifying offenders is often the most difficult part of prosecuting rape cases. ``this evidence will help resolve the question of identity,'' he said
the ordinance established a technical committee to guarantee the accuracy and reliability of the genetic process. a separate committee will study how to store and retrieve genetic data
actress sophia loren, wearing a hardhat labeled ``sophia,'' visited ellis island to help publicize a statue of liberty-ellis island foundation fund-raising effort, the american immigrant wall of honor
americans who pay at least $100 can have the names of their immigrant ancestors inscribed on a plaque on a wall. the names also will be stored in a computer, along with the person's nation of origin
ellis island is a milestone of american history,'' miss loren, a french citizen who was born in italy, said during her visit monday
she was accompanied by chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca, who said the foundation needs $15 million to $20 million to complete renovation of the immigration station as a museum and conference center
another department source, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said that neither burns nor weld acted in the belief that meese is about to be indicted
however, said the source, both men are concerned because the justice department's image continues to be damaged due to the ongoing criminal investigation of meese, the nation's top law enforcement officer
terry eastland, a justice department spokesman, pointed out that it is not unusual for political appointees to leave government in the last year of an administration
eastland said that burns, weld and stephen s. trott, the associate attorney general who was confirmed as a federal judge last week, were sworn into their jobs in 1986 and that ``this is 1988; this happens to be a year when people are leaving and they all happen to be leaving at the same time.''
the department has not replaced trott
a white house official, who spoke on condition he not be identified, confirmed that reagan had received the letters, but that he had not yet composed a response
the official said there was ``no reason given'' in the letters for the resignations
the president accepts the resignations with regret and good wishes for the future,'' the official said. ``they served with distinction.'' south africa denying anc claim. inserts 2 grafs after 17th graf, `sebina said ...,' to update with south african comment. picks up 18th graf, `the anc ...</note>
an african national congress official who recently told authorities she had received death threats and was being followed was shot and killed today while entering her office
the body of dulcie september, 45, was found in her northeast paris apartment building, which also served as an office for the group
mrs. september had represented the anc in france, switzerland and luxembourg since 1984. the anti-apartheid group is outlawed in south africa
an anc colleague said mrs. september recently told interior ministry officials that she had received threats and was being followed
no group or individual immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, but anc officials blamed south africa. south africa denied involvement
the french news agency agence-france press reported mrs. september was shot in the face while entering her office about 9 a.m. her body was found surrounded by shells from a .22-caliber rifle
she was holding letters in her hand and a key was in the door of the fourth-floor office, afp reported. sources at the scene said her attacker apparently was waiting when she arrived to begin her normal working day
maurice cukierman, an anc treasurer in the office, said mrs. september had ``informed the ministry of the interior that she had received threats and that she had been followed during the last few days.''
it is with anger that i learned of her assassination, especially since we had advised french authorities that south africa was ready to commit assassinations in europe,'' he said
eddy amkongo, representative in france for the southwest african peoples organization, told reporters at the scene of the killing that he had also been threatened and had requested protection from the french government
but until today we have received no response,'' he said
the interior ministry declined to confirm or deny whether it had received requests for protection from the african groups
police, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the assassination looked like ``the work of a professional.''
at anc headquarters in lusaka, zambia, spokesman tom sebina called the killing ``part of a deliberate south african campaign to assassinate anc members and anc leaders.''
without citing any evidence, sebina linked mrs. september's killing to a recent series of attacks carried out by the south african military against what the south african army called anc ``terrorists.''
since friday the south african army has killed 11 people in raids in botswana, near the botswana border with south africa and in the black homeland of venda
sebina said he did not know whether any of the 11 people killed in the raids were affiliated with the anc
south african foreign minister roloef pik botha suggested the death may have been the result of an internal quarrel within the anc
pretoria ``cannot be held responsible for this death,'' the foreign minister said in a statement issued through the south african embassy. ``while details concerning the assassination are not yet known, the (south african) government must stress that serious quarrels exist within organizations which use violence to attain their political objectives.''
the anc, the main black guerrilla group fighting to overthrow the south africa government, maintains a worldwide network of about 20 ``information offices,'' including several in europe, to lobby for support and receive aid
the anc was banned by south africa in 1960 for its anti-apartheid activities. since then, it has waged a bombing a sabotage campaign to wrest control from the government in pretoria
the soviet union is the anc's chief military supplier. anc leader nelson mandela has been jailed in south africa since 1962
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. supporters say. inserts 19th graf, byrd said. removes last 5 grafs pvs to shorten.</note>
the senate met today in an unusual closed-door session called by conservatives who say the soviets are lying about their nuclear forces, but supporters of the u.s.-soviet arms treaty said the charges already have been refuted
we're going to examine the evidence that there are over 1,000 ss-20s, that the cia has attempted to cook the books on the issue, and that the soviets have deliberately falsified their data,'' said sen. steven symms, r-idaho, one of the chief critics of the treaty banning medium-range missiles
but sen. william cohen, r-maine, vice-chairman of the intelligence committee, said the charges are ``the same old stuff'' which has been considered and rejected by the panel as it endorsed the treaty last week
the soviets have declared that they have 650 ss-20s and all those missiles will have to be destroyed when the pact takes effect
but symms and other critics say the soviets have up to 350 ss-20s more han they have declared, and the critics have said u.s. intelligence estimates of the higher numbers have been hidden
in the opinion of this seantor, the cia has cooked the numbers of ss-20s and i'm prepared to prove it,'' said sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., another critic of the pact
sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., a supporter of the treaty, said, ``these arguments have been heard and rejected. i don't expect to hear anything i don't know.''
the old senate chamber where the meeting was held has only rarely been used for business meetings since the senate moved to its present quarters in 1859. it was used this time because the regular senate chamber is laced with modern broadcasting and electric cable that could make eavesdropping possible
it is the first secret senate meeting since oct. 7, 1986, and one of six in the past six years
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said today that the closed-door meeting was sought by conservatives and he noted that senate rules permit such a session at the request of any two senators
supporters of the u.s.-soviet treaty say the senate foreign relations committee is likely to approve it by a margin similar to the 18-2 endorsement given monday by the senate armed services committee
the foreign relations panel is scheduled to vote wednesday on whether to send the pact to the floor of the full senate, where approval is expected next month
when the foreign relations committee finally votes, ``i expect the treaty will be endorsed by a substantial majority,'' said sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the panel
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., a chief treaty supporter among panel republicans, agreed with pell. ``there is strong bipartisan support,'' lugar said
the only opposition votes in the closed-door armed services meeting monday were cast by sens. gordon humphrey, r-n.h., and symms, according to senators who were present
however, armed services chairman sam nunn, d-ga., said there are still a number of questions which should be answered about the treaty
nunn told the foreign relations committee that during his panel's hearings, ``serious concerns were raised that the treaty was unclear on futuristic systems'' and whether they would be banned by the pact
examples of those systems could include laser weapons, particle beam weapons or other advanced technologies, he said
byrd said today that when the treaty reaches the floor, he won't seek a vote until the issue is resolved. ``i think that's a very important matter that's going to have to be settled,'' he said
the treaty bans ``weapons delivery vehicles'' with a range of 400 to 3,400 miles, nunn noted, but ``there was disagreement on what that meant.''
there has not been any final word from the reagan administration on how the united states is defining the term and the armed services committee thinks it is ``critical'' that the question be answered, nunn said. the white house has been asked for a report providing that answer, he said
the senate must be very clear in defining which type of futuristic weapons will be allowed and which will not,'' nunn said
sen. daniel quayle, r-ind., a member of the armed services committee, said the panel thought it was easier to define what weapons or technologies are covered now, instead of waiting until the next decade
sen. john warner, r-va., ranking republican on the armed services panel, said he thought the questions can be answered within two or three days
an elderly chinese catholic priest, who spent much of the last 30 years behind bars for refusing to cut his links with the vatican, has been released on parole, the shanghai catholic association said today
an official of the state-sanctioned assocation, who declined to be identified, said vincent chu, also known as zhu hongshen, was paroled feb. 6 so he could obtain better medical attention. he said chu, believed to be about 72, was generally in good health
the jesuit priest was first jailed in 1955 along with shanghai bishop ignatius kung (gong pinmei), who was convicted of treason and sentenced to life in prison
kung, now 87, was released in 1985. a shanghai court earlier this year ended his parole and restored his political rights
chu was released from prison in 1979 and reportedly resumed his contacts with priests who secretly remained loyal to the vatican
chu and three other elderly jesuit priests were detained in 1981 and charged two years later with colluding with foreign countries and endangering the sovereignty of the state among other crimes
chu was sentenced to 15 years in prison. the other three received sentences ranging from 2{ years to 10 years. the shanghai church official declined comment on the situation of the other three
china severed relations with the vatican in 1957 and set up the chinese patriotic catholic church as the only recognized organization for chinese catholics
the church claims more than 3 million members. an unknown number of catholics remain secretly loyal to the pope, and several still are being held in prison for their religious practices. conference, corrects names and ages of suspects. picks up 12th graf pvs, `the county ....' ^by john flesher</note>
an indian judicial candidate was slain by a youth who blamed him for a romantic problem, not for political reasons, authorities said today. one suspect was jailed, the other committed suicide, they said
julian pierce, a 42-year-old lumbee indian who was running against the robeson county district attorney for superior court judge, was gunned down saturday at his home. it had been speculated that the killing was the work of someone who objected to an indian being a judge in the racially tense county
robeson county sheriff hubert stone said sandy gordon chavis, 24, a lumbee indian, was arrested this morning on a murder warrant. chavis was being held at the robeson county jail
the dead man was identified as john anderson goins, 24, also an indian, whose body was found this morning at his father's home. both men were from pembroke
i think it shows the people that nothing else is involved,'' stone said at a news conference this morning. ``i think the people of robeson county will understand that it's just another murder. i think the tension will drop now that we've made an arrest.''
i can assure the world that there was no political involvement in the case,'' he said
pierce, divorced since december 1983, was dating a woman whose daughter had been involved with goins and the man blamed him for difficulties with the girl, stone said
they (the young couple) started having problems and they broke up,'' stone said. ``two warrants were issued last week by the girlfriend's mother, charging goins with trespassing. goins felt pierce had something to do with it. he got mad and he killed him.''
the sheriff said chavis signed a confession that goins, who had worked as a security guard in raleigh, was the triggerman in the slaying
goins' body was found in a closet at his father's home. he had gone to the house after eluding police who tried to arrest him. goins died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, said stone. his father was not home at the time
neither goins nor chavis had prior criminal records, other than minor traffic violations
the murder weapon was a 12-gauge, pump shotgun, said stone. the killers came to pierce's home, broke a window pane in the back door and shot him once in the chest and again in the side as he turned, stone said. they then entered the house and shot him a third time
later, goins went to the home of ruth locklear, pierce's girlfriend and the mother of 16-year-old shannon bullard, and talked with her
he didn't tell her he had killed mr. pierce,'' stone said
commissioners in the troubled county had urged the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate the killing because of fears it was racially linked
in addition, pierce's supporters said they would try to change a state law that would automatically make district attorney joe freeman britt the winner in the may 3 democratic primary
the county of about 100,000 people in southeast north carolina is 37 percent indian, 37 percent white and 26 percent black. the lumbee indians, who are native to the region, are not a federally recognized tribe
anger at what the indians call corrupt local government and entrenched racism boiled over feb. 1, when two lumbees took hostages at the robesonian newspaper in lumberton, the county seat
county commissioners on monday adopted a resolution asking britt to ask the state attorney general to appoint a special prosecutor
pierce's campaign manager, harvey godwin, also said the 25-member committee to elect julian pierce decided sunday to ask gov. jim martin to call a special session of the legislature to delay the primary and extend the filing period to allow another minority candidate to run
state law says if a candidate dies 30 days or more after the filing period closes, the opposing candidate is declared the winner. the filing period for the judicial race ended feb. 1
under the law, britt would be declared the winner. since there is no republican candidate in the county, winning the primary is tantamount to winning the judgeship
governor's spokesman jim sughrue said martin would meet thursday with pierce's supporters. he said martin would not make a decision before consulting with other state leaders
about 15 black and indian attorneys from the area met behind closed doors monday to select a candidate to take pierce's place. after the meeting, godwin said one to four attorneys were being considered
stone said he felt better about the investigation than he did saturday because of the way people were responding to his plea for help and because no violence had erupted
no one's interested in any more violence,'' the sheriff said
ray littleturtle, a lumbee activist, said he urged fellow indians to stay calm
however, he said many were frustrated that pierce's death had hurt their chances of achieving change from within the system
this happens in third world countries, not the united states, political candidates getting assassinated,'' littleturtle said. whitehead-gould. edits below to tighten.</note>
surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould testified today that baby m has a right to see her and would benefit from spending time with her and her family
it's her right more so than anybody's right for her to see me,'' mrs. whitehead-gould told superior court judge birger m. sween on the second day of a hearing to determine how much time she can spend with the child she bore under a $10,000 contract but then refused to give up
speaking calmly, mrs. whitehead-gould, 30, asked for immediate visits at her home and eventual overnight stays with expansion of her time with the child, now 2, to include half the summer and some holidays. mother and child now visit once a week for two hours, supervised at a social services center
mrs. whitehead-gould said she has much to offer the child, now legally melissa stern. she said the child could benefit by the support of mrs. whitehead-gould's family, including her husband, accountant dean gould, and her children by a previous marriage, ryan, 13, and tuesday, 12
she said the visitation schedule initially must be carefully spelled out by the court to make it easier for both sides in the bitter dispute to get along
on monday, the child's father, william stern, 42, in bitter testimony that ended in tears, said mrs. whitehead-gould is untrustworthy and could undermine the child's relationship with him and his wife
in the final legal phase of the baby m case, stern asked the judge to halt visitation for several years, perhaps until her 10th birthday, saying contact with mrs. whitehead-gould could emotionally harm the child
i'm afraid that she will never let melissa be her own person,'' he said in 2{ hours of testimony. ``mary beth is a liar. ... i can't trust her.''
in later testimony, stern's wife, elizabeth, said she and mrs. whitehead-gould were ``poles apart.''
i don't have any respect for her. ... i'd never choose her as my friend. and quite simply, too much has gone on,'' mrs. stern said
stern said he feared mrs. whitehead-gould, who lost a highly publicized custody battle, would exploit melissa to promote her book about the case
the hearing was ordered by the new jersey supreme court in its landmark feb. 3 decision that declared surrogacy-for-pay illegal and restored mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights, but awarded sterns custody
the sterns paid mrs. whitehead-gould $10,000 to bear them a child because they feared 42-year-old mrs. stern, who suffers a mild form of multiple sclerosis, would suffer complications during pregnancy. mrs. whitehead-gould was artificially inseminated with stern's sperm
under cross-examination, the sterns acknowledged that melissa does not seem to have been harmed by her contact with mrs. whitehead-gould
when the judge asked him what kind of religion melissa would be exposed to, stern, who is jewish and whose relatives other than his parents all died in the holocaust, wept. after composing himself, he said he expects to expose her to the unitarian church. mrs. stern is not jewish
d.j. smith feels he's been placed in double jeopardy because the tv game show ``jeopardy'' won't pay him the $5,000 he won and has banned him from the program
the problem was that when smith appeared on ``jeopardy,'' less than a year had passed since he had played ``wheel of fortune.'' game show rules enacted after a 1958 scandal prohibit contestants from appearing on game shows more than once a year
smith won $1,200 on ``wheel of fortune'' on thanksgiving day, and was disqualified from $5,000 in ``jeopardy'' winnings
i feel like i'm in double jeopardy,'' said smith, 55, a business analyst. ``they won't give me my money, and they won't let me be on the show again.''
a representative for ``jeopardy,'' produced by merv griffin enterprises and broadcast on abc affiliates, invited smith to los angeles in january to play in a seniors ``jeopardy'' tournament
smith said he told the representative: ``that's great! i was just on the `wheel of fortune' a little while ago.''
but no one apparently caught the remark
smith said he mentioned his earlier appearance again when he filled out a registration form for ``jeopardy.''
prizes in the seniors tournament were awarded according to how many rounds each contestant survived. smith said he compiled enough points for a berth in a semifinal contest and an automatic prize of $5,000
but the next day, he said, he was told his appearance on ``wheel'' disqualified him
we didn't enjoy having to do that,'' said george vosburgh, ``jeopardy'' producer. ``even though the network stressed (the rules), it got by him and it got by us.''
game show officials withheld the $5,000 prize, awarding him the $1,000 quarterfinalist prize instead
the networks established the one-year waiting period for game shows in the aftermath of a 1958 scandal in which answers to ``the $64,000 question'' were given to contestants before the show
this is one of a series of periodic reports compiled by associated press bureaus on how the u.s. presidential election campaign is viewed abroad
jesse jackson's surge in the race for the democratic presidential nomination has gained attention in south africa and britain. here are some of the comments of newspapers in those countries:
_business day of johannesburg (pro-business): ``it has ... been a widespread belief that the u.s. is `not ready' for a black president. the support michigan gave jackson on saturday raises the intriguing possibility that this may not be true
it is more than 30 years since brown vs. board of education ended segregation in american schools, and racial causes have steadily declined in influence. could it be that many young americans, nurtured in an environment of equal rights, have outgrown racial prejudice?
 ... jackson probably won't become president this year, but he could be the man who opens the way to the white house for a black american.''
_the daily telegraph of london (conservative): ``mr. jackson still stands very little chance of securing the nomination: he is widely perceived as unelectable in november not because he is black _ america may be ready for that _ but becauppeal even to white hardhats in industrial michigan is to strengthen his claim to the vice presidential spot on the dukakis ticket, or at the very least to a say in pulling mr. dukakis's platform to the left.''
_the times of london (conservative-independent): ``mr. jackson is not unelectable because blacks vote for him. ... he is unelectable because of the kind of whites who vote for him. the entrails from michigan show him with disproportionate support from the sort of voters _ such as those in the state's numerous university towns _ who were for mr. mcgovern in 1972. he was unelectable, and white
sooner or later, a black presidential candidate will emerge in the united states who will campaign, not as a black _ emphasizing links with races and idealogues abroad who have nothing in common with american blacks either in outlook or standard of living _ but as a traditional democrat or republican.''
a man who said he locked his 79-year-old grandmother in her room without food or medication because she wanted to die has been charged with manslaughter in her death, a sheriff's spokesman said
alberta m. bandell probably died between three and four weeks ago, pasco county sheriff's spokesman bob loeffler said monday. her decomposed body was found monday morning after her grandson, richard william jones, 45, called the sheriff's office
he said he couldn't take it anymore, although we're not sure what he meant by it,'' said loeffler. ``we went over and saw a grisly, grisly scene.'' authorities discovered that the woman's dog, which also had been shut in the room and deprived of food, had chewed on the legs of the body, loeffler said. the dog survived the ordeal but was taken monday by county animal health control authorities and was expected to be put to sleep, loeffler said
jones was being held on $30,000 bail today
neighbors in this small town 20 miles northeast of tampa said they smelled something foul emanating from the mobile home, where jones continued to live, for weeks
over a month ago, i said, `god, there's a terrible stink out there,''' david l. sexton said
neighbors said jones had told them his grandmother was visiting friends in orlando and west palm beach
according to the arrest affidavit, jones cashed his grandmother's personal checks and attempted to sell the mobile home to a neighbor for $16,500
in addition to the cashed checks and the deception of his neighbors, detectives said they questioned jones' story of a mercy killing because of mrs. bandell's fairly good health and reports of frequent arguements between jones and his grandmother
he'd lock her in her bedroom different times. he'd curse and yell at her,'' sexton said
the cause of death was not known yet, but loeffler said the woman was a diabetic and required insulin injections
depending on the results of the autopsy, the charge could be changed to murder, loeffler said
a fire was discovered today in the arsenal of the puerto rico national guard and police said it might have been triggered by an explosive device
everything indicates there was a criminal hand,'' police superintendent carlos lopez feliciano said in a statement. ``we are investigating if there was an explosive or incendiary device. it's not conclusive.''
no other details on the cause of the blaze were available
the fire was discovered by an arsenal guard about 2 a.m. when smoke was seen coming out of the second-floor storage room, the superintendent said
when he checked, he saw two people in the interior parking area who jumped the fence protecting the perimeter of the arsenal,'' lopez feliciano said
all national guard facilities were under police surveillance today in case the fire was part of a coordinated attack, lopez feliciano said
we are guarding all the national guard installations in case its part of a series,'' the superintendent said
local explosives experts and officials from the fbi were at the scene gathering evidence
early this moring several fire engines were at the scene extinguishing the fire. there was no estimate of damages to the facility
about 600 members of the puerto rico national guard flew to the panama canal zone this weekend for a training exercise. the move has been criticized by groups favoring puerto rico's independence from the united states, as well as by individual members of the pro-statehood new progressive party and the governing popular democratic party
on monday, national guard adjutant gen. alfredo mora denied the guardsmen were being sent to panama for anything other than training purposes and said the possibility that the guards will see any combat ``is very remote.''
puerto ricans are u.s. citizens with most of the rights of americans, except that they cannot vote for the president of the united states. ^eds: subs 4th graf to restore dropped first reference to lukander</head>
the fbi is investigating the slaying of a 22-year-old navy airman whose decomposed body was identified 10 days after she disappeared from her home
fbi agents and other law enforcement officials met monday at the duval county medical examiner's office to discuss the case, said atlantic beach police chief david thompson. he would give no further details
we don't want to release anything that could come back to haunt us,'' he told the florida times-union and journal
detective dave archer said police were certain anita lukander was murdered, but he declined to reveal how she was killed
the victim was married may 9, 1987, to a naval petty officer who flew home from active duty aboard a frigate after being notified of his wife's disappearance
using dental records, authorties on sunday identified a body found the day before along the intracoastal waterway in jacksonville beach as that of mrs. lukander. the woman had been missing since march 17
archer said dr. peter lipkovic, medical examiner for duval, told police the body had been in the water about eight or nine days
cmdr. richard o'neal said mrs. lukander was a member of the mayport-based helicopter antisubmarine squadron light 42. her husband petty officer 2nd class bill lukander, also is a member of the squadron
mrs. lukander was assigned to shore duty as an administrative clerk in maintenance control, while her husband is an electronics technician who often is at sea for the squadron
mrs. lukander disappeared two days after a navy paymaster, lt. ratish prasad, 24, was slain march 15 aboard the uss hancock in mayport. prasad was shot in the head at close range
navy investigators said $94,629 was stolen from the ship's safe. no arrests have been made in that case
navy spokesmen said earlier there appeared to be no connection between the cases, noting that the ship and the helicopter squadron are in widely separate areas on the huge base
a military court today sentenced two soldiers accused of burying four arabs alive to longer prison sentences than requested by prosecutors, saying their conduct was grave and shameful, israel radio reported
the court sentenced pvt. dror segen-cohen to six months in jail along with a four-month suspended sentence. pvt. yair nissimi was given five months in jail and a seven-month suspended sentence
the prosecution had asked for two months in jail for segen-cohen and 2{ months for nissimi
the soldiers admitted they beat four arabs from the occupied west bank village of kfar salem on feb. 5 after a protest in the village. the soldiers also admitted burying the four arabs in about 25 inches of mud
the arabs survived
the court ruled the soldiers' behavior had tarnished the army's image and put israel in a bad light
a third soldier, sgt. maj. charlie danino, is accused of ordering the burial. he has pleaded innocent and his trial is still underway
five other soldiers are also on trial for violating military orders. one has been charged in the killing of a palestinian in the gaza strip and four others for beating two palestinian detainees after a demonstration in nablus
according to u.n. figures, 119 palestinians have been killed in the occupied territories since anti-israeli protests began dec. 8. one israeli soldier has died
the chairman of the senate governmental affairs committee says he would not allow a proposed amendment to jeopardize passage of a new cabinet-level department of veterans affairs
the statement monday by panel chairman john glenn, d-ohio, improved prosects for the legislation, which passed the house last november after president reagan announced his support for a cabinet-level department
the proposed amendment would allow veterans to appeal any denied claim to federal courts
glenn said he supported judicial review, but would not attempt to add the provision in his committee. judicial review, he said, was in the jurisdiction of the veterans affairs committee, which has tentatively scheduled a hearing on the issue for april 21
the ohio democrat said he believes veterans are treated as second class citizens, because they do not have the same appellate rights as those receiving unfavorable rulings from other agencies
the government affairs committee reported that old-line veterans groups lobbied against judicial review, while groups of vietnam and paralyzed veterans said they favor the provision. the committee said mail was split about 50-50
forestry workers killed a bengal tiger after it attacked and killed a woodcutter, who was believed to be its 17th human victim in five months, police said tuesday
the attack occurred in the sundarbans forest, a national tiger preserve 80 miles southwest of dhaka
authorities believe the tiger had killed at least 16 other people. the attacks had spread fear among nearby villagers and forestry officials, who shot the animal monday
tigers generally are shy animals and rarely attack humans unless they are injured, threatened or facing food shortages. they are protected by law with poaching punishable by up to five years in jail
the nobel foundation, after record-breaking profits, is raising the amount of the annual nobel prizes by 15 percent to $428,000, the head of the foundation said tuesday
executive director stig ramel said the foundation established by alfred nobel's 1896 testament saw its profits rise by 29 percent, yielding $5.6 million to finance the five prizes and the arrangements for awarding them
last year's prize was worth $362,000, up 8 percent from 1986
the foundation administers the endowment which finances the nobel prizes in literature, physics, chemistry and medicine. the riksbank, the central bank, created and funded the nobel memorial prize for economics in 1968
the laureates are chosen independently by the swedish academy of sciences, the academy of arts and letters and the karolinska institute. the nobel committee of the norwegian parliament awards the prestigious peace prize
the prize money is awarded in the currency of the winner's choice according to the exchange rate on dec. 10, the day of the annual award ceremony. the prize is divided if there is more than one laureate in a category. last year nine winners shared the six prizes
ramel told the associated press the jump in the value of assets was largely due to floating the foundation's real estate company on the stockholm stock exchange last year
ramel said the foundation's capital this year ``for the first time is substantially worth more'' than when the prizes were created after nobel's death. the first prizes were awarded in 1901
nobel, who invented dynamite, bequeathed the equivalent of about $150 million in his will to those who ``have conferred the greatest benefit on mankind.''
but nobel stipulated the capital be invested in what he considered safe fixed-income bonds, which later proved unprofitable. for 50 years the foundation lost money and the prize progressively shrank
the foundation lost about two-thirds of the capital,'' he said
since 1953 the regulations surrounding the nobel capital has gradually loosened, enabling the foundation to be more active in the swedish economy
that is why we started the real estate company last year,'' ramel said. ``fortunately we were unharmed by the stock market crash last october.''
the army-run radio station has refused to play a protest song critical of israeli policy in the occupied territories, the director of the station said tuesday
it attacks israeli soldiers,'' col. nahman shai said of ``shooting and crying,'' written and sung by israeli rock musician si hyman
ms. hyman said she wrote the song after hearing about a feb. 5 incident in which israeli soldiers beat four palestinians and buried them alive under two feet of dirt. they survived the attack, which occurred after troops dispersed a protest in the occupied west bank village of kfar salem
they shoot and cry, burn and laugh. when did they learn to bury people alive?'' one verse of the song says. ``when did they forget that our children have also been killed?''
however, shai said the song's accusations were unfounded. he said israeli soldiers ``are doing their jobs in the best possible fashion and deserve our appreciation.''
israel has faced international criticism for its handling of palestinian protests that began in the occupied territories four months ago
state-run israeli radio has not banned the song, but has not been playing it, either
a month-long citywide amnesty has netted 1,563 weapons, including jackknives, axes, machetes and a stun gun that can deliver a 45,000-volt electric shock, scotland yard said tuesday
the national police force said the amnesty was intended to encourage people to hand in knives. however, weapons from pump-action shotguns to brass knuckles were dumped in special bins or handed in anonymously at police stations
police cmdr. walter boreham, who supervised the amnesty, said ``these weapons, some of which could have been used to maim or kill, are now off the streets because their owners have woken up to the fact that carrying a weapon is dangerous.''
the amnesty ended march 9. graf pvs bgng ``alabama democratic...</note>
democratic officials from around the country, some wary of the prospect of jesse jackson heading their presidential ticket, will meet with jackson on wednesday to discuss what one party chairman called ``how to win in november.''
florida democratic chairman charles whitehead said a small group of party officials arranged a meeting with jackson in washington
whitehead would not say who called the meeting or what the specific purpose was, beyond ``how to win in november.''
dissent is building within the democratic party about efforts to strengthen jackson's rivals in the wake of his stunning michigan caucus victory
alabama democratic chairman john baker suggested in a letter to party leaders around the south that they form a group of unpledged convention delegates who will commit themselves to ``the most electable'' presidential candidate
we've got to keep one eye, if not two eyes, on the november general election. i'm tired of the democratic party having a ticket that can't carry but one or two states,'' said baker of montgomery, ala
others were dismayed by baker's effort
the party can't afford that,'' said jim ruvolo, state chairman in ohio. ``jesse jackson is not where he is by some sleight of hand. he got there by winning votes.''
jackson overwhelmed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the michigan caucuses on saturday, winning the industrial state by nearly 2-to-1. that victory stalled dukakis' momentum and boosted talk that jackson could be the first black to win the party's presidential nomination
baker denied his effort is aimed at jackson
i'm not trying to stop anybody,'' he said. but he insisted jackson's views do not fall within the party mainstream
a white candidate espousing what rev. jackson is espousing wouldn't have a chance at being elected,'' baker said. ``he's the most liberal candidate running. i wonder if he were white if he would have any delegates at all.''
baker's move did not get a positive response from john henry anderson, georgia's party chairman
i don't want to look at anything as a `stop jesse jackson' movement. all i want to be looking at is electing a democrat to the white house,'' said anderson, who supports dukakis
and democratic national committee chairman paul kirk would have no part of a ``stop jackson'' movement
i can't imagine that if he runs through the process and comes out on top they could take away from him. i would refuse to be part of that,'' kirk said. ``i haven't heard of one starting, and i wouldn't be a party to it.''
as the party chief, kirk promised to back the winner
we've still got the biggest primaries coming up to settle who the candidate will be, and i'll support that process and its winner whoever it is,'' kirk said
the dnc chairman said jackson has won his victories with a positive message
i think he's earned credibility, trust and respect. perhaps more than any of the other candidates, he has stayed on the high road with a unifying message and appeal for those looking for strong leadership,'' kirk said. ``the success of his candidate offers an opportunity, not a problem.''
ruvolo of ohio called jackson the front-runner in the race and brushed aside questions about electability
you win in the fall by getting the votes of the people, not by justing getting the votes of those in the backrooms,'' he said. ``the professional politicians may worry about electability, but the results so far show the people are not worrying about it.''
rep. richard gephardt, as he left the presidential race on monday, agreed, saying: ``i believe jesse jackson can be nominated and i think he can be elected.''
ruvolo said that the current discussions about jackson are premature. he said the party's nominee could easily be decided by the primary lineup of new york, pennsylvania and ohio in late april and early may
if one candidate wins all three, he is the nominee,'' ruvolo said. if no one candidate does, ``then we'll go to the brokered process.''
a former white house aide said tuesday that the reagan administration either ignored or hid the fact that panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega was dealing in drugs
but assistant secretary of state elliott abrams disputed that assertion, saying the government acted legally against noriega as soon as it could
the former white house official, norman a. bailey, told the house select committee on narcotics abuse and control that noriega and other high-level officials of the panama defense forces had been engaged in drug trafficking, gun running and money laundering since the mid-1970s
bailey, an economic consultant who formerly was a special assistant to the president for national security affairs until oct. 13, 1983, said noriega and the panamanian military have engaged ``in the past in activities which represent and have represented a clear, unquestionable and obvious multiple threat to the national security in a narrow sense, and the national interests in a broader sense, of the united states of america
it is also a story of how clear and incontrovertible evidence was at best ignored and at worst hidden and denied by many different agencies and departments of the government of the united states in such a way as to provide cover and protection for these activities while at the same time assuring that they did the maximum damage to those very interests that the officials involved were sworn to uphold and defend,'' bailey said
bailey said the information available to the u.s. government on noriega and the panama defense forces was not only a ``smoking gun but rather a 21-cannon barrage of evidence.''
but abrams told the committee there has been uncorroborated allegations of illegal drug-related activity by noriega for many years
we were not unaware of these,'' he said. ``until recently, however, there was no substantiated evidence of his narcotics involvement.''
abrams said, however, that when the justice department unveiled evidence against him, noriega was indicted by two grand juries in florida earlier this year. since then, the united states has applied economic and diplomatic pressure to drive noriega from his post as head of the defense forces
abrams said he has heard about general corruption in panama since he came into office in july 1985. ``not only drugs, but anything that can be done for money,'' he said
in answer to a question by rep. benjamin a. gilman, r-n.y., abrams said he would not be surprised to learn that noriega was either a double or triple agent
noriega is loyal to no one,'' he said. ``he has dealt with our intelligence agencies. he has dealt with cuban intelligence. he has dealt with everyone. he took what information he could get and passed it on or sold it.''
following the hearing, abrams told reporters: ``i'm unaware of any documentation (of drug trafficking) during the past five years.''
when asked about bailey's charges, he replied: ``why do you think we're going after noriega?''
the security council will convene an urgent meeting wednesday to discuss the situation in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip, arab diplomats said today
a delegation of arab foreign ministers and the plo called on secretary-general javier perez de cuellar today to schedule the meeting. they also urged the u.n. chief to send another fact-finding mission to the occupied territories
in the toughest crackdown since palestinian unrest began nearly dec. 8, the israeli army today enforced a three-day closure of the occupied lands, barring nearly all journalists, israeli civilians and arab visitors
clovis maksoud, u.n. ambassador for the arab league, told reporters after the delegation met perez de cuellar that the security council would convene wednesday to discuss israel's actions in the occupied lands
the delegation included farouk kaddoumi, head of the political department of the palestine liberation organization; ahmed taleb ibrahimi, algeria's foreign minister; ibrahim massoud, minister of state for foreign affairs of saudi arabia; farouk al-shara, the syrian foreign minister; and chedli klibi, secretary-general of the league of arab states
the delegation, except for the plo envoy, left for a meeting at the state department in washington to express arab views on the palestinian demonstrations in the occupied territories, a middle east peace conference, u.s. efforts to close the plo's u.n. mission and other issues
the security council has held several meetings on the middle east since the heightened palestinian unrest began and each time has condemned israel's measures to put down the protests
a meeting is necessary because of israel's clamp down today, its banning the press and curfew,'' maksoud said
the delegation also asked the united nations to send a second-fact finding mission to the territories. under secretary-general marrack goulding recently visited the territories and submitted a report sharply critical of israel
the secretary-general has called for a u.n.-sponsored middle east peace conference, involving all parties to the middle east conflict, including the plo, and the five permanent members of the security council
tunisia on friday formally requested the security council meeting
price support loans for some old-crop corn and sorghum will be extended for a year longer than their normal maturity dates, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng said tuesday
the one-year extensions were approved for 1984-crop corn and sorghum held in the farmer-owned reserve program, and for 1985 and 1986 corn and sorghum under price support loan, he said. no extensions will be allowed for 1983 and older corn and sorghum loans
lyng said the announcement on 1985 and 1986 corn and sorghum loans reversed a previous decision announced on jan. 29
the change was made ``to alleviate grain movement problems due to a rail car shortage, grain congestion at some country elevators'' and other logistical problems, he said
but the agriculture department will reserve the right to ``call at any time'' the 1985 and 1986 crop loans, lyng said. grain in the farmer-owned reserve program can remain until prices rise enough to trigger its release
the loans are extended to farmers by the department's commodity credit corp., which uses the grain as collateral. if prices rise significantly, farmers usually repay the loans and sell or use the grain as they choose
but farmers have the option of not repaying the loans, in which case ccc takes over the grain when the loans mature, or come due. by extending the loans, farmers continue to own the grain and retain their ccc options
parts of the jan. 29 order still stand, including the decision not to extend loans on 1987-crop wheat, feed grains and soybeans. also, loans that already had been extended on 1985 and 1986 wheat, feed grains and soybeans will not be extended further when those mature
more than 80 percent of americans favor a federal program to provide long-term home care for the chronically ill and disabled, according to a poll released tuesday
the survey by louis harris &amp; associates also found that more than 70 percent would support paying for the program by increasing medicare payroll taxes for people who make more than $45,000 a year
rep. claude pepper, d-fla., released the survey in conjunction with a hearing on his five-year, $25 billion proposal for long-term home care. house leaders have promised him a floor vote on the bill although it has not gone through the usual committee scrutiny
many members have criticized the plan as too expensive to pass this year. rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of the tax-writing house ways and means committee, has said congress cannot enact both pepper's plan and another medicare expansion shielding the elderly and disabled against catastrophic health-care costs
catastrophic-cost bills already have passed both houses and negotiators are working out differences between the two versions
rep. edward roybal, d-calif., chairman of the house select committee on aging and a co-sponsor of pepper's bill, said virtually no medicare or insurance coverage is available to millions of people with a chronic illness
we have long believed we were seeing a rising tide of public support for a federal long-term care program, and the harris poll shows us americans are evne more enthusiastic than we imagined,'' roybal said in a statement
the harris survey found that americans of all ages, professions, party affiliations and income levels supported financing a new home-care program through an increase in the 1.45 percent medicare payroll tax on upper-income workers
more than 70 percent of people earning above $50,000 supported that method of financing although they would bear the brunt of it, the survey found
of those questioned, 82 percent said they could not afford to pay for the costs of providing long-term care either at home or in a nursing home _ including more than 60 percent of those making above $50,000 a year
and nearly 80 percent of those polled said they would prefer long-term home care to care in a nursing home
the harris survey questioned 1,500 adults across the country in telephone interviews feb. 18-23. the margin of error is plus or minus three percentage points
the survey echoes an earlier poll last fall that found americans by an overwhelming majority were willing to pay higher taxes to finance long-term care for the elderly
sixty-eight percent of those questioned in the survey by r.l. associates were willing to shoulder $10 to $60 a month more in taxes to pay for the program
that survey was commissioned by long-term care '88, a coalition of senior citizens groups and other organizations hoping to make the issue a top priority with presidential candidates
on a related matter, a government report released tuesday said the number of elderly americans confined to nursing homes is remaining stable even though the raw numbers are rising because of an aging population
there were 1.3 million nursing home residents at least 65 years of age in 1985, up 200,000 from 1977, when the last nursing home figures were collected
the report by the department of health and human services said the 1985 nursing home population reflected about 1 percent of americans 65-74 years old being confined to institutions and about 22 percent of those 85 years and older. both percentages were essentially unchanged from the 1977 survey
a court tuesday freed the leader of an opposition street theater group serving a two-month jail sentence, but 18 of his supporters were detained by police outside the courtroom, activists said
waldemar ``the major'' fydrych, 34, who heads the group orange alternative, was arrested march 8 as he handed out flowers and sanitary napkins to women to mock official observances of international women's day
leading cultural figures, including film director andrzej wajda, had appealed for the release of the writer, who became widely known for organizing various orange alternative ``happenings'' in which demonstrators dressed up as santa claus, secret policemen and lenten penitents to poke fun at communist authorities
the appeals court in wroclaw acquitted fydrych of causing public unrest after finding that testimony by prosecution witnesses was inconsistent with that given by the sole witness at fydrych's march 9 misdemeanor hearing, said spokesman krzysztof albin
fydrych was released after the hearing, which his supporters were barred from attending, said barbara labuda, another opposition activist in the southwestern polish city
police detained three orange alternative supporters who were carrying models of a major's uniform hanging from a gallows in a morning demonstration outside the courthouse, albin said
at least 15 more supporters, most of them wearing orange-colored apparel, were detained by police while they waited for the verdict in a corridor outside the courtroom, albin said
albin said one orange alternative member, grzegorz francuz, was beaten on the way to the police station
opposition activists in poland are frequently detained for up to 48 hours on misdemeanor charges
rep. james howard, d-n.j., who died last week after suffering a heart attack, was eulogized today as a productive congressman whose contributions can be seen throughout the country
he worked hard and he played hard and he laughed full-tilt,'' said house speaker jim wright, d-texas, who spoke during a roman catholic funeral mass for howard
his candle burned brightly for 60 years and others came and lighted their candles from him,'' said wright
more than 850 people, including four busloads of congressmen and their aides, attended the service at st. catharine's church here
aides to howard restricted access to the church because it could hold about 400 people, and a crowd of about 450 watched from the street as the casket was brought into the church. loudspeakers broadcast the service to those gathered outside
howard, 60, died friday, a day after suffering a heart attack while playing golf in a washington suburb
he represented the state's 3rd congressional district and served in the house for 22 years. he was the second-most senior member of new jersey's congressman behind rep. peter rodino, also a democrat
acting as pallbearers at today's funeral were sen. bill bradley and rep. robert a. roe, both d-n.j., rep. john paul hammerschmidt, r-ark., state sen. frank pallone, d-monmouth, and monmouth county freeholders john villapiano and john d'amico
rep. morris k. udall, d-ariz., also spoke during the service
jim was one of the best, most productive congressmen, most beloved congressmen,'' said udall, who attributed howard's success to his honesty and his enthusiasm
i never saw anyone with a more infectious manner come to the house floor. he was everywhere at once,'' said udall
as chairman of the house public works and transportation committee, howard largely controlled highway and transportation projects nationwide
the handy work and fruits of jim's labor'' can be seen in monmouth county as well as across the nation, wright said
in washington on monday, the house and senate voted unanimously to name the new jersey segment of interstate 195 after howard
howard's staff says it will continue to provide service to constituents, although the district will not have a vote in the house until a successor is elected
gov. thomas h. kean must call a special election to replace howard and has said he will consider holding it nov. 8 as part of the general election
third district voters would be asked to pick someone to finish the final two months of howard's term, and cast a second vote to choose a congressman for a full term beginning in january 1989
officials at a city zoo killed and ate a popular bear cub because they didn't have room for it in the park, a newspaper reported tuesday
the cub, named molly, was 2 years old and was one of visitors' favorites at the skansen park zoo when the lack of space last november forced the zoo to cull the cubs, according to the newspaper, expressen
the bear was served to the zoo's staff
molly was so nice, i didn't take a bite,'' caretaker tina reinhed told the newspaper
because of crowded conditons, the cubs are kept for 18 months before they are either sold or killed, she said
first we naturally try to sell them to other zoological parks,'' reinhed said. ``sadly enough, they also have an excess (of bears).''
zoo superintendent pelle palm said that while people don't like to see ``teddy bears'' eaten, ``it's worse to destroy meat in a world that hungers.''
the withdrawal of u.s. troops from honduras will be completed on thursday, the pentagon said tuesday
spokesman dan howard said the roughly 3,100 soldiers dispatched to honduras on march 17-18 were being removed along with their equipment on a four-day schedule. the first group was airlifted out monday
the soldiers were dispatched as a warning to the leftist nicaraguan government after sandinista troops moved into honduras in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels. the american troops never were sent to the border area where the fighting occurred, but rather staged military exercises with honduran military units
according to the pentagon, the last contingent of men from the 7th light infantry division will return to fort ord, calif., around 2 p.m. est on wednesday. the last unit from the 82nd airborne will return to fort bragg, n.c., around 9 a.m. est on thursday
about 2,000 of the troops were scheduled to depart honduras on tuesday, the pentagon added
the government fired 33 police officers for drug trafficking, armed robbery, accepting bribes and other crimes as part of a corruption crackdown, authorities said tuesday
six officers were dismissed for stealing diamonds in the mining town of akwatia near accra, police said. ten others had smuggled marijuana to neighboring ivory coast by boat
among the fired officers was a deputy police superintendent, but there were no details on where he had been posted
the announcement by the national police council, headed by ghanaian leader flight lt. jerry rawlings, did not say if the officers had been arrested
two weeks ago, 19 officers were fired for armed robbery and drug trafficking in the crackdown aimed at reducing corruption and improving police efficiency and credibility
a gang of 10-year-olds who began stealing golf balls two months ago have graduated to terrorizing members of boca raton's executive country club with knives, officials say
they've also allegedly dug up the fourth green
the women golfers are frightened. the men are angry,'' mary k. werre, manager of the country club, said monday after calling police
they're kids who should know better, but they're very, very nasty,'' said ed lombardi, 77, of deerfield beach
country club members describe the children as clean-cut, well-dressed and about 10 years old
lombardi was playing golf last sunday when some children stole a friend's ball
out on the golf course, we don't want nor expect anything like that,'' he said. ``i chased them into the woods, but they have paths. they can go like deer in there.''
two foursomes, who played saturday, told ms. werre that children had sprung from the trees, swiped golf balls and, brandishing knives, challenged the golfers to ``come and get them.''
a gang of about five 10-year-olds equipped with shovels dug up the fourth green,'' boca raton officer william ehrhardt wrote in his report. ``in addition, the youths were in possession of knives, intimidated golfers and stole their balls.''
country club officials were reluctant at first to report the juveniles' high jinks
whenever we saw them out there we got in our golf cart and went after them, but they ran and we haven't been able to catch them,'' ms. werre said
that was before the children added knives to their arsenal. now, ms. werre said, she will call police whenever the children are spotted
ted wright of lake worth was playing last sunday when he saw some children playing with remote-controlled cars in the sand trap
i told them to get off, we were playing,'' he said
as wright went for one of the cars, the youthful owner said they were leaving, then cursed him
about two weeks ago, the children appeared at night wearing camouflage fatigues, ms. werre said. with their faces blackened, they crept onto the driving range and lifted some golf balls before a worker saw them and shooed them away, she said
country club officials can't figure out a motive
if they're stealing range balls, they really can't do well by selling them anywhere,'' ms. werre said. ``if they're stealing from off the course, you'd think they'd be selling them here, but that hasn't happened.''
common sense and firefighting basics have won a navy achievement medal for an 18-year-old marine
pfc. neil r. wadley won the medal for his idea that could make troops invisible to enemy heat-detecting devices. the award was presented to wadley by gen. a.m. gray, commandant of the marine corps
wadley, of st. maries, idaho, who is stationed at the quantico base, suggested that combatants wear a special lightweight shield that would neutralize the enemy's sensors
he said he got the idea from his work fighting forest fires with the department of lands in idaho before he became a marine. everyone was issued a ``fire shelter,'' a five-pound sheet of material capable of reflecting severe temperatures, he said
wadley said he wasn't prepared for what happened after he wrote a letter to the marine corps gazette, outlining his idea for the poncho-type shield
the editor of the gazette forwarded a copy of the letter to gen. gray, and gray immediately wrote wadley a personal letter:
'' ... i'm really excited by your idea, and am taking the liberty of initiating immediate measures to ensure that its possibilities are thoroughly explored. i ... commend your creative intellect for perceiving an innovative approach to a tough problem. your idea certainly merits further research and development...''
wadley said modestly, ''i don't think i really deserved the medal. it would have been enough just to get the letter and to meet the commandant.''
a criminal court acquitted former foreign minister bernard blamo of conspiring to defraud the government of $575,000 in the purchase of a fire truck and navigational instruments
when the 12-man jury returned its unanimous verdict, there was singing and shouting in the courtroom from blamo supporters and family members. blamo's wife was carried out after she fainted
the government had charged blamo, a former head of the national port authority, of aiding and abetting benny ashun, a ghanaian, in the fraud scheme
blamo said he did not know ashun was defrauding the government
unlikely green thumbs are sprouting at an inner-city housing project where a vegetable garden is fast becoming a model of determination and hope in a depressed area
it all started last november when a team of 38 residents of the nickerson gardens housing project decided to turn an ugly, vacant lot into a haven of leafy foliage and vegetables
the garden in the city's south-central area already has produced enough carrots, onions, tomatoes, broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower to supply residents and just about anyone else who cares to sample the home-grown food
word has spread to transients and gang members alike that the food is available for the taking, just as long as takers ask first
it took awhile for it to sink in, but all the kids and the gang members are letting the garden be,'' said gardener tauheedah karim, 32
it shows you that if you believe in something and you work at it, it can be done,'' said wilma jean powns, 46, co-captain of the gardeners, as she stood among her sprouting cabbages in one of the garden's 20 boxed plots
ms. powns and her neighbors got help from the end world hunger organization and budget rent-a-car, which have sponsored urban gardens in other cities. the groups supplied seeds, training and some supplies, while agriculture advisers from the university of california trucked in rich soil and fertilizer
this comes from love. long as we keep at it, this garden's going to be here a long, long time,'' ms. powns said
neighbors keep a watch from their homes and shoo away trespassers
even local school kids are getting into the act. a class from the housing project's head start program shows up several times a week to help the gardeners water, taking turns using a faucet to fill plastic jugs
the jugs are doing double duty, said ms. powns. when dogs began rooting through the plants last winter, she said she put to use an old trick that her grandmother taught her about vegetable gardening. she filled the jugs with water and ammonia and left them out for the scavengers
we had a few dogs running around sneezing like crazy,`` she said with a laugh. ``dogs ain't a problem anymore.''
when american and japanese children got together tuesday to compare prize-winning inventions, one side brought most of the frivolous, fanciful toys while the other displayed no-nonsense solutions to everyday problems
but in a reversal of stereotypes, it was the japanese kids who brought the marionette and robot on skis, and the americans who produced door guards, portable seat belts and diapers with built-in disposable bags
the meeting was arranged by a program to spur creativity among american students called ``invent america!'' and the japan institution of invention and innovation, which has sponsored competitions for japanese schoolchildren since 1941
the japanese students' inventions included the mechanized marionette of takakiyo katami, 11, of gufu city; a robot that can slalom back and forth on skis by yasushi nishiyama, 15, of nagoya; and an illuminated constellation model made from 2,000 optical fibers by takahiro tsurita, 14, of toyota city
tomoyuki imura, 15, of miki city, japan, came up with a ball retriever that consists of several tennis cans open at both ends and taped together
sally mallison, 12, of wilmington, del., who devised her ``bag-a-diap'' to help her parents cope with messy diapers on car trips, said, ``i think from the japanese i've learned that inventions can be mechanical and they can also be ... like mine where they don't have anything mechanical to do with them.''
yasushi nishiyama, maker of the slalom robot, said through an interpreter, ``after observing all these inventions i notice japanese students' inventions seem to be more like toys, something kids can play with.''
most of the americans' inventions, he added, seemed ``more practical, something in your daily life that you can actually use.''
how does that square with the image americans have of japanese students spending endless hours in school or studying?
there are some people who study hard, but there are some who just enjoy playing,'' nishiyama said. ``they stay away from that work. instead, they try to create something more interesting so they can enjoy themselves.''
two of the young japanese inventors' devices did have a practical tilt. hiroshi aoyagi, 12, of tokamachi, built a door that can slide up or swing out
and yoshitaka tanimoto, 13, of takayama city, won top honors, the prime minister's prize, for inventing a device to help his grandfather regain use of his hand after a stroke. tanimoto's hand rehabilitation machine consists of two crescent shaped handles attached by strong rubber bands that can be stretched apart
the americans, all honored last june in an invent america competition, included maurice scales, 8, of suitland, md., who came up with a plexiglas shield to keep doors from slamming on his sister's fingers; the portable seat belt for school buses by michelle cardin, 10, of fairfield, conn.; an artificial reef to help young fish by brian lloyd, 15, of jacksonville, fla.; and a scheme for solar energy from space by sachin patel, 7, of flatonia, texas
the u.s. patent model foundation launched invent america in december 1986 with corporate financing and moral support from the reagan administration. it expects 8 million students in 35,000 u.s. elementary schools to take part in this year's competition
kazuhiko hoshino, president of the japan institute of invention and innovation, said the visit will help the japanese youths ``develop new ideas and high creativity.''
in order to cope with the current trend toward internationalization, we consider it important for japanese school students to visit overseas at every opportunity,'' he said. to update with more testimony from l'ecuyer.</note>
a witness for gov. evan mecham today told senators considering whether to remove the governor from office that a fund mecham is accused of misuing was not public money nor controlled by state law
political consultant and lawyer robert l'ecuyer testified that mecham's inaugural committee chairman lacked the authority to bind the governor to restrictions on how the money could be used
mecham, a first-term republican, is being tried by the arizona senate on three impeachment counts, including alleged misuse of $80,000 from a protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
the defense has contended the fund, created with proceeds from inaugural activities, was not public money, while the prosecution contends it was
l'ecuyer testified today that because the protocol fund was not public money in his opinion, mecham was not restricted by state laws that govern the use of public funds
he said he thought the loan was ``legal but stupid.''
inaugural committee chairman william long had told the maricopa county attorney's office in a 1987 letter that the fund would be used to either benefit the state or to promote citizen participation in state activities
the june 26 letter from william long to the county attorney was of absolutely no force or effect in relation to the mecham inaugural committee funds'' because the fund already had been turned over to mecham, and long no longer chaired the inaugural committee, l'ecuyer said
l'ecuyer also described a meeting in may 1987 in which he agreed, despite misgivings, to advise the governor on mecham's plans to publish a tabloid touting his administration
the governor and i started off with a shouting match,'' l'ecuyer said. ``the two of us yelled at each other for the better part of the hour,'' he said, adding that if the tabloid was used as a campaign tool to attack lawmakers, ``that could become a violation; people could go to jail for that kind of a violation.'' he did not elaborate
the governor cooperated with l'ecuyer on campaign finance matters after that meeting, the consultant said
l'ecuyer was hired by mecham last fall to provide legal opinions on the propriety of the governor's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan. the consultant said last fall that mecham properly reported the loan by lumping it in with other amounts
mecham faces a charge of concealing the $350,000 loan in both the impeachment trial and criminal court. the senate already has heard testimony on another charge that he tried to thwart an investigation on an alleged death threat
on monday, senators indicated they were taking a dim view of mecham's proposal that they vote now on two of the impeachment articles, concerning the death threat and the protocol fund, against him and promise to drop the third regarding the campaign loan
the chances of that happening are ``about as good of me jumping off the top of the highest building i can find in the neighborhood,'' said senate majority leader bob usdane, who like mecham is a republican
also monday, the governor's lawyer, jerris leonard, said monday that mecham has ``a firm agreement'' to sell the land and buildings of his mecham pontiac dealership for about $4 million
leonard said he did not know who the prospective buyer was, when the deal would be closed, or whether mecham was keeping his pontiac franchise
during his own testimony monday on the protocol fund, mecham angrily disrupted the proceedings after house prosecutor william french compared his actions to embezzlement
i have to make a statement,'' mecham declared, ignoring orders from arizona supreme court justice frank gordon to refrain from comments beyond answering questions asked
i resent so highly the word embezzlement in my presence,'' mecham said. ``i'm insulted by it.''
gordon admonished mecham again, telling him: ``i hope you believe the rules are for you, sir, as well as everybody else.''
mecham responded hotly: ``i have seen no witness who has been insulted as i have been.''
in his testimony monday, the governor suggested that the senate drop the third charge and vote right away on the first two counts
if you want to say we'll call this game at the end of six innings, and do it (vote) then with the fact that that is the game, why, i don't suppose we could argue with you on that one,'' mecham said
however, senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, agreed with usdane that it would be ``ridiculous'' to expect the senate to drop the $350,000 loan allegation
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate on any one of the counts is required to convict the governor, automatically removing him from office. a similar two-thirds vote would be needed to change the rules to allow an early vote on the first two impeachment counts
mecham, who also faces a may 17 recall election, is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades
the seventh national conference on humor is no joke
to tell you the truth, it may be excruciatingly boring,'' victor raskin, a purdue university english professor coordinating the weekend conference, said tuesday
there will be one lecture on the peanuts cartoon. i have no idea how that will turn out,'' said shaun f.d. hughes, an associate professor of english who is helping raskin coordinate the conference. ``there will be one on the theory of humor. that tends to be more deadly.''
the theme is midwestern humor. ``there will be some papers on mark twain,'' said hughes. ``there will be one from northwestern university on chicago political humor.''
hughes will ``present a deadly paper. it's called `physician, humor thyself.' it's icelandic medical humor. icelandic people, they say, have no sense of humor and this tends to bear that out,'' he said
raskin said in a recent university statement: ``in the last decade, humor has been increasingly recognized as an essential and universal human facility and as such, has become the subject of high-powered and widely interdisciplinary research.''
the conference, at purdue's west lafayette campus, will be about 80 percent academic, says raskin. the last six such conferences were held at arizona state university _ always on april fool's day
during the breaks, there may be a lot of laughter,'' said raskin. ``then on sunday night, there is a public joke-telling contest. they can tell jokes, juggle, anything to elicit laughter. the winner gets a purse of maybe $60 or something.''
but the point, or punchline, is quite serious
psychologists want to know why we appreciate humor,'' says raskin. ``sociologists are interested in humor's role in society. anthropologists want to know why what is funny to one society is not funny to another.''
luckily, some parts of it will be funny,'' says hughes. ``sometimes they insert jokes into the lecture.''
michigan welfare clients may get free condoms from their pharmacists in a new program to provide birth control and help stem the spread of aids
ohio, wisconsin, illinois, new york and pennsylvania already provide condoms for medicaid recipients by prescription. for accounting purposes, some state rules require prescriptions for many items given medicaid recipients by pharmacists
but michigan apparently will be the first state to provide the condoms without prescriptions, state and federal officials say
the state department of social services is notifying medicaid recipients and pharmacists about the program, scheduled to begin june 1, chuck peller, a spokesman for dds, said monday
the condoms can be obtained by men or women presenting a medicaid card to a pharmacist, peller said
there is no specific budget for the program, the state has not estimated its cost and the dss has ``no idea of the anticipated usage,'' peller said
the latest state budget bill included the requirement for free condoms to medicaid recipients, peller said
richard chambers, a spokesman for the u.s. department of health and human services, said from washington that he knows of no other state that authorizes free distribution of condoms without a prescription
the federal government reimburses states for 90 percent of the costs of family planning services, chambers said
to guard against fraud, including what peller called ``the `black market' possibility,''' a recipient's medicaid number will be recorded each time condoms are picked up. the state will check those numbers periodically, he said
if the dss determines a recipient has obtained an unusual number of condoms, that person will be referred to the agency's recipient monitoring project in which a prescription would be needed for more condoms, peller said
the house republicans' conference in houston last weekend was supposed to be a retreat, but lawmakers joked that it was more like an advance
they led an invading army that included 42 u.s. capitol police officers, police dogs, the house physician, the house clerk, office assistants, reporters, camera crews and the staff of the national republican congressional committee, which helps run their campaigns. many brought their families
they traveled with a legion of lobbyists, many of whom helped finance the three chartered jetliners, lawmakers' hotel rooms and banquets paid for under the auspices of the congressional institute inc., a tax-exempt corporation set up for these occasions
sam richardson, a spokesman for the conference, said the total cost had not yet been calculated. he said one of the banquets _ canceled later because of a bomb threat _ cost $12,000. reporters each were charged $413 for travel and meals, with hotel bills extra
one of the goals of the three-day conference was for the 70 lawmakers attending to let their hair down. but the program listed suit-and-tie or women's business attire for three straight days, even at a tex-mex dinner
they're going to think we're all a bunch of stuffed shirts,'' complained one member, who got no argument from his wife nearby
while in houston, the republicans sought some high-tech themes for their national agenda. they sought camaraderie. they sought a strategy in their marathon battle to take control of the house back from the democrats for the first time in 34 years
the thing they surely found, which isn't in evidence much in washington, was some humor
during the three-day meeting, the gop squad traveled back and forth across the city in bus motorcades. along the way, police blocked side streets and freeway ramps while frustrated local motorists didn't know whom to blame
there is only one thing to do at a time like this,'' one of the gop lawmakers said, staring at a line of blocked traffic
put a big sign on the bus that says `mickey leland re-election committee, jim wright, chairman,''' he said, referring to the local democratic congressman and the house speaker
the house republicans didn't use police escorts at their last get-together a year ago in new york
they had asked the nypd how long it would take to get from their mid-town hotel to federal hall for their meetings
thirty-five minutes,'' was the answer. and if they used an escort?
forty minutes,'' came the reply
at the houston hotel, a lobbyist from one of the regional phone companies was handing out complimentary pens. ``remember, if it breaks, we only fix the outside. you have to go to at&amp;t for the inside,'' he warned
the conference was held in a lovely four seasons hotel. but houston's already summer-sticky weather prompted a reporter to dub it the ``one season.''
perhaps the highlight of the trip was a spectacular laser and fireworks show at the johnson space center
the climax came when the doors of a huge hangar opened up and the spectators wandered into a misty night sliced and diced by lasers stretching across the horizon
i thought a big clamshell was going to open up and we'd walk in and fly away,'' one lawmaker quipped about the eerie scene
another seemed concerned that the laser beams were hitting the nearby hilton hotel
i just can't help but thinking,'' he said, ``that there's some poor salesman up in one of those rooms thinking about fooling around on his wife. and then he's zapped by a green light beam!
he'll never try that again,'' the congressman predicted
by the end of three days, the lawmakers were eager to return to washington, and to finish this year's business early so that they can hit the re-election campaign trail
we have to go home and tell our constituents this mess isn't our fault,'' one explained. comments; picks up 10th graf pvs, bgng, `leaders of.'</note>
house negotiators working on aid for the nicaraguan rebels tried today to resolve a dispute over whether president reagan should be able to command quick congressional action on any military aid request
we still have significant debate over how a future request from the president for military aid would be treated,'' rep. dick cheney of wyoming, chairman of the house republican conference, said after gop congressional leaders met with the president
cheney said one possibility discussed was that instead of spelling out the procedures in the bill, the house would rely on a promise by speaker jim wright, d-texas, that there will be a speedy vote on such a request
i think if the speaker would give his word, we would find that acceptable,'' he said. ``if we can work out an arrangement whereby the speaker would commit in advance to give us timely consideration for the vote and he would bring it up under a fair rule, i think that would solve the problem.''
rep. trent lott, the house republican whip, said, ``we would be willing to take the speaker's word, but we are going to have to have a clear understanding of what that word means.''
when asked whether such a ``gentlemen's agreement'' could be sold to house republicans, lott said, ``it would be very difficult, because while they (the democrats) say they are suspicious of the president's request for ... expedited procedures, we don't trust them either.''
he said, however, that he believed house republicans would support such an agreement if it were worked out between wright and house gop leader robert michel of illinois. wright and michel were in new jersey today, attending the funeral of democratic rep. james howard
lott said reagan ``didn't sign on'' to the idea of such an agreement but ``i know the president has a lot of faith'' in michel, cheney and rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., the principal negotiators
if they can get something that they can accept and work with, i am sure that will carry a lot of weight with the president,'' lott said
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the dollar amounts of aid mentioned in the negotiations, ranging from $30 million to less than $50million, were acceptable to reagan
the issue is not money but how fast we can get it'' to help assure the survival of the nicaraguan contra rebels as a fighting force, fitzwater said. ``we want it as fast as we can get it,'' he said
he added that the issue of an acceptable means of delivering aid to the contras is ``still an open question'' to be worked out by the negotiators, subject to proposals for cease-fire zones in nicaragua
leaders of the chamber worked for five hours monday on the package, and roughed out a six-month, $40 million aid bill that would send strictly ``humanitarian'' aid _ food, clothing, medicine and shelter _ while the rebels negotiate a permanent peace with the country's leftist sandinista government
we reached some general understandings in a number of areas, but there were some stumbling points,'' said house democratic whip tony coelho of california, who added that meetings would resume today
coelho held out hope that an agreement still could be forged in time to bring the matter to the house floor on wednesday and permit the senate time to act and get the aid flowing before easter. he cited reports that the rebels may exhaust their basic supplies within a week or two
the $40 million would keep supplies flowing to the rebels as they wait out the continuing negotiations in cease-fire zones inside nicaragua. the aid would flow at a rate comparable to that provided before feb. 29, when the last u.s. support ran out. the package also would include $10 million to pay the expenses of a commission to verify compliance with the peace accord
for this (peace) effort to work, there's got to be this aid,'' said adolfo calero, a leader of the rebel political directorate, who met with wright and other congressional leaders on the aid package
any new aid for the contras would have to conform to the requirements of a 60-day truce reached last week between the rebels and the managua government
that agreement said the contras would receive only humanitarian aid and that the aid would be routed through ``neutral organizations.'' the cia has delivered past u.s. aid supplies to the contras
calero said he told wright and house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., that the term ``neutral organizations'' meant a commercial transport company acceptable to the rebels, and not a relief organization such as the red cross, which wright had previously mentioned as the delivery agent
other details of the package remained to be determined, such as whether it would include communications gear for the rebels or special programs such as a $14 million effort to help children who are victims of the nearly 7-year-old civil war, which has claimed some 40,000 lives
republicans wary of sandinista promises have sought to give reagan the right to a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on a later request for new military aid to the contras if the peace process breaks down. as expected, that was proving to be the most difficult issue
wright and michel were seeking a compromise that would indicate continued u.s. backing for the rebels during the cease-fire, but would give congress the final say on the nature of any future aid package
after meeting monday with the contra leadership, secretary of state george p. shultz told reporters it would ``certainly be desirable'' to have assurances of quick action on additional aid to the contras if the peace talks break down, and calero agreed
in last wek's agreement, the sandinistas promised a general amnesty for the rebels, which began with the release sunday of 100 prisoners. they also committed themselves to a restoration of the rights of free speech and political participation, in return for the 60-day cease-fire and the relocation of contra forces into special zones
representatives of the two sides are meeting this week to work out the details of a long-term cease-fire, including when the rebels will lay down their weapons. 6th graf pvs, gephardt 47</note>
rep. richard gephardt took an aggressive tack in his democratic presidential bid, but he bowed out of the race in a mellower mood with family and friends at his side. he filed for re-election to his house seat today, declaring himself happy
i have no complaints today;. i'm the luckiest guy in the world,'' gephardt said monday after announcing his withdrawal at an upbeat news conference that contrasted with the grim economic tidings he purveyed in his campaign
we did the best we possibly could,'' he said. ``we made our mistakes and we lost.''
in jefferson city, mo., today, the missouri congressman filed for re-election to the 3rd congressional district seat from st. louis, a seat he has held since 1976
i am very happy to be here. it's a good thing i didn't wait another day,'' gephardt quipped, referring to the fact that today was the filing deadline
gephardt was accompanied by his wife and mother
on monday, he said he intended to be back in the thick of house business on wednesday and, in a variation on his campaign message to the economically disadvantaged, pledged that ``your fight will always be my fight, too.''
gephardt, 47, ran some of the most negative tv ads of the campaign against massachusetts gov. michael dukakis. but he was pushing party unity on monday
i think our candidate is going to come from the people that are running now for the presidency and i think we're going to put a democrat in the white house in 1988,'' said gephardt, who is chairman of the house democratic caucus
he declined when asked to give advice to dukakis, noting the governor's delegate lead and ruefully admitting that ``michael dukakis has sure done a lot better than i did. i don't think it's my place to tell him what to do.''
as for jesse jackson, who trounced both gephardt and dukakis last saturday in the michigan caucuses, gephardt commented: ``i think jesse jackson can be nominated and i think he can be elected.''
gephardt refused to endorse anyone in the race but said he might do so later. asked about the prospects of him running again in the future, gephardt said he expected a democrat to be elected this fall and re-elected in 1992. ``nineteen-ninety-six is so far off i can't even see it,'' he said
most of gephrdt's 167 delegates went into the uncommitted column, but missouri state party rules mandate that the at-large and public official delegates are re-divided among the active candidates when a contender drops out
according to the latest ap delegate count, jackson had 606.55, dukakis 605.55, sen. albert gore jr. 362.8, sen. paul simon 168.5 and uncommitted 515.6
gephardt began campaigning in iowa, the leadoff caucus state, some two years ago on the theory that an iowa victory would translate into momentum and his campaign would take off. he did win iowa, as well as south dakota and his home state, but his candidacy never developed broad appeal
looking back, gephardt attributed the failure to a lack of resources and said that where he was able to get his ideas across, ``we did connect.'' but he added, ``i have no alibis. we lost, no question about that.''
he said he did not blame his defeats on either his position as a house member, a difficult jumping-off place, or press coverage that some considered unduly negative
by and large, the press has been fair to dick gephardt. i didn't like every article that was written, but i'm not supposed to,'' he said
gephardt was a pragmatic consensus builder in the house and many news stories focused on his transition to anti-establishment populist with controversial ideas on trade and farms
gephardt was an insider trying to run as an outsider and he got creamed for it,'' said robert lichter, a media analyst logging all election stories on the three networks' evening news shows this year
gephardt was also vulnerable because he had switched positions on issues ranging from abortion to reaganomics over the years
the well-heeled dukakis ran a television ad showing a man flip-flopping through the air and another with a list of gephardt's corporate contributors. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee not only attacked gephardt on his changes of heart, but appropriated the same populist theme
after michigan, gehpardt had less than one-third the delegate totals amassed by dukakis and jackson and fewer than even sen. paul simon of illinois, who didn't compete in the 20 contests on super tuesday, march 8. congressional and white house comments; picks up 8th graf pvs, bgng., `burns resignation.' deletes now redundant grafs 16-17.</note>
the no. 2 official in the justice department and the head of the department's criminal division abruptly resigned today amid continuing legal problems for their boss, attorney general edwin meese iii
deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld announced in letters to president reagan that they were stepping down, with weld's resignation effective at the close of business today
the first meese knew of their plans was when burns and weld walked into the attorney general's office at 8 a.m. and announced they were stepping aside, said a department source, speaking on condition of anonymity. the news was announced to department officials at the morning staff meeting a half hour later. both have served since oct. 17, 1986
two assistants to burns _ randy levine and boykin rose _ and two assistants to weld _ mark robinson and jane serene _ also resigned
the officials provided no explanation for their sudden actions, but the source said meese's continuing legal problems were ``definitely a factor'' in the resignations
meese has been under criminal investigation for nearly a year
neither burns nor weld mentioned meese's legal problems in their resignation letters
questioned about the resignations, sen. strom thurmond, ranking republican on the senate judiciary committee, said, ``i am greatly concerned about morale at the department of justice as indicated by the resignation of these two men and of four additional officials who i am informed have also resigned.''
sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz., said he was ``surprised to see them leaving at this period of time'' and added, ``it certainly doesn't signify a great deal of confidence in the attorney general.'' but the senator said he did not know why the officials quit
assistant republican floor leader alan k. simpson, r-wyo., who also serves on the senate judiciary committee, said, ``if you believe in fairness, you have to wait and see'' what caused the resignations
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said white house officials were informed of the resignations on monday. he said reagan accepted them ``with regret'' this morning and thanked burns and weld for serving ``with distinction.''
fitzwater said he didn't believe the two departing officials spoke directly to reagan, and he said he was only aware of the reasons they gave in their resignation letters. the spokesman said reagan continues to have ``full confidence'' in meese and the justice department
fitzwater said the resignations did not cause any particular concern among reagan and his advisers. ``we have people resigning all the time, especially late in the administration,'' he said
burns' resignation is effective april 22. weld's temporary replacement will be john keeney, a deputy in the criminal division
the resignations, combined with the departure of associate attorney general stephen s. trott to become a federal judge, leave a leadership vacuum of major proportions in the justice department
burns' letter to reagan said that ``under your leadership, i believe we have made important contributions to the administration of justice. ... unfortunately, i have regretfully concluded that i must return to private life at this time.''
weld, a former u.s. attorney in boston who has prosecuted a number of important public corruption and white-collar crime cases, told reagan that ``i am grateful to have been charged with the responsibility of seeing that justice be done without fear or favor.''
another department source, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said that neither burns nor weld acted in the belief that meese is about to be indicted
however, said the source, both men are concerned because the justice department's image continues to be damaged due to the ongoing criminal investigation of meese, the nation's top law enforcement officer
terry eastland, a justice department spokesman, pointed out that it is not unusual for political appointees to leave government in the last year of an administration
eastland said that burns, weld and trott, who was confirmed as a judge last week, were sworn into their jobs in 1986 and that ``this is 1988; this happens to be a year when people are leaving and they all happen to be leaving at the same time.''
meese has been under investigation for 11 months. independent counsel james mckay launched the probe last may 11 to look into meese's involvement with the scandal-plagued wedtech corp. the investigation has expanded to include his involvement in a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project
meese got involved in both wedtech and the pipeline through his longtime friend, e. robert wallach
this morning, former national security adviser william clark was testifying before a federal grand jury in connection with the pipeline project. mckay's office is presenting evidence to the grand jury
mckay's probe is in its final phase, say sources familiar with the investigation, but it could continue for at least another month or two
american ambassadors to east asian and pacific nations will meet in hong kong on april 8-10 for an annual discussion of policy and administrative affairs, the state department announced tuesday
gaston sigur, the assistant secretary for east asian and pacific affairs, will chair the session. beforehand he will travel to seoul on april 2-5 and tokyo on april 5-7 for discussions with korean and japanese officials
sigur will meet soviet vice foreign minister igor rogachev in paris on april 25-26. it will be the fourth u.s.-soviet meeting on asian problems, notably the continuing vietnamese occupation of cambodia, since 1985 when president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev agreed to periodic conferences on troubled regions. update with white house comment.</note>
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge climbed 0.9 percent in february, a sharp rebound following several months of weakness after the october stock market collapse, the commerce department reported today
the gain in the index of leading economic indicators was the biggest increase since last june. it followed declines of 1.1 percent in january, 0.1 percent in october and 1.2 percent in november
only a 0.4 percent rise in december kept the index from posting consecutive declines for three or more months, the traditional signal of an impending recession
but with the big february increase, analysts said they believe the leading index is accurately signaling that the economy slowed in the early part of 1988 but the country will avoid a recession this year
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the index ``shows that the economy is very promising.''
the size and broad-based nature of last month's index of leading indicators are encouraging,'' fitzwater said
the 0.9 percent february increase was led by a big jump in applications for building permits, which provided over half of the strength last month
in all, five of the available nine indicators were positive forces on the index. after building permits, the biggest contributors were a drop in new unemployment claims, a rise in stock prices, an increase in the growth of the money supply and higher orders for consumer goods
four of the indicators held the index back. the biggest negative factor was a decline in the length of the average manufacturing workweek, followed by a decline in orders for plant and equipment, a change in raw materials prices and a speed-up in business delivery times, considered a negative because it is often a sign of dropping demand
the various changes left the index at 190.6 percent of its 1967 base of 100
the jump in the february index was one of a string of recent reports showing better-than-expected strength in the early part of 1988
many economists believe the strong reports have all but eliminated the chances of a recession this year
right now the economy is looking a lot better than we thought it was going to look three months ago,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc., of lexington, mass
at the end of last year, economists were worried about a huge build-up of unsold products which they feared would lead to declines in factory orders and rising unemployment as businesses scaled back production plans
while there have been some production declines, notably in the auto industry, employment has risen sharply in the first two months of the year, pushing the jobless rate down to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent in february
these job gains along with other economic reports have eased recession worries, good news for republicans hoping to hold onto the white house this year
the reagan administration is predicting that the overall economy, as measured by the gross national product, will expand at a modest 2.4 percent rate this year, a forecast which is only slightly more optimistic than the predictions being made by many private economists
the government's first look at overall economic growth will not come until next month when the commerce department releases its first estimate of the performance of the gnp during the january-march quarter
michael evans, head of a washington forecasting firm, said he believed the gnp grew at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the first quarter and will drop to a rate of 1 percent in the april-june quarter before picking up strength in the last half of the year
while this would represent sluggish growth, it is a significant improvement from evans' earlier forecast that the country would be in a recession in the early part of this year
the economy is sluggish but not declining, and by the second half of the year, we should see better growth,'' evans said
journalists have special protection against court-ordered disclosure of notes, photographs and other information gathered on a non-confidential basis, new york's highest court ruled tuesday
in a 6-0 ruling, the state court of appeals formulated for the first time a test to be used when courts are asked to require disclosure. the test, the court said, protects reporters more than other people against divulging information
the autonomy of the press would be jeopardized if resort to its resource materials, by litigants seeking to utilize the newsgathering efforts of journalists for their private purposes, were routinely permitted,'' judge stewart hancock jr. wrote for the court
hancock added that ``because journalists typically gather information about accidents, crimes and other matters of special interest that often give rise to litigation,'' requiring routine disclosure of those materials ``would be widespread.''
the ruling said courts can order journalists to turn over non-confidential information only if it is ``highly material'' to the litigation, ``critical'' to the claim being brought in court and ``not otherwise available.''
the case before the court involved attempts by a man injured in an auto accident at a construction site to sue the contractors. a photographer for the gannett rochester newspapers took 58 photographs of the accident scene, one of which was published in the rochester democrat and chronicle
lawyers for the man sought copies of all the pictures in the process of building its case
gannett refused, but two state courts, state supreme court in monroe county and the appellate division of state supreme court, ruled that since the photographs were gathered on a non-confidential basis, their disclosure wasn't protected under the state shield law
peter danziger, who filed a brief with the court in the case on behalf of the new york state newspaper publishers association and several news organizations, called the ruling ``a tremendous victory for the public and the press.''
danziger's brief was filed on behalf of the associated press, newsday, the new york times, ottaway newspapers, advance publications, capital cities-abc inc., cbs inc. and nbc inc. for us to send military force to panama. adds last 11 grafs, security agents, with further background, quotes.</note>
president reagan's chief spokesman expressed outrage today at violence against anti-government marchers in panama and said ``there are limits to our patience.''
while restating that it has been u.s. policy not to intervene militarily, spokesman marlin fitzwater also said, ``it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can.''
meanwhile, ousted panamanian president eric arturo delvalle asked the united states and other democracies to send a military force to panama to remove strongman manuel antonio noriega
delvalle, who has been in hiding since he was deposed from office a month ago, relayed the message through ambassador juan b. sosa, who said he will formally convey the request to the state department
we are all angry at this latest demonstration, at people being beaten and threatened,'' fitzwater said
i just want to express the outrage of all of us about this incident,'' fitzwater said
fitzwater said the noriega regime ``is showing its true colors. it is desperate and afraid of its own people and the free press.''
the people of panama as well as the leaders arrested yesterday have demonstrated their determination to take on the noriega regime, despite these heavy-handed efforts at intimidation,'' fitzwater said
the thousands of panamanians who braved tear gas, skin irritant sprays and birdshot yestrerday show that intimidation will not solve noriega's problems.''
the spokesman said the united states continued to recommend that american citizens defer travel to panama, and that those who do go there avoid political gatherings and exercise caution
we continue to consider options for dealing with the problem,'' he said
i think it's clear that there are limits to the activities of mr. noriega and limits to our patience and our policy endurance,'' he said. ``it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can and, while we have said that we don't plan to go in militarily, it's also important to note that there are limits.''
troops firing shotguns, tear gas and water cannon routed thousands of anti-government marchers monday, then stormed a hotel to arrest opposition activists and journalists
several people were injured and dozens were arrested, witnesses said, in one of the largest protests in months against noriega
security agents forced their way at gunpoint into the offices of nbc, cbs, abc and cnn. tapes, including footage of the day's march, were confiscated. eight foreign journalists, including americans, were detained for several hours before being released
when asked if any action was expected today, fitzwater replied, ``i can't say in advance that anything is expected today, but i would remind you that our concern and monitoring is on a daily basis.''
he was asked whether the president had any meetings on the subject today and answered, ``no, not that i can comment on.''
he said the u.s. troops stationed at the panama canal had not been placed on special alert but ``are in a position to respond appropriately.''
they are there and they are our troops and they are available for whatever needs might arise,'' he said
we are certainly concerned by this threat to americans and find it a very difficult turn of events and one that is contrary to assurances that we have received in the past,'' fitzwater said
i do want to say, when i say that our endurance is not unlimited, that we certainly are willing to take a look at all the hard options, but our policy remains the same and our intention that we would not be using military force,'' fitzwater said
declaring that panama is being held hostage by noriega, sosa told a news conference the united states and other nations must join together to force the removal of noriega
we're asking the international community to help,'' sosa said. ``we're paying the price. but we've got no weapons. give us weapons.''
state department spokesman charles redman called the raid on the hotel a ``shocking demonstration of the anti-democratic nature of the noriega regime and noriega's alarming willingness to use brutal tactics as his position in panama deteriorates
he had no comment on sosa's appeal for an international force. in previous days, the administration has sidestepped that issue, declining to say what options it has under consideration. with marlin fitzwater reaction. picks up 16th graf pvs, bgng: writing of.</note>
president reagan looked so old and careworn after he was told of the challenger explosion in which seven space pioneers died that spokesman larry speakes refused to release a photograph of him to the press
speakes' account of the scene in the oval office on jan. 28, 1986, is one of a number vignettes of the reagan white house that the former chief presidential spokesman provides in a new book, ``speaking out,'' scheduled for publication may 1 by charles scribner's sons
a white house photographer rushed in to record the moment,'' speakes writes. ``the president had the saddest look on his face i have ever seen. he also looked extremely old. that photograph was so unflattering that i refused to release it to the press.''
speakes, who became vice president for communications at merrill lynch after leaving the white house in february 1987, writes as an admirer of the president, but adds that he is ``not blind to the man's flaws and weaknesses.''
during the first year or two of the administration, he says, aides failed to keep reagan abreast of what was going on in the news
when there was a lapse of much time between press interviews or news conferences, he would be totally out of the swim on what was in the press and what had happened two weeks ago, and it would be like reinventing the wheel to get him prepared,'' the former spokesman says
he said reagan ``does not read many newspapers thoroughly'' and ``his habit is to read the comics first.''
although the president frequently uses sports metaphors and stories, speakes says reagan is not really an avid fan
he talks baseball at world series time and football at super bowl time but does not follow those sports regularly, and he knows next to nothing about sports other than baseball and football,'' the former spokesman writes
when the iran-contra arms and money affair broke, says speakes, ``my own advice to the president, which i gave him several times, was to admit that he had made a mistake.'' reagan never quite brought himself to do that
discussing whether reagan knew of the diversion of iran arms sale profits to nicaragua's contra rebels, the former white house aide says: ``frankly, i don't believe the man can tell a lie. the man can make a mistake and the man can hear something so many times that he believes something is true when it really isn't, but he simply isn't a liar. i have no doubt that (indicted former national security council aide oliver) north thought the president knew what was going on, but north was wrong.''
speakes has pungent words for members of the president's personal and official families, although in his six years as the principal white house spokesman, he presented a glowing portrait of them and turned aside reports of bickering and dissension
in the book, co-authored with robert pack, he writes of the president's daughter, maureen: ``you didn't want to stir her up. maureen is ... a straightforward, punch-you-in-the-nose type. her husband, dennis revell, seems to live in mortal fear of her. i've seen her cut him down one side and up the other, and he just stands there and takes it.''
of first lady nancy reagan, he writes: ``mrs. reagan is more circumspect, more likely to stab you in the back.''
elaine crispen, the first lady's press secretary, said mrs. reagan had not read the book and would have no comment. susanne rich, an aide to the president's daughter, did not respond to a request for ms. reagan's reaction
speakes' successor at the white house, marlin fitzwater, said reagan heard a number of comments about the book from reporters during a speaking trip to richmond, va., on monday, but ``in an amazing show of discipline and self-determination, the president said nothing.''
i don't think i want to comment on larry speakes' book,'' fitzwater added
writing of john poindexter, north's boss, who also has been indicted, speakes says that when he showed poindexter a message saying the first news of the iran arms deals had broken in the press in iran, ``he maintained a poker face, betraying no emotion at all. in retrospect, he gave an academy award-winning performance.''
of vice president george bush, speakes says ``the popular image may be accurate: that he does not have a strong philosophical base, that he is not decisive, that he is not willing to take stands on the big issues.''
as for former secretary of defense caspar weinberger, he was ``a hardliner, a small man, a whiny type of guy. with a green eyeshade, he would have looked just like an accountant instead of the head of our largest governmental department.''
michael dukakis battled jesse jackson as well as increasing doubts about his democratic presidential candidacy in the connecticut primary on tuesday. vice president george bush coasted on the republican side as vanquished rival bob dole readied to quit the race
massachusetts gov. dukakis and bush both aimed to cement six-state new england sweeps, but their similarities ended there
dukakis led jackson, the man with momentum in the race, as well as sen. albert gore jr. and sen. paul simon with about 50 percent of the vote in one pre-election poll
the governor hoped for a victory big enough to reassure the skeptics after his landslide loss to jackson in the michigan caucuses last weekend and his third-place finish in the illinois primary on march 15
jackson aimed for a strong second-place showing that would embarrass dukakis in his own back yard and give fresh impetus to the campaign that has been the democratic surprise of the year
gore spent an estimated $75,000 on television advertising in hopes of demonstrating strength in the northeast
in contrast to the democratic disarray, bush's super tuesday spectacular showing on march 8 turned his campaign into a stately march toward the nomination. dole, his once-strong tormenter, arranged a withdrawal speech in washington while the polls were open in connecticut
that left pat robertson as bush's only surviving challenger. but he has signaled that he is a candidate in name only, and is spending the time between now and the gop convention developing a network of supporters for 1992
connecticut's primary offered 35 delegates to the republican national convention, and 52 on the democratic side
before the returns from connecticut were read, the associated press delegate count looked this way:
bush had 788 delegates, to 17 for robertson. it takes 1,139 to claim the nomination
jackson and dukakis both had 606.5, with 2,082 needed to gain the democratic nomination. gore had 365 and simon 169
simon made little effort in connecticut, and rep. richard gephardt dropped out of the democratic race on monday
but dukakis was still suffering the effects of wounds received in illinois and michigan. and anything less than an overpowering victory in next-door connecticut would do little to quell the complaints that his candidacy lacks spark
thus, connecticut looked merely like a prelude to bigger democratic battles to come
gore and simon were planning costly television advertising in wisconsin ahead of next tuesday's primary there. jackson was running virtually even with dukakis in polls there, taken before the former civil rights leader scored his michigan landslide
further away were the two big industrial state battles in new york and pennsylvania. thus, despite gephardt's withdrawal, the democratic race seemed as muddled as ever
even before dole's speech, bush had begun turning his attention toward the fall campaign. campaign officials said he had decided to name business executive fred v. malek to oversee his activities at the republican national convention
in a sign of gathering republican unity, former contender jack kemp returned to the campaign to endorse bush at a news conference in wisconsin
dole's withdrawal came less than two months after he handily defeated bush in the lead-off iowa caucuses. but he then lost new hampshire's primary and three weeks later, was shut out in all 17 super tuesday states
the democratic race couldn't have been more confusing
michigan gave the momentum to jackson. but he is a black, liberal candidate whom many party officials believe cannot possibly win the white house, and thus should not be nominated
his enhanced standing in the race prompted an extraordinary public debate among party officials about the possibility or desirability of organizing a stop-jackson movement
jackson campaigned vigorously in connecticut as he tried to build on the momentum he received from his win in michigan. he sometimes seemed to aim his message at the party's bigwigs around the country as well as at the voters of a single state
if at the end of california, we have the most popular votes and the most delegate votes, becoming the nominee is logical and proper,'' he said on monday
he challenged the notion that party leaders could turn to someone else at the convention
they would not have given me the nomination. i would have earned it from the people,'' he said
dukakis had spent considerable energy in recent days constructing a bandwagon designed to carry him to the nomination. he was winning endorsement after endorsement to go with campaign organization and financing that is the envy of other contenders _ and was backed in connecticut by gov. william o'neill and sen. christopher dodd
but his poor showing in michigan prompted several party leaders to publicly question his ability to generate support. and it has raised anew speculation about a deadlocked party convention casting about for a non-candidate to be its nominee
dukakis' aides were confident their man would win connecticut _ but penciled in a few additional campaign appearances on monday after the results of michigan had sunk in
for his part, dukakis was reluctant to take on jackson directly
i'm not running against (jackson) and he is not running against me. we are running for the presidency,'' he told one questioner
gore initially said he hoped to surprise dukakis in connecticut. but he seemed to have shifted his focus to wisconsin and the new york primary on april 19 in his bid to show he can attract votes outside his native south
simon, a favorite son winner in illinois on march 15, decided to stay out of connecticut and point instead toward wisconsin. aides said he might reassess his campaign _ shorthand for withdrawal _ if he did poorly there
some merchants in this beach city say the loss of the richard m. nixon presidential library will hurt tourism so much they may be forced to close
but one historian suggests a museum dedicated to the president who once lived here could be the answer
nixon was here for 11 years and cannot be neglected,'' said san clemente historical society president charles ashbaugh. ``it's not a case of apathy in the city. it's just that everyone has thrown their hands up and said, `what can we do now?'''
a 13-acre blufftop property owned by the lusk co. was targeted for several years as the future home of the library. but it was tied to a private development, and after numerous delays, nixon decided to put the library in yorba linda, where he was born. nixon now lives in saddle river, n.j
with the library and its estimated 40 million pages of official documents, photographs, videotapes, recordings and gifts from foreign leaders went merchants' dreams of tourist dollars
i'm going to close my business,'' said mike lazarus, who has owned a shop called jeans alley for 13 years. ``now that the town blew it and lost the library ... that really killed the town business-wise. the city had expected it to bring anywhere from 300,000 to 600,000 people here a year.''
a group called citizens for a responsive council tried unsuccessfully to recall three city council members after the loss of the library
i think there are some people who are bitter out there, who have invested some time and money into the city becoming a resort center and who thought they were going to make some money on the tourist thing,'' said tom davis, spokesman for the chamber of commerce
the historical society holds such trinkets as presidential matchbooks and playing cards, toothpaste from china and menus from state dinners
meanwhile, ashbaugh is trying to establish a museum in honor of the nation's 37th president, and olen hanson, the city's founder. it would be located in hanson's former home, a 20-room villa called casa romantica
the home's current owner, george welsh, wants to sell, but does not want the estate bulldozed for development. interested buyers include two developers, one of whom would give the house to the historical society and build condos nearby; and the city, which would provide half the house for a museum
the grammy-award winning rock group u2 left for hollywood tuesday to finish work on a film of their lives on tour which leader bono promised will be a ``work of art.''
the four-man irish band, which won grammies for best group and best album this year, is funding the film directed by phil joanou, a protege of steven spielberg
it will be totally unlike any other rock film,'' said bono. ``it will be a work of art _ on the lines of (the beatles' film) `a hard day's night' with a touch of spielberg thrown in
the cameraman followed us everywhere _ on stage, to the bathroom and even to bed. no secret has been left untold,'' he said
most of the shooting has been completed but the film has to be edited, he said
the group grossed more than $26 million on its 1987 tour to promote their album, ``the joshua tree.''
country and western star bill anderson and his po' boys band picked the right service station when their bus broke down
the entertainers found ryan stevens working at a station in this city 65 miles northeast of indianapolis when they pulled in saturday looking for a quick replacement vehicle. stevens and his family, who are big fans of anderson, were eager to help out
the band rented a truck for its equipment while don stevens, ryan's father, and a friend offered their cars to help the group get to their engagement in st. johns, mich. the stevens family and two friends accompanied the band on the four-hour trip
they was just so sweet to us,'' said joannie cunningham, one of the friends. ``he's a millionaire, a member of the grand ole opry. you know, he was really just an all right person.''
i hope he remembers marion as a place where people helped out instead of where he broke down,'' don stevens said
french choreographer maurice bejart on tuesday was awarded one of belgium's highest honorary titles for his contribution to dance in this country
education minister antoine duquesne awarded bejart the medal of ``grand officier'' of the order of the crown for spreading ``the universal language of dance.''
bejart, 59, moved to switzerland last year after 27 years in belgium following a conflict with the management of monnaie theatre, his artistic base where he revolutionized modern dance with the ballet of the xxth century
he is currently in brussels for the premiere of his latest work: ``patrice chereaux arranges a meeting between mishima and eva peron.''
more than 70 performing artists from the soviet union relaxed with vodka, food, sports and song during a party at the kennedy compound hosted by edward m. kennedy jr., the senator's son
members of the bolshoi and the pokrovsky folk ensemble attended the party monday at the kennedy family's oceanfront complex of homes
sen. edward m. kennedy was watching the bolshoi ballet perform in boston last week when he was reminded that his late brother, robert kennedy, had invited the ballet members to hyannis port 25 years ago
the senator asked his son to throw another party, which ted jr. did with the help of sister kara kennedy and cousin michael kennedy
soviet composer karen khatchaturian, on a tour of john f. kennedy's home, bowed before the late president's portrait. ``i am happy to see this place for my own eyes,'' he said. ``this is one of the strongest feelings i have had in america. this is a sacred place.''
d.j. smith claims he's a victim of double jeopardy because the tv game show ``jeopardy'' won't pay him $5,000 he won
jeopardy'' disqualified smith from $5,000 in winnings because the 55-year-old business analyst won $1,200 on ``wheel of fortune'' on thanksgiving day. game show rules enacted after a 1958 scandal prohibit contestants from appearing on game shows more than once a year
i feel like i'm in double jeopardy,'' smith said. ``they won't give me my money, and they won't let me be on the show again.''
smith said he disclosed his ``wheel'' appearance to a ``jeopardy'' representative who invited him to play in a seniors tournament on the abc show in january. he said he mentioned his earlier appearance again when he filled out a ``jeopardy'' registration form
smith said he won a berth in a semifinal contest and $5,000 before being told his appearance on ``wheel'' disqualified him. game show officials withheld the money but did award him a $1,000 quarterfinalist prize
we didn't enjoy having to do that,'' said george vosburgh, ``jeopardy'' producer. ``even though the network stressed (the rules), it got by him and it got by us.''
sen. alfonse m. d'amato, r-n.y., said tuesday he has evidence that gen. manuel antonio noriega's troops are trying to sabotage the panama canal, and he called on president reagan to quickly take ``whatever steps necessary to bring about noriega's removal.''
d'amato, while declining to specify his sources, said he has obtained ``information that the panama defense forces are now actively looking to sabotage the canal.''
he said he knows of one attempt ``to cut the wires to disable one of the locks,'' and of other episodes in which canal employees were threatened and beaten
with sen. john kerry, d-mass., and panamanian ambassador juan b. sosa, a noriega opponent, at his side, d'amato declared at a news conference that ``the crisis in panama is becoming more and more a danger to the security of the united states.''
many cuban intelligence officers and technical people are being flown into panama,'' he said. ``the strategically important canal is the next step. it would be tragic if the canal fell into (cuban president fidel) castro's hands.''
neither senator called directly for armed intervention by the united states, but d'amato declared that ``decisive action is imperative. the longer we delay, the cubanization of panama becomes a very real threat ... and we run the risk of losing the support of the people of panama.''
i'm not going to specifically suggest the means,'' said d'amato. ``but we have the force necessary to bring about the legal removal of noriega.''
kerry agreed, saying he cannot understand why ``part of the administration is working on a policy that says `noriega must go,' and part of it is working on how we deal with him if he manages to stay on.''
d'amato said he had expressed his views earlier in the day to defense department officials, and expected reagan to get the message via the media. ``we have not seen the decisive action from the president that this situation calls for,'' he said
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, in decrying the use of violence by noriega's forces, restated tuesday that it has been u.s. policy not to intervene militarily. but he also said, ``it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can.''
a retired associated press photographer has won a lifetime achievement award for his 37 years covering the country, it was announced tuesday
the seoul journalists club said it would present its award to kim chon-kil, 58, on april 8 at the korean press center
kim retired from the news service in january after 37 years with the ap's seoul bureau. during that time, he covered the korean war, south korea's turbulent politics and many other assignments. diagnosis</head>
soviet doctors participating in an international teleconference said tuesday they routinely conceal the truth from patients diagnosed as having cancer and they questioned the american practice of fully informing patients of a tumorous condition
it's hardly a good idea to tell a patient directly that he has a cancer,'' said dr. nikolai napalkov, president of the u.s.s.r. oncological society and a leading cancer researcher in the soviet union. ``only in rare cases, when the patient refuses treatment, does the doctor have the obligation to tell the patient.''
american doctors taking part in the conference strongly disagreed
the sense of trust that exists between a dcotor and patient is very important,'' said dr. steven a. rosenberg, chief of surgery at the national cancer institute. ``it's impossible for me to imagine giving quality care without telling the patient the full story.''
the exchange came during a two-hour conference which used a satellite to link researchers at the national institutes of health near washington with soviet experts at a studio in moscow
the conference, called ``the cancer summit,'' included pre-recorded comments from president and mrs. reagan, both of whom have been treated for cancer, and the reading of a statement by soviet general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev
mrs. reagan, who has undergone surgery for breast cancer, said that ``cancer is bigger than any one country; it is a problem of all mankind.''
the first lady said that she had ``always thought cancer would strike someone else, another family.'' but, she said, both she and her husband developed cancers that were surgically removed
we have been fortunate recipients of advanced medical science,'' she said
reagan, who has been treated for colon cancer, struck the same theme in his brief remarks
the president told doctors of the two nations, ``we are depending on all of you in your combined wisdom to win the battle over this disease and, in doing so, to improve the length and quality of human life for all mankind.''
gorbachev, in a statement read during the telecast, said cancer is an enemy that is striking humans in countries everywhere
though there has been progress, gorbachev said, ``the enemy is far from routed, he is not retreating and is threatening everybody, and the fight calls for vigorous and concerted action.''
much of the two-hour teleconference featured films and slides illustrating cancer research and treatment under way in the two countries, with rosenberg presenting the only report of new scientific findings
rosenberg said that a new treatment under study uses what he calls tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. these are natural cancer-fighting cells that are extracted from the patient's tumor and then purified, concentrated and reinjected into the patient. the lymphocytes then attack the tumor
the technique is ``in the infancy of development'' and still far from ready for general clinical use, said rosenberg, but he reported that eight out of nine patients who have received the treatment have been helped
napalkov brought up the question of how much to tell cancer patients about their condition. he introduced an informal filmed person-on-the-street poll in which most soviet citizens asked said they would prefer not to be told if they have been diagnosed as ill with cancer
napalkov said soviet doctors believe it best to keep secret a cancer diagnosis in order to ``preserve the peace of mind'' of the patient. he said most people regard a cancer diagnosis as a death sentence and it could ``interfere with internal processes'' if the patient is fully informed
natalia i. perevodchikova, head of the chemotherapy department at the all-union oncology center of the u.s.s.r. academy of medical sciences, agreed with napalkov and said that soviet doctors felt secrecy of diagnosis was the best policy for the patient
unless there is an acute necessity, such as a refusal of treatment, there is no need to tell the patient,'' she said
asked bluntly why american doctors insist on being open with patients, both rosenberg and dr. vincent t. devita jr., director of the national cancer institute, said it was a matter of maintaining trust between physician and patient
the teleconference was to be broadcast to about 1,500 u.s. hospitals and health care facilities on the hospital satellite network. the u.s. information agency also arranged to carry the conference on its worldnet system to 57 cities in europe, africa and the middle east. in the soviet union, an edited version of the conference will be broadcast to an estimated 150 million people
two soldiers who admitted beating and burying alive four arabs were sentenced tuesday to jail terms that were stiffer than those requested by prosecutors, israeli radio reported
in passing sentence on pvt. dror segen-cohen and pvt. yair nissimi, the military court ruled that their conduct was grave and shameful in the feb. 5 incident in the village of kfar salem, the radio said
the court sentenced segen-cohen to six months in jail along with a four-month suspended sentence; nissimi received five months in jail along with a seven-month suspended sentence
the soldiers admitted they beat four arabs from kfar salem in the occupied west bank to put down a demonstration there, then buried them in about 25 inches of mud
lt. aryeh moscona, the military prosecutor, reached a plea bargain agreement with the soldiers' lawyers and asked for two months in jail for segen-cohen and 2{ months for nissimi
the court ruled, however, that the soldiers' behavior had tarnished the army's image and put israel in a bad light
a third soldier, sgt. maj. charlie danino, is accused of ordering the burial. he has pleaded innocent and his trial is still under way
five other soldiers also are on trial for violating military orders. one has been charged in the killing of a palestinian in the gaza strip, and four others are accused of beating two palestinian detainees after a demonstration in nablus
two former police officers and the father of one of them were sentenced tuesday to federal prison for their roles in a cocaine-ripoff ring organized by rogue officers
former officer felix a. beruvides, 30, told u.s. district judge james w. kehoe that he had ``disgraced the members of the miami police department, disgraced the badge i wore and disgraced my family.''
beruvides asked kehoe to ``give my father probation and give me any sentence that you would have given him,'' but the judge rejected the request
the younger beruvides and former officer armando lopez, 26, were sentenced to 20 years in federal prison on counts of racketeering and a tax violation
felix c. beruvides, 59, was sentenced to eight years under a plea bargain for conspiracy to possess cocaine. he was permitted to remain free pending a decision by the u.s. bureau of prison on where the term would be served
a fourth defendant, former officer ricardo perez, still faces trial. no date has been set
the government charged the officers were involved in the theft of 147 kilograms of cocaine from a boat on the miami river on may 31, 1985
the father was accused of participating in the theft and earning $21,500 for guarding 180 pounds of marijuana stolen during a traffic stop on oct. 24, 1984
the drownings of three drug boat guards and a drug dealer whose body was found in a box in the field have been linked to the police ring. none of the three men sentenced tuesday were charged in the deaths
other people were charged with civil-rights murder, and those charges are pending
president reagan plans to nominate randall m. rader, an aide to sen. orrin g. hatch, r-utah, as a judge of the u.s. claims court, the white house announced tuesday
if confirmed by the senate, rader will succeed robert m. seto
since 1987, rader has been chief counsel and staff director for the minority side of the senate judiciary subcommittee on patents, copyrights and trademarks and counsel to hatch. subs 6th graf previous to make judge's name a second reference; ^by thomas ginsberg</note>
a former conrail engineer was sentenced today to the maximum term of five years in prison and fined $1,000 for causing 16 deaths in amtrak's worst train accident
rick l. gates, 33, of essex, pleaded guilty feb. 16 to the single misdemeanor manslaughter count and admitted in a statement of facts to smoking marijuana on the train and failing to make several safety checks that might have prevented the accident
baltimore county circuit court judge joseph p. murphy said, ``i didn't think he was under the influence of marijuana.''
but what he did in terms of failure to follow procedures was to show us that he didn't give a damn. he just didn't care,'' the judge said
gates and family members in the courtroom wept as prosecutors read five victim impact statements from relatives of those killed in the crash
in return for the guilty plea, baltimore county state's attorney sandra o'connor agreed to consolidate the names of all 16 victims into one count, which reduced the maximum sentence from 80 years and $16,000 in fines to five years and a $1,000 fine
the plea bargain provoked sharp criticism from families of victims and leaders of a new safe travel lobby group, safe travel america
i am grossly disappointed that he can cause tens of millions of dollars in damage and kill 16 people and still face only five years on a misdemeanor charge,'' said dr. roger horn, whose 16-year-old daughter ceres was killed
mrs. o'connor urged the judge to give gates the maximum penalty
more than 175 people were injured in the jan. 4, 1987, crash when gates missed a track signal and drove three linked conrail locomotives in front of the 660-passenger amtrak train traveling about 120 mph. the impact trapped riders in the wreckage for hours in bitter cold weather
gates was unhurt and his brakeman, edward cromwell, suffered a broken leg
o'connor said at the time of the plea that the manslaughter verdict would ``send a message that transportation workers cannot work under the kind of negligence that mr. gates did.''
the agreement was announced as jury selection for the gates' six-week manslaughter trial was scheduled to begin. cromwell, who had been granted immunity from prosecution, was expected to testify that he and gates fabricated a story to cover up their drug use on the train
tests performed on blood samples taken from both men after the accident showed traces of marijuana and possibly alcohol in their systems, according to a report by the national transportation safety board
however, defense attorneys said no experts could conclude gates was impaired from the marijuana. lawyers also were expected to cite a january ruling by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals against post-crash drug testing
mrs. o'connor acknowledged that prosecutors had considered the court ruling in deciding to accept the plea. the ruling has been appealed to the supreme court. to lead barred from pulpit, show.</note>
evangelist jimmy swaggart today was barred from the pulpit for at least a year and ordered not to appear on his television show for a year in connection with allegations he hired a prostitute to pose naked
the assemblies of god suspended swaggart as a minister for two years, effective immediately, said a church spokeswoman. that means he cannot preach until he has undergone at least a year of rehabilitation and may be required to limit his preaching longer, she said
swaggart was ordered to undergo rehabilitation for two years
the pentecostal church's general presbytery had the final say on the fiery preacher's punishment. its decision was more severe than the three-month suspension recommended by the louisiana branch of the church
gus weill, a spokesman for jimmy swaggart worldwide ministries in baton rouge, la., declined immediate comment
people approved by the church would supervise swaggart's rehabilitation, the rev. g. raymond carlson, general superintendent of the church, said at a news conference. he provided no other details about the sanctions
the rehabilitation period would begin when swaggart agreed to the terms in writing. he has 30 days to respond
carlson said he had notified swaggart of the decision
he thanked me,'' carlson said. ``he expressed thanks, and i had prayer with him over the telephone.''
a member of the general presbytery, h. maurice lednicky, said most of the discussion in its two-day meeting was over the power of the 13-member executive presbytery to impose punishment
the louisiana district had imposed a three-month suspension from the pulpit for swaggart and had refused to reconsider that on request of the executive presbytery, which sought a stiffer penalty. the executive board noted that every other assemblies of god minister who has confessed to moral failure has been barred from the pulpit for at least a year, officials said
at the meeting, it was agreed that the executive presbytery had constitutional authority in the case, and the punishment given swaggart was the same that the executive presbytery had originally recommended, said lednicky, president of the assemblies of god central bible college in springfield
the 206 presbyters present from the 232-member body reconvened at 9 a.m. after working late monday and ended their meeting two hours later
this is not a meeting to determine the guilt or innocence of jimmy swaggart; he has already confessed,'' church spokeswoman juleen turnage said earlier. ``they are here to make a decision on what will be done with his credentials.''
the assemblies of god, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, is headquartered in springfield
swaggart tearfully stepped down from his baton rouge, la., pulpit feb. 21, admitting unspecified sins. published reports have said he paid a prostitute to pose naked
debra murphree, who says she is the woman who posed, will appear in the july issue of penthouse magazine, a spokeswoman for the publication said monday
from what i understand, the photographs will recreate the precise poses and actions that jimmy swaggart paid for,'' leslie jay, vice president and director of public relations for penthouse, said in a telephone interview from her new york office
jay said she had not seen the pictures or an interview with murphree. she said she didn't know how much murphree was paid
the general presbytery was directed by the executive presbytery on march 3 to take up the swaggart case
three representatives of the louisiana district attended monday's meeting, which was chaired by carlson
mrs. turnage said carlson briefed the presbyters on swaggart's transgession and the presbyters were given documentation. no witnesses were called and swaggart did not appear
czechoslovakia has requested that chancellor franz vranitzky of austria postpone a visit to prague, and there were reports tuesday that a government shakeup was planned
there have been rumors that premier lubomir strougal, a leading advocate of reform in czechoslovakia, is on his way out
vranitzky told austrian journalists monday that the czechoslovak leadership had asked him to postpone a visit set for april 17-20. the austrian press agency reported the reason given for the postponement was a planned government shuffle in prague
the czechoslovak government spokesman told journalists in prague that a bill would be presented at a national assembly meeting april 19 for the abolition of some ministries by merging them with others
however, the austria press agency quoted sources close to vranitzky as saying that austria's charge d'affaires in prague was called to the czechoslovak premier's office monday
the news agency said an official in strougal's office asked that the visit be postponed because the country was in a ``delicate situation'' in view of pending government changes
it quoted the sources as saying the czechoslovak leadership did not want vrantizky to have to meet with negotiating partners when ``we don't know how long they will remain in the government.''
there have been increasing rumours that strougal was on his way out since gustav husak stepped down as communist party chief in december and was replaced by milos jakes. husak retained the presidency
jakes is not seen as a reformer likely to initiate the kind of economic and politial reforms now being enacted in the soviet union, poland, hungary and bulgaria
states seeking to cope with rising prison costs may not seize social security benefits received by inmates, the supreme court ruled tuesday
the court unanimously struck down an arkansas law that permitted authorities to use an inmate's social security benefits for state purposes
similar laws have been enacted in michigan, ohio, oklahoma and tennessee, the justices had been told
the arkansas law allowed seizure of veterans administration benefits as well. although the court's decision did not discuss va benefits, its rationale appeared to bar seizure of those federal payments as well
the justices, in an unsigned opinion, said federal law ``unambiguously rules out any attempt to attach social security benefits.''
noting that the arkansas law allows such attachment, the court said, ``this amounts to a conflict ... that the state cannot win.''
federal laws creating the social security and veterans administration programs bar any legal action aimed at diverting benefits from the designated recipients
the court rejected arguments by arkansas officials that the federal laws do not apply to seizures of prison inmates' benefits because the inmates are being provided with ``care and maintenance.''
the impact of tuesday's ruling has been blunted somewhat by laws passed by congress in 1980 and 1983 withholding or limiting benefits otherwise due imprisoned felons
the decision also does not affect state laws that require prison inmates to reimburse the state _ from sources other than federal benefits _ for some of the costs of their incarceration
for example, the justices were told that six states require jail inmates serving terms for misdemeanors to make such reimbursements. those states are alabama, illinois, kentucky, missouri, nebraska and north carolina
the justices were told that eight states require reimbursement by inmates for certain kinds of state claims _ ranging from medical expenses to expenses incurred by quelling riots. those states are arizona, florida, maine, maryland, mississippi, nevada, north dakota and rhode island
the arkansas legislature in 1981 passed the state's inmate care and custody reimbursement act. under it, state authorities may seek court approval to seize an inmate's estate _ income from any source
former inmate george bennett challenged the law. he was serving 11 years of a 21-year sentence at a pine bluff prison for second-degree murder when he turned 62
bennett started receiving $275 a month in social security retirement benefits, but those payments were confiscated by state officials. he was released from prison in late 1984 but is seeking to recover $3,600 in seized benefits
the arkansas supreme court ruled against him, but tuesday's ruling reversed the state court's decision
reagan administration lawyers had opposed the arkansas law, telling the justices that such legislation ``would seem to validate the attachment of social security and va benefits paid to persons confined in state mental hospitals or in other institutions where they are provided care by the state.'' arrested in rome, but not confirmed; delete 2nd full reference to cheryl hanin bentov</note>
the father of a young woman identified as the agent who lured israeli nuclear dissident mordechai vanunu to his capture says he was startled to hear of his daughter's alleged espionage activities
of course i was shocked,'' said stanley hanin. ``could you picture your daughter involved in anything like this?''
hanin, owner of the allied discount tires chain, spoke to reporters monday after viewing a television program sunday that described cheryl hanin bentov's alleged role in the capture of vanunu, who disclosed details of israel's nuclear weapons program to a british newspaper in 1986
this is the first i've heard of anything like this,'' said hanin. ``i find this totally unbelievable.''
days after the sunday times published vanunu's revelations, he disappeared from a london hotel where he had been living under an assumed name and later surfaced in an israeli jail. vanunu was tried in secret in israel and sentenced sunday to 18 years in prison for treason
vanunu's brother meir, who lives in london, has claimed that israeli secret service agents used a woman named ``cindy'' to lure his brother to rome with the promise of sex. he says agents captured and drugged his brother there and spirited him to israel for trial
the cbs program ``60 minutes'' sunday identified ``cindy'' as mrs. bentov, an agent of the israeli secret service mossad and wife of ofer bentov, a major in israeli military intelligence
hanin said his daughter moved to israel 10 years ago at age 17 after studying there in a student exchange program. he said they are not close and he has not heard from her ``for some time,'' and that he doesn't know where she lives
i would be concerned for her safety if i thought there was a shred of truth to this,'' hanin said. ``but i don't think there's a speck of truth to it.''
lowell boggs, assistant principal at edgewater high school, where cheryl hanin went to school, said she was a good student who spent the final semester of her senior year studying in israel for about five months
boggs said that over the past 1{ years, the school has been visited by two private detectives who asked to see her yearbook picture, a reporter from london and another from miami asking about her, and, last spring, a man with credentials showing him to be from the cia
edgewater principal charles rohrer said the fbi also came by the school to ``go through her records three or four times.''
a 21-year-old woman near delivery with her first child ended up jailed and in handcuffs instead of in a hospital, all over a traffic violation
kimberly taylor was arrested at her home at 5:20 a.m. saturday because she had failed to appear in court march 18 on the traffic charge
i couldn't believe it,'' mrs. taylor said monday, after a visit to her doctor, who said the baby could arrive any time. ``it was so stupid. you'd think they'd have better things to do than bother me on a saturday morning.''
mrs. taylor said her doctor told her the stress from the incident with the police may be prolonging her labor. she said the sac of water surrounding the baby broke saturday about an hour before she was arrested
police said officer brad maerz was near the end of his shift saturday when he knocked on the taylors' door, told her to get dressed and took her to the police station
mrs. taylor said she was in a holding cell when she overheard maerz tell another officer he made the arrest because ``i was bored.''
police chief henry smith said the taylors had filed a complaint
there will be an internal investigation to look at the circumstances and determine whether good judgment was used in the matter,'' smith said. ``we'll look at any possible violation of procedure.''
smith said mrs. taylor was arrested on a bench warrant from jefferson county court for failure to appear at a hearing. she was cited jan. 21 for driving a car with expired license plates and not having a valid driver's license
mrs. taylor said that when she was taken from the police department to the county jail, ``they didn't want anything to do with a woman whose contractions were coming about 15 minutes apart.''
as she was being released from the county jail, she said she was taken from her cell to the release area in handcuffs
mrs. taylor's husband, paul, said his wife just didn't have her driver's license with her that day
as for the expired plates, ``we had just bought that car, and we were waiting for the title to get new plates,'' he said. ``we have that all taken care of now, but we forgot about the court date because we've been dealing with complications with the pregnancy for the last month. we've been worried about that, and we spaced out the court date. but we think the whole thing has been handled unfairly and unprofessionally.''
the case of a 4-year-old boy adopted in two states by sets of warring relatives after his father killed his mother came nearer resolution tuesday when the indiana court of appeals upheld the voiding of the adoption here
the court unanimously affirmed an april 1987 grant county circuit court decision invalidating the adoption of phillip taylor by his paternal grandparents, everett l. and jean k. taylor, of marion
the boy has since been adopted by celeste benigno white, sister of the boy's mother, and her husband, jefferson white, of the new york city borough of staten island
a legal fight over the child followed the nov. 11, 1984, murder of his mother, teresa benigno taylor, in new jersey. her husband, dr. kenneth taylor, was convicted in 1985 of first-degree murder and sentenced to life imprisonment
after the murder, a new jersey court granted joint custody of the child to the whites and the taylors with the taylors to have custody in july and august and during the week after christmas each year. the whites were to keep the child the rest of the year
in late 1985, the whites filed a custody petition in new york, and in january 1986, the taylors filed an adoption petition in grant county. the taylors had earlier filed an adoption petition that wasn't acted on in new jersey
as part of their indiana petition, the taylors filed kenneth taylor's consent to the adoption. however, according to court records, the whites weren't notified of the proceeding, and the petition didn't mention that the boy's father had been convicted of murder or that a new jersey court had acted on the child's custody
during a visit to indiana in august 1986, phillip was formally adopted by the taylors. in a telephone call to mrs. white, mrs. taylor said that ``the taylors had adopted phillip and that the whites would never see him again,'' court records said
the whites challenged the adoption by arguing that their consent and that of the new jersey court was required
the taylors contended that because they had the consent of their son, phillip's only living parent, they needed no one else's consent
the lower court held and the appeals panel confirmed tuesday that consent of all parties involved _ including the other court and custodial parents _ must be obtained before indiana law permits an adoption
a decree of adoption may be entered only if the required consents were obtained,'' judge william garrard wrote for the court. ``as the taylors failed to obtain all the required consents, the judgment of the adoption was voidable.''
the taylors have not said whether they will appeal tuesday's ruling to the indiana supreme court. conflicts</head>
west virginia university administrators set up a committee tuesday to explore the ethical obligations of students who do ``corporate espionage'' for companies under the auspices of the university
the announcement, made by frank franz, vice president for academic affairs, comes one week after the wall street journal reported that graduate students in the business school divulged sales and inventory figures gained in a study to competitors of the businesses they surveyed
the article points out that the confidentiality of respondents was promised but not observed,'' franz said
the key problem is that the students were put in a very unfortunate position by the sponsors of the project and i think inappropriate things were asked of them.''
franz said the seven-member committee will consider whether students should be required to disclose routinely the sponsor of a study, its purpose and who will receive the information obtained
he said the committee also will suggest ways to avoid conflicts of interest in internships, research projects and other opportunities that arise through consulting performed by faculty members for private companies
the journal reported that two groups of students who conducted competitive analyses for two caterpillar heavy-equipment dealers were asked by the dealers to identify the competitors they interviewed
several students said they did. one of those involved likened the work to ``spying.''
representatives of two of the dealerships interviewed for the 1987 study said they would not have given out the information if they had known the students were working for other dealers
i feel the way they went about it was very underhanded,'' gary clark, executive vice president of clark co., one of the companies in the study, told the daily anthenaeum, the student newspaper
now i will probably be on my guard whenever i talk to students. but i don't blame the students. i blame the professor.''
terry wilson, professor of the marketing 321 class, told the journal that the students ``should not have divulged confidential information to their clients.''
franz said there is no evidence that wilson, who is a consultant for caterpillar, encouraged the students to give the information to the dealerships
wilson, who is on a yearlong sabbatical from the university, did not return telephone messages left with his office
the plo lifted its ban on a meeting between arabs from the occupied territories and u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, a palestinian said tuesday
u.s. officials said they hoped such a session, expected to take place next week in jerusalem, would help breathe life into a u.s. peace proposal for the region
the shift in policy came after shultz met three days ago with two palestinian-americans linked to the palestine liberation organization
that meeting was great. it was a big step forward and paved the way for us to meet with shultz next week,'' said said kenaan, a prominent nablus businessman
the plo issued two declarations this week, one via a plo representative in cairo and the other from its headquarters in tunis, approving palestinian attendance at a meeting with shultz next week, kenaan said
but kenaan said arabs from east jerusalem and the occupied territories would not attend the jerusalem meeting unless the plo approval was well- publicized and plo chief yasser arafat came out publicly behind it
otherwise we fear for our lives,'' he told the associated press in a telephone interview
shultz is to arrive in jerusalem on sunday and also will visit jordan, syria, saudi arabia and egypt
we want a chance to discuss our grievances, and to tell him the plo must be a party to peace talks on equal footing with all other parties,'' kenaan said
when shultz visited the region in february, palestinians from the territories heeded a call from the plo and refused to meet him. the refusal was viewed by american officials as a setback for u.s. peace proposals
the climate has changed because of shultz's meeting saturday with edward said, a columbia university professor, and ibrahim abu lughud of northwestern university
both men are members of the palestine national council, the plo's self-described legislative body
israeli officials, including prime minister yitzhak shamir, denounced the talks as a violation of a u.s. commitment not to meet with the plo
but other officials close to u.s. efforts to start negotiations in the region said the meeting was intended to pave the way for further involvement of the palestinians in the peace process
shultz has always viewed palestinian participation as very important,'' one u.s. official said privately. ``it was hoped that this move would improve chances for that involvement and thus for the success of the u.s. peace plan.''
in tripoli, libya, hardline palestinian leader george habash urged palestinians to boycott the shultz peace mission
i call upon the revolutionary leadership and plo leadership to boycott the shultz visit as they did the first time,'' said habash, leader of the marxist, syrian-backed popular front for the liberation of palestine, which is affiliated with the plo
if the american administration is sincere in finding a just solution for the middle east it must recognize the plo as the sole legitimate representative of palestinian people ... it must recognize legitimate rights of palestinian people, that is self-determination and an independent palestinian state and reject the nation that we're a second class people,'' he told a news conference
the proportion of women enrolled in schools for health professions has skyrocketed in recent years, according to a federal statistical analysis issued tuesday
the most striking increase was in dental schools, where women made up only 1 percent of enrollment in the 1971-72 school term. by the 1985-86 term, the figure was 25 percent
enrollment of women in medical schools jumped from 11 percent to 33 percent over the same period, and in pharmacy schools from 24 percent to 56 percent
those are among figures contained in the 207-page ``health united states 1987,'' a report issued annually by the department of health and human services
most of the figures were released previously as they were being compiled by one or more of the dozens of agencies within hhs, and tend to lag a year or two behind the volume's publication
the national center for health statistics, an arm of the centers for disease control, organizes the material into an annual report _ as required by law _ to provide a central storehouse of statistical data
the 1987 volume documents that life expectancy at birth has increased dramatically since 1900 for all americans, regardless of race or sex
for example, a black female born in 1900 could expect to live only 33.5 years compared with 62.7 years for one born in 1950 and 73.5 years for one born in 1985
although there have been life expectacy gains across the board, the smallest increase _ 25 years _ was among white males. a white male born in 1900 could expect to live 46.6 years compared with 71.9 years for one born in 1985
some other highlights:
_infant mortality declined only 2 percent between 1984 and 1985, the smallest drop since 1965. the black infant mortality rate, 18.2 per 1,000 live births, is almost twice as high as for white infants, 9.3 per 1,000
_births to unmarried mothers doubled between 1970 and 1985, from 11 percent to 22 percent
_between 1970 and 1985, mortality from cancer, the second leading cause of death, increased slightly overall. however, lung cancer deaths among women more than doubled. heart disease remains the no. 1 killer. delegate count, picking up in 7th graf pvs, in new, and subbing 1 graf for grafs 22-23 pvs, that gave ... 515.6.</note>
republican sen. bob dole quit the presidential race today, three weeks after being buried in george bush's super tuesday landslide, calling himself ``bloodied but unbowed, as the poet says.'' on the democratic side, michael dukakis sought a connecticut primary victory to slow jesse jackson
dole offered his congratulations to bush, who beat him in a solid majority of primaries and said, ``keeping the white house republican, that's the bottom line.''
flanked by his wife, former transportation secretary elizabeth dole, and his daughter robin, dole said, ``i know, and my family knows, that i'm a fighter, and i don't like to lose.''
i've been beaten before and no doubt will again. but i have never been defeated and never will be,'' the kansas senator said, as supporters and fellow senators applauded
white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr., a former presidential hopeful himself as well as a former senate colleague of dole's, said he'd talked to dole earlier, and ``i told him i've been there. i know how it feels. i told him there'll be life after this, political life, that he has a major role to play.''
among the democrats, rep. richard gephardt filed for re-election to his house seat one day after dropping his own presidential bid. he told reporters in jefferson city, mo., ``i am very happy to be here.''
after updating based on final michigan results and a redistribution of some of gephardt's delegates, dukakis held a slim seven-delegate lead over jackson. the massachusetts governor hoped to add to his lead today with a win in neighboring connecticut
in new york meanwhile, sen. albert gore jr., took a few apparent swipes at jackson, an ordained minister known for his ringing speeches
in remarks to the association for a better new york, gore was applauded when he said that in the campaign, ``we're not choosing a preacher, we're choosing a president.''
the oval office is a whole lot more than a pulpit,'' gore said
referring to jackson's calling himself ``a tree shaker, not a jelly maker,'' gore asserted that ``in the oval office, some jelly must be made. only a president who knows how big government works can turn soaring rhetoric and lofty goals into programs and policies.''
among the republicans, even with dole nominally still in the race, bush was overwhelmingly favored today in his almost-home state of connecticut. but he said he didn't want to ``project an arrogance.''
dukakis was also expected to do well in the primary, with 52 delegates at stake. but jackson has been drawing big, enthusiastic crowds in the state
there's nothing more powerful in the world than the people whose hope has been raised,'' he said as he stumped in connecticut on monday
jackson's stunning weekend win in michigan's caucuses put dukakis under mounting pressure. connecticut's democratic state chairman, john f. droney, said that in light of jacson's gains, dukakis had to poll better than 50 percent in the primary to reassert himself
dukakis disputed whether he had to land such a knockout punch just to stay in the ring. ``look _ a victory is a victory,'' he said
jackson, meanwhile, was drawing admiring comment from both sides of the political aisle on monday. bush, campaigning in wisconsin, which holds its primary a week from today, went out of his way to praise him
the man's racking up delegates, and that's how you get elected,'' the vice president said. ``what he has done is very admirable.''
bush's comments came at a news conference in milwaukee, where he picked up the endorsement of rep. jack kemp, a former rival. kemp, who quit the presidential race earlier this month, said he would actively campaign for the vice president
gephardt also praised jackson as he was closing the book on his own democratic candidacy. he refrained from making any formal endorsement, but said: ``i believe jesse jackson can be nominated and i think he can be elected.''
gephardt, whose campaign slid downhill after an initial win in iowa's democratic caucuses, said he was hampered by a lack of funds. but he added: ``i have no alibis. we lost, no question about that.''
gephardt's loss was his rivals' gain. most of his 167 delegates went into the uncommitted column, but missouri state party rules mandate that the at-large and public official delegates are re-divided among the active candidates when a contender drops out
according to the latest ap count, dukakis had 611.55, jackson 604.55, tennessee sen. gore 364.8, illinois sen. paul simon 169.5 and uncommitted 508.6
jackson, who leads in the popular vote totals, said he expects to emerge as the democratic nominee if he wins the most pre-convention delegates
appearing on abc's ``nightline'' on monday night, he said if he were the leader going into the convention, he did not expect that party leaders would use the votes of ``super delegates'' _ elected officials and party professionals _ to keep him from getting the nomination
if they used their power in that way, it would be unwise. it would not be right,'' he said
on the republican side, bush was far, far ahead of either dole or former television evangelist pat robertson, with 778 delegates to dole's 178 and robertson's 17
even so, bush said he didn't want to get overconfident
one of the best things that happened to me was getting my brains kicked out in iowa,'' he said. ``everybody had me dead and buried. we were resurrected ... so people say now things are going pretty well for you, and they are.''
the government is considering charging space shuttle customers up to $245 million a flight for carrying their cargo into space, a congressional panel was told tuesday
up to now, the national aeronautics and space administration has charged $87 million maximum for use of the cargo bay, billed to users according to how much space they used
dale myers, nasa's deputy administrator, confirmed that the $245 million figure was discussed last week by a panel connected to the senior interagency group for space, a top-level advisory committee for the president
that is not the final decision,'' myers told sen. william proxmire, d-wis., at a senate appropriations subcommittee hearing on nasa's fiscal 1989 budget request. he did not dispute proxmire's contention that nasa lost an 8-1 vote for the $245 million figure in the interagency group
the total cost of a shuttle flight has varied, according to the frequency of flights within a given fiscal year. a 1985 estimate _ a year before the challenger disaster _ priced each flight at $150 million, at a rate of 14 launches a year
nasa has never pressed for full recovery of its costs. in the first flights of the shuttle, beginning in 1981, the cost for launching a satellite from the cargo bay was about $10 million
the agency then instituted a pricing policy of $71 million for a full cargo bay, meaning that a satellite owner might pay $23 million-plus if his cargo was launched along with two other satellites. the charge per cargo bay rose to $87 million per flight in october 1985
myers explained during the hearing and afterward that the $245 million was `'sort of an upper limit of all the costs.''
it's an estimate that includes everything including the kitchen sink, all the overhead, manpower required for checkout, all the hardware, all the fuels, all the contingencies that might occur due to delays in flights,'' he said
but asked if that were the amount the space agency would seek to recover from cargo bay users, myers said: ``no, it is not in our view a number that would make any sense at all. i can't really talk too much about it, because this is internal planning.''
a staff member of the appropriations subcommittee called the $245 million ``a non-subsidized, real-world total number for a flight on the shuttle, if you want to buy it.''
the senior interagency group for space includes representatives of nasa, the cia and the commerce, transportation, defense and state departments
the soviet union stops or delays mail to put pressure on dissidents, former moscow activist vladimir slepak told a congressional subcommittee tuesday
the goal of the soviet authorities is to isolate people from any contact with the outside world. this is an effort to break our spirit and determination,'' slepak said
telephones, mail and telegrams are all cut off or interfered with, slepak told the house post office and civil service subcommittee on postal operations. the subcommittee is investigating complaints of returned and undelivered mail sent to the soviet union
the problem is not the bad work of the soviet post office. it is because of the order of the kgb or other authorities,'' said slepak
he cited his five years in exile in siberia, when he regularly received mail from other countries. upon his return to moscow in 1982, mail was cut off, he said
slepak was allowed to leave the soviet union last year following a pair of hunger strikes by himself in moscow and his son in washington
rep. benjamin a. gilman, r-n.y., noted that the subcommittee first started looking into the problem in 1977
with better international relations there may be hope for improvement, gilman said, but ``we must not be lulled into believing that the problem has been or is close to being resolved.''
assistant postmaster general william t. johnstone said in prepared testimony that the rate of returned parcels has declined in the past year. yet, he added, ``while fewer parcels apparently are being returned, the practice remains a troublesome one.''
the soviet union has a long and complex list of unacceptable goods, johnstone said
another problem exists with registered mail, which many people use because the item must be signed for, he added
unlike the united states, where the person receiving the mail must sign, soviet policy is for a postal official to sign the receipt, johnstone said
we plan to exert every effort to try to persuade the soviet union to change its policy,'' he said
one new problem will be arising shortly, johnstone added
starting may 1, the soviet union will require customs declarations on parcels to be written in either french or russian
it is common practice to require declarations in either french or the language of the receiving country, he said. but in the past the soviets have made exceptions to allow english
they announced the change to only french or russian early in 1987, but postponed implementation twice to accommodate the united states, johnstone said
sen. bob dole, his white house hopes crushed by george bush, today ended his republican presidential bid, saying, ``you come to trust your instincts to tell you it's over.''
i'm a fighter and i don't like to lose,'' dole said, surrounded by house and senate colleagues. ``i make no apology for that. it's simply the way i am.''
but he said he also was an optimist. ``i've been beaten before and no doubt will again. but i've never been defeated and never will be.''
dole, who has been without a primary win for more than a month, tipped his hat to bush
the one thing you learn how to do pretty well in our business is to count. you come to trust your instincts to tell you it's over. in my heart i know that time is now. i congratulate george bush and wish him well in november,'' the kansas senator said
dole's remarks showed none of the bitterness that has characterized his attitude toward bush in the past. when dole took the microphone, he cracked, ``we're not going to say anything mean about anybody.''
dole, whose last weeks as a candidate were marked by bruising defeats at the hands of bush, said he looked forward to his return to the senate and his duties as minority leader
i return to the senate as the republican leader eager to engage the issues that confront america ... doing all i can for our nominee, george bush,'' he said
dole recalled his official entry to the race on nov. 9
nearly five months ago i went home to russell, kan., to declare my candidacy for the highest office the american people can bestow. it was only natural i should begin my campaign on main street, among those from whom i have always drawn my strength and my identity. today here i am, bloodied and unbowed, as the poet said,'' he said
dole sent one message to bush, the inevitable gop nominee:
my campaign has been an appeal for all republicans to recognize and celebrate the diversity of america. no party can govern that is not truly representative of this nation of nations.''
the senate minority leader made a fast start out of the gate, overwhelming the vice president in the iowa caucuses feb. 8. but he stumbled a week later in new hampshire's primary. dole rebounded with a pair of wins in south dakota and minnesota on feb. 23, but bush stunned the republican field with a 16-state primary sweep on super tuesday
dole never recovered. though he made an effort to revive his campaign in illinois, he lost heavily there and appeared to be merely going through the motions after that
dole campaigned last week in wisconsin, where he hoped to make a comeback, but public opinion polls indicated a 2-to-1 bush lead. by week's end, dole told a washington audience that he thought bush's nomination was ``a foregone conclusion.''
i can read the numbers and i probably know what's happening,'' he said
we need to keep a republican in the white house. that's where i'm coming from,'' he said. ``and if it can't be me, it will be george bush.''
on monday, he delivered a speech that stopped short of a withdrawal but looked and sounded like a last hurrah. joined by his wife, elizabeth, and daughter, robin, he said he wanted to thank his campaign workers and outline his vision for the future of the gop
dole's second campaign for the republican presidential nomination _ the first, in 1980, also ended in failure _ was flawed all along by internal disarray. the senate leader was not inclined to delegate authority. he finally brought on former labor secretary bill brock last november to run the campaign. but it may have been too late
bush's well-oiled campaign machinery had been in place for years, and dole struggled uphill against a rival who ran as a front-runner and made few mistakes
dole tried repeatedly to stir voters into resentment against bush and his upper-class background, but dole's argument that he was ``one of us'' apparently won over only iowans. dole also lashed out often at bush for his still-murky role in the iran-contra arms-for-hostages affair, but republican primary voters didn't buy it
bush also had a trump card that he played often _ ronald reagan. bush ran successfully as the loyal vice president to one of the most popular presidents in modern history
i'm sort of running against the ghost of ronald reagan,'' dole said recently
surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould testified tuesday that both sides in the baby m case should put aside their bitterness and let the child grow up knowing her birth mother
life is too short,'' said mrs. whitehead-gould in the second day of a visitation hearing. ``i don't know what life is going to bring. but there's a chance that she will never know me, that i'd never know her.''
mrs. whitehead-gould, 31, visibly pregnant in a blue and white maternity dress, spoke calmly and quietly in 2{ hours of testimony. her voice sometimes wavered, but she did did not cry
the child's father, william stern, and his wife elizabeth, sat grim-faced through much of the testimony. mrs. stern smiled occasionally, however, when mrs. whitehead-gould spoke of the mannerisms of the 2-year-old girl legally known as melissa stern
the sterns, who have custody of melissa at their home in tenafly, in their testimony called mrs. whitehead-gould a liar who could undermine their relationship with the child and possibly exploit the girl in the media
mrs. whitehead-gould, of east brunswick, is seeking more liberal visitation with melissa. she wants to see the child two days a week for a total of 16 hours at her home immediately, with the schedule eventually expanded to include overnight stays, half the summer and some holidays
the sterns are seeking to have visitation cut off for several years, perhaps until the child is 9 or 10
the hearing before superior court judge birger m. sween was ordered by the new jersey supreme court, which on feb. 13 restored mrs. whiehead-gould's parental rights but left intact a ruling that gave custody to the sterns
stern, a biochemist, and mrs. stern, a pediatrician, have said they turned to surrogacy because mrs. stern feared that her age and her mild form of multiple sclerosis would make pregnancy dangerous. mrs. stern is now 42
mrs. whitehead-gould agreed to bear them a child for $10,000 by being artificially inseminated with stern's sperm. but when the baby was born, she changed her mind, sparking the dispute
mrs. whitehead-gould, who has remarried and is pregnant with her current husband's child, asked for reconciliation with the sterns in the emotional tug-of-war over the child
i'm willing to meet them more than half way,'' she said
much of mrs. whitehead-gould's testimony answered charges made by the sterns
she said she felt no anger toward the sterns and did not blame them, as stern said monday, for the breakup of her 14-year marriage to richard whitehead
i let go of custody a long time ago,'' she said. ``i want to be a mother. i want to share in raising her in any way i can. but i don't want to undermine the sterns in any way.''
she said that her current visitation schedule of two hours a week under supervision wasn't ``meaningful.'' mrs. whitehead-gould said the child could benefit by contact with her new husband, new york city tax accountant dean gould, and her two children from her previous marriage, ryan, 13, and tuesday, 12
floodwaters swept away two people as they cried for help from their submerged van tuesday and thousands along the swollen danube river prepared to flee amid warnings more dikes could break
the latest apparent drownings brought to six the number of dead in bavaria's worst flooding in 70 years
the rhine river on tuesday crested inches short of the top of a flood wall protecting cologne's historic old town. the danube, mosel, and other major rivers already were receding, but forecasters predicted more flood-threatening rain through easter weekend
rescue workers were searching tuesday for the volkswagen van with two people that witnesses said was swept away by the main river in the bavarian city of wuerzburg, where riverside streets were flooded
witnesses reported seeing the vehicle's headlights in the floodwaters and hearing cries for help. but the van was gone by the time rescuers arrived in boats
the danube river has burst through dikes in several places since sunday, forcing 3,500 people to evacuate
officials, meanwhile, worried about forecasts for more rain. ``we're not giving the all-clear signal yet,'' said ruediger beiser, an official with the office for water and river transport in mainz
rhine floodwater covered nearby sidewalks and some streets in bonn, the federal capital. residents of large villas lining the river in the bonn district, which house many embassies, were preparing sandbags and using pumps to dry out their flooded cellars
in a section of cologne's old town area, residents spent the night building mortar-and-brick walls around their homes, clearing out their basements, and placing elevated planks on their sidewalks
the rhine rose to 32.3 feet at about 3 a.m. and stayed there, dramtically stopping just short of the top of a 32{-foot flood wall
all the same, some water had seaped through the barrier and was being pumped out of cellars
unfortunately, the wall is not totally watertight,'' said eckehard link, head of anti-flooding efforts for cologne, a city of 1 million people
the justice minister has resigned after a former policeman said the minister headed a secret anti-narcotics police that sold confiscated drugs and weapons
minister jose manzo gonzalez's resignation was effective monday. he had been justice minister since 1984
he was replaced tuesday by pedro torres agudo, former head of the technical judicial police, venezuela's principal investigative police corps
the newspaper, el universal, reported tuesday that gonzalez resigned to aid a police investigation and to take legal action against people who allegedly injured his prestige
manzo's resignation came on the same day as the resignation of his counterpart in colombia, alfredo gutierrez marquez. gutierrez stepped down after reports that an airstrip at his brother's ranch was used by drug runners linked to colombia medellin cartel
the cartel smuggles most of the cocaine reaching the united states, the u.s. drug enforcement administration says
in a videotape played two weeks ago before the investigations committee of the venezuelan congress, former police roberto eduardo dipucci ponti said manzo set up a secret police unit to infiltrate narcotics rings in venezuela
dipucci ponti said the unit captured drugs and weapons from narcotics traffickers and then resold them
the former officer said he was a member of the secret force and that he made the videotape because he feared for his life. dipucci reportedly is in hiding in venezuela
the president of the investigations committee, paciano padron, called for manzo's removal after initial investigations indicated the existence of the secret unit and irregularities in its activities
the committee began its investigations in february after a leftist politician claimed venezuela's political parties were financing their presidential campaigns with drug money
padron also maintained the police unit itself was illegal since it depended directly on manzo rather than one of the official venezuelan security forces
manzo has said that the secret force existed between 1982 and 1986 but claimed it was a military agency
defense minister eliodoro guerrero gomez has denied the unit ever operated within the military
the military said its troops stormed a capital suburb tuesday and captured six communist guerrillas, including three top leaders, as rebels marked the anniversary of their struggle
chief of staff gen. renato de villa hailed the arrests in the manila suburb of san juan as ``a big loss'' to the communists. he said those captured were ``very high-ranking personalities who have been the subject of many manhunts and many operations in the past.''
troops in manila and five other regions had been placed on heightened alert in anticipation of rebel attacks on the anniversary of the 24,000-member new people's army, a communist group that began fighting the government 19 years ago
the top leaders were identified as rafael baylosis, secretary general of the communist party of the philippines; benjamin de vera, a party central committee member; and new people's army chief of staff napoleon manuel. a military report says de vera also heads the party's commission in charge of operations on mindanao, the country's second-largest island where the rebels have been strong
no major rebel attacks were reported tuesday. however, such reports often take days to reach manila from the countryside
a japanese tourist was shot and killed near the manila airport by an unidentified gunman who escaped, police said. akihiro sato, 49, died from bullet wounds in the neck and shoulder
police said they had no idea who the killer was
military leaders also announced tuesday they had determined that rebels from the alex boncayao brigade, the manila branch of the new people's army, were responsible for monday's ambush on suburban manila mayor prospero oreta. seven of his bodyguards were killed and the mayor, a distant relative of president corazon aquino, was wounded
officers said those captured tuesday might not have been directly involved, but they definitely came from the same organizations
in general, the (oreta) case is solved,'' said brig. gen. alexander aguirre. ``all we have to do is to arrest the people who perpetrated it. but we are happy to say now that we did not only arrest the (people) that did the hitting but the leaders who are orchestrating these assassination activities.''
the rebel leaders were arrested tuesday in two separate raids. an ak-47 rifle, grenades, computers, radio equipment, and underground documents were confiscated in the raids, aguirre said
he said mrs. aquino had been informed about the arrests and ``she was elated, she was glad.''
on monday, the alex boncayao brigade admitted responsibility for sunday's murder of bus driver ruben saulog. they accused him of ordering the killings of two unions leaders
nigeria's estimated population of 100 million will double in the next two decades unless nigerian women have fewer children, the health minister said tuesday
the news agency of nigeria quoted health minister ransome-kuti as saying the military government's new population policy was aimed at preserving the health of the ``mothers and their children'' rather than simply reducing population growth
the government has adopted a policy calling on women to limit themselves to four children each. womens' groups and christian churches say the policy is unfair because it would allow polygamous men to have many children and favors the moslem religion
ransome-kuti, in detailing the policy, said efforts would be made to counsel men on their responsibilities to their spouses and children
he said the government would make family planning services available nationwide, but would not try to force couples to limit births
couples will be encouraged to have the number of children they can adequately care for,'' he said
ransome-kuti said the government hopes to persuade women to marry after age 18 and to space births at least two years apart
he said the policy seeks to reduce annual population growth from 3.3 percent to 2.5 percent in 1995 and 2 percent by 2000
nigeria is africa's most populous country
harold thomas was back in his shack tuesday alongside the chicago river after a failed journey to new mexico in search of a new life, but he said he was trying to find work and a decent home
i've been trying to get me a decent place to stay and i got an interview about a regular job tomorrow,'' he said. ``i feel like i've got to make something out of myself some way or other, because so many people were concerned
and besides, i owe it to myself,'' said thomas, who hopes to find a construction job with a former employer
since his return from portales, n.m., a week ago, thomas has divided his time between a girlfriend's apartment and the wood-and-tarpaper shack he and friend tommy ray built late last year on a vacant, bottle-strewn lot in the shadow of the city's glittering downtown
i go by and help clean it up, and i stay there sometimes,'' he said of the makeshift shelter by the chicago river. ``tommy and them are sort of my people, like family
and that's the place where it all happened.''
thomas' sojourn to the southwest began when a new mexico couple, roy and ethel gilman, read an associated press story describing his life in the open shack during sub-zero weather
they offered him a job and a place to stay
thomas arrived in portales on jan. 17 and spent two months with the gilmans, receiving room and board in exchange for work at the couple's wrecking yard
but thomas said he was paid no wages until reporters raised the issue and the gilmans put $300 in a bank account for him
thomas withdrew the money and bought a bus ticket home
they were hard-working, good people, but the money situation disappointed me,'' said thomas
a man needs a regular wage, he needs to be able to buy himself a cup of coffee or a sandwich. and i think the gilmans got tired of all the attention that came with me,'' he said
one thing was simplified by his brief fling with celebrity: reinstatement of the $154 a month in public assistance and food stamps he had been receiving before he went to new mexico
when he attempted monday to pick up his march check, thomas was told he would have to furnish proof he had worked the two previous months, and that his job had ended, said social worker clara collins with the non-profit travelers and immigrants aid
he went back to the shack and brought them his newspaper clippings,'' ms. collins said. ``at first, they said there were plenty of harold thomases, but i guess they finally gave in.''
so tuesday, $154 richer and buoyed by the prospect of a job interview, thomas picked up some italian beef sandwiches and headed for the hovel he still calls home sometimes
there, ray, 37, and 62-year-old arthur haymond, another of the five or six men who share the rotting, often-leaky shack, waited eagerly for his arrival
it's funny,'' said ray. ``after people first read about us, they came by with a can of coffee, or a loaf of bread to help out. or talk about where we might find work
but since then, hasn't been much but the gang kids throwing stones and busting us up
i guess,'' said ray, rubbing his chin and pulling up closer to the fire burning in an oil drum, ``people just got short memories.''
president reagan on tuesday hedged his assertion that oliver l. north is a hero, with the president confining his contining praise to the marine's combat record
reagan also said he believes north, a former white house national security aide charged with conspiracy in the iran-contra arms and money affair, hasn't gotten the benefit of a fair trial before being presumed guilty by many
reagan, saying he wanted to ``augment'' comments he made last week after north's criminal indictment, said, ``i think i was too short in my remark.''
the president was referring to his defense of north as a hero and his prediction that the marine lieutenant colonel will be found innocent of iran-contra charges along with rear adm. john m. poindexter, the former national security adviser to the president and north's superior
reagan did not reiterate that prediction, but he adjusted his definition of north's heroism
i should have augmented that, and said why, and that is: look at the record and at the honors and the medals that have been awarded to him for bravery in combat,'' reagan said in a white house interview with regional reporters
i have to say those were heroic actions and he is a valid hero,'' the president said
north, who intends to retire from the marine corps in may, received a silver star and two purple hearts in the vietnam war
reagan said the allegations about north and poindexter raise a ``sore point with me about a lot of things that have been going on with regard to people in our administration.''
someplace along the line, many of us have forgotten that you are innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,'' the president said
what has a happened, i think, in the case (of north and poindexter) is it's just everyone is accepting guilt on the basis of accusation,'' reagan said. ``i say they've got a right to be presumed innocent until someone proves them guilty of the charges.''
north and poindexter were named march 16 in a federal indictment accusing them of defrauding the government in the sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of profits to the nicaraguan contras at a time when u.s. aid to the rebels was banned
in addition to north and poindexter, several other past or present members of the administration _ including some of reagan's closest confidants _ have been accused of improper behavior
former aide michael deaver was convicted of perjury regarding his lobbying activities, and reagan's onetime political director, lyn nofziger, was found guilty of illegal lobbying
attorney general edwin meese iii has been the subject of independent counsel investigations. meese has continually denied wrongdoing
north said after his indictment that he might attempt to subpoena the ``highest ranking'' government officials to testify in his defense
reagan declined to say if he would testify on north's behalf. ``i don't know what his situation will be, with regard to giving testimony or not,'' reagan said. cases</head>
the equal employment opportunity commission mishandled hundreds of age discrimination complaints partly because congress failed to give it enough money, eeoc chairman clarence thomas said tuesday
in testimony to the house government operations subcommittee on employment and housing, thomas said there was no excuse for agency offices having let the two-year statute of limitations expire on some 1,600 complaints from oct. 1, 1986, to jan. 31, 1988
but he said that in order to prevent such situations from recurring, the agency needs more money
i have been through the budget process seven times now, and each time, congress has appropriated less than what was requested by president reagan,'' thomas said in his statement
for example, he said, the agency sought $193.4 million this year but received only $179.8 million, and it has been told its prospects for receiving a requested $194.6 million in 1989 do not look good
if eeoc is held to a 2 percent increase over the fiscal 1988 appropriation, we will lose 244 positions and the pending inventory of charges will grow by 20,000,'' thomas said
subcommittee chairman tom lantos, d-calif., said a recent panel investigation of the national labor relations board found that 92 percent of unfair labor charges are fully investigated within 30 days
if the nlrb regional offices can meet a 30-day time target, why does it take eeoc regional offices more than two years to perform similar investigations?'' lantos said. ``we should not need repeated hearings and legislative action to ensure and to restore workers' basic civil rights which have long since been established in law.''
in his statement, thomas said the regional offices attributed their problems to, among other things, short staffing, complex and unprecedented cases, poor case tracking, heavy workload and charges filed six months to 18 months after an alleged violation
he said the worst offender was the philadelphia regional office with 241 charges that expired, followed by los angeles with 222; baltimore with 175; new york with 150; chicago with 137; and detroit with 105. san francisco had no instances, while atlanta and charlotte, n.c., had one apiece
helen mcdonald, representing the american association of retired persons, said the eeoc must give people realistic advice about whether their cases will be pursued and tell them clearly about the two-year deadline
she also said the eeoc should change its policy of refusing to notify people who might benefit from a class action, even when the agency already has determined an employer has discriminated. currently it is the responsibility of potential members of the class action to find out about the complaint and join it
the house on tuesday passed a bill extending the statute of limitations another 18 months for people whose cases expired without eeoc action. the senate already has passed a similar measure
fed up with dog bites, mail carrier jim codner made his rounds in the company of two dog catchers from the city's animal control department when he delivered mail tuesday at a housing project
unlike monday, when three dogs were taken into custody, there wasn't a canine in sight as codner delivered the mail with his companions, who were armed with dog snares _ three-foot and five-foot sticks with rubber-coated wires at the end to catch any pooch on the loose
at least if the dogs come out, they'll have a few more targets,'' codner said, when he resumed deliveries. ``usually it's just me and the hallway.''
mail delivery to 240 households at the orient heights rojects was suspended march 12 after codner, who has delivered mail there for seven years, was attacked for the fourth time this year by one of the dogs roaming the halls
for the two weeks codner didn't bring any mail, it was left at a post office more than half a mile away
it was really hard for the elderly people who needed their mail and couldn't get it,'' said jackie thurston, who lives in the project
it feels good to have jimmy and the mail back,'' said connie durbano, another resident
the escorted service will last a week. if codner's customers don't get the message by then, the postal service has threatened to deliver mail to a single drop instead of door to door
steven o'donnell, the city's chief dog catcher, said he has eight inspectors and two trucks _ one currently broken _ to cover a city of 65,000 dogs. o'donnell complained that the city won't invest in better dog control. he also has proposed stiffer fines for violators
the city requires dogs to be restrained at all times. but while the dog owners are fined $50 if their pets are caught defecating on the sidewalk, they are fined only $25 for dogs picked up roaming free
in other carrier battlefronts of massachusetts, mail delivery was suspended temporarily in parts of medford a few years ago to protect carriers, and a carrier bitten in the face by a dog in winthrop last weekend may need plastic surgery
every day, somewhere in america, a mail carrier is probably being bitten, said delivery supervisor phil auciello, codner's boss
the navy on tuesday formally awarded a $724.4 million contract to the newport news shipbuilding &amp; drydock co. to begin the process of building two nuclear-powered aircraft carriers
the award had been expected since late last fall, when congress agreed to amend the fiscal 1988 budget to purchase two carriers at once in a cost-saving move
newport news shipbuilding, which is based in the virginia city of the same name, is a division of tenneco inc. and the only shipyard capable of building the huge nimitz-class nuclear carriers
the contract awarded tuesday covers ``long lead time material and effort'' to get construction started and will be followed before the end of the fiscal year with a full construction contract, the navy said
congress has budgeted $6.3 billion for the two carriers
president chun doo-hwan's younger brother denied tuesday that he stole millions of dollars from a semi-official development agency, but prosecutors said they had enough evidence to try him
a close associate of chun kyung-hwan, 46, tried to kill himself while under interrogation and arrest warrants were issued for five other people in the growing scandal
he keeps denying all charges, passing the buck to his subordinates, but it would not work. we have enough evidence,'' senior prosecutor lee chong-chan said of chun
twelve hours after questioning, prosecutors gave no indication whether he would be put under formal arrest. officials had said monday he was not likely to be released
prosecutors said their initial investigation indicated chun embezzled or otherwise pocketed the equivalent of $14 million belonging to the saemaul (new community) movement, which he headed for seven years
the semi-official organization is dedicated to urban and rural development. chun kyung-hwan was its director from 1981 until he resigned last year after reports that he had links with the underworld
according to the prosecutors, he is suspected of using the money allegedly taken from saemaul for such purposes as speculation in land and stocks
legal experts say charges being contemplated in the case could result in more than five years in prison if chun is convicted
chun was summoned by prosecutors tuesday morning for questioning about allegations that he abused power to get government funds for saemaul and cash donations from business executives
when chun arrived at the prosecutor general's office, a man rushed from the crowd yelling an insult, hit him in the face and fled
a ranking official of saemaul, hwang hung-sik, 37, made two suicide attempts during interrogation, once by trying to jump from a fifth-floor window, officials reported
hwang is accused of keeping secret ledgers on transactions involving money chun allegedly embezzled
about 200 government officials and business executives have been questioned about allegedly helping chun either to amass a fortune or cover up the activity
opposition parties demanded tuesday that the former president cut short a trip to the united states and state whether he was involved in the scandal
chun doo-hwan was succeeded last month by roh tae-woo, who won the presidential election in december
roh, a former general who helped put chun in power with military backing in 1980, has promised to root out and end official corruption
a veteran antarctic researcher announced findings tuesday indicating that the depletion of the earth's ozone layer could threaten the world's food supply
professor sayed el-sayed of texas a&amp;m university said increased amounts of ultraviolet light, which a thinner ozone shield permits through to the earth's surface, supresses biological activity in microscopic marine plants in the antarctic
el-sayed said his findings, the first of their kind, confirm strong suspicions of biologists that ultraviolet light might mean trouble for fish, animal and other life in the southernmost part of the world
on the other hand, ``i never underestimate the resilency of nature,'' he said
el-sayed said it is impossible now to say whether the plankton _ microscopic single-celled organisms called ``the grass of the sea'' _ and the organisms that feed on them might adapt to increased ultraviolet radiation, and much work remains to be done
plankton and the tiny shrimp-like creature called krill that feed on them are the primary food source for the whole web of life in the antarctic, including fish, penguins and whales. a baleen whale may eat three tons a day
if anything happened to the krill population, the whole ecosystem probably would collapse, and you can say goodbye to the whales and the penguins and the seals and the fish,'' el-sayed told reporters at briefing arranged by the world resources institute, a washington environmental research organization
several nations are studying plans to harvest krill, a 550-million to 770-million ton reservoir of protein. a 10 percent annual harvest would almost equal the current world fish catch
the ozone shield over antarctica already thins greatly in springtime, with the depletion reaching a record 50 percent last year. scientists attribute the destruction of ozone to man-made chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons, or cfcs
the environmental protection agency estimates that a 1 percent drop in ozone means a 2 percent increase in ultraviolet light and a 4.8 percent to 7.5 percent increase in the most common skin cancers
the national aeronautics and space administration on march 15 said a depletion of ozone at mid-latitudes of the northern hemisphere since 1969 was in all likelihood the result of those chemicals. the du pont co. said last week it plans to stop making them
epa administrator lee m. thomas told reporters over lunch tuesday that the epa and nasa would try to speed up the first scientific review under last fall's treaty by 31 nations calling for a cut in cfc production by 50 percent by 1998
thomas said he would not support bills in the senate, subject of a hearing wednesday, calling for an early 95 percent cut in u.s. production
a u.s. cut beyond international agreement might take the pressure off other cfc-producing countries to act further, thomas said, and would add little to ozone protection
sayed, a biological oceanographer, was supported in his work last fall on anvers island near palmer station by the national science foundation. he and the foundation wanted to see if he could extend earlier german findings that decreases in ultraviolet enhance plankton growth
the overseas press club sent a letter to gen. manuel antonio noriega on tuesday protesting what it described as ``harsh treatment'' of foreign journalists in panama city
the organization of journalists said in a letter addressed to the defense forces commander in panama that the arrests of eight journalists in panama on monday violated united nations rules on human rights
the journalists were arrested along with 20 opposition leaders when troops raided the marriott hotel, which serves as the headquarters of panama's opposition and the foreign press. the journalists were released tuesday
the letter, signed by norman a. schorr, chairman of the club's freedom of press committee, called on noriega to protect the rights of journalists to do their work ``free from harassment, intimidation and physical harm.''
a time bomb in a sack of onions being taken to market exploded on a rural bus tuesday, killing 10 sinhalese farmers and critically wounding 15, police reported
a spokesman said nine of the dead were blown to pieces
police blamed the explosion in north-central sri lanka on tamil militants who have fought since 1983 for a separate homeland for the ethnic minority in the northern and eastern parts of the island
the bomb went off as the bus neared ratmalagawewa, a village near anuradhpura city, about 100 miles northeast of colombo, police reported
nine persons were blown to bits in the blast and one died in the hospital. fifteen more are in critical condition,'' said a police spokesman at anuradhpura. ``all are sinhalese farmers taking their produce to towns nearby.''
he said, speaking on condition of anonymity, that the bomb was the work of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the most powerful rebel group. eelam is what the tamils would call a separate homeland in the parts of sri lanka where the ethnic group is dominant
more than 135 people, most of them sinhalese, have been killed in the eastern and north central provinces in the past 29 days, since the latest round of violence began. residents of anuradhpura said large numbers of soldiers were moving into the area for a ``cordon and search'' operation
in the southern region, a police sergeant was reported killed and a constable seriously wounded by a man who opened fire with an automatic rifle monday in tangalle, a town 90 miles southeast of colombo
police in tangalle said the gunman was from the outlawed people's liberation front, a sinhalese organization opposed to an indian-sponsored peace accord intended to halt the tamil civil war
the agreement, signed last july, gives some autonomy to tamil areas. sinhalese nationalists say it makes too many concessions
at least 220 killings have been blamed on the radical sinhalese group, which has vowed to kill anyone who supports the agreement
sinhalese, most of whom are buddhists, make up 75 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. tamils, about 18 percent, are predominantly hindu and claim discrimination by the sinhalese, who control the government and army
at least 7,000 people have been killed in the five years since the tamils began fighting. india became involved as a peacemaker because its 800 million people include about 60 million tamils, most of whom live in tamil nadu state just across the narrow palk strait from sri lanka
cia director william h. webster told the senate intelligence committee on tuesday that he has reorganized the spy agency to improve counterintelligence and strengthen security at u.s. embassies around the world
webster told a closed session of the committee that he has ``reorganized the counterintelligence function within the cia and appointed a senior official to head it,'' said a statement issued by sens. david l. boren, d-okla., and william s. cohen, r-maine, the chairman and senior republican on the committee
boren and cohen did not name the official appointed by webster and the cia did not immediately return a telephone call concerning the reorganization
boren and cohen said webster informed the committee of ``several new initiatives within the cia and the intelligence community designed to strengthen security at u.s. missions abroad and to improve counterintelligence in the cia.''
the reorganization ``will also combine the critical resources needed to combat the threat to u.s. personnel and to facilities overseas,'' the senators said
in addition, webster announced formation of a new, independent office ``which will report to him in his capacity as director of central intelligence,'' the senators said
boren said creation of the independent office ``grows out of recommendations on embassy security'' submitted to president reagan by webster and secretary of state george p. shultz in april 1987
reagan asked for the recommendations after reports of widespread security leaks and espionage at the u.s. embassy in moscow
the report recommended that the director of central intelligence certify the security conditions of all existing embassies and of all new facilities before they are put into operation
an earlier report by the senate intelligence committee cited a need for ``cia initiatives to improve both its counterintelligence efforts and its career opportunities in counterintelligence.''
that report, issued in november 1986, stressed what it called ``the added requirements for counterintelligence support in intelligence collection programs.''
utah's attorney general has blasted independent counsel lawrence walsh for asking judicial officials around the country for help in the iran-contra case, but others appear unconcerned about walsh's activity
i wasn't going to give lawrence walsh's people the time of day,'' david wilkinson, the utah official said, commenting on a letter he received from the independent counsel's office
jeffrey toobin, an associate in walsh's office, sent a letter march 15 to u.s. attorneys and attorneys general in 50 states seeking information about other cases involving immunity
james wieghart, walsh's spokesman, said monday the letter was a routine request to ensure that prosecutors are up-to-date on the most recent case law
the letter asks judicial officials for ``anything you think might be helpful _ established procedures, transcripts, briefs or even informal office lore.'' the existence of the letter was first revealed on the editorial page of the wall street journal
defendants in the iran-contra case are expected to challenge walsh on immunity because they received such grants from congress in exchange for testifying about the iran-contra case last summer
former white house aides john m. poindexter, oliver l. north and businessman albert hakim were granted immunity, but richard v. secord, hakim's partner, was not. the four are charged with conspiracy and theft in the iran-contra case
walsh cannot use any information from the congressional hearings in court, and he must prove that his data was gathered independently. walsh has hired former federal judge herbert stern to supervise the handling of legal challenges
u.s. district court judge gerhard gesell has set april 12 for a hearing on the immunity issue. attorneys in the case must file their papers by april 7
wilkinson, who provided the associated press with a copy of the toobin letter, said he considered it a ``little bizarre that an independent counsel would be seeking help from the state attorneys general.''
wilkinson, a republican, noted that there is a constitutional dispute over the existence of the independent counsels, which were created by congress under the 1978 ethics in government act
the supreme court is scheduled to hear arguments on april 26 on a lower court decision that struck down the constitutionality of the special prosecutors
wilkinson said his ``sympathies are with the executive branch, not the legislative branch.''
but not everyone was as perturbed as wilkinson about the letter
leroy zimmerman, the gop attorney general in pennsylvania, has directed his staff ``pass along any information or experiences which would be helpful'' to walsh's people, according to bob gentzel, his spokesman
attorneys in the office of travis medlock, south carolina's attorney general, are still reviewing the letter, according to mark dillard, his spokesman
alan ashby, spokesman for california attorney general john van de kamp, said he didn't know if his boss had received the letter. but he said the state and federal judiciary have a ``pretty close working relationship'' on many issues when the jurisdictions overlap
the wisconsin presidential primary comes at a crossroads for the democratic candidates, with michael dukakis trying to wrest momentum from jesse jackson and long-shots albert gore jr. and paul simon trying to keep their campaigns alive
the results of michigan have increased the importance of wisconsin,'' tony tsakakis, a national campaign aide to dukakis, said tuesday
after his loss to jackson in saturday's michigan caucuses, the massachusetts governor has stepped up his campaign schedule in wisconsin ahead of the state's primary next tuesday, tsakakis said
dukakis won an endorsement tuesday from former wisconsin gov. patrick lucey, who said the wisconsin primary and its 81 democratic delegates ``is every bit as significant as it was for another massachusetts candidate, john f. kennedy, in 1960.''
we've always felt every state is a must state,'' tsakakis said, noting however that wisconsin now has added significance for dukakis' candidacy
dukakis' third-place finish in illinois behind simon and jackson and his second-place showing in michigan have tossed uncertainty into the democratic race
we're looking to wisconsin to continue our ever-broadening base of support,'' said jackson aide bob burns. ``if we have reasonably good back-to-back showings in large industrial states, it will give us a head of steam going into new york'' on april 19
polls indicate the race is a dead heat between jackson and dukakis
jackson has won compliments from wisconsin's gop governor, tommy thompson, and even from vice president george bush
his campaign was diminished in the beginning by a lot of sophisticated observers, politicians,'' bush said in a wisconsin campaign appearance monday. ``they never gave him much of the time of day, and he's doing very, very well taking his case to the people.''
bush should literally walk away with the 47 republican delegates. rival bob dole quit the race on tuesday. the only remaining gop opponent, pat robertson, has made no effort here
colorado's caucuses on monday, a day before the wisconsin primary, are also shaping up as a jackson-dukakis fight
the worst jackson will do is finish second. but i think he has a good chance of winning,'' said mike stratton, a denver democratic consultant who ran gary hart's 1984 colorado campaign. stratton said jackson's liberal, anti-establishment message was attractive to many former hart supporters
in wisconsin, simon badly needs a good showing in wisconsin to keep his campaign alive. after his win in home state illinois two weeks ago, simon said he was pinning his hopes on wisconsin
gore also has campaigned heavily in wisconsin and has flooded television airwaves with his advertisements
gore's father, former sen. albert gore sr., said tuesday his son needs a ``respectable showing'' in wisconsin, which he defined as a ``strong third.''
american builders will be allowed to bid on japanese construction projects under a new agreement aimed at ending a trade dispute that has soured relations between the two countries
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter told a joint news conference tuesday he was pleased that the prolonged, on-and-off talks had reached ``a fruitful conclusion,'' proving that the two countries through negotiations are able ``to manage difficult bilateral trade disputes.''
japanese chief negotiator ochiro ozawa said he hopes u.s. construction companies will take full advantage of the agreement ``by taking concrete action to obtain construction licenses in japan and actually participating'' in the japanese construction boom
ozawa, deputy chief cabinet secretary for prime minister noboru takeshita, headed the talks as the personal representative of the prime minister in accordance with takeshita's agreement with president reagan in january that the construction dispute would be solved amicably, he said
it is my great pleasure to see a settlement that is amicable, mutually satisfactory and fruitful,'' ozawa said
yeutter's deputy, michael smith, said the agreement provides for the japanese government to facilitate the admittance of american firms to the bidding on japanese projects
it is up to the u.s. firms'' to take advantage of the agreement, he added
smith said the accord provides for u.s. participation in construction of the kansai international airport and some other projects on which the two governments had basically agreed last year
added to it were procedures for bidding on other public works projects financed by the central government, he said
smith said a third category being opened to u.s. bidders was local public construction as well as private projects franchised or approved by the central government
these include airport terminals which u.s. builders said they have been prevented from bidding on despite very competitive standards
the agreement means it will be easier in the future for them to enter the bidding, smith said
deputy u.s. commerce secretary w. allen moore told reporters, ``our side feels fairly good about the outcome of these talks, but the real proof of access will be in the future.''
moore said commerce secretary c. william verity next week plans to call heads of major u.s. construction companies to washington and ``urge them to take advantage of what we sincerely believe is a real opportunity.''
officials said that besides the multibillion-dollar kansai airport project off osaka the agreement specifically covers entry of u.s. builders into the bidding for work on such projects as the tokyo bay causeway, the new headquarters of nippon telegraph and telephone public corp., the tokyo haneda airport, coastline development, a new hiroshima airport, the tokyo bay redevelopment project, the akashi straits bridge, the ise coastal road south of nagoya, the new port 21 planned for yokohama and a new kansai research city planned for the osaka-kobe area
first lady nancy reagan, who underwent successful breast cancer surgery last october, received a surprise ``courage award'' from the american cancer society on tuesday for encouraging other women to seek early detection of the disease
i can't say this is an award i dreamed of getting when i was growing up, but if you can help other people deal with this problem, that makes you feel good,'' she said. ``i hope that's what has happened.''
mrs. reagan received the award during a rose garden ceremony for 60 award winners including actress jill ireland, who is the society's honorary fund-raising chairman
mrs. reagan and the actress both had a breast removed because of malignant tumors. the society said the president's wife was honored for her example of ``strength and courage'' in overcoming breast surgery and encouraging other women to use mammography, an x-ray technique for early detection of breast tumors
president reagan told the ``courage award'' winners they had proved that ``fear was not the end for you but a challenge'' to triumph over cancer and help others confront the disease
people need to know that cancer isn't something to run and hide from, but cancer is a fact that must be faced and dealt with,'' he said
reagan said he and his wife learned that ``good medical supervision, early detection and prompt treatment were the keys to victory over cancer.''
reagan underwent surgery in july 13, 1985, for removal of a small, malignant polyp from his colon. doctors found another, larger cancerous polyp that was removed the following day along with two feet of intestinal tract. they said the cancer had not spread beyond the tissues that were removed. grafs for 7th graf pvs, dole's withdrawal</note>
republican bob dole ended his campaign for president tuesday, saying he was ``bloodied but unbowed'' by the series of bruising primary losses that finished his candidacy
dole withdrew before a supportive audience of senate and house colleagues and offered congratulations to george bush, the all-but-anointed gop nominee
my friends know that i am a fighter; i don't like to lose,'' the senate republican leader said. ``i have been beaten before, and no doubt will be again. but i have never been defeated and never will be.''
dole, the kansas senator, had signaled for days that he was ready to bow to the inevitable
one thing you learn how to do pretty well in our business is to count,'' he said in his withdrawal announcement. ``you come to trust your instincts to tell you when it's over, and in my heart i know the time is now. ..
so i return to the senate as the republican leader ... ready to do all i can to elect republicans in november and doing all i can for our nominee, george bush.''
bush, in wisconsin, said he had telephoned dole to thank him for a ``very generous statement.'' he added, ``it's been a hard-fought campaign and i respect the tenacity of bob dole.''
pat robertson, in a statement distributed from his headquarters in chesapeake, va., praised dole as ``a magnificent competitor.'' the former television evangelist, with almost no delegate support, conceded ``it seems obvious'' that bush will be the nominee but said anew that he won't withdraw from the gop contest
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said there was no change in president reagan's policy of neutrality, despite dole's action
dole made his exit before an audience jammed into the senate caucus room, a historic room where john f. kennedy launched his presidential bid and site of the senate watergate hearings 15 years ago and the iran-contra hearings a year ago
surveying the crowd and hearing an effusive introduction by sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., dole began by saying: ``maybe i ought to change this.''
his withdrawal came on the day of the primary in connecticut, one of several home states for bush where another dole loss was certain. dole had for a time hoped to hang on until next week's primary in wisconsin, but his outlook was hardly better there, and bush's delegate lead appeared insurmountable
dole's candidacy took off in iowa's caucuses, a farm state where he benefited from his rural roots in neighboring kansas. he won the lead-off delegate event, leaving bush stunned with a third place finish behind former television evangelist pat robertson
for almost a week dole looked like a good bet for the gop nomination. but his chances were frozen in new hampshire
he relied on a surge in popularity there built on his iowa success. however, in what he later conceded was a tactical mistake, he didn't counter tough bush television ads suggesting dole would raise taxes. new hampshire dealt him a loss from which he could not recover
dole's campaign was beset by internal divisions and vacillation. critics said it was a reflection of dole himself, calling him a consummate legislator but lacking in executive experience and unable to delegate authority
his campaign was in turmoil after his new hampshire loss, and the division between campaign manager bill brock and two conservative campaign consultants broke into the open. brock fired them in full view of reporters, ordering them off the campaign plane
dole's strategy for winning the white house was based primarily on winning the first two contests, and when he fell short in new hampshire his candidacy collapsed
he found himself far behind bush in the southern primaries on super tuesday three weeks later. unable to focus his energies on his best opportunities, he lost everywhere
dole couldn't turn the race around in illinois and was effectively out of the running
he campaigned last week in wisconsin, but public opinion polls indicated a 2-to-1 bush lead. by week's end, dole appeared to be weary of waging a campaign that was only going through the motions
i can read the numbers and i probably know what's happening,'' he said
we need to keep a republican in the white house. that's where i'm coming from,'' he said. ``and if it can't be me, it will be george bush.''
dole, the 1976 vice presidential nominee in gerald ford's losing re-election bid, ran for the presidential nomination in 1980. that quickly ended in failure as ronald reagan won
eight years later, dole was frustrated by a feeling that he still had to run against reagan. bush, reagan's loyal vice president, inherited many of the president's supporters despite dole's best efforts
i'm sort of running against the ghost of ronald reagan,'' dole said recently
dole attacked bush as lacking leadership qualities, as having a full resume but no real experience, and for involvement in the reagan administration's major disaster, the iran-contra affair
none of it stuck
dole tried repeatedly to stir resentment against bush and his patrician background. but dole's argument that he himself was ``one of us'' apparently won over only iowans
he was always dogged by a reputation for meanness, begun in the public's mind when he played the hatchet-man role on the 1976 ticket. although he tried to soften that persona, he sometimes revealed bitterness
the night of his new hampshire loss, he accused bush of ``lying'' about the dole record during a joint live television interview
fiery evangelist jimmy swaggart was ordered tuesday not to preach from the pulpit or his television show for at least a year while he is rehabilitated from ``moral failure'' that reportedly included paying a prostitute to pose nude
in announcing its decision, the assemblies of god elders disregarded a more lenient three-month suspension recommended by the church in louisiana. the national church included provisions for two years of rehabilitation and counseling to begin when swaggart has agreed to rehabilitation in writing
louisiana district officials refused comment, as did the jimmy swaggart worldwide ministries in baton rouge, la. but a spokesman said swaggart's ministry would have a statement wednesday
swaggart is the latest evangelist to be forced from the pulpit. his accuser, marvin gorman, was forced from the assemblies of god when he admitted to an immoral act with a woman. and jim and tammy bakker were forced from their ptl ministry in a scandal that included a sexual encounter between bakker and young female follower
it is hoped that jimmy swaggart will agree to this program of rehabilitation and that such program will be redemptive and restorative in the life and ministry of our brother,'' the rev. g. raymond carlson, the church's general superintendent, said in a statement
people approved by the church would supervise the rehabilitation, carlson said. he provided no other details
if he does not accept, then the executive presbytery would take action to dismiss him,'' carlson said at a news conference
under the terms of rehabilitation, swaggart would be barred from his pulpit for at least a year and would have to stop distributing videotaped services that have enabled him to build a worldwide congregation
he will not be in the pulpit and he would not participate in that kind of ministry _ he would not address his congregation, per se,'' carlson said at the news conference. ``i believe we are asking him to be absent from television ministry.''
church officials say swaggart confessed to them in detail but they have refused to make his transgression public. reports have linked him to a prostitute who says he paid her to pose naked
carlson said he called swaggart on tuesday to inform him of the church's decision, but the two did not discuss whether swaggart would accept rehabilitation
he thanked me,'' carlson said. ``he expressed thanks, and i had prayer with him over the telephone.''
swaggart has 30 days to appeal to the 13-member executive presbytery, which serves as a board of directors and which set the terms of rehabilitation
church spokeswoman juleen turnage said church elders, who have been grappling with the case since swaggart stepped down from his pulpit feb. 21, are unlikely to change their decision
the louisiana district had recommended that swaggart be barred from preaching for three months. national officials say every other assemblies minister who has confessed to moral failure has been barred from preaching for at least a year
the louisiana district refused requests from the executive presbytery to reconsider, and apparently also questioned the national leadership's authority to determine discipline
h. maurice lednicky, a general presbytor and president of the assemblies central bible college in springfield, said the question of authorities was the focus the presbytors meeting monday and tuesday
in the end, the 232-member general presbytory, an oversight body, decided that the executive presbytory had authority to discipline swaggart, said carlson, a member of the executive presbytery. the presbytors later endorsed, on a voice vote, the terms of rehabilitation
robert s. king, a member of the louisiana district council from lafayette, said he disagreed with the decision
i feel his (swaggart's) ministry is unique and much depends on it. i feel god has forgiven him, he has asked god and men to forgive him and we ought to forgive him. ought to restore him to the pulpit quickly,'' he said
but lednicky and other general presbytors in springfield said they supported the executive presbytery. ``i think it helps not only the ministers but the general public to feel that there is integrity,'' he said
frank martin, a general presbytor representing the tennessee district, said the decision ``showed mercy.''
after swaggart's tearful confession to an unspecified sin, debra murphree, who has a record of arrests on prostitution charges, said he paid her to pose naked in a hotel room
in a related development, the national religious broadcasters on friday recommended terminating swaggart's membership, the organization's executive director said tuesday. termination doesn't become final until approved by the group's board of directors, which meets next february
`if they can't show the code and the logo like the good housekeeping seal of approval on their programs it should affect their donations,'' said the rev. benjamin l. armstrong, executive director of the 1,400-member organization. inserts 2 grafs after 6th graf pvs, there was ... updating with missile attack, claim two iraqi jets downed. picks up 7th graf pvs, nuri nayef ... with minor editing to trim</note>
iraq accused iran on tuesday of using poison gas in its kurdistan offensive and threatened to attack iranian cities with chemical weapons
iran, which accused the iraqis of using chemical bombs in the same area last week, said revolutionary guards were moving deeper into iraq territory in the northern campaign
baghdad's official news agency said iraqi warplanes raided two ships off iran in the persian gulf overnight, but there was no independent confirmation. about 500 vessels have been attacked by both sides since the war began in september 1980
iranian rebel groups based in iraq, said to include women fighters for the first time, appeared to have pushed into the oil-rich khuzestan province of southwest iran, around the town of fakkeh
there was no independent confirmation of the operation by the national liberation army of iran but the iranians, who claimed monday the offensive was repulsed, said their warplanes bombed ``enemy forces'' tuesday in the fakkeh region
on monday the rebels said several thousand fighters with tanks moved into khuzestan in their biggest offensive yet. alireza jafer-zada, a spokesman in baghdad, claimed on tuesday they had killed or wounded thousands of iranian soldiers
tehran radio, monitored in nicosia, said iran fired two missiles tuesday into mandali, 70 miles northeast of baghdad. iraq did not report the attack
iran's official islamic republic news agency said nine civilians were killed in iraqi air raids on four western and southern iranian cities. tehran radio said iranian fighters shot down two iraqi warplanes in a dogfight. iraq denied it
nuri nayef, head of the iraqi news agency office in cairo, said tuesday an iraqi government spokesman told him the military ``might choose a number of large iranian cities to be the targets of chemical weapons as a deterrent and punitive measure.''
he said the spokesman, whom he did not identify, declared that iran used chemical weapons in kurdistan last week and iraq may respond in kind
iran says iraq dropped chemical bombs march 16-17 on halabja, dojaila and khormal, three kurdish towns in iraq captured by iranian troops in an offensive that began march 16. iran said 5,000 people were killed and 5,000 wounded
western correspondents taken to halabja by the iranians last week reported seeing hundreds of dead civilians unmarked by wounds
most of iraq's 3.5 million kurds live in the northeast. kurdish separatist guerrillas, now backed by iran, have been fighting iraqi governments for decades, and halabja was the scene of a kurdish rebellion last year
baghdad has not confirmed or denied employing chemical weapons, but the united nations has said four times since 1984 that iraq has used poison gas bombs or artillery shells
iran has accused the iraqis of more than 100 chemical attacks in that period
on saturday, iraq's ruling revolutionary command council said it had the right to defend itself ``with all available weapons.''
at the united nations in new york, iraq criticized a u.n. decision to send two experts to to investigate the iranian reports and urged that another team be sent to check on reports of murder and torture of iraqi prisoners of war in iran
iran said its warplanes were in action tuesday to support revolutionary guard units it claims have penetrated about 15 miles into the darbandikhan region of northeastern iraq since march 16
the iranians say the invasion force has killed or wounded nearly 13,500 iraqis, captured more than 5,000 and destroyed 225 tanks and armored vehicles
iraq has admitted losing territory in kurdistan but has given no details
if the iranian claim is confirmed, it would be iraq's worst military setback since iranian forces drove to within six miles of basra, the southern regional capital, early last year
the house narrowly rejected a bill tuesday that would have awarded the states title to abandoned shipwrecks of historic significance lying within their waters, a proposal strongly opposed by sport divers and some commercial salvage operators
the house defeated the measure, 263-139, which was five votes short of the two-thirds majority required for passage. the bill passed the senate by voice vote on dec. 19
opponents complained that the bill was brought to the floor under parliamentary ground rules usually adopted for abbreviated debate on non-controversial bills, with no amendments allowed
the bill's supporters, led by rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla., were expected to try to return the measure to the house floor under different rules which would allow opponents to introduce amendments and would require only a simple majority for passage
rep. norman d. shumway, r-calif., complained that under the bill, ``there is no legal, binding or enforceable way ... to ensure that the sport divers' right to dive on these wrecks, even for purely recreational purposes, will be protected by states.''
rep. e. clay shaw jr., r-fla., countered that ``its passage will go a long way toward preserving these archaeological treasures,'' although he agreed with shumway that the bill may discourage private exploration for undiscovered shipwrecks
without the bill, said rep. bruce vento, d-minn., dynamiting and other abuses by some reckless treasure hunters ``would absolutely guarantee for future generations that these shipwrecks, these valuable pieces of history, (would) be lost for all time.''
vento said guidelines to be published by the national park service under the bill would protect historic shipwrecks in state waters while permitting orderly access by sport divers, fishing enthusiasts and others
the bill would give states title to the estimated 5 percent to 10 percent of the shipwrecks in state waters that are considered historically important. all others having no historic interest, plus all shipwrecks lying beyond 3 miles offshore would be governed by federal admiralty law
admiralty law awards shipwrecks and cargoes to the finders and permits salvage operators to claim a major portion of the cargoes they raise
under the bill, admiralty law would not apply to the small number of historically significant shipwrecks in state waters, and indian tribes would have title to shipwrecks on their lands. the federal government would retain title to any abandoned wrecks on public lands
until now, both states and federal admiralty courts have claimed jurisdiction over abandoned historic shipwrecks in state waters
the submerged lands act of 1953 gave the states ownership of all natural resources and submerged lands up to 3 miles offshore but did not cover artificial objects such as shipwrecks on those lands
secretary of state george p. shultz failed on tuesday to persuade the arab league to support his proposal for mideast peace talks
but a spokesman for the 21-nation group, which also includes the palestine liberation organziation, said the reagan administration seemed to be more sensitive to the arab viewpoint
the 90-minute meeting at the state department was part of shultz's preparation for his trip to the region beginning sunday night. he will try to nudge israel and a mixed delegation of jordanians and palestinian arabs to open talks may 1
shultz met with syrian foreign minister farouk al-shara', algerian ambassador mohammad sahnoun, saudi arabian ambassador bandar bin sultan and other league representatives
the league spokesman, clovis maksoud, said they disagreed with shultz on several issues, including the league's demand for a seat at the negotiating table for the plo
we think the plo should be represented on an equal footing,'' maksoud said
shultz met saturday with two members of the palestine national council, the legislative arm of the plo. but state department spokesman charles e. redman said monday this did not conflict with the u.s. policy of not dealing with yasser arafat's organization
both the united states and israel consider the plo a terrorist group. shultz has demanded it recognize israel's right to exist and disavow terrorism as conditions for u.s. acceptance
maksoud said the league and shultz also disagreed on the scope of a peace conference on the middle east. the arabs want the united states, the soviet union and the three other permament members of the u.n. security council _ china, britain and france _ to play an active role in arab-israeli negotiations
shultz would restrict the conference to launching direct peace-making talks. the soviet union and china do not have diplomatic relations with israel and provide modern arms to syria and saudi arabia, respectively
i cannot say we reached any conclusive agreements,'' maksoud said
still, he said ``the secretary of state showed a measure of openness'' to the league's views. ``we found the united states perhaps more sensitive to some of our concepts.''
shultz has called for an israeli withdrawal from at least some of the west bank and gaza, which jordan and egypt lost in the 1967 six-day war. maksoud said the league wants the israeli-held territories evacuated completely
house speaker jim wright has filed amended financial disclosure statements covering the past seven years to list assets he held with a fort worth business partner, including stocks, real estate and ``precious and semi-precious stones.''
wright filed the disclosures, required by house reporting forms, after failing to do so since he and developer george a. mallick and their wives formed the venture, mallightco inc., in 1979. the name of the business is a combination of the two couples' last names
in the past, the texas democrat has listed the company on his disclosure forms with an aggregate value category, but never has detailed the underlying assets of the venture. in some cases, the total values given in the new forms conflict with those filed previously
an aide to wright, marshall lynam, said the speaker had been simply unaware of any requirement for disclosure of the corporation's assets until his attorneys told him about it last year while preparing to put the assets in a blind trust
the corporation's holdings at that time were detailed in the blind trust announcement, but the new disclosure filings are the first public record of the trust's holdings and activities for previous years
on march 18, wright filed amended reports with the house clerk's office detailing those holdings for the years 1980 through 1986. the speaker's office did not call attention to the filings, and the existence of the amended forms was disclosed tuesday by rep. newt gingrich, r-ga., who has harshly criticized wright for alleged ethical shortcomings
in each of the seven years, the amended forms show mallightco's total value at between $100,001 and $250,000. the forms require disclosure of values only in broad ranges, so it is impossible to tell precise amounts
in 1980, the first year in which mallightco appears on wright's disclosure statements, wright's one-half share of the company included savings accounts and ``fixed assets'' worth less than $5,000 each; stocks and bonds worth $50,000 to $100,000; and notes receivable owed by wright (under $5,000), his wife betty ($15,001 to $50,000) and marlene mallick ($15,001 to $50,000)
the stocks included tandy corporation, gulf oil, american quasar petroleum and first national bank of weatherford, valued at less than $5,000 each, and supron oil, delphi oil and western co. of north america, each valued at $15,001 to $50,000
the value of the venture's stock portfolio declined over the next three years as values dropped and some stocks apparently were sold. at the same time, wright's debt to the partnership climbed to the range of $15,001 to $50,000
in 1983, the disclosure form adds ``precious and semi-precious stones'' worth $15,001 to $50,000 to wright's share of the assets. also added to the assets list is a $5,001 to $15,000 note receivable from the mallick company
wright apparently paid off part of his debt to the business in 1985, and his debt dropped to the range of $5,001 to $15,000
in the final year for which an amendment was filed, 1986, the assets list is enlarged to include ``real estate near orlando, fla.,'' with a value in the range of $50,001 to $100,000
the total values for mallightco were increased in the amended forms for the years 1983 and 1984, when previous filings had put the value in the range of $50,001 to $100,000
mallick has figured in news reports about wright's efforts to get a federal grant for the renovation of fort worth's stockyards, a project in which mallick was involved. wright said he had been unaware of his associate's involvement when he was seeking the grant
after criticism about those financial dealings and others mounted last fall, wright put his assets in a blind trust and said he had instructed his attorneys to sell his interest in mallightco
wright's attorney, charles m. levy, put the total assets of the speaker and his wife at the time at $187,317, not counting their house in mclean, va., personal retirement funds and 57 acres of property in arkansas. robertson comment; adds 4 grafs on mccloskey's lawyers asking for court costs</note>
former rep. paul mccloskey jr. said tuesday he is considering suing pat robertson to recover $400,000 in legal fees he incurred when the republican presidential candidate sued him for libel
mccloskey said his lawyers believe they can be prove that robertson made frivolous use of the court system in suing mccloskey over his statements about robertson's korean war record
at a national press club luncheon, mccloskey repeated the story he has told for years about being in marine officer training school with robertson and then being shipped to korea in 1950. mccloskey contends that while he and others were sent off to combat, robertson ducked combat duty using the influence of his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, d-va
mccloskey said he and others recall robertson boasting about how ``i'm going to call my daddy to get me out of this thing.''
robertson dropped his legal suit against mccloskey earlier this month, citing a trial opening set for march 8, the date of the critical super tuesday series of presidential primaries and caucuses in 20 states. he said the trial would force him to choose between his campaign and the legal case
however, mccloskey contended tuesday that robertson dropped the lawsuit because the evidence supporting the former california congressman's story was unbeatable
he said 21 former marines were ready to testify on his side and that letters from robertson's father supported his case
the evidence that robertson brought suit frivolously is in a letter written by robertson to a california politician in 1985 in which robertson said that mccloskey believed he was telling the truth but that his memory was faulty, the ex-congressman said
that would negate the veracity of a suit claiming mccloskey willfully lied about the former television evangelist's record, mccloskey said
now we have enough to sue him for misusing the legal process,'' he said
robertson, however, insisted he could have won the case
every testimony that was to be was already in the record. the record was closed. the record was complete. in the record, i won,'' robertson said at a news conference tuesday in chesapeake, va. ``unfortunately, the judge gave me a hobson's choice that i could not abide with.''
a federal judge dismissed the case on march 7 after robertston agreed to pay court costs, but not mccloskey's $400,000 in legal fees
u.s. district judge joyce hens green signed the order dismissing the case ``with prejudice,'' which means that mccloskey was legally the victor in the case
mccloskey's lawyers, meanwhile, asked robertson to pay $42,845 in court costs now that the libel suit has been dismissed
in a bill of court costs that was made public tuesday in u.s. district court, mccloskey's lawyer george lehner aksed for, among other things, $15,794 to cover the cost of taking depositions from witnesses and $19,458 for photocopying documents
lehner said this figure included $16,000 to make large-size trial exhibits of 30 to 35 documents
robertson's lawyer, douglas v. rigler, who has 11 days to file any opposition to the bill declined to say if he would make any objection. ``i would want to discuss that with my client, but just on first glance it looks extravagant.'' 4; corrects list thruout to show ties in 14th, 20th, 26th, 46th, 52nd, 56th, 63rd, 68th and 79th places, and to correct order of items 70 to 73. no pickup.</note>
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of march 21-28. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. shows from 21 on include only the weekly ranking. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 28.0 rating, 24.8 million homes
2. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 26.5 rating, 23.5 million homes
3. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 25.1 rating, 22.2 million homes
4. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 22.3 rating, 19.7 million homes
5. (7) ``who's the boss?'', abc, 21.8 rating, 19.3 million homes
6. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 21.6 rating, 19.1 million homes
7. (18) ``cbs sunday movie: too young the hero,'' cbs, 20.7 rating, 18.3 million homes
8. (9) ``wonder years,'' abc, 19.5 rating, 17.2 million homes
9. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 19.4 rating, 17.1 million homes
10. (11) ``alf,'' nbc, 19.3 rating, 17.1 million homes
11. (15) ``matlock,'' nbc, 19.2 rating, 17.0 million homes
12. (4) ``growing pains,'' abc, 19.1 rating, 16.9 million homes
13. (11) ``moonlighting,'' abc, 18.4 rating, 16.3 million homes
14. (22) ``valerie's family,'' nbc, 18.3 rating, 16.2 million homes
14. (24) ``head of the class,'' abc, 18.3 rating, 16.2 million homes
16. (34) ``abc monday night movie: god bless the child,'' abc, 17.7 rating, 15.7 million homes
17. (21) ``molly dodd,'' nbc, 17.2 rating, 15.2 million homes
18. (19) ``in the heat of the night,'' nbc, 16.8 rating, 14.9 million homes
19. (27) ``nbc sunday night movie: lincoln part i,'' nbc, 16.6 rating, 14.7 million homes
20. (x) ``23rd country music awards,'' nbc, 15.9 rating, 14.1 million homes
20. (16) ``amen,'' nbc, 15.9 rating, 14.1 million homes
22. (28) ``newhart,'' cbs, 15.8
23. (16) ``aaron's way,'' nbc, 15.3
24. (14) ``family ties,'' nbc, 15.2
25. (47) ``thirtysomething,'' abc, 15
26. (28) ``227,'' nbc, 14.7
26. (39) ``heartbeat,'' abc, 14.7
28. (38) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 14.6
29. (34) ``designing women,'' cbs, 14.5
30. (56) ``20-20,'' abc, 14.2
31. (30) ``hunter,'' nbc, 14.1
32. (41) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 14.0
33. (37) ``day by day,'' nbc, 13.7
34. (x) ``the bronx zoo,'' nbc, 13
35. (39) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 13.3
36. (58) ``the equalizer,'' cbs, 13.2
37. (65) ``mr. belvedere,'' abc, 13.1
38. (73) ``full house,'' abc, 13.0
39. (x) ``world figure skating championships,'' cbs, 12.9
40. (33) ``perfect strangers,'' abc, 12.7
41. (46) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 12.6
42. (5) ``night court,'' nbc, 12.4
43. (48) ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' cbs, 12.3
44. (41) ``abc sunday night movie: tootsie,'' abc, 12.2
45. (60) ``jake and the fatman,'' cbs, 12.1
46. (62) ``crime story,'' nbc, 11.8
46. (x) ``disney's totally minny,'' nbc, 11.8
46. (74) ``family man,'' abc, 11.8
49. (53) ``macgyver,'' abc, 11.7
50. (63) ``a year in the life,'' nbc, 10.8
51. (52) ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs, 10.7
52. (68) ``wiseguy,'' cbs, 10.5
52. (75) ``buck james,'' abc, 10.5
54. (77) ``beverly hills buntz,'' nbc, 10.3
55. (x) ``ncaa basketball: thursday,'' cbs, 10.1
56. (70) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 9.8
56. (70) ``spenser: for hire,'' abc, 9.8
58. (x) ``ncaa basketball: friday,'' cbs, 9.5
59. (88) ``probe,'' abc, 9.1
60. (86) ``hotel,'' abc, 9.0
61. (59) ``supercarrier,'' abc, 8.9
62. (53) ``dolly!'' abc, 8.8
63. (69) ``our house,'' nbc, 8.2
63. (67) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 8.2
65. (90) ``ohara,'' abc, 8.0
66. (72) ``disney sunday movie: little spies,'' abc, 7.7
67. (84) ``comming of age,'' cbs, 7.6
68. (60) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 6.9
68. (96) ``my sister sam,'' cbs, 6.9
70. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 6.6
71. (na) ``married...with children,'' fox, 6.1
72. (na) ``garry shandling show,'' fox, 5.2
73. (100) ``trial and error,'' cbs, 5.1
74. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 3.9
75. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 3.4
76. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 3.1
77. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 2.7
78. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 2.5
79. (na) ``the new adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 1.8
79. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.8. reference to retirement option. nbc says rukeyser not covered by early retirement plan.</note>
m.s. ``bud'' rukeyser, nbc's executive vice president for communications, said tuesday he is leaving the network to go into business for himself, giving ``advice and counsel to media companies.''
rukeyser, 56, has been at nbc for 30 years, the last 15 as the network's chief spokesman
for 15 years, i've been whispering in the ears of four different chief executive officers. i thought if i was ever going to do something else, try something on my own, it was going to have to be now or never,'' rukeyser said
he said nbc president robert c. wright reacted to the news by saying nbc would be rukeyser's first client
asked if he would be working with his former boss grant tinker, now head of gtg entertainment, rukeyser said he had had no such discussions with tinker, but added, ``i certainly would hope so.''
betty hudson, now head of publicity for nbc, will become spokeswoman for the network, rukeyser said
rep. richard gephardt said tuesday he regretted not doing better in the democratic presidential race but was determined to work in congress toward the same goals of his campaign for the white house
reflecting on his failed white house bid after filing for re-election to his st. louis congressional seat, gephardt said he knew his campaign was in trouble march 8 when he lost 19 super tuesday states and won only missouri
super tuesday was the hard night because that was when you really knew you were on the ropes,'' gephardt said. but he added there was a positive side to being out of the race
there's always a bittersweet in everything in life. we're disappointed, and yes, we wanted t  the 47-year-old congressman said he was somewhat relieved he and his wife ando do this.''   their three young children would not be thrust into the public life of a president's family
we couldn't go to a movie or a drugstore without an entourage,'' gephardt said. ``their lives would never be the same (because of) my choices, my success. so now we can go to the drugstore and the movies and be fairly normal.''
gephardt repeated words he had said monday in washington when he formally withdrew from the race and called himself ``the luckiest guy in thefuel-tax exemption for farmers
the senate finance committee agreed tuesday to grant a fuel-tax exemption for farmers and other off-the-road diesel users on april 1 and to make corporations foot the bill
however, the future of the proposed relief remained in doubt because the house ways and means committee, which must originate tax bills, has scheduled no action on the diesel proposal. backers of the legislation are holding out hope that the house panel will approve a bill this week before adjourning for easter week
farmers, fishermen and others who use diesel for off-the-road business purposes traditionally have been exempt from the tax, which finances highway construction. but under a 1987 law aimed at preventing cheating, they must begin paying the tax on april 1 and then apply for a refund when they file their income-tax returns next year
the finance committee voted last week to grant these users relief from paying the tax at all but, because of budget restrictions, it acted to provide the exemption on oct. 1. at the direction of the committee, sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, the chairman, introduced an amendment tuesday that steps up the relief to april 1
the committee is getting around the budget problem by tightening collections of corporate taxes. this would cost corporations an extra $508 million from 1988 through 1993, with the bulk of the additional money coming from expedited collections this year and next
under the change, a corporation that shifts its method of calculating estimated taxes from one quarter to the next would have to make up in the subsequent quarter 96 percent of the reduction achieved in the previous period. this change would be phased in over two years
providing the diesel-tax relief for off-road users will cost about $615 million during the same six-year period. another part of the package is a ``taxpayer bill of rights'' aimed at reducing internal revenue service powers in some disputes with taxpayers. these changes would cost about $517 million through 1993
other provisions would double the gas-guzzler tax on inefficient cars, mainly expensive imports, and limit the abilities of distilleries to dodge part of the whisky tax through what is known as a wine credit
the net revenue effect of the package would be to raise taxes by $104 million over six years
tom king, britain's minister for northern ireland, met tuesday with leaders of the main roman catholic political party in an effort to resolve a political stalemate in the troubled province
king and leaders of the social democratic and labor party (sdlp) conferred for about two hours on the political situation and new surge of sectarian violence in northern ireland
sdlp leader john hume said after the meeting, ``we are ready to sit down and talk with anyone,'' including the ulster unionists who represent the protestant majority
hume said the negotiations would have to be about ``how we solve the problem in our society'' rather than who wins power. ``we believe we should be talking face to face with the unionists. the sooner we get there the better,'' he added
hume recently met with gerry adams, leader of sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army. the unionists denounced that meeting, saying the sdlp was giving credibility to terrorists
the predominantly catholic ira has been waging a violent campaign since 1969 to unite northern ireland, where protestants outnumer catholic 3-2, with the overwhelmingly catholic republic of ireland
five people have died this month in murderous rampages at two ira funerals. the killings climaxed two weeks of rising tension after british commandos shot dead three unarmed ira guerrillas in gibraltar
hume said his delegation told king of their party's desire to see all factions work together to create stability in the british province, where more than 2,600 people have been killed in sectarian violence since 1969
a british government statement said the meeting ``had been arranged to consider the possiblity of moving to a wider dialogue, involving the constitutional parties, about the future government of northern ireland.''
the british broadcasting corporation reported king and the party leaders discussed setting up of some form of power-sharing administration involving protestants and catholics
hume said his talks with adams were not mentioned at the meeting with king
the hume-adams talks had drawn speculation of a possible temporary cease-fire. but irish nationalists insisted the ira had no intention of halting its campaign and hume told independent television news he was only interested in discussing a permanent truce
sen. albert gore jr. said tuesday that jesse jackson has a ``complete and total lack'' of experience to be president and criticized what he said was jackson's ``notion that there's a moral equivalence between israel and the plo.''
he also said of jackson, an ordained minister known for his ringing speeches, ``we're not choosing a preacher; we're choosing a president.''
jackson, campaigning in east harlem when told of gore's remarks, said, ``the senator should not discriminate against someone because they are a preacher, a priest or a rabbi.''
i assume that he is stimulated by his own status in the campaign to attack me. i am stimulated to keep hope alive,'' jackson said
addressing jewish audiences in new york, gore also criticized another democratic presidential rival, michael dukakis, for ``naive legalism'' in his approach to foreign policy and ``an exaggerated faith in the united nations.''
gore said he was dismayed by jackson's ``embrace of'' palestine liberation organization leader yasser arafat and cuban leader fidel castro
venturing where other democratic candidates have feared to tread, gore sharply criticized jackson's foreign policy views and contrasted his own experience and beliefs with those of the civil rights activist
other democratic candidates have shied away from attacks on jackson, apparently assuming he won't win the nomination and wanting to pick up his supporters. but there had been speculation that that would change after jackson's victory in last week's michigan caucuses solidified his position in the forefront of the democratic race
gore credited jackson with having ``energized millions of voters'' and having offered ideas on drugs and the economy
but i part company with him over his opposition to such mainstays of our national defense as the f-15 and the cruise missile,'' gore said. ``i categorically reject his notion that there's a moral equivalence between israel and the plo. and i am dismayed by his embrace of arafat and castro.''
as for dukakis, gore pointed to his disagreement with the massachusetts governor over a recent letter signed by 30 senate members. gore said he was asked and declined to sign the letter, which disagreed with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir's opposition to exchanging occupied land for recognition by arab states. dukakis, he noted, said he would have signed the letter
gore, in appearances before a civic group and a coalition of jewish organizations, said the democratic race was far from over and that jackson's sudden ascendancy could be as fleeting as gary hart's had been
when gary hart got back into the race and he rocketed to the top of the polls, a lot of people expressed a sense of panic,'' gore told reporters at a breakfast of the association for a better new york. ``this race changes from day to day.''
later, answering questions after a speech to the conference of presidents of major american jewish organizations, gore said he hasn't been afraid to criticize jackson
i have sharp disagreements with jesse jackson,'' the tennessee senator said. ``i (have) talked about his complete and total lack of experience in the national government. he hasn't served a single day in the national government, or had a single day's experience in foreign policy
he has said, `i'm a tree shaker, not a jelly maker.' well, some jelly has to be made in the white house, so to speak. if you need brain surgery, you're going to want to know if the surgeon has gone to medical school or has had experience practicing that particular line of work
we need a president who is prepared to tackle some of the toughest problems we have ever had in our foreign policy and our domestic policy, and we need a president who has the experience to do that job well.''
gore was applauded for his criticism of jackson
in his speech to the jewish group, gore contrasted his support of israel with jackson's recognition of the palestine liberation organization. he also said he was ``deeply troubled'' by a report of chinese weapons sales to saudi arabia and urged steps by the united states to discourage such trade
the tennessean said the new york primary on april 19 would be a critical test of his candidacy, but he did not say he had to win it _ only ``do extremely well.''
new york will send 255 delegates to the democratic national convention
reporters were allowed into the chinese legislature's small group meetings for the first time tuesday, but saw a limited amount of the free and lively discussion that has been ballyhooed by the official news media
in the tibetan room of the great hall of the people, seat of china's government, 19 delegates from tibet gathered for what was supposed to be an example of democracy at work
foreign and chinese reporters crowded the room in anticipation of observing delegates engaged in a free exchange of ideas
but many soon left as one delegate after another to the national people's congress read lengthy, prepared speeches, praising economic reform and china's open-door policy and calling for unity and perseverence in the ``great work of socialist construction.''
western reporters who attended other provincial discussion groups said the action was a little livelier as delegates interrupted each other to add remarks or to disagree
the reporters said they were surprised that their presence seemed not to deter delegates from criticizing the implementation of policies in their areas
but most speakers prefaced critical remarks by saying they agreed with china's policies of reform and with the report presented by acting premier li peng at friday's opening session of the congress
china has given lavish publicity to what it says is the increasingly democratic nature of its government. for the first time this year, there were more candidates than seats in elections for local people's congresses
the media portrayed the small group discussions as being the heart of the democratic exercise. the national tv evening news for two days has devoted nearly half its domestic news to showing delegates in animated exchanges
but in the tibetan room, 20 minutes passed before the first delegate spoke out of turn, and then it was to support his colleague's statements
at the 2{-hour meeting, delegates were seldom interrupted and no one expressed disagreement or a differing viewpoint
most delegates seemed disinterested, smoking absently and staring into space. through much of the session, the panchen lama, tibetan buddhism's second-highest leader and a vice chairman of the national people's congress, carried on a private conversation with his neighbor ngapoi ngawang jigme, chairman of the tibetan people's congress
western reporters said delegates in other groups took a more active role in discussions. ``there was a certain amount of give and take,'' one reporter said
in the liaoning province group, a rural school teacher found fault with government education policy and delegates frequently interrupted one another to disagree
the tibetan delegates and those representing china's other minorities used the discussion groups to cite what they said was the lower standard of living in many minority regions and to say they wanted more favorable minority policies. 4,000 palestinians in detention centers; edits thereafter to tighten.</note>
israel's army isolated the occupied territories tuesday, but palestinians threw gasoline bombs at patrolling soldiers and the israelis opened fire and wounded eight of the demonstrators
the unprecedented crackdown on the 1.5 million arabs in the occupied west bank and gaza strip was aimed at halting four months of unrest and at preventing mass demonstrations by palestinians on wednesday's 12th anniversary of land day, when israeli soldiers killed six arabs protesting land confiscation
foreign relief workers were barred from entering the occupied lands. thousands of police were mobilized tuesday evening to enforce curfews in arab towns in israel
arabs reported that demonstrators took to the streets in some areas, throwing rocks and gasoline bombs, and that israeli troops fired at the curfew violators. the eight arabs were wounded in the village of zaita, 40 miles northwest of jerusalem, the army and the palestine press service reported
among the protesters reported wounded was 13-year-old girl
in ramallah, small children tossed rocks at each other in the streets. they called the game ``jews and arabs.''
hundreds of protesters have been wounded since riots began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. the death toll stands at 119 palestinians and one israeli soldier, according to u.n. figures
defense minister yitzhak rabin and lt. gen. dan shomron, israel's military chief of staff, threatened for the first time tuesday to close the territories for an extended period
for now, the decision to close the areas is for three days,'' rabin said on israel radio. ``but i've always said we have to adjust our measures to confront every eventuality.''
in an israel television interview, rabin said more than 4,000 palestinians arrested in the months of violence are being held at army detention centers. he said that number included prisoners served with administrative detention orders
closing the occupied lands is intended to quell the violence by imposing collective punishment on palestinians and to keep out journalists, whose reports the israelis claim feed the rebellion
although general access for journalists has been withdrawn, u.s. television pools were allowed into the west bank and gaza on tuesday and some individual journalists managed to get past roadblocks
particularly harsh restrictions have been put on the gaza strip. the rebellion began there and the 6-mile-long mediterranean coastal area is easier to isolate
no human beings are on the streets,'' said rashad al shawaa, who was deposed by israel as mayor of gaza city in 1983. ``it's like a cemetery. the army announced over loudspeakers: `anyone who leaves their home will be shot'.''
he told the associated press by telephone he saw soldiers fire on a few palestinians who went out in his neighborhood
shawaa said the telephone call was the first he had received in 26 hours. telephone service to gaza was cut monday and it mostly remained out tuesday night
bernard mills, the u.n. relief and works agency director in gaza, told u.n. officials by radio: ``you have 650,000 people under house arrest.''
unrwa cares for palestinian refugees in the territories. about 650,000 palestinians live in the gaza strip and 850,000 in the west bank
foreign journalists asked the supreme court to overturn the order banning them from the territories, the first in more than 20 years of israeli occupation
robert slater, president of the foreign press association, said it refused army offers of news pools, but u.s. television network pools went into gaza and the west bank with an army escort
israel radio said the army made mass roundups of palestinians as soon as the territories were closed, arresting 600
according to the arab-run palestine press service, 120 were jailed under special powers permitting six months of detention without trial. the army confirmed making mass arrests, but did not give numbers
at west bank roadblocks, troops turned away a u.n. official and save the children director chris george despite an army announcement that the closure would not affect international relief workers. the army refused comment
both organizations said they would protest. ``it's a full-time job now to raise our complaints with the israeli authorities,'' said u.n. spokesman bill lee
george said half the 10 people on his agency's jerusalem staff were denied entry to the city
an ap reporter saw soldiers force merchants in ramallah to close their shops and confiscate the identity cards of some. the aim was to break the authority of the palestine liberation organization, which ordered arabs to open their stores for three hours daily
we won't allow another body to run things,'' military government coordinator shmuel goren said on israel television
israeli troops forcibly closed major west bank markets in jericho, nablus, jenin and ramallah, as well as in gaza city, said mona rishmawi of law in the service of man, a human rights group founded by palestinian lawyers
said kenaan, a nablus businessman, said by telephone that the army kept food trucks out of the city and, ``when stores tried to open, troops threw food on the ground and destroyed it. i saw it myself.''
the supreme court on tuesday granted a stay of execution to john henry selvage, who had been scheduled to die in texas after midnight
by a 6-3 vote, the justices granted the stay pending action by the court on a formal appeal by selvage
the dissenters were chief justice william h. renquist and justices byron r. white and sandra day o'conner. `soviet officials' and edits below to conform and trim</note>
workers stayed home again tuesday in a region of the caucasus whose armenian majority is trying to force the soviet bureaucracy to reverse a decision it made about local rule 65 years ago
my report today will be short,'' izvestia correspondent p. gutiontov wrote from stepanakert, the largest city of the disputed nagorno-karabakh region. ``city enterprises are at standstill, people are home.''
about 75 percent of nagorno-karabakh's 157,000 people are ethnic armenians, but the kremlin assigned it to neighboring azerbaijan in 1923. most armenians are christians. azeris, the indigenous people of azerbaijan, are predominantly moslem
izvestia, the government newspaper, also gave the first breakdown of armenian and azeri casualties in feb. 28 rioting in the city of sumgait in azerbaijan, and denied reports that children were killed
a curfew was imposed on sumgait after the riots but pravda, the communist party daily, said it was lifted tuesday because ``life in the city ... has returned to normal.''
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov told a news briefing some workers in stepanakert stayed home and ``certain enterprises are not functioning or are partially not functioning.''
telephone calls to stepanakert from moscow did not go through or were cut off
izvestia also reported monday that residents of stepanakert stayed home. dissident sources say the strike began last week, but their reports could not be confirmed
soviet officials, who have announced a costly program to improve social and economic conditions in nagorno-karabakh, will not bend to pressure from activists to allow armenia to annex the region, gerasimov said
we believe that problems have to be solved ... on the basis of realism and without undue emotion,'' gerasimov said. ``one cannot solve these complex problems with demonstrations only.''
we cannot solve the problem by mechanically transferring this region as some armenian officials want,'' he said. ``the more you study this problem the more you will see the whole thing is not as simple as that, as merely saying nagorno-karabakh must be part of armenia.''
gerasimov said the situation had improved but not enough for the government to allow foreign journalists to travel there
sporadic strikes and protests have been reported in nagorno-karabakh since feb. 13. the latest labor trouble is said to have begun last wednesday
izvestia quoted investigators as confirming the previously announced death toll of 32 in the sumgait riot. it said 26 of them were armenians and six were from azerbaijan. previously, officials had said the 32 dead were of various nationalities, and that the rioting was not necessarily an ethnic dispute
armenian activists had claimed the death toll was much higher and that most of the dead were armenians
it has been firmly established with evidence that during the disorder in sumgait not one child suffered,'' izvestia quoted investigators as saying. ``there were not 400 or 500 deaths, but exactly 32 people, as said in a published statement by the soviet prosecutor. included in these 32 were 26 armenians and six azerbaijanis.''
armenian activists have claimed that small children were thrown from the windows of maternity hospitals during the riot
izvestia said the strike would not help stepanakert residents, and accused activists of lack of concern for the region's welfare
its article tuesday and a report it published monday were part of a new, more detailed look at the nagorno-karabakh dispute
soviet media are being encouraged under communist party chief mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of glasnost to be more open about social problems, but initial reports on the nagorno-karabakh dispute were slow in coming and lacked detail
sovietskaya kultura said tuesday the government's plan for nagorno-karabakh would cost about $640 million
these millions, which are so necessary now for restructuring, the country is giving to karabakh,'' it said in a front-page article tracing the unrest to poor social and economic conditions
moscow dissident tamara grigoryants said police broke up a demonstration monday evening in yerevan, capital of soviet armenia, by more than 50 people demanding freedom for jailed armenian activist paryur arikyan
she said they carried saying, ``we don't believe in perestroika,'' a reference to gorbachev's effort to restructure soviet society. ...'' to update with final passage; picks up 3rd graf pvs, bgng: ``the panel ...''</note>
the house armed services committee voted deep cuts tuesday in president reagan's request for star wars anti-missile spending and his plan to put multiple-warhead mx missiles on western railroads
the decision came shortly before the democratic-controlled panel voted 48-4 approval of a bill authorizing the pentagon to spend $299 billion in the fiscal year starting oct. 1
the overall pentagon budget had been set in december during negotiations between the white house and congress over a budget deficit reduction package
the panel slashed to $3.7 billion reagan's request for $4.5 billion in star wars funds
the panel also voted to approve $500 million for research into putting the mx aboard trains, $300 million less than reagan had sought. at the same time, the panel increased reagan's request for spending on the single-warhead midgetman missile from $200 million to $500 million
as it worked on the bill, the committee also:
_voted 43-8 to spend $1.4 billion for a new trident submarine instead of using the money for two more aegis-class destroyers. that vote reversed a decision last week by the seapower subcommittee
_voted 46-6 to permit the united states to sell aegis-class destroyers to japan, as long as reagan certifies that the system is protected against espionage. aegis is the navy's secret, high-tech defense system for ships and the administration is considering selling four of the $1.2 billion ships to japan
the star wars decision confirmed the budget choice made last week by the armed services research and development subcommittee, and will result in a deep reduction from original plans. the $3.7 billion figure would mean that star wars spending next year would remain at about the current level
last year, pentagon budget plans called for seeking $6.2 billion in star wars money for fiscal 1989, but that was reduced to the $4.5 billion level by defense secretary frank c. carlucci as part of a package of reductions he ordered in response to a white house-congressional agreement in december that set next year's defense budget at $299 billion
that agreement has calmed the congressional debate about defense spending, but opened new fights about how to best allocate the overall total
the $3.7 billion figure for the strategic defense initiative, as star wars is known formally, was approved tuesday after the committee was unable to agree on four other proposed sdi amounts ranging from $3.1 billion up to the full $4.5 billion figure
the committee later voted to overturn a decision by the research and development subcommittee which had halved the pentagon's sdi budget request for research into an interceptor rocket that would be used to slam into soviet nuclear missiles at high speed to destroy them
known as the space-based interceptor, the program is consuming an increasingly large share of the pentagon's sdi budget. plans next year call for spending $330 million on that program, but the subcommittee had cut that in half because of fears that the technology is not as promising as other weapons that could be part of a defensive shield
the dispute over the midgetman and the mx involves a pair of nuclear weapons that have been central to a seven-year-old fight over reagan's plans for building up america's nuclear arsenal
congress has approved building 50 of the mx weapons for deployment in land-based silos, but the pentagon is now seeking 50 more of the weapons and plans call for putting the second 50 aboard trains. meantime, the pentagon has been lukewarm toward the midgetman, a weapon that has been a favorite of congressional critics of the mx
carlucci told congress last month that he thought the midgetman should be eliminated, but said he had included $200 million at the request of congress so the program could be kept alive until reagan's successor makes a decision next year
meantime, carlucci said $800 million should be spent for research into the rail-based version of the 10-warhead mx
the research and development subcommittee said last week that each weapon should be given $500 million and that subcommittee decision was ratified tuesday after several unsuccessful attempts to change it
three bombs exploded within minutes of each other tuesday in three movie houses, spreading panic in the downtown cinema district and injuring two federal policemen and two other people, officials said
the officers were trying to deactivate one bomb when it exploded in the second row of the normandie theater on lavalle street. bombs also hit the nearby atlas lavalle and sarmiento theaters, police said
a bomb was found at a fourth theater but experts defused it. three other movie houses received telephoned bomb threats but searches turned up nothing, police said
the explosions caused panic along the street, which is reserved for pedestrians only, federal police chief juan angel pirker said. theaters and businesses emptied. ticket-takers ran into the street shouting for ambulances
leaflets scattered at one bombing site read ``o.a.s.-m.r.p.,'' initials of a group that claimed responsibility for most of the 18 bombings and bomb attempts in argentina this year. it is not known what the initials stand for
hurt the worst in tuesday's bombings was a police inspector who had one hand blown off, officials at churruca hospital said. the other policeman also was badly hurt, they said
the officials spoke on condition of anonymity
two movie-goers, a man and a woman, were injured while watching ``the last emperor'' at the atlas lavalle, police said. the bomb exploded near the front of the theater, where about 250 people were seated
they (the bombers) placed the explosive devices in sites where they knew there were going to be civilians injured,'' said pirker
similar o.a.s.-m.r.p. leaflets were scattered earlier this month at the site of bombings in a downtown apartment building and a roman catholic church. some reports suggest the bombings stem from a rightist terrorist group linked to rebel leader aldo rico, a former lieutenant colonel
last year, rico led a brief easter week uprising at three army camps. the mutineers demanded an end to prosecution of officers accused of human rights abuses during the 1976-83 military regime
rico and other leaders of that rebellion and a similar one in january are held at magdalena military prison, 60 miles south of buenos aires
the supreme court meanwhile ordered freed four admirals accused of human rights abuses under the military regime at the naval mechanics school, a notorious detention center in northern buenos aires
the court ruled the four were among about 270 officers with the rank of brigadier general or below who could benefit from last year's ``due obedience'' law passed by congress. the law says only top-ranked officers who ordered human rights crimes now face prosecution, not those of lower rank who obeyed orders
at least 9,000 people vanished during the military regime's ``dirty war'' against suspected leftists, the government says
raul alfonsin was elected president in 1983, ending the military's nearly eight-year rule. editing ton conform. picks up penultimate graf, `on monday...'.</note>
a convicted killer scheduled five times to die for murdering a sheriff's deputy won another last-minute reprieve tuesday by a 6-3 vote of the u.s. supreme court, which has heard but not decided a similar case
attorneys for john henry selvage filed an appeal with the high court a day after an appeals court monday vacated a stay granted by a federal judge
selvage was sentenced to die for the shooting death of harris county sheriff's deputy albert garza, who was killed july 30, 1979 _ his 48th birthday. garza was trying to prevent a houston jewelry store robbery but had not drawn his gun
the appeal covered several issues, but selvage's strongest case for a reprieve stemmed from his use of the same argument the supreme court heard march 1 in texas inmate donald gene franklin's case, said attorney david cunningham
franklin's attorney argued that texas' capital punishment law keeps jurors from giving full consideration to ``mitigating circumstances'' suggesting life in prison as more appropriate than the death penalty
the supreme court granted a stay of execution to the 37-year-old selvage after he was moved from death row at the ellis i unit outside huntsville to a cell near the death chamber at the walls unit in huntsville, texas department of corrections spokesman charles brown said
by a 6-3 vote, the justices granted the stay pending action by the court on a formal appeal by selvage. the dissenters were chief justice william h. renquist and justices byron r. white and sandra day o'conner
in february, another texas inmate, calvin williams, won a stay from the supreme court about 90 minutes before he was to be executed. he used the same argument as in the franklin case, which the supreme court has not yet decided
the scheduling of selvage's execution on wednesday, shortly after midnight, marked the fifth time selvage faced lethal injection. each time he won stays
on monday, the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans vacated the stay granted to selvage on friday by u.s. district judge norman black of houston
the texas attorney general's office argued that black should not have granted a reprieve because the appellate court is reconsidering the appeal of another death row inmate from harris county, leon rutherford king, who like selvage questioned the selection of jurors during his trial
vice president george bush won the connecticut primary tuesday night and moved virtually uncontested toward the 1988 republican presidential nomination. his major opponent, sen. bob dole, withdrew from the race earlier in the day. 0476</first> ...'' and adds 2 grafs at end to update with vaughn comment.</note>
teachers' unions are ``standing in the hallways and blocking up the doors of reform'' in places like chicago with troubled public schools, secretary of education william j. bennett said tuesday
bennett, who has said chicago schools are in an ``education meltdown,'' toured two public schools there last wednesday at the invitation of jacqueline vaughn, president of the chicago teachers union
bennett said afterwards that ``two schools do not a system make. facts remain facts, and the evidence suggests very serious problems.''
mrs. vaughn responded that ``what stalls education reform are not teachers or teachers' unions, but the cutbacks in funds from his administration
mr. bennett appears to have a personal vendetta against our union, because every time we challenge him to produce the so-called facts he throws around, he insults us,'' she continued
in an interview with the associated press on tuesday, bennett said teachers' unions have been an impediment to school reform in some places
he said the american federation of teachers has been more open to accountability and choice than its larger rival, the national education association, but he said aft affiliates like the one in chicago ``can be as intransigent and mindless as the nea.''
we sat there together in a press conference and i said, `why don't you admit what everybody knows, which is there are a lot of teachers ... who have no business in being in classrooms?''' bennett said
he said vaughn replied, ``we don't think there's such a thing as an incompetent teacher. there's only a teacher in need of assistance or help, a sabbatical or something.''
bennett called that ``just utter nonsense or drivel. but that's the party line.''
i was struck and kind of put off by the party line,'' he said. ``every time i met with the chicago teachers union, every time they appeared, they appeared as a committee, and there were five or six of them, and they would say these things which are obviously the approved way of speaking. it was kind of scary.''
they're standing in the hallways and blocking up the doors of reform, as is the bureaucracy there. it's an urban school situation and the children are suffering,'' he said
bennett added that the ``intransigence of special interests'' such as teacher unions remains the biggest obstacle toward improved schools
mrs. vaughn said bennett's comments show he is ``uninterested in fair and objective appraisals. every system has good and bad in it, but he seems to like to single out ours.''
she also said the chicago union had a history of proposing innovative reforms. 1 graf after 8th pvs, bgng: once i, to include second interview with fried saying his departure not the only outcome of his deliberations</note>
solicitor general charles fried said tuesday the resignations of two top-level colleagues at the justice department are leading him to reconsider his future in the reagan administration
this development implicates every sort of question,'' fried said in the second of two interviews with the associated press. ``the possibilities include my departure, or that this is just a tempest in a teapot or many other things as well.''
fried, who represents the government in the supreme court, said he learned about the resignations on monday, the day before attorney general edwin meese was told
i got a heads-up, a courtesy call to let me know in advance,'' fried said of the departures
deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld, who heads the department's criminal division, announced their resignations tuesday. two personal assistants to each man also quit
told that acquaintances had said he might join the pair in leaving, fried replied, ``they seem to know my mind better than i do.''
he said he was home with the flu on tuesday and had a supreme court argument scheduled wednesday morning
i want to get through tomorrow and then i've got to think it through,'' fried said. ``i don't know the significance of these departures
once i get through tomorrow, i plan to think it through,'' he said in the first interview
fried, after the initial interview, called back to stress that his departure was by no means the only possible outcome of his deliberations
the 53-year-old former harvard law school professor became solicitor general in late 1985, succeeding rex lee
fried has been closely aligned with conservative legal theorists who have risen to power under meese
but one source familiar with events leading to the resignations said fried had been working with burns on naming james m. spears to head the civil division earlier this month when they were surprised to learn in a newspaper that meese's ultra-conservative counselor william bradford reynolds engineered the selection of another department offcial, john bolton, for the post
the resignations came amid a year-old criminal investigation of meese but there was nothing to link them directly to any new developments in that probe, department sources said
one source said the precipitating factor at this time was an internal fight over the successor to stephen trott as associate attorney general, the department's no. 3 post
burns unsuccessfully supported weld for this post, according to this source. weld was unwilling to stay when he was passed over for the promotion, in part because his two predecessors as criminal division chiefs, lowell jensen and trott, both had won the same promotion
this source said weld believed he was being punished for disagreeing on legal issues with meese and his top aides
burns was angered to learn that reynolds has gotten meese's private approval to name as associate attorney general frank keating, the assistant treasury secretary who supervises the customs service and the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms
another department source said, however, these fights might not have had so much significance were meese not under the cloud of a continuing criminal investigation. material</note>
the senate foreign relations committee voted 12-6 tuesday to approve a measure intended to bar future presidents from changing the current u.s. view of the meaning of the medium-range missile treaty with the soviet union
rep. daniel evans, r-wash., called the action ``a gratuitous slap'' at president reagan and said it might cause him and other gop treaty supporters to vote against the pact
in a separate development, sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the foreign relations panel, said another treaty problem has been solved with administration assurances that the pact does ban medium-range weapons based on such futuristic or exotic technology as laser rays and particle beam generators
the senate armed services committee had identified the issue of futristic weapons as one which had to be fully settled before the full senate acted on the pact
earlier tuesday, the senate met in unusual secret session to review conflicting intelligence estimates on the size of the soviet medium-range ss-20 missile force
but conservatives who called for the meeting to air claims that the soviets are hiding a large force of ss-20s, said few if any minds had been changed about the merits of the new treaty eliminating such nuclear weapons
the partisan dispute in the foreign relations committee over the meaning of treaty language stems from the controversy that developed after the reagan administration asserted in 1986 that a new reading of the negotiating record of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile or abm treaty permitted the deployment of a ``star wars'' strategic defense system despite the widely held view that the pact banned ``exotic'' missile-defense systems
the democratic sponsors of the language added by the committee to the treaty said it would block future presidents from changing the meaning of the pact on grounds that the senate had not been fully informed about the contents of the negotiating record or had otherwise been misled
sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., an outspoken opponent of the inf pact, unexpectedly voted for the measure after sen. alan cranston, d-calif., agreed to add language stating that a commonly accepted treaty interpretation cannot be changed except by the senate's ratification of a subsequent treaty or by enactment of a law by both houses of congress
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., told reporters later he believed helms acted out of a ``devious'' strategy intended to prolong the dispute and perhaps to torpedo the treaty itself
helms denied that saying that in its previous form the measure had been unconstitutional
lugar also accused the democratic sponsors of the proposal of ``a deliberate bid to embarrass the president,'' adding it is certain to cause a fierce fight on the senate floor
evans told reporters: ``i think this has made it a partisan situation. it's a gratuitous slap at the president.''
no one has worked harder for this treaty than me,'' evans said. ``but now i'm going to seriously take a look as to whether i will vote for it on the floor.''
the secret session, the first held by the senate since october 1986, was convened to discuss allegations the soviets may try to hide a covert force of more than 300 ss-20 medium-range missiles after the treaty banning such weapons goes into effect
i think they heard some things they hadn't heard before,'' said sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., who has long pursued the theory that the soviet ss-20 force is far larger than the 650 missiles the soviets declare they have
but sen. steven symms, r-idaho, told reporters: ``i would be surprised if any minds were changed.''
i don't know if it changed any minds,'' said sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., when asked to describe the three-hour secret session held for security reasons in the old senate chamber, last used on a regular basis in 1859
the treaty has a political life which is in large part independent of its own terms,'' wallop said, adding that many senators fear explosive political results inside the north atlantic treaty organization were the treaty to be denied senate ratification
the inadequacies of this treaty are probably tolerable for a majority who feel that the political consequences in europe far outweigh concern about the failures and weaknesses in the treaty,'' wallop said
symms said he doubts if more than a dozen or so senators will vote against the inf pact
but symms, wallop and other conservatives said the debate over the medium-range missile treaty has set the stage for a far more divisive and uncertain battle over a treaty making deep reduction in intercontionental nuclear arms
inf is the appetizer for the main course, the start treaty,'' symms said
start, an acronym for strategic arms limitation talks, would be far more significant militarily and provide far more incentive for the soviets to cheat, symms contended
the senate foreign relations committee is scheduled to vote wednesday on whether to send the medium-range missile pact to the full senate
the senate armed services committee voted 18-2 on monday to recommend the treaty be approved
but in doing so it ignited a new controversy, declaring it was not clear from the text of the treaty or the negotiating record whether the accord covers futuristic, high-technology weapons such as those using laser rays or particle beam generators. excerpts sted statements were read, update with gates was taken into custody, add possible parole time. picks up 10th graf pvs, `the judge...'.</note>
a judge on tuesday sentenced an ex-conrail engineer to five years in prison for driving three locomotives into the path of a passenger train, killing 16 people in amtrak's worst accident
although rick l. gates, 33, of essex, md., admitted smoking marijuana on the train before the jan. 4, 1987 wreck, baltimore county circuit judge joseph p. murphy said he did not believe the engineer was under the influence of the drug
but what he did in terms of failure to follow procedures was to show us that he didn't give a damn. he just didn't care,'' the judge said
gates pleaded guilty feb. 16 to a single misdemeanor manslaughter count and admitted in a statement of facts to failing to make several safety checks that might have prevented the accident
i would like you to know i accept full responsibility,'' gates told the judge. ``i will never be able to forget.''
gates and family members in the courtroom wept as excerpts from five statements from victims' relatives were read
in a plea bargain, 16 original misdemeanor charges of manslaughter by locomotive were consolidated into a single charge, reducing gates' possible prison time from 80 years to five
murphy also fined gates the maximum $1,000. gates was taken into custody immediately after sentencing. he could be eligible for parole after serving about 18 months, state's attorney sandra o'connor said
mrs. o'connor asked murphy to sentence gates to the maximum allowable term, while his public defender, donna shearer, asked for a two-year prison term, plus mandatory rehabilitation
the judge said, ``no matter what i do, we are at the mercy of people who will simply not behave properly behind the wheel of an automobile or at the stick of an airplane. there's nothing i can do that will deter those people.''
prosecutors accepted the plea bargain after examining vehicular manslaughter cases from several maryland counties and finding that none of the sentences were longer than five years, mrs. o'connor said
dr. roger horn, whose daughter ceres was killed in the crash, said he did not know what sentence would have been appropriate. he said he was angry that no railroad safety legislation has been approved by congress since the crash. ``that crime is right up there with mr. gates','' he said
mrs. o'connor said her office would join the victims' families in lobbying the general assembly next year to increase the severity of the crime
ms. shearer said she was disappointed in the sentence but doubted an appeal would be filed
more than 175 people were injured when gates missed a track signal and drove three linked conrail locomotives in front of the 660-passenger amtrak train traveling about 120 mph. the impact trapped riders in the wreckage for hours in bitter cold
gates was unhurt and his brakeman, edward cromwell, suffered a broken leg
the plea bargain was announced just before a trial at which cromwell was expected to testify that he and gates fabricated a story to cover up their drug use on the train
tests performed on blood samples taken from both men after the accident showed traces of marijuana and possibly alcohol in their systems, the national transportation safety board said
a january ruling by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals against post-crash drug testing is under appeal to the u.s. supreme court
although vice president george bush is running virtually alone for the republican presidential nomination, it will be at least a couple of weeks before he can gain enough delegates for a majority at the gop convention
going into tuesday's primary in connecticut, bush had 788 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the republican nomination. another 250 delegates, most of whom are the remnants of the presidential campaigns of sen. bob dole and rep. jack kemp, now are counted as uncommitted
if bush were to pick up all of those delegates, he still would be 101 short of the number needed to win the nomination
the connecticut primary could give bush 35 delegates and he could gain 47 more next week in wisconsin. minnesota holds the next republican event yielding national convention delegates when the party there holds its state convention on april 15
that convention, where 24 delegates are at stake, would be the earliest opporunity for bush to go over the top
however, if bush gains none of the currently uncommitted delegates, his road to the nomination will be a bit longer. assuming he wins every delegate that can be won from now on, bush would cross the threshold on may 3, when ohio, indiana and the district of columbia hold their primaries
bush's only challenger is former television evangelist pat robertson, who has 17 delegates and has all but quit campaigning
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis defeated jesse jackson in the connecticut presidential primary tuesday night and bid for a victory strong enough to reassure party leaders about his troubled democratic candidacy
president oscar arias met tuesday with three guatemalan guerrilla leaders and said he would try to help arrange new negotiations between guatemala's government and leftist rebels
he told reporters after the meeting that he would intercede with president vinicio cerezo of guatemala to see if negotiations could be resumed
it has been proven that peace and democracy can be reached through dialogue,'' arias said
cerezo's government and the rebels held their only peace talks in 27 years of fighting last october in madrid, spain
those negotiations were in line with the peace plan signed in guatemala in august by the presidents of the five central american countries _ costa rica, guatemala, el salvador, nicaragua and honduras. arias was the author of the plan and was awarded the 1987 nobel peace prize
arias met for more than an hour with rebel leaders rodrigo asturias, luis becker and hector nuila. asturias is the son of miguel angel asturias, who won the nobel prize for literature in 1971
asturias told reporters the rebels proposed another negotiating session to be held in costa rica next month with archbishop prospero penados del barrio, the roman catholic prelate of guatemala, as mediator
penados del barrio agreed earlier this year to the guerrillas' proposal that he serve as mediator, but cerezo's government has rebuffed calls for a resumption of the talks
we place no conditions on these talks, instead we offer an open agenda to discuss the problems of guatemala and from there look for a political solution for our country, with the participation of all social sectors,'' asturias told a news conference
he is a commander of the guatemalan national revolutionary union, a coalition of three guerrilla groups that claim a total of 3,500 combatants
the central american peace plan calls for cease-fires in the regional conflicts, democratic reforms, amnesties for political prisoners and a ban on outside military assistance. trial</head> to update with prosecutor saying dealership sale would have no immediate effect, defense resting on second count, and to correct that witness who was admonished was trying to read from earlier testimony, sted from a law. picks up 7th graf, `l'ecuyer continued...'.</note>
while the arizona senate heard testimony about an allegedly improper loan to gov. evan mecham's car dealership, the governor's son announced tuesday that the family has been forced to sell the business to avert financial ruin
the confusion and questions this avalanche of negative publicity has caused ... has forced my family to come to this decision to sell mecham pontiac while the condition of the company remains solvent and salable,'' dennis mecham told a news conference at the dealership in suburban glendale
dennis mecham said sales have decreased dramatically for over a year as the result of mecham's political battle and its effect on consumers. the dealership was sold for about $4 million to a neighboring auto dealer, he said
dennis mecham testified last week that the mecham car dealership was on sure footing last july when his father arranged an $80,000 loan to the business from a protocol fund. the prosecution has sought to show that mecham pontiac was in desperate straits and needed the money. the governor denies this
prosecutors said the sale would have no effect on mecham's impeachment tral at this time
mecham attorney jerris leonard said he was sure mecham would reap ``a substantial amount of money'' from the sale although not as much if he had sold before the political crisis
leonard rested his case late tuesday on the $80,000 loan count, and the prosecution said it would call at least one rebuttal witness before closing its evidence on the charge wednesday
senators then would decide whether to vote on mecham's guilt or innocence of the two charges already considered or move on to evidence on the third and last count
meanwhile, a defense witness who testified that the $80,000 loan was ``legal but stupid,'' was threatened with contempt of court
the warning to political consultant and lawyer robert l'ecuyer from presiding officer frank x. gordon came at mecham's impeachment trial as l'ecuyer tried to blunt a piercing cross-examination by reading sections of another witness' earlier testimony about which he had not been questioned
l'ecuyer continued his discourse even after gordon, the chief justice of the arizona supreme court, ruled him out of order
mr. l'ecuyer,'' you see this thing in my hand?'' gordon asked, pointing his gavel at the witness
i have been a judge for 26 years, sir. i have never had to rap this gavel and find a lawyer in contempt but you are tempting me.''
i am properly admonished,'' said l'ecuyer
earlier, l'ecuyer was admonished for trying to read a lengthy statement to defuse a prosecution disclosure that he had been reprimanded by the arizona bar for unethical conduct in 1979 and voluntarily stopped practicing law for three years
he admitted that he improperly borrowed $5,500 from a client's trust fund which he said was in lieu of his fee
and your defense was that you were borrowing at a higher rate of interest than it could otherwise get?'' prosecutor paul eckstein asked to laughter from the gallery
part of mecham's defense on the charge that he misused the protocol fund by loaning $80,000 to his mecham pontiac dealership was that he borrowed the money at a higher rate of interest than it was receiving at the bank
asked by mecham lawyer jerris leonard whether he knew of any law that made the governor's loan illegal, l'ecuyer replied: ``i know of no such law.''
l'ecuyer testified, ``i told the governor when i found out that it was stupid. i thought it was legal but stupid.''
mecham contends the protocol fund was not public money because it was raised by his inaugural committee to pay off campaign debts
when state law barred that use, the money was placed in a fund for such uses as the governor's trips and entertainment to promote arizona's image
l'ecuyer, who was hired by mecham to analyze laws relating to the public funds issue, said, he concluded that the money raised by the inaugural committee remained private and in mecham's control
the status of the funds is they are purely private funds of a private unincorporated organization in that association's bank account,'' he said
eckstein noted that the chairman of mecham's inaugural committee, william long, has said his committee ceased to exist after its funds were transferred into the protocol fund
l'ecuyer said he felt long was not qualified to make that decision, which he said he considered a legal opinion
mecham, who testified earlier this week on the loan charge, also is accused of thwarting investigation of an alleged death threat on a grand jury witness and concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
the campaign loan, for which mecham faces felony charges and a criminal trial april 21, is scheduled to become the focus of the impeachment trial later this week
on tuesday, maricopa county superior court judge michael ryan rejected two defense motions to dismiss charges against mecham in the criminal case
the defense had claimed mecham was being selectively prosecuted and prosecuted under the wrong law. the judge also refused to separate mecham's case from that of a co-defendant, his brother willard, who was his 1986 campaign treasurer
mecham, the first u.s. governor impeached in six decades, also faces a recall election may 17. update with texaco's statement, stock's closing price, and to correct in 8th graf pvs that pickens seeking up to 15 percent of shares, sted more than 15 percent. picks up 9th graf, `in addition...'. version moved on the financial wire.</note>
the investment firm kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. stirred up the waters around texaco inc. on tuesday, saying it will seek federal approval to acquire up to 15 percent of the oil giant's stock
kohlberg kravis, which has carried out some of the largest leveraged buyouts in u.s. history, said an affiliate already has acquired 11.95 million texaco shares, or about 4.9 percent of the roughly 242 million shares outstanding
a statement said the shares had been purchased ``some months ago in the open market.''
at its the white plains, n.y., headquarters, texaco's response was upbeat
kohlberg kravis roberts has in past situations demonstrated an ability to be a constructive shareholder, which recognizes the importance of building value for the long term,'' the company said in a statement. ``we have no indication that their intentions with texaco are any different.''
kohlberg kravis directed queries to kekst and co., a public relations firm, where ruth pachman declined further comment
investors responded enthusiastically to kohlberg kravis's anouncement. in nationwide trading of new york stock exchange-listed issues, texaco jumped $3.25 a share from the previous day's close, to $48
kohlberg kravis became the fourth party to express interest in texaco, which is to emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy court reorganization early next month
financier carl c. icahn is the white plains, n.y.-based company's largest shareholder, holding 14.8 percent of its shares
oilman t. boone pickens also has sought federal regulatory permission to buy up to 15 percent of texaco's shares
in addition, getty petroleum co., an independent marketer of petroleum products that was born of texaco's 1984 getty oil co. acquisition, has made a similar filing
the texaco-getty oil deal started the nation's third largest oil company on the road to bankruptcy court
in november 1985 a houston jury ruled texaco had improperly interfered with a move by houston-based pennzoil co. to acquire part of getty, then bought getty itself. the jury awarded pennzoil $10.53 billion in damages
while the figure was reduced by $2 billion on appeal, it still stood at $10.3 billion, including interest, when texaco filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last april
the company said it was forced to do so to avoid having to post an $11 billion bond while appealing the houston jury's decision
last week, a u.s. bankruptcy court judge approved a reorganization plan that will bring texaco out of chapter 11 protection. as part of that plan, pennzoil agreed to accept a $3 billion payment to settle its damage claim. no outdated material</note>
house negotiators reached ``agreement in principle'' late tuesday on a $50 million package of humanitarian aid for nicaragua's contra rebels and for children injured in that country's civil war
as part of the deal, speaker jim wright would agree to give ``fair'' consideration to any future request president reagan might make for new military aid for the rebels if the peace process should break down, said rep. david bonior, d-mich
the package was worked out in a negotiating session between wright and house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., and final details were to be approved by both sides at a meeting wednesday morning
the rules committee late tuesday approved ground rules for bringing the package to the floor on wednesday and approval by a bipartisan majority was expected, if no further snags developed
i think we have an agreement in principle,'' said rep. dick cheney, r-wyo
the tentative agreement would send about $2.7 million monthly in food, clothing, medicine and shelter to the rebels over the next six months. communications gear and other expenses would push the total six-month rebel aid package to $20 million, said bonior leader of a democratic task force on the contra issue
an identical ammount would go into a new program to care for children injured in the seven-year civil war, he said
it also would provide $10 million to finance a verification commission to ensure adherence to a cease-fire worked out last week between the contras and the leftist managua government. not included in the $50 million total is additional money to transport the aid
the money would be administered by the state department's agency for international development, bonior said
in addition, wright, d-texas, would write a letter to reagan and michel assuring the president of a chance to submit a proposal for new military aid if the peace process becomes derailed
the speaker would promise ``fair'' treatment of such a package, but would retain control over the precise timing of any final vote and the rules under which the package would be considered, bonior said. the verification commission would also have ``a substantial say'' in whether new military aid is justified, he said
republicans have said they do not trust the sandinistas to fulfill promises made as part of the 60-day cease-fire agreement reached in talks with the rebels last week at sapoa, nicaragua. they had wanted a guaranteed speedy vote in congress on future military aid to put pressure on managua to live up to those agreements, which include amnesty and restoration of civil liberties
earlier, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the amounts mentioned were agreeable to the administration
the issue is not money but how fast we can get it'' to help assure the survival of the contra rebels as a fighting force, he said. ``we want it as fast as we can get it.''
the money would keep supplies flowing to the rebels as they wait out the continuing negotiations over a long-term truce while based in cease-fire zones inside nicaragua. the aid would flow at a rate comparable to that provided before feb. 29, when the last u.s. support ran out
any new aid for the contras would have to conform to the requirements of the cease fire reached last week. that agreement said the contras would receive only humanitarian aid and that the aid would be routed through ``neutral organizations.'' the cia has delivered past u.s. aid supplies to the rebels. ^eds: 1st name boy in 2d graf cq</head>
the pro-apartheid conservative party extended its series of recent political victories by winning a special election tuesday to fill a vacant seat in parliament's white house of assembly
conservative candidate corne mulder received 8,437 votes to 4,726 for boy geldenhuys of the governing national party in the balloting in rural randfontein district
the seat became vacant jan. 13 when mulder's father, connie mulder, died of heart and kidney failure. the elder mulder had captured the seat for the conservatives in the national whites-only election last may
tuesday's lopsided vote was a further indication of the conservative party's growing support, especially among rural whites
president p.w. botha's national party holds 133 seats in the whites' 178-seat house of assembly, conservatives 23 and the anti-apartheid progressive federal party 17 with five seats held by minor parties or independents
there are three separate chambers in the white-dominated parliament, with the mixed-race chamber having 78 seats and the asian chamber 45
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the conservatives won two special parliamentary elections on march 2 in rural white districts similar to randfontein, which is 50 miles west of johannesburg
in the national elections in may the conservatives won 26 percent of the votes and they are expected to gain ground on the national party in nationwide municipal elections in october. the national party has governed south africa since 1948
the conservatives oppose all concessions to the black majority and say botha is capitulating to blacks and international pressure
botha's party has said it seeks gradual race reform that eventually would give blacks a say in national politics, but with the whites maintaining ultimate control
the progressive federal party has been losing support in recent years and did not enter a candidate in tuesday's election
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primary in connecticut on tuesday
83 percent of precincts reporting.       dukakis                 35 gephardt                 0 gore                     0 jackson                 17 simon                    0 babbitt                  0 hart                     0 uncommitted              0 total                   52
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primary in connecticut on tuesday
85 percent of precincts reporting.       bush                    25 dole                    10 robertson                0 kemp                     0 uncommitted              0 total                   35
jesse jackson drew one in five white votes tuesday in connecticut's democratic primary, far more than in 1984 but too few to deny gov. michael dukakis a big win, exit polls said
jackson's white support, up from about 5 percent four years ago, was bolstered by a nearly unanimous black vote, wnbc-tv and abc news polls said. wnbc said jackson drew 18 percent of the white vote; abc said 22 percent
but wnbc reported only one-fifth of the connecticut democrats said the nation was ready to elect a black president, and abc found that a third of democrats said they would abandon the party and vote for george bush if jackson were nominated
abc poll analyst john brennan noted that jackson's share of the white vote was about the same in massachusetts and rhode island and greater in vermont early this month, before jackson's victory saturday in the michigan caucuses
there's been a misconception that jackson has made some kind of substantial breakthrough with the white vote,'' brennan said. ``i don't think that's happened.''
both the abc and wnbc polls said jackson's white backers were mostly liberal and well-educated, rather than blue-collar workers
dukakis, the governor of neighboring massachusetts, won all demographic groups except blacks, and 60 percent of the democrats, including a third of those who voted for jackson, said they believe he will be the nominee
but the nbc poll of 1,700 voters also found some weakness in dukakis' support: 45 percent of those who voted for him said they wished there were other candidates running, said poll director laurily epstein
there's good news for him; he's swept all groups except blacks,'' she said in a telephone interview. ``but there's disquieting news in that it's not enthusiastic support.''
the abc poll, however, found that 79 percent of the democrats said they would vote for dukakis if he were the nominee against bush; only 52 percent of democrats said they would vote for jackson if he were nominated, and 33 percent said the nomination of jackson would cause them to back the republican
nbc said there was a hint of trouble for bush: forty percent of republican voters did not think he has told the full story of the iran-contra affair, and they tended to support him less strongly, epstein said
among those for whom it's an issue, it's hurting him,'' an indication of a potential trouble spot in the general election, she said
still, bush was viewed favorably by 75 percent of the republican voters and unfavorably by 18 percent, the wnbc poll said. dukakis had the best such rating among democrats, 70 percent favorable to 10 percent unfavorable
jackson was viewed favorably by about half the democratic voters and unfavorably by a third, while gore was viewed favorably by 40 percent and unfavorably by a quarter. only one in seven gore supporters think he will be the party's nominee, wnbc said
jackson improved his showing among black democrats as well as whites, winning 90 percent of the black vote compared to 69 percent in 1984, nbc said. though just 20 percent of democrats said the nation is ready to elect a black president, that was up from 10 percent in 1984
abc polled 1,277 voters in connecticut; brennan said the margin of sampling error was about 5 percentage points. wnbc's was about 3 points. picks up 4th graf pvs, and the; inserts 2 grafs after 6th graf pvs, bgng: facing the, with exit poll material; edits to tighten</note>
jesse jackson, who finished behind regional favorite michael dukakis in tuesday's connecticut primary, will meet wednesday with the front rank of washington's democratic establishment in a summit session
the meeting comes one day after democratic rival sen. albert gore jr. criticized him sharply for a ``complete and total lack'' of the experience needed to be president
gore took the negative tack tuesday in a departure from the general practice of jackson opponents avoiding public criticism of him
dukakis, who regained his delegate lead over jackson with his nearly 2-1 connecticut win, refused on tuesday to say anything negative about the civil rights leader
and the most prominent non-candidate, new york gov. mario cuomo, said it was wrong to talk of a ``stop jackson'' movement
jackson arrived in washington late tuesday to begin a series of private meetings with leading figures in the party's establishment _ which has been in turmoil since his smashing victory over dukakis in the michigan caucuses over the weekend
facing the possibility that jackson could win the presidential nomination and be the first black ever to head the ticket, democrats have been keeping telephone lines busy with private conversations about what the party's course should be
exit polls indicated jackson drew one in five white votes tuesday in connecticut's democratic primary, far more than in 1984 but too few to stop dukakis from rolling up a big win. he won a nearly unanimous black vote, according to polls by abc and wnbc-tv in new york
but wnbc said only one-fifth of all democrats said the nation was ready to elect a black president, and abc found that a third of democrats said they would abandon the party and vote for george bush if jackson were nominated
the washington meeting wednesday was set up by john white, a former party chairman, even before the michigan caucuses
jackson showed an interest in meeting with the party regulars and talking about the parts of the political world he might not be familiar with,'' white said
invited for the breakfast are such big washington names as clark clifford, sol linowitz, harry mcpherson, richard moe and clifford alexander
this did not start out as a summit,'' said ann lewis, an adviser to jackson. ``the original idea was to get jesse together with the washington establishment ... to listen to them talk about issues and policies and then to answer any questions they might have about him.''
also on hand will be state democratic officials. charles whitehead, chairman of the florida democratic party, confirmed he will attend
white strongly condemned any notion this meeting was designed to slow down jackson's campaign with appeals concerning the greater good of the party
it would be a serious, serious mistake for this party for anybody to participate in a stop jackson movement,'' white said
as the meetings were slated, the attacks on jackson began
in new york, gore went sharply negative on the other southerner in the race
i have sharp disagreements with jesse jackson,'' the tennessee senator said. ``i (have) talked about his complete and total lack of experience in the national government. he hasn't served a single day in the national government, or had a single day's experience in foreign policy.''
answering questions after a speech to the conference of presidents of major american jewish organizations, gore denied that he has been afraid to criticize jackson and took him on on the middle east
i also cannot disagree more with jesse jackson's views on many foreign policy issues,'' gore said. ``i categorically reject his notion that there's a moral equivalance between israel and the plo. ... and i am dismayed by his embrace of arafat and castro.''
in contrast, dukakis would not criticize jackson in any way, refusing to answer a question on whether he considers jackson qualified to be president
i'm not going to comment on that. that's something the people of this country are going to have to decide,'' dukakis said while campaigning in connecticut. ``in the last analysis, they're going to have to decide which one of us, of all the candidates, has the strength, the values and the experience to lead this country.''
he also refused to outline any differences on issues with jackson, something he has done repeatedly with the other candidates
that is a question which i have consistently refused to answer. because what i'm going to do is to take my message to the american people positively, confidently, with hope, with optimism,'' dukakis said. ``i assume he will do the same and the other candidates will do the same. the more positive the tone of the campaign, as far as i'm concerned, the better _ for all of us and for the ultimate goal, which is the election of a progressive democrat.''
cuomo said the democratic party is not in a quandary if jackson becomes the first black man ever to head the national ticket
i reject the suggestion that it somehow presents us with a dilemma if jesse jackson wins,'' said the new york democrat. ``as i've said before, the person who gets the most votes should be the candidate and all talk of introducing somebody to stop gore, to stop dukakis or to stop jackson, that's all equally wrong.''
cuomo had a one-word answer to the question of whether jackson could win the general election: ``yes.''
jackson's victory in michigan put a new focus on the meetings on wednesday
the meeting has ballooned in size and importance,'' lewis said, after jackson's michigan victory
democratic national committee chairman paul kirk, who recently praised jackson for his positive campaign style and message, was not part of the group of mostly former party officials who were invited
there was speculation in washington that some of the party leaders' objective in meeting with jackson was to tell him they do not believe he could win the general election if he were nominated
lewis ridiculed that notion, saying that jackson had asked for the meeting. she said that such speculation comes from those not invited to the meeting and who do not understand the current political situation. building</head> add new quotes. no pickup. name vaniwaarden is cq in 9th graf.</note>
a group that sponsors meetings for recovering alcoholics voted against buying an abandoned schoolhouse tuesday after wary park township officials imposed nearly two dozen restrictions
the rules would have prohibited members from gathering outside on the 4-acre property, which includes soccer and softball fields and a playground, and would have limited the number of cars on the premises to 35
those two stipulations were the ones most bothersome to the holland alano association, said spokesman donald hann
we cannot and we will not turn away people seeking help because they happen to arrive in the 36th car,'' said hann, whose association provides meeting space for 250 to 300 people in six groups, including alcoholics anonymous and al-anon
directors of the non-profit organization had planned to buy the former ventura school, a vacant four-room building in a rural area six miles north of holland, because its lease on a decaying warehouse expires may 1
the holland alano association finds it impossible to purchase the ventura school because of the onerous and unfair restrictions placed on the use of the premises by the parkship township planning commission,'' the group said in a statement after meeting tuesday night
the rules, which included a ban on alcoholic beverages and ``mood altering substances,'' were imposed monday night by the ottawa county township's planning commission on a special-use permit sought by the association
several homeowners had contended the presence of the organization would destroy the peaceful character of their neighborhood
i still don't feel it belongs in a quiet residential area,'' said carol vaniwaarden. ``it's too bad. they need a place to go and they are a necessary organization, but they should be in an area where there's more activity.''
hann said the alano association must begin searching for a new building immediately
we thought an abandoned schoolhouse in the country would be ideal for us, but i guess we were wrong,'' he said. picks up 6th graf pvs, ``he was xxx</note>
vice president george bush, given a lock on the republican presidential nomination by the withdrawal of sen. bob dole and bolstered by a big win in his boyhood home state of connecticut, declared: ``the immediate task ahead is unity.''
now is the time for all of us to join together and unify the party,'' bush told a campaign rally after learning of dole's announcement. later, learning of his lopsided win in connecticut, he said: ``let's get together, keep together and get to work.''
the kansas senator dropped out of the race earlier in the day in washington, pledging to ``do all i can to elect republican in november and doing all i can for our nominee, george bush.''
it's been a hard-fought campaign and i respect the tenacity of bob dole,'' bush said
the vice president said he had called dole in washington to thank him for the ``very generous statement.''
he was a tough competitor and i wanted to congratulate him on a hard-fought race,'' bush said
bush also said dole's departure from the campaign ``changes some of the dynamics. it removes some of the tension.'' he added, ``i don't like running against other republicans.''
former television evangelist pat robertson has indicated he has no plans to withdraw from the gop race, but he has only 17 delegates _ to bush's nearly 800 _ and is no longer actively campaigning in most states
dole's withdrawal came as bush was headed toward overwhelming victory in tuesday's gop primary in connecticut, and as he campaigned in wisconsin where he had been expected to easily dominate dole in this state's april 5 primary
bush said he intended to continue cmapaigning in states with key primaries, mentioning california, ohio, pennsylvania and new york
overall, however, ``the schedule will be somewhat lighter and i'll have more time to flesh out the issue positions,'' bush said
he denied that there had been animosity between him and dole. ``i don't feel that way, never have.'' he told reporters
although bush's camp was clearly elated at the development, one top bush supporter, wisconsin gov. tommy thompson, said that dole's exit could hurt bush's chances in the long run
i can't see the fact that the vice president doesn't have any more opposition is that good for him. it's good to have a primary,'' said thompson, speaking to reporters on air force two. ``those individuals who come out of a hotly contested primary can use it as a springbord to solidify the party,'' thompson said
bush faced hecklers and students chanting, ``just say no'' as he addressed an audience at lawrence university in appleton, wis. ``this is nothing. this is small bore stuff. a preview of the democratic convention that is about to come,'' bush told the college audience. u.s. base; no pickup.</note>
the roman catholic church on tuesday called for gen. manuel antonio noriega to resign and offered to act as a mediator between the strongman and opponents demanding his ouster
a church spokesman said archbishop marcos a. mcgrath had talked with both sides and received ``a positive impression'' that a solution could be found to the agonizing crisis that has gripped panama for more than a month
in other developments tuesday:
_a general strike continued for the ninth day, with shopowners keeping their stores closed despite a violent crackdown against government opponents on monday
_the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa passed through the panama canal on its way to its home port in san diego. the u.s. defense department described the passage as ``routine.'' but noriega called the passage ``a threat and an agression.''
_noriega said in a speech tuesday night that he would not be vanquished by what he said was an imperialist plot against him
_in washington, panamanian ambassador juan b. sosa, speaking on behalf of ousted president eric arturo delvalle, asked the united states to send a military force to remove noriega, head of the defense forces. ``we're asking the international community to help,'' sosa said. ``we're paying the price. but we've got no weapons. give us weapons.''
the call for noriega's resignation marked the first time the church had made its stance public. last week, church officials privately urged noriega, under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges, to step down
on monday, troops firing shotguns, tear gas and water cannon smashed a demonstration by thousands of anti-government marchers in panama city
afterward, troops raided the marriott hotel, which serves as the headquarters of panama's opposition and the foreign press
about 20 opposition leaders and ten foreign journalists were arrested. the journalists and most of the opposition leaders were released tuesday although carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a founder and director of the national civic crusade, was still missing
the crusade is a coalition of about 200 business, professional, labor and political groups that has been seeking noriega's removal since last june
president reagan's chief spokesman expressed outrage at monday's action by noriega's troops
we are all angry at this latest demonstration, at people being beaten and threatened,'' spokesman marlin fitzwater said, adding that the noriega regime ``is showing its true colors.''
the united states has imposed sanctions on panama's government and supported efforts by delvalle to freeze panamanian funds in u.s. banks
eight of the foreign journalists arrested monday night were taken to a military intelligence center in panama city and held for three hours. two other journalists _ ignacio medrano of cbs and nbc cameraman domingo rex of mexico city _ were arrested separately, witnesses said
noriega told a ``solidarity with panama'' conference tuesday night that the united states had spent more than $100 million in the effort to topple him
but with all the gold in the world they have not been able to bring this people or this commander or these defense forces to their knees,'' he said, shaking his fist to wild applause
delegates from about 25 latin american and caribbean countries attended the conference, but few represented governments
a spokeswoman at the marine traffic office of the panama canal said the helicopter carrier okinawa passed through the canal tuesday afternoon and was anchored at rodman naval base, a u.s. facility. she said she did not know whether it was loading or unloading anything
the church agreed to intercede in panama's crisis at the request of president oscar arias of costa rica, prime minister felipe gonzalez of spain, and former presidents carlos andres perez of venezuela and daniel oduber of costa rica
monsignor oscar brown, the auxiliary bishop of panama city, said mcgrath received their request monday and immediately began contacting ``all the parties involved,'' including noriega and opposition leaders
but brown noted that the opposition demonstration was broken up ``in the precise moments when we were pursuing the first steps of this initiative.''
he said representatives of the civic crusade ``who have been contacted have responded favorably.''
in a statement to reporters during brown's news conference, the church said a committee of bishops met with noriega on thursday and asked him to resign
last month, noriega engineered delvalle's dismissal and installed a new chief executive, manuel solis palma. the civic crusade and the united states continue to recognize delvalle as panama's legitimate president
earlier tuesday, ricardo arias calderon, the president of the opposition christian democratic party, said the government had reacted to the request for church mediation ``as if it just doesn't give a damn.''
referring to monday's violence, arias calderon said, ``they are responding to this initiative by simply going ahead in their repressive manner and doing it dramatically so nobody misses the point.''
latin america urged the united states on tuesday to end its economic blockade of panama, while encouraging panama at the same time to make its democracy more effective
the 26 member nations of the latin american economic system ended a two-day emergency conference, convened at panama's request, by condemning the u.s. economic measures as contrary to international law and the charters of the united nations and the organization of american states
the nations said they were opposed to foreign intervention in panama and asked washington to honor a treaty which turns full control of the panama canal over to panama in 1999
we urge the u.s. government to revoke immediately the coercive measures it has adopted against panama,'' organization members said in a final three-page communique released late tuesday
we reaffirm the sovereign right of all nations to decide their own economic, social and political destiny in peace and liberty, free from foreign pressure, aggression and threats.''
the organization, based in caracas, was founded in 1976 as an economic forum for latin american countries
u.s. economic action against panama is aimed at forcing the removal of gen. manuel antonio noriega as chief of his nation's defense forces and as de facto ruler of panama. noriega is under indictment in the united states as a drug trafficker and money-launderer, charges he denies
the reagan administration has imposed economic sanctions and has backed moves by former panamanian president eric arturo delvalle to freeze panamanian accounts in u.s. banks. the united states still recognizes delvalle as president, although he was ousted by noriega
the latin american economic system ``took note'' of a promise by panama to ``deepen its democratic system.''
the group said a request for economic aid by panama's cash-starved government will be considered ``with a spirit of solidarity'' by economic system members
individual delegates clearly separated their support for the principle of self-determination from their position regarding noriega
we have not come to defend a regime, or even less a person who has been insubordinate to civil and constitutional authority,'' peru's foreign minister, allan wagner, told delegates tuesday
our solidarity is with the people of panama.''
he called for an end to panama's political crisis ``through free elections and the removal of any obstacles that prevent this clear expression of the will of the people of panama.''
foreign minister jorge abadia arias of panama said monday his nation was ``fully committed to deepening panama's democratic system.''
mexico and venezuela were among the individual nations monday that indicated their opposition to outside interference in panama's affairs, without specifically mentioning the united states by name. new york; picks up 5th graf pvs, ``swiss red ...</note>
more than two dozen kurds burned on their faces, backs and hands from reported iraqi poison gas attacks that killed 5,000 were flown to four european countries and the united states on tuesday for treatment
some coughed violently, others lay motionless on stretchers as they were taken from an iran air ambulance plane that touched down in austria, switzerland, west germany and britain
one 6-year-old child, said by iranian and kurdish officials to have lost her entire family in an attack, sobbed constantly and called for her parents. at least four other children were among the wounded
the plane, dropping off six patients each in vienna, geneva, frankfurt and london, arrived in new york later tuesday with five wounded. the man, woman and three girls were taken to st. john's episcopal hospital in queens, where they were admitted in stable condition, hospital spokesman jim wellen said
he said they suffered from skin and eye wounds, burns and inhalation injuries
swiss red cross president felix christ said the iranian goverment was paying for the medical treatment
iran said the iraqi air force dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on three kurdish towns in iraq, killing 5,000 kurds and injuring 5,000 other people. the attacks first targeted the town of halabja, which had been captured by iran, on march 16. some chemical bombs reportedly hit the nearby villages of khormal and dojaila during the next few days. most victims were in halabja
dr. gerhard freilinger, department head of vienna's university clinic for plastic surgery, said the patients he talked to appeared to have been injured by mustard gas that may have been mixed with a nerve gas
it was possible the mustard gas was ``in combination with a light nerve gas, because they all have bad headaches, are dizzy and (some) may have been unconscious,'' he told reporters in vienna
mustard gas causes changes in the lungs that can lead to suffocation, burns the skin and also destroys bone marrow, freilinger said
the gas is heavier than air, which he said would explain how it seeped into cellars where the patients said they had been hiding during the attacks
freilinger said poison gas penetrates everything, including clothes
they can't run away from it because if they do, they breath it in even deeper,'' he said
in the past, iran has sent soldiers allegedly poisoned by mustard gas to vienna and other european cities for treatment. in july, iranian civilians were sent for treatment for the first time
since 1984, freilinger has treated about 30 victims of alleged chemical weapons attacks in the 7{-year-old persian gulf war. he said about half of them had survived, but the latest victims were injured nearly two weeks ago, meaning the damage done by the gas could not be reversed
freilinger said he visited areas allegedly bombed with chemical weapons in 1984 and had taken a sample of the gas for verification and testing
he said two of the patients, a child and a severely wounded iranian soldier, were to be placed in the intensive care unit at his university clinic
three women and a man were brought to private clinics in the austrian capital
in geneva, three children aged between six and 11 were driven by ambulance to the lausanne university hospital and two men and a woman were flown on to zurich and taken to the city's university hospital
a swiss foreign ministry spokesman said the six were granted visas for switzerland for humanitarian reasons. in 1985, five iranian soldiers allegedly wounded by iraqi chemical weapons were treated in zurich and lausanne. the following year, six more were treated in lausanne and in liestal near basel and two died
five men and a 6-year-old girl were taken to recklinghausen, 125 miles north of frankfurt. scores of iranians injured in the war have been flown in recent years to the west german town, which has several clinics that specialize in respiratory ailments
about 70 iranian protesters waving placards and photographs of civilians allegedly burned by chemical gas gathered at london's heathrow airport. three male and three female patients were due to be taken from the converted jumbo jet to cromwell hospital. quotes, other details. picks up 4th graf pvs, ortega spoke ... with minor editing to trim</note>
president daniel ortega urged the united states on tuesday to negotiate a return to normal relations with his leftist sandinista government
ortega said president reagan had promised to begin discussions with nicaragua if the sandinistas met with u.s.-supported contra rebels. a truce agreement with the contras was reached last week
we hope president reagan keeps his word,'' ortega declared. ``he has repeatedly said that the day the sandinistas sit down for direct negotiations with the contras, then the united states government would sit down and negotiate with the sandinistas.''
contra and sandinista representatives reached general agreement tuesday on the size and location of zones where the rebels will gather during a temporary 60-day cease-fire to begin friday
a communique at the end of two days of talks in the southern nicaragua border town of sapoa said two zones would be in the northern part of the country, two on the caribbean coast and one in the south
aristides sanchez, head of the rebel delegation, said exact locations would not be disclosed yet
still to be decided was how the truce will work, said maj. gen. joaquin cuadra, chief government delegate
he said it would be a main topic when talks resume in sapoa next tuesday
the agreement signed last week does not say if the rebels must lay down their arms during the truce
what is important in these meetings is that they have advanced,'' cuadra said
he called the talks ``an important step toward the permanent cease-fire.'' cuadra said the cease-fire will take effect friday as scheduled, even though the conditions were not agreed upon
sanchez said the talks ``are quite delicate. we are trying to guarantee the physical and moral security of our combatants.''
ortega spoke at a ceremony honoring anti-war activist s. brian willson of san francisco as a ``hero of peace.'' willson lost both legs when a train ran over him during a protest at a u.s. navy weapons depot in concord, calif., last fall
reagan told the organization of american states in november that secretary of state george p. shultz was prepared to meet with the sandinistas as part of discussions with other central american countries ``once serious negotiations'' on a nicaraguan cease-fire were under way
direct talks between the united states and nicaragua have not been held since 1984
on march 23, the sandinistas and contras ended three days of meetings with a signed agreement to work out a permanent cease-fire in the civil war, which began in 1981, and restore democracy to nicaragua
ortega's government refused for years to meet with the contras, insisting instead on negotiations with the united states
the nicaraguan president said tuesday: ``we hope he (reagan) is a man of his word and immediately fulfills his word to accept bilateral conversations to deal with security issues that concern the united states with respect to nicaragua and with nicaragua in respect to the united states.''
those talks should concentrate on normalizing relations, not the internal policies of nicaragua, ortega said, and added: ``we will not directly discuss the democratic regime in nicaragua or the democratic regime in the united states.''
washington contends the sandinistas broke promises made to the oas in 1979 in exchange for its support. the reagan administration says they promised democracy and delivered marxism
the sandinistas came to power in a revolution that ousted the pro-american, rightist regime of the late president anastasio somoza in july 1979. the united states supported the sandinistas initially, but in 1981 began financing the contras
in his remarks tuesday, ortega urged the u.s. congress not to approve any contra aid that would conflict with last week's agreement, in which the contras agreed to accept only humanitarian assistance from neutral organizations
u.s. aid to the rebels expired feb. 29 and sandinistas sources have cited lack of aid as the reason the contras signed the truce agreement
rebel spokesmen say continuing the war is unnecessary if the sandinistas keep their promises of restoring democratic freedoms
for the sandinistas, the agreement could ease internal pressures created by dissatisfaction with the war, an unpopular military draft, food shortages and a shattered economy
bernhard h. goetz on tuesday appealed his conviction on weapons charges in the 1984 subway shooting of four teen-agers, saying the instructions to the jurors did not give them the option of being merciful toward him
the appeal, which contained a legal attack on his sentence as well as his conviction, was filed at the state supreme court's appellate division by his lawyer, barry slotnick
goetz, 40, is free on $5,000 bail pending appeal. after a widely publicized trial, the man dubbed the ``subway vigilante'' was convicted last june on one count of third-degree weapons possession but acquitted of more serious charges in the december 1984 shootings
goetz said he shot the four young men, all 19, because they were trying to rob him when they approached and asked for $5. the men said they were merely panhandling
in the appeal, slotnick argued that the trial judge, stephen crane, illegally violated goetz's right to have a jury decide his guilt or innocence on the weapons charge by telling the jurors they ``must'' _ rather than they ``may'' _ convict, if they found goetz guilty beyond a reasonable doubt
the lawyer argued the judge voided the jury's power to find that a defendant committed a criminal act but also deserved mercy
jury mercy is indeed a well-recognized phenomenon indigenous to out justice system,'' slotnick wrote
slotnick also argued against the sentence that crane imposed last october: six months in jail and 4{ years' probation, plus community service, a fine and counseling
paradoxically, slotnick argued for a longer, one-year jail sentence, because a definite one-year sentence would make goetz eligible for parole in two months. his sentence as it now stands means he must serve the six months with the possibility of being jailed again if he violates probation
the one-year sentence is required because there is a state law requiring a mandatory year in jail for a weapons possession conviction, and the law does not mention splitting the sentence into part jail time, part probation, the lawyer said
the appeals brief also argued that a jail sentence would be ``unduly harsh'' in goetz's case because of his state of mind. slotnick said goetz continues to suffer ``psychic pain'' because of the intense publicity the case received
goetz had no comment on the appeal
a meeting including mother teresa, the dalai lama, carl sagan, and officials from the united states, soviet union and united nations will be a unique collaboration on problems that threaten human survival, planners said tuesday
most of the world's forums, national and international, approach problems only politically, which is just one side of the world's ``two vast structures,'' said the very rev. james parks morton, dean of new york's episcopal cathedral of st. john the divine
religious forces ``have been excluded from the debate,'' he said, adding, ``it seems that the adjudication has got to be both sides working together.'' morton is co-chairman of the global conference of spiritual and parliamentary leaders on human survival april 11-15 at oxford university in england
about 100 elected leaders from around the world and about 100 religious leaders of five major faiths are scheduled to participate. morton's co-chairman is sen. sat paul mittal of india
angier biddle duke, chairman of the international advisory committee for the conference, described it as ``first time in modern history'' for religious-political collaboration on such a range of critical issues. duke is a former u.s. ambassador to spain and el salvador
in dealing with dangers to life on earth, ``politicians haven't been able to do it on their own,'' said rep. james h. scheuer, d-n.y., who plans to attend the conference
we must merge the ethical and the practicial, the politician and the priest, the sacred and the secular.''
he and sagan, a cornell university astronomer, ticked off a long list of threats to the planet, includingtoxic waste, acid rain, depletion the protective ozone layer allowing in more destructive ultraviolet rays, the temperature-raising ``greenhouse effect'' of fossil fuels, aids, and nuclear arms
some of the effects ``are so serious as they can be described only in words of catholic theology as crimes against creation,'' sagan said
political leaders have looked at the problems without doing much, he said, and religions, ``repositories of classical wisdom,'' must become involved to raise consciousness
other participants include archbishop of canterbury robert runcie, cardinal franz koenig of austria, soviet academy of sciences vice president evguenij velikhov, u.n. secretary general javier perez de cuellar and macarthur foundation chairman thornton bradshaw
financing for the conference, expected to be about $1 million, has come from individual religious donors, said the conference executive coordinator, akio matsumura of new york
two network journalists beaten at their hotel in panama by plainclothes police flew here tuesday, and one said he wouldn't believe his experience if he had seen it in a movie
i've never seen anything like it in any other country, grabbing people like that,'' said ignacio medrano, a cbs cameraman who limped in a stoop as he was helped off a chartered private jet at miami international airport. ``if we'd seen it in a movie, i would've said they were lying.''
medrano was admitted to mount sinai medical center in satisfactory condition tuesday night with broken ribs, a hospital spokeswoman said. before being taken there by ambulance, he said x-rays in panama had indicated no broken bones, but his ribs had turned purple and his legs ached from a beating with a nightstick
at least 10 foreign journalists and 20 opposition leaders were arrested monday when troops raided the marriott hotel in panama city. most were released by tuesday
medrano said he came to the aid of nbc cameraman domingo rex of mexico city, who said he suffered a broken nose when punched by a plainclothes security agent. the officer broke his wrist throwing the punch, rex said
he tried to grab my camera and we started fighting. he got real mad,'' said rex, whose nose was covered with gauze and tape. ``at this point, ignacio medrano tried to save me and they beat him too.''
it is really scary because they are up. they are looking for the press. they were after them,'' rex said, adding he paid a $365 fine to be released from jail, returned to his hotel and left the country
at one point, i was really scared a lot, scared about leaving this place alive,'' said rex, who had been in panama for 17 days. ``i decided it was time to go.''
people in the hotel, which serves as the headquarters of panama's opposition and the foreign press, were attacked by agents with guns pointing in the air, medrano said
they just threw me in the van with the rest of the people,'' he said. ``they kicked me all the way to the van.''
alfredo gudino, an nbc sound technician, also returned on the chartered plane. he was detained but not injured
the overseas press club, a new york-based organization of jounalists, sent a letter of protest tuesday to panama's ruler, gen. manuel antonio noriega
oliver tambo, head of the african national congress, accused south africa tuesday of a plot to kill anc representatives in mozambique with poison sugar
tambo told a news conference in harare that south africa had arranged for a third country to deliver the poisoned sugar, apparently as a gift, to anc officials in maputo, the capital of neighboring mozambique
he did not name the third country allegedly involved but said the sugar ``was brought into mozambique by a country in which the pretoria regime operates freely.''
tambo did not say if any anc officials had been poisoned
the anc is the main guerrilla group fighting south africa's policy of apartheid, or legalized racial discrimination by the white minority
tambo is in harare for a 3-day conference of west european parliamentarians on apartheid. the conference, attended by delegates from 14 countries, ends wednesday
as long as it (apartheid) remains there will be no peace in the region,'' tambo said. ``this message was clear yesterday when for no reason at all south africa attacked botswana.''
he referred to the south african military attack monday on a house on the outskirts of gaborone, the capital of botswana, in which four people were killed
south african confirmed the raid and said the four people killed were terrorists. botswana said one man and three woman were killed. it said the man was a ``south african refugee,'' two of the women were botswanans and the third woman had not been identified
in an attack tuesday in paris, dulcie september, the anc representative for france, was shot to death in her office. french news reports said mrs. september, 45, was shot in the face while entering the office at about 9 .m
anc officials claimed south africa was behind the killing, but south africa denied it and suggested the attack was related to strife within the outlawed organization
tambo, based in the zambian capital of lusaka, told the news conference: ``we must step up our attacks on the police, the army and other personnel associated with the institution'' of apartheid
we will strike against its economic infrastructure and do much more intensively what we have been doing all the time.''
by south african law and custom, apartheid establishes a segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the panchen lama, highest tibetan religious leader in the chinese government, said tuesday four people were killed in a pro-independence protest earlier this month in lhasa, capital of the remote himalayan region
official chinese reports have said the only fatality was a chinese policeman
the panchen lama told western reporters a monk and two civilians also were killed. he spoke after meeting with a small group of tibetan delegates to the national people's congress in beijing
western travelers in lhasa have said tibetans were reporting 21 civilians and 3 policemen killed, and many arrests. the panchen lama would not comment on the reports of arrests
buddhist monks and lay people in lhasa held a violent anti-chinese protest march 5 at the close of the annual moinlam qenmo, or great prayer festival, that lasted more than 12 hours
reports from witnesses said they attacked police with stones, knives and steel bars, seriously injuring 30 officers, and set bonfires throughout the city
buddhist priests seeking independence for tibet led a protest last october in which at least 14 people were killed and a police station was destroyed
the panchen lama, tibetan buddhism's second-highest leader after the dalai lama, continued his campaign tuesday for a lenient policy toward tibet
the dalai lama, a god-king to tibetan buddhists, went into exile in india after an unsuccessful rebellion in 1959. china took over tibet in 1950
under the panchen lama's proposals, efforts would continue to heal wounds caused by china's radical cultural revolution of 1966-76. religious belief was outlawed and many buddhist temples and monasteries were destroyed during that period
how we implement our religious policies will have a great affect on the thinking of the masses in tibet, where nearly everyone is religious,'' said the panchen lama, a loyal supporter of china's communist government
he also addressed militants advocating tibetan independence: ``some separatists outside china want to split tibet from the motherland,'' he said. ``they'd better stop their dirty tricks. tibetan affairs are chinese domestic affairs, and they are family affairs.'' news digest: panama city, panama _ pm-panama, a0495; managua, nicaragua _ pm-nicaragua-divisions, a0419; washington _ pm-speakes speaks, a0430; undated _ pm-political rdp, a0477; washington _ pm-veep selection, a0435; washington _ pm-jackson's story, a0447; ramallah, occupied west bank _ pm-israel, a0483; hackensack, n.j. _ pm-surrogate mom, a0476; pembroke, n.c. _ pm-activist killed, a0505; washington _ pm-arms treaty, a0440
</note>
as sandinista government and rebel negotiators met to work out details for a 60-day cease-fire, a contra commander vowed the rebels won't lay down their arms until nicaragua adopts democratic reforms
the negotiators, who met monday, are considering the areas where the rebels, known as contras, will gather during the cease-fire, which is to begin friday under the peace accord signed last week in sapoa
after about two hours of discussions monday, the talks were recessed until today, and rebel leaders said there remained obstacles
house negotiators working on an aid package to sustain the nicaraguan rebels have hit a snag over whether president reagan should have the power to command quick congressional action on a possible future military aid request
leaders of the chamber worked for five hours monday on the package, and roughed out a six-month, $40 million aid bill that would send strictly ``humanitarian'' aid _ food, clothing, medicine and shelter _ while the rebels negotiate a permanent peace with the country's leftist sandinista government
we reached some general understandings in a number of areas, but there were some stumbling points,'' said house democratic whip tony coelho of california, who added that meetings would resume today
more than 700 members of the army's famed 82nd airborne division staged a dramatic finale to their mission in honduras by parachuting into their home base as wives, children and officers cheered
the paratroopers piled out of seven c-141 transport planes, filling the sky with olive-drab parachutes monday as family members and officers applauded from grandstands
we went down there to do a job, and it turned out they really didn't need us to do it,'' said spec. 4 randy beebe, 24. ``when they decided they didn't, it became business as usual, a training exercise.''
the exit of richard gephardt from the race for president gave president reagan the opportunity to contend the public has no appetite for protectionist legislation such as the trade bill pending in congress
i think the american people have decided that one great depression is enough, and they aren't going to give the trade demagogues a second chance,'' reagan said monday during a speech at reynolds metals co., in richmond, va
protectionism isn't just bad economics _ it's bad politics,'' the president said
independent counsel lawrence walsh is asking judicial officials around the country for information to help fend off legal challenges in the iran-contra case, prompting a rebuke from utah's attorney general
it was a little bizarre that an independent counsel would be seeking help from the state attorneys general,'' said david wilkinson, who holds that office in utah
but spokesmen for other attorneys general said they saw nothing unusual with the march 15 letter that walsh's associate, jeffrey toobin, sent to the u.s. attorneys and attorneys general in 50 states. the letter seeks information about other cases involving immunity
the attorney general of colombia, alfredo gutierrez marquez, resigned after news media reported an airstrip at his brother's ranch was used by drug runners, a source at president virgilio barco's office said
the source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the associated press late monday that barco accepted the resignation earlier in the day. neither the president's press office nor the attorney general's office would comment
radio stations rcn, caracol and todelar reported the resignation monday. news digest:
washington _ slug am-us-nicaragua. washington _ slug am-reagan-north. ramallah, occupied west bank _ slug am-israel. washington _ slug am-wright assets. washington _ slug justice-resignations. panama city _ slug am-panama. london _ slug am-kurds. washington _ slug am-fcc-murdoch. atlanta _ slug am_aspirin-heart ^by the associated press</note>
michael dukakis battled jesse jackson as well as increasing doubts about his democratic presidential candidacy in the connecticut primary on tuesday. vice president george bush coasted on the republican side as vanquished rival bob dole bowed out
massachusetts gov. dukakis and bush both aimed to cement six-state new england sweeps, but their similarities ended there
dukakis led jackson, the man with momentum in the race, as well as sen. albert gore jr. and sen. paul simon with about 50 percent of the vote in one pre-election poll
republican bob dole ended his campaign for president tuesday, saying he was ``bloodied but unbowed'' by the series of bruising primary losses that finished his candidacy
dole withdrew before a supportive audience of senate and house colleagues and offered congratulations to george bush, the all-but-anointed gop nominee
my friends know that i am a fighter; i don't like to lose,'' the senate republican leader said. ``i have been beaten before, and no doubt will be again. but i have never been defeated and never will be.''
the reagan administration expressed growing impatience with the regime of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega on tuesday and hinted that u.s. military intervention was being considered to deal with the rapidly deteriorating situation there
there are limits to our patience,'' presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said, following a violent crackdown by panama's military against opposition forces and the detention of several american journalists
it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can and, while we have said that we don't plan to go in militarily, it's also important to note that there are limits.''
iraq accused iran on tuesday of using poison gas in its kurdistan offensive and threatened to attack iranian cities with chemical weapons
iran, which accused the iraqis of using chemical bombs in the same area last week, said revolutionary guards were moving deeper into iraq territory in the northern campaign
baghdad's official news agency said iraqi warplanes raided two ships off iran in the persian gulf overnight, but there was no independent confirmation. about 500 vessels have been attacked by both sides since the war began in september 1980
a young man was charged tuesday with killing an indian judicial candidate and an alleged accomplice committed suicide, in a case the sheriff called ``just another murder'' stemming from a broken romance, not a political assassination
the death saturday of julian pierce initially was characterized by authorities as a political slaying, and some people in robeson county speculated it was the work of someone who objected to an indian becoming a judge. the county's population is evenly divided among indians, blacks and whites
i can assure the world that there was no political involvement in the case,'' sheriff hubert stone said at a news conference. ``i think the people of robeson county will understand that it's just another murder.''
fiery evangelist jimmy swaggart was ordered tuesday not to preach from the pulpit or his television show for at least a year while he is rehabilitated from ``moral failure'' that reportedly included paying a prostitute to pose nude
in announcing its decision, the assemblies of god elders disregarded a more lenient three-month suspension recommended by the church in louisiana. the national church included provisions for two years of rehabilitation and counseling to begin when swaggart has agreed to rehabilitation in writing
louisiana district officials refused comment, as did the jimmy swaggart worldwide ministries in baton rouge, la. but a spokesman said swaggart's ministry would have a statement wednesday
the senate met in unusual secret session tuesday to review conflicting intelligence estimates on the size of the soviet medium-range missile force. but conservatives who called for the meeting said few minds had been changed about the new treaty eliminating such nuclear weapons
backroom bargaining intensified, meanwhile, on two other controversies related to senate ratification of the intermediate-range nuclear forces, or inf, treaty
members of the senate armed services committee said defense secretary frank carlucci was working out procedures to deal with questions on whether the treaty covers futuristic weapons systems still on the drawing boards, an issue some said is a potentially serious stumbling block to ratifying the inf treaty
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge shook off the october stock market slump to post a 0.9 percent increase in february in a performance which analysts said should lay to rest fears of a 1988 recession
in a second upbeat economic report tuesday, the government said that sales of new homes, which had fallen for three consecutive months, shot up 20.3 percent in february, the biggest monthly gain in almost two years
weakness in home sales and in the index of leading economic indicators in the months following the oct. 19 stock market crash had raised fears that the five-year-old economic recovery was in imminent danger of collapsing
a veteran antarctic researcher announced findings tuesday indicating that the depletion of the earth's ozone layer could threaten the world's food supply
professor sayed el-sayed of texas a&amp;m university said increased amounts of ultraviolet light, which a thinner ozone shield permits through to the earth's surface, supresses biological activity in microscopic marine plants in the antarctic
el-sayed said his findings, the first of their kind, confirm strong suspicions of biologists that ultraviolet light might mean trouble for fish, animal and other life in the southernmost part of the world
soviet doctors participating in an international teleconference said tuesday they routinely conceal the truth from patients diagnosed as having cancer and they questioned the american practice of fully informing patients of a tumorous condition
it's hardly a good idea to tell a patient directly that he has a cancer,'' said dr. nikolai napalkov, president of the u.s.s.r. oncological society and a leading cancer researcher in the soviet union. ``only in rare cases, when the patient refuses treatment, does the doctor have the obligation to tell the patient.''
american doctors taking part in the conference strongly disagreed
when american and japanese children got together tuesday to compare prize-winning inventions, one side brought most of the frivolous, fanciful toys while the other displayed no-nonsense solutions to everyday problems
but in a reversal of stereotypes, it was the japanese kids who brought the marionette and robot on skis, and the americans who produced door guards, portable seat belts and diapers with built-in disposable bags
the meeting was arranged by a program to spur creativity among american students called ``invent america!'' and the japan institution of invention and innovation, which has sponsored competitions for japanese schoolchildren since 1941
after the deaths of milton and matilda, two musk oxen given to china by the united states in 1972, a georgia widow began a one-person campaign to replace them
next month, helen miller travels to beijing for a ceremony marking the success of her efforts and the arrival of two new animals
mrs. miller said she learned that just as pandas ling-ling and hsing-hsing _gifts from china _ had become popular at the national zoo in washington, millions of chinese children visited the beijing zoo to see the oxen
how to shop in a city with horrendous traffic, boutiques that close for two hours at lunch and sales clerks who are imperious, or just plain rude? maribeth clemente knows, and helps fellow americans for a fee
with an investment of less than $9,000, she started a business called chic promenade last june to counsel visitors and shepherd them through the array of stores and shops in the ``city of light.''
ms. clemente, a 26-year-old native of troy, n.y., takes up to four people on a tour of six to 12 boutiques in an average day, with a midafternoon break in a cozy tea room
a group of american experts on the supernatural found that the only thing special about chinese reputed to have magic powers was their ability to disappear when asked to prove their claims
they failed all the tests,'' said dr. paul kurtz, chairman of the committee for the scientific investigation of claims of the paranormal and professor of philosophy at state university of new york at buffalo
kurtz said in particular his six-member delegation had seen no scientific evidence to back up claims from masters of the chinese martial art of ``qigong'' that they can cure tumors and help cripples walk through energy emanating from their fingers
the fortunate pilgrim,'' based on novelist mario puzo's sweeping saga of an italian immigrant family in search of the american dream, is, unfortunately, a tedious, wooden melodrama in its adaptation for tv
nbc will air the two-part, five-hour miniseries on sunday and monday, april 3-4
sophia loren, whose husband, carlo ponti, produced ``the fortunate pilgrim,'' stars as plucky matriarch lucia corbo, whose first husband is killed in a factory explosion, and whose second husband, played by edward james olmos of ``miami vice,'' succumbs to insanity. her children, meanwhile, get tuberculosis, arrested and the neighbor's wife pregnant
hal holbrook arrives in part 2 as a scotch-french doctor who romances lucia. john turturro, who made his mark playing malevolent types in such films as ``to live and die in l.a.'' and ``five corners,'' is eldest son larry
the movie, a period piece set in the 1920s and '30s, was shot against an almost sepia-toned backdrop by director stuart cooper, who did the miniseries ``the long hot summer.'' this one was filmed on location in yugoslavia, but the sets look more like a studio backlot. also, inexplicably, the dialogue sounds dubbed much of the time
cooper's rudimentary direction is matched only by the pedestrian script. drama needs conflict. the fluffy ``i'll take manhattan,'' even with broadly drawn characters and plotlines, worked because it at least had structure
the fortunate pilgrim'' is a muddle. the central conflict seems to be lucia's dream for a home in the country and success for her children running up against her offspring's constant moral lapses, illnesses and scrapes with neighbors and the law. an early symbol of evil is a laughably snidely whiplash-like landlord
the result is a meandering plotline composed of a series of unconnected events, most of which have no buildup or ramifications
in john mcgreevey's script, as well, character development consists of simplistic dialogue, although it doesn't help us connect with them to switch actors every hour or two as the children age
a sample scene: early in part 2, son vinnie goes to comfort sister-in-law luisa who is weeping after being insulted by her husband, larry. we have seen these two only in passing, so this is supposed to establish their characters
too bad you didn't get to finish high school. i probably won't either,'' vinnie says at one point
you should. vinnie, you're so smart,'' says luisa
mom depends on me. that's the way it is,'' he replies
you're too kind,'' she says. ``you're always doing things for other people.''
the miniseries does have the dubious honor of stifling a fine cast
loren is becoming something of a tv movie regular _ she was in ``courage'' last season and before that ``aurora'' and ``sophia loren: her own story'' _ and she is still a charismatic screen presence
olmos, who plays enigmatic martin castillo on ``vice,'' does a good job with smoldering frank corbo, convincing us by strength of performance that lucia could indeed fall in love with this troubled man
annabella sciorra makes an impressive television debut as octavia, lucia's headstrong eldest daughter. also notable is yugoslavian actress mirjana karanovic who plays clara, a married woman who becomes pregnant by larry
all these immigrants are yearning to breathe free
christie in first mini _ noted film actress julie christie is set to make her television debut in a miniseries to air next season on cbs with the working title ``dadah is death'' (``dadah'' being the malaysian word for drugs). christie plays an australian woman who launches an international campaign to save her son (hugo weaving) and a friend (john polson) from the death penalty after they are caught smuggling drugs in malaysia. the director is jerry london, whose credits include ``shogun'' and ``ellis island.'' .. 
oprah top broadcaster _ the international radio &amp; television society has named talk-show host oprah winfrey as its broadcaster of the year. winfrey, whose ``oprah winfrey show'' is the third-highest-rated syndicated show, will receive the award at the irts annual meeting in new york on june 1. ..
`wiseguy' guy gets award _ jonathan banks, who plays agent frank mcpike on cbs' ``wiseguy,'' is getting an award from real-life police officers back home. officers from baltimore and washington, d.c., (banks grew up in silver spring, md.) will honor the actor at a may 6 banquet for his realistic portrayal of a law enforcement officer. cbs quotes banks as saying two childhood friends who grew up to be police officers served as models for his role as the acerbic organized crime bureau agent
lawrence trupiano saved most of the organ from st. paul's, hoboken _ everything but the bellows, which was too big to fit through any door
the builders had the mentality that they would last forever. they'll put things where you couldn't get to them,'' trupiano said
organs don't last without help, though; not in the smog of a big city, or in a church where the furnace dries and cracks a wooden instrument. nor do they stand up under careless tuning, or the assaults of mice tempted by the taste of horsehide glue in the bellows
the organ at st. paul's didn't play at all when trupiano moved it from the new jersey shore of the hudson river to his shop in brooklyn. it will sing again, though, in a church in manhattan which is giving up high tech for the time-tested sound of pipes
dozens of organs become orphans each year, no longer wanted because struggling churches close and prosperous churches buy new instruments. many, like the organ from st. paul's, turn up in new homes
alan laufman, who runs the organ clearing house in norrisville, n.h., has about 120 organs available at any time
sometimes we get a call on a thursday afternoon saying that a church will be torn down on monday, and can we find a home for the organ. sometimes we can,'' laufman said in a telephone interview
since the clearing house was started in 1959, laufman estimates that more than 1,200 organs have found new homes, in one case as far away as yokohama, japan
perhaps the proudest match was between the metropolitan museum of art in new york and an organ built by thomas appleton of boston in 1830. it was found, unused, in a pennsylvania church. trupiano's shop returned it to playing condition, complete with hand-pumped bellows
it was a time-capsule of information. it was just like appleton built it,'' said trupiano, who restored the organ to playing condition. ``it answered a lot of unknowns from organs built at that time.''
other organs require educated guesses. he is now restoring another organ for the metropolitan _ a home organ which he thinks was built in 1821
you are always trying to understand what the builder was trying to do,'' he said, and the surest guide is the instrument itself. ``the pipe will tell you what it wants to do.''
the organ from st. paul's, built in 1890, was remodeled in 1920. trupiano is reworking it again, adding to the 1,600 pipes which came from hoboken
first it received a thorough cleaning
if it's from new york city, the problem is exhaust fumes. the grease and dirt is almost a paste,'' trupiano said
calgon and hot water works well on metal pipes, while steel wool, moist cheesecloth and elbow grease are recommended for the less numerous wooden pipes
trupiano says he rarely has to rebuild a pipe, but many are fitted with felt or leather which must be replaced. some pipes are beyond help, bent and buckled by a ham-handed tuner
keyboards have to be rebuilt, with bone instead of ivory because ivory imports are banned. the thousands of parts of the action, the mechanism which links the keys to the pipes, must be cleaned and reassembled
usually we tell a church it's going to take two years,'' said trupiano, who has four people working in his shop
half the battle with electronic instruments is that churches want instant gratification,'' he added. ``you pay your money, and by next week you have your noise.''
and in 15 years you'll need a new instrument, said laufman, who found that most of the churches looking to adopt a pipe organ are replacing an electric instrument less than 20 years old
i know how long a pipe organ will last,'' he said. ``i play one every sunday that was built in 1853.''
adopting an organ costs $10,000 and up, laufman said, though the investment is anywhere from 30 percent to 70 percent less than the price of a comparable new organ
organized efforts to preserve historic organs began only in 1956 with the founding of the organ historical society, based in richmond, va. the society has tracked down 4,498 american organs built in the 19th century, said william van pelt, the executive director
most are still working every sunday, and most were built with considerable integrity,'' van pelt said. ``many of these are less ambitious, adequate sunday by sunday church organs, not magnificent concert instruments.''
many 19th-century instruments were lost, van pelt said, because churches could afford to replace them. other organs fell victim to renewed interest in baroque music and a demand for organs built in the german style of bach's time
the organ historical society concentrates on organs built before 1850, or instruments built in the second half of the 19th century which are essentially unaltered
van pelt's computer has a list of 450 shops across the country that could do restoration
trupiano was bitten by the organ bug 25 years ago, when he was 13 and spent hours watching a new organ being installed in his church. it didn't occur to him then to worry about the fate of the old organ
laufman, a former teacher, was lured into the field by a 12-year-old student who had saved an organ that was being removed from a new hampshire church ``with sledgehammers and chainsaws.''
that church is now on its third electronic instrument,'' laufman noted with satisfaction. ``the old organ, built in 1858, was lovingly reworked by this kid, and parts of it are still playing in a suburb of boston.''
at any one time, ardyth lohuis is trying to match 20 to 25 churches who want to hire an organist with two or three musicians who are looking for jobs
some churches call me month after month saying, `don't you have someone?''' said lohuis, a professor of organ and church music at virginia commonwealth university in richmond and director of a referral service for state chapters of the american guild of organists
what the churches want, typically, is someone to play one or two services a week, plus a choir rehearsal, and often one full week of revival services
they're hoping to get someone to do this for $4,500, which is not even minimum wage,'' she said
it's getting harder to find takers
according to the national association of schools of music, the number of undergraduate organ majors fell from 673 in the 1982-83 school year to 469 in 1984-85, and the number of schools offering majors declined from 194 to 160
at oberlin college in ohio, there are now fewer than 20 undergraduate organ students, compared to perhaps 50 a quarter-century ago, said david bow, dean of the college's conservatory of music
i would say that the quality of the students we have now is as high as i can remember. they are extraordinarily committed,'' he said
however, bow noted, ``we see a high school pool out there that is a quarter or a fifth the size it was 15 years ago.''
in contrast, the number of applications for other instrumental programs at oberlin is up 21.8 percent this year
charles krusenstjerna, director of admissions at the eastman school of music at rochester university in new york, says the drop is partly a demographic phenomenon. the number of entering freshmen in the united states has fallen from a peak of 2.6 million in 1981 to 2.3 million in 1985, according to the u.s. department of education
krusenstjerna said the school expects to have about 40 applications from organ students this year, down from an all-time high of 60 several years ago
daniel nelson colburn ii, executive director of the 25,000-member american guild of organists, and john walker, chairman of the ago's task force on the new organist, suggested in a recent interview that several factors are at work:
_ mainline churches, which attach more importance to elaborate liturgy set to classical music, are not growing rapidly, if at all
people simply don't go to church as much,'' colburn said. ``it is no longer automatically to be assumed that a sort of middle-american person has been exposed to this music at all.''
_ more women are going to work, leaving fewer of the talented housewives who have filled many an organ job for token compensation
_ fewer students are willing to enter a profession in which $25,000 is a princely salary and only a handful of positions pay $50,000
one of the basic problems ... is the residual sense of a lot of church members throughout the country that whatever you do for the church needs to be done voluntarily,'' said walker, organist at new york's riverside church and chairman of the organ department at the manhattan school of music
one of his doctoral students recently found a job outside the city paying $20,000 a year. ``this means years and years of study to get there, and he's thrilled to death,'' walker said
the people who do this profession, in my generalized view, still love what they do,'' colburn said. ``to the extent they are aware of these problems, they are frustrated. ... but i don't see a lot of people leaving.''
he just sees fewer people entering
the ago, with a touch of exaggeration, has been asking: ``will we worship with music in the year 2000?'' in fact, colburn said, there is almost a glut of highly trained organists with advanced degrees competing for the best jobs. the shortage affects the smaller churches
the guild's strategy is to seek publicity, through promotions such as ``organ week'' which it will launch next year, and to seek out and encourage promising high school musicians
in sioux falls, s.d., the ago chapter last fall awarded five $100 scholarships _ enough to pay for 10 lessons _ to aspiring organists, including one in eighth grade
substitutes are very hard to find,'' said richard collman, secretary-treasurer of the 50-member state chapter. ``i know of only one or two people in the high school age category studying the pipe organ now.''
collman looks at youngsters with at least five years of piano lessons, which is a good start toward mastering the two, three or more keyboards of a pipe organ
still, they have to learn a different ``touch,'' they have to learn to play yet another keyboard with their feet and to adjust tonal colors by drawing on combinations of pipes. the best jobs often require the organist to direct a choir as well
my guess is that as organists continue to be scarce, the churches that want live music will realize they will have to pay more,'' bow said
however, the volunteer ethic isn't dead
walker received a letter from an organist in vermont, who is paid $2,796 a year
this represents a major increase just this year,'' the organist wrote, ``and i have no wish to complain.''
a staggering amount of organ music is heard in the united states, most of it live on sunday mornings though perhaps little of it worth hearing again
it's that smaller segment that michael barone pursues for ``pipedreams,'' a 90-minute weekly showcase for organs and organists on american public radio
the inspiration came in 1980 when barone found himself running the only tape recorder at an american guild of organists convention in the twin cities
gosh, this was incredible music, some good commissioned works, some young artists who were just outstanding,'' said barone, who had a local organ program at the time
he put together 14 programs to offer nationally in 1982
i did it only because there seemed like a lot of good stuff available, not only here that year but around the country, and there didn't seem to be anyone else doing anything with it,'' he said
that's still true
i'm getting the sense that though 128 stations do carry `pipedreams,' they may carry no other pipe organ music during the week,'' barone said
there is one other nationally distributed organ program _ half-hour performances by john obetz from the headquarters of the reorganized church of jesus christ of latter day saints in independence, mo., which is carried by about 100 stations
pipedreams'' ranges far more widely
recently, for example, programs have featured the flamboyant french organist jean guillou, the dedication of new organ at iowa state university, an anthology of american music and a variety of bach organ works played at several universities
one of barone's favorite shows included what was apparently a premiere performance _ 139 years after the composer's death _ of a work by felix mendelssohn
in addition to the ago conventions, barone's digital tape equipment has captured gatherings of the organ historical society, recital competitions of young organists and even the occasional theater organ or choir. he also uses records, compact discs and tapes submitted ``on spec.''
there is so much, he said, that he is just now scheduling some of the material from the ago's 1986 convention
i'm really here to beat the drum for the pipe organ,'' which, barone feels, ``is almost an invisible creature in the world of music.''
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of april 1 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner is blanche du bois and aidan quinn plays stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available. closes april 10
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available. advertising ``last weeks.''
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``joe turner's come and gone,'' august wilson's new play about the search for identity by the sons and daughters of slaves. ethel barrymore, same number as telecharge. ticketron
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``mail,'' michael rupert stars in a musical about a young man who returns home to four months worth of unopened mail. now in previews, opens april 14. music box, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``m. butterfly,'' john lithgow stars in a play by david henry hwang about the love affair between a former french diplomat and a chinese opera star. eugene o'neill, 246-0220. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oba oba,'' a brazilian dance and musical revue. ambassador, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the gospel at colonus,'' a gospel version of a greek classic by sophocles. lunt-fontanne, 575-9200. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available. closes april 10
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
president reagan says americans won't accept trade restrictions and retaliation against foreign manufacturers and threatened to veto legislation aimed at curbing u.s. trade deficits
reagan, promoting his free-trade stance even in the face of mounting u.s. trade imbalances, warned monday that a trade bill under consideration in congress could weaken international trading systems and ``require the president to start trade wars.''
i'll veto if i must,'' reagan told reynolds metals co. workers on the eve of a crucial house-senate conference committee meeting on the bill
the federal fund that insures deposits in commercial banks could suffer a loss in 1988 for the first time in its 54-year history, federal deposit insurance corp. chairman l. william seidman says
seidman said monday a loss to the insurance fund, if any, would depend on how much the fdic spends to resolve the problems of first republicbank of dallas, which earlier this month received a $1 billion infusion of government aid. he said it is too soon to say with certainty what the cost of restoring first republicbank to health will be
a merger between photofinishing giants eastman kodak co. and colorcraft corp. is aimed at making the firms more competitive rather than forcing other companies out of the industry, a federal appeals court says
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals on monday reversed a preliminary injunction granted to phototron corp. that blocked the kodak-colorcraft merger
a lower court ruled feb. 22 that phototron had standing to challenge the merger, and that the merger between kodak and colorcraft could substantially reduce competition in the wholesale photofinishing market
american stores co. said it was prepared to up its bid for lucky stores inc. to more than $1.9 billion in an effort to create the nation's largest grocery store chain
in a letter to the board of the dublin, calif.-based company, american stores chairman l.s. skaggs said his company was ready to offer $50 per share if a ``mutually acceptable agreement'' could be worked out with lucky stores
earlier monday, american launched a cash tender offer for lucky at $45 per share, or a total of $1.74 billion. that offer expires at midnight april 22
federated department stores inc. says its board will move wednesday to end the bidding war for the retailer by acting on the final competing purchase offers of r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp
a committee of federated's outside directors met monday to determine bidding procedures and would inform macy and campeau of those guidelines, federated said in a statement
macy and campeau have each offered more than $6 billion to buy federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer. macy's bid has the approval of federated management
corning glass works and smithkline beckman corp. have each raised their bids for international clinical laboratories, a chain of clinical-testing laboratories that is based in tennessee
corning moved first, increasing its tender offer monday to about $360 million, or $35 a share for icl's 10 million-plus outstanding shares and common stock equivalents
but smithkline, based in philadelphia, soon followed by raising its offer to $37 a share, which it said would amount to about $400 million. it had previously offered $32 a share
the internal revenue service said it is closing a loophole that allowed procrastinating taxpayers to slip out of the country briefly on april 15th and gain an automatic two-month extension on filing their income taxes
the new ruling, announced monday, is effective for tax forms due next month, and requires taxpayers to be out of the country for at least two weeks, including april 15th, to qualify for the automatic extension. in the past, someone who left the country for just hours or minutes on the 15th was eligible
the supreme court has refused to rule that playboy enterprises violated federal copyright law when it used material intended for an easter seal telethon in a pornographic movie
the justices, over one dissenting vote, rejected an attempt monday by the easter seal society to collect damages from playboy
the court also refused to revive a $300 million copyright-infringement lawsuit against the creators and marketers of trivial pursuit, a popular board game. the justices rejected arguments by the author of several encyclopedias on trivia that many of the questions contained in the game infringed on his copyright works
international business machines corp. leads forbes magazine's list of the nation's most valuable companies for a fourth consecutive year, the magazine says
the forbes survey released monday said ibm's stock market value at the end of 1987 was $69.0 billion, a decline of 5.2 percent from a year earlier
but that was still enough to surpass exxon corp., whose stock market value rose 4.5 percent to $52.6 billion
a state court judge reserved a decision on a request that he prohibit six former top executives of lord, geller, federico, einstein inc. from soliciting business or employees from lord geller for their new ad agency
justice herman cahn asked monday that attorneys for lord geller, which had made the request for a preliminary injunction, and for the defecting lord geller executives to work out a plan for introducing evidence in the case
the six executives, led by lord geller founding partners richard lord and arthur einstein jr., walked off the job march 18, saying they felt unduly constrained under the ownership of the british firm, wpp group plc
three cabinet officers have unveiled a guide to workplace literacy that includes tips for businesses to learn just how well or poorly their workers read
the three officials _ labor secretary ann mclaughlin, education secretary william j. bennett and commerce secretary c. william verity _ all agreed in making the release monday that bolstering the basic skills of workers is essential to maintaining a strong economy
stock prices finished mostly lower monday, although a key blue-chip issue indicator, the dow jones average of 30 industrials, rose 0.82 to 1,979.77
bond prices tumbled, pushing long-term yields to their highest levels in more than two months
the dollar plunged despite central bank intervention
the possibility of severe drought damage to brazilian soybean crops helped propel u.s. soybean futures prices, but grain futures retreated
u.s. sen. john heinz promised to push for a law that would make a hostile takeover of koppers co. unpalatable for british investor brian beazer, and sen. arlen specter asked the attorney general to enter the case personally
heinz, a pittsburgh republican, charged at a news conference monday that if a $1.7 billion tender offer from bns inc. succeeds, beazer will gain a monopoly in various markets for aggregates, road building materials that include sand and pebbles added to concrete to make cement
a strangle hold on the existing aggregates business'' is financially attractive because ``environmental laws are such at the state and local level that you cannot easily open ... a new source of aggregate,'' he said
specter, a philadelphia republican, said he is concerned whether an initial jusice department review satisfied the hart-scott-rodino act, which sets guidelines for corporate takeovers. he asked attorney general edwin meese to personally review the koppers case and to respond to the request by thursday
heinz withheld details of his proposed legislation
to reveal our strategy might very well be to jeopardize its success,'' he said
the proposal will be offered this week or after the easter break as an amendment to pending legislation, heinz said
i'm not in the business of making hollow promises, and i do not make idle threats,'' heinz said. ``i have drafted and am prepared to introduce and press legislation to make the takeover of koppers extremely unpalatable
the corporate raiders will be and should be as surprised by this legislation as koppers was by this raid,'' he said
we are not corporate raiders,'' beazer declared in a full-page advertisement monday in pittsburgh's newspapers. ``our goal is not to make a quick buck. rather, we are in the process of creating a vital, dynamic worldwide organization.''
beazer said that after he acquired the atlanta homebuilder cohn communities and the dallas construction materials company gifford-hill in 1985 and 1986 respectively, ``each of those companies has grown and prospered under our ownership.''
bns inc., a takeover company formed by beazer and shearon lehman hutton inc., bid $60 cash per share for koppers stock under a tender offer open until april 7. a federal court in california temporarily has blocked the acquisition over antitrust concerns
koppers management says it may sell all or part of the company or pay cash to shareholders to keep the company out of beazer's hands
heinz said taxpayers will spend more for public roads if the takeover succeeds
the two of them combined in what are essentially local market areas would, if the sale went through, amount to a de facto local monopoly on very costly road-building materials,'' he said
the senator, allegheny county commission chairman thomas foerster and others at the news conference said the takeover jeopardizes the approximately 1,100 pittsburgh-area jobs in koppers' chemicals businesses. beazer has said he would sell chemicals and related businesses, although it is not clear that all those jobs would be eliminated
opponents also worry about the $232 million that koppers contributes to the area economy
heinz joined city, county and state officials who have lambasted shearson for going a step beyond traditional takeover financing and becoming an equity partner in the takeover company, bns
i am appalled by the involvement of shearson,'' he said. ``shearson stands to gain tens of millions of dollars in fees simply for shuffling some paper around.''
shearson officials have said their ownership in bns is merely a temporary method of helping finance the takeover
companies faced with increased competition and more demanding consumers are learning to stress customer satisfaction over bottom-line profit strategy, the president of a boston-based corporate research and training firm says
right now, there are a lot of people playing around in each others' back yard,'' said richard c. whiteley, president of the forum corporation. ``with more options, the consumer is in a better position to be selective.''
a forum corporation survey of nearly 5,700 employees and consumers released monday said top-level management should rely on ``front-line'' employees and the public to gauge service quality and corporate image
companies are learning that they need the consumer and that service has got to improve or they can lose their business overnight if they're not careful,'' said whiteley, who estimates consumer complaints have doubled since 1980
the survey, which included more than 3,200 employees at 14 large companies in the united states and canada, revealed a trend toward stressing consumer satisfaction
there's a certain arrogance in companies on a downward spiral,'' whiteley said. ``they think they know what their customers need more than their customers do.''
the survey indicated that empathy and responsiveness among so-called front-line workers who deal directly with the public leads to customer loyalty and new business
but the report noted that managers constantly must seek comments and advice from front-line employees and customers, who have the best sense of how the company is perceived in the marketplace
the report also notes that the attitudes of front-line workers is heavily influenced by upper management
consumer focus ... has come to be regarded as a complex notion that involves the entire organization, and not just something that is the responsibility of people who are sometimes the lowest-paid, least-trained and least-motivated employees in the company,'' the report said
whiteley cited toll-free information numbers, consumer questionnaires and maintaining executives' connection with the public as methods successfully used by companies seeking to enhance image and customer satisfaction
you now hear, `thank you for calling at&amp;t' when you call,'' he said. ``that wasn't the case years ago.''
whiteley predicted more u.s. companies will foster better consumer policies as foreign and domestic competition grows
forty percent of the 2,374 consumers interviewed late last year in the two-month survey said poor service prompted them to pull away their business. an additional 30 percent cited ``other reasons'' for switching, including some service-related problems, according to the report
but between 60 percent and 73 percent of consumer respondents rated service quality with the companies ``excellent,'' according to the report
we found their standards are just lower,'' said thomas atkinson, who supervised the survey. ``there's the impression that service just is not very good in america anymore.''
the number of employees who said that ``satisfying customers'' was among their companies' top three priorities ranged from 8.7 percent to 63 percent
in addition, ``attracting new customers'' was considered a priority almost twice as often as ``keeping customers'' among the corporate sponsors of the survey, which included manufacterers, high-techonology firms and service-oriented companies
the names of the companies were not released
in general, priorities having to do with customers or better financial performance were seen as key by the employees ... while objectives such as emphasizing quality, finding new products and finding new markets ranked lower,'' the report said
a final version of the findings is scheduled to be released in september, atkinson said
the dollar recovered from an early plunge in tokyo trading today following moderate intervention by japan's central bank, while stock prices posted substantial gains for the second consecutive day
traders said the u.s. currency's recovery during the day's trading was due mostly to technical factors, including dollar purchases by participants with dollar-short positions
sentiments toward the dollar are still bearish,'' said a trader who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``the bank of japan's intervention wasn't large, and much of the dollar buying was by people who recently sold dollars and were beginning to feel nervous.''
the u.s. currency now has fallen 2.78 yen in tokyo over the past four trading days
the bank of japan began buying dollars shortly after the u.s. currency opened at 123.88 yen, down 0.55 yen from monday's close of 124.43 yen. traders estimated the central bank's purchases at about $100 million. as usual, the bank did not comment officially on its market activity
the dollar then reversed direction, and ended the day's trading at 124.37 yen, down 0.06 yen from its close on monday. it ranged between 123.87 yen and 124.85 yen
traders said the dollar also was boosted by fiscal year-end buying by some corporations. the japanese fiscal year ends thursday
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-stock nikkei average gained 330.38 points, or 1.29 percent, closing at 25,953.09. on monday, the index rose 301.99 points
nobuo ishikawa of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage, said market participants were relieved to see the dollar stabilizing during today's trading. a bust</head>
foreign visitors are boosting attendance at south florida tourist attractions from the everglades to ocean world, while the number of vacationing collegians has plummeted to an all-time low this decade
you have a truly unique place,'' said klaus mueller, who was bird watching on the anhinga trail in the everglades, the greatest expanse of sawgrass in the world. ``everybody in the world knows about the everglades.''
attendance at everglades national park is up 43 percent over last season with 306,202 visitors in january and february compared to 213,384 during the same time last year, spokesman pat tolle said monday
it's like a language school outside my office,'' said park superintendent michael finley. ``i'm hearing french, german, japanese everywhere.''
jerome scherr, president of miami's parrot jungle, where attendance was up 16 percent, said the attraction is ``something different than they've got back home in europe and japan ... we're subtropical _ palm trees and glamour.''
the weak dollar against foreign currencies and the slick image created by the television series ``miami vice'' are attracting many of the foreign visitors to south florida
nigel and rosy collins visited miami's seaquarium during their week-long trip to south florida and orlando from london. the couple expected their vacation to cost half of what they would have paid two years ago because of the weak dollar
everything is so warm, so clean, so new, so cheap,'' collins said, as his wife chimed in, ``and you've got don johnson.''
but the traditional spring break market in fort lauderdale is going bust instead of boom this year, according to broward county tourism officials
a turnout of 200,000 college students had been expected, matching last year's dismal turnout. however, the numbers now being forecast range from 110,000 to 180,000, and the hotels and bars that report solid business say it's due to the influx of european tourists
although south florida tourist officials are uncertain of the number of foreign tourists, international traffic at miami international airport was up 9 percent to 786,951 passengers in january compared to the same month last year
finley expects europeans to generate 80 percent of the business at flamingo lodge at the southern tip of the everglades in the mosquito-swarming months of july and august
at lion country safari, the palm beach county big-game preserve and amusement park, a 25 percent boost in attendance over last year was reported, said lion country marketing director brian osborne
ocean world, where fort lauderdale visitors can pet dolphins and watch sharks feed, reports 18 percent more visitors so far this season. the attraction does not release specific admission figures, said general manager george boucher
businesses that thrive on tourism expect the boom to continue as long as the dollar is low
the english should be here big in april,'' parrot jungle's scherr said. south americans will then travel north to avoid winter, and europeans will keep coming
eastman kodak co. will seek to complete its merger with fellow photofinishing giant colorcraft corp. now that an appeals court has ruled the two were not trying to force other companies out of the industry, a kodak spokesman said
we're absolutely gratified,'' spokesman henry kaska said monday evening after hearing of the federal court ruling. ``it does mean that we will be proceeding with that merger.''
however, kaska said it was still too early to tell when the merger would actually take place
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals on monday reversed a preliminary injunction granted to phototron corp. that blocked the kodak-colorcraft merger. the court ruled the merger was aimed at making the firms more competitive and was not an attempt to put others out of business
a lower court ruled feb. 22 that phototron had standing to challenge the merger, and that the combination of kodak and colorcraft could substantially reduce competition in the wholesale photofinishing market
kaska said the merger would not result in a monopoly of the wholesale photofinishing business and retail operations known as mini labs, but he could not immediately provide figures on how much of the market the companies would control
kodak operates 50 photofinishing labs throughout the united states, while colorcraft operates 41 labs. phototron operates nine labs in the southern and western united states
kodak and colorcraft decided to merge to make their photofinishing operations more competitive. phototron sued, asking a district court in texas to block the merger
the lower court issued a preliminary injunction, saying it was appropriate given the threat of loss and damages phototron could suffer
however, the three-judge panel of the 5th circuit said the district court had ``erred in handing down a preliminary injunction without first finding phototron had demonstrated a substantial likelihood of having suffered an antitrust injury.''
the appeals court went on to say that under a previous ruling by the u.s supreme court, a competitor can obtain a permanent injunction against a merger only if it can prove the transaction would violate antitrust laws
under cargill, a competitor ... has standing to challenge the merger if an allegation and proof of predatory pricing is made,'' the appeals court said
the panel said phototron has not offered substantial proof that the merger would fall under the predatory pricing guidelines, and therefore has not demonstrated the ``substantial likelihood'' it would prevail in a trial
phototron argued to the district court that kodak and colorcraft had undercut the price phototron offers retailers, and therefore claimed that its two competitors could be operating unprofitably and violating the predatory pricing prohibition
the appeals court said phototron must prove kodak and colorcraft are offering services below their own cost in order to satisfy the ``substantial likelihood'' requirement for a preliminary injunction
kaska said the legal obstacles have only delayed the merger several weeks. ``obviously any delay would mean a loss of revenue, but the delay was not that long,'' he said
prices on the london stock exchange moved higher tuesday, aided by modest technical strength, bargain-hunting and pre-holiday apathy
at midday, the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 selected stocks was up 11.6 points, or about 0.6 percent, at 1,758.1
gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei stock average rose 330.58 points, and in new york, where the dow jones industrial average was up 0.82 point on monday, were less a support for the market than a sign that markets were likely to take a temporary breather until after the easter weekend
traders depicted the london advance as a technical bounce following six consecutive days of declines
but they said the rally lacks momentum and predicted shares would not advance much further barring an unexpected move by wall street
one broker reckoned that after the four-day easter holiday, institutions could make a big showing in the market
they've got plenty of liquidity,'' he said. ``we could see quite a good rise out of that after the holiday.''
the common market's executive body has approved french government aid to giant automaker renault, but has set certain conditions on the assistance
the european economic community commission said tuesday it has approved french aid to renault of 20 billion french francs, or about $3.54 billion at current exchange rates
the decision, made a month before the french presidential elections, marked the end of a two-year investigation into government assistance to regie nationale des usines renault, which is a state agency
the decision means that the french government is authorized to proceed with a 12 billion franc write-off of renault's debt. renault had 46.4 billion francs of debt at the end of 1987
the commission said in a statement it also approved a previously-made capital injection into renault of 8 billion francs because it had not been used to undercut prices in the 12-nation common market
the commission has the power to investigate government aid to industry because of the potential anticompetitive effects of such assistance
however, the commission said it approved the aid under certain conditions, including the conversion this year of renault into a state-owned company from a state agency, which escapes company law
other conditions included the completion of an 83.4 billion franc restructuring program and a pledge from the french government not to grant further aid
the french industry ministry said in a statement in paris that the commission's decision ``was good for the company.'' it said renault would now be in a position ``to compete on an equal footing with its main competitors.''
the commission said renault had been ``particularly hard hit'' by the crisis in the common market's auto sector in the early 1980s when many companies had to reorganize their activities in the face of reduced demand and rising imports from japan
renault's restructuring plan, which runs through 1990, involves modernizing factories, cutting the workforce by at least 38,000 and reducing production capacity by more than 25 percent
the commission said the program would make a ``significant contribution'' to resolving some of the problems of the european car industry
stocks prices staged a broad-based rally in early trading today following monday's mixed performance
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 12.77 to 1,992.54 in the first half hour of trading on wall street
advancing issues outpaced declines by about 4 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 864 up, 220 down, and 406 unchanged
volume on the big board was about 24.21 million shares
traders attributed the improvement to several factors, including the dollar's stability in foreign exchange, which lessened fears of inflatin and higher interest rates, and some bargain hunting
the market is in an oversold condition,'' explained larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc. ``you usually snap back from that. it could be nothing more or nothing less than that.''
the nyse composite index was up 0.97 at 147.08. at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 0.92 to 292.92
on monday, the dow jones industrial average closed a scant 0.82 higher at 1,979.77, after posting moderate declines through much of the trading session
declining issues outpaced advances by more than 2-to-1 on the nyse, with 1,059 issues falling, 468 gaining and 420 unchanged. big board volume totaled 142.82 million shares, down from 163.17 million in friday's session
spiegel inc., the mail-order retailer, has announced an agreement to acquire honeybee inc., a specialty retailer of women's apparel for $23 million
the definitive merger agreement call for spiegel to buy about 75 percent of honeybee stock from members of the controlling einbender family for $7.60 a share and to buy the rest of the stock from public shareholders for $11.18 a share
new york-based honeybee closed at $10.25 a share monday on the american stock exchange, up $2.37{ from friday's close
honeybee sells higher-priced brand name and designer women's clothing through catalogs and 18 retail stores in new york, new jersey, pennsylvania, illinois, missouri, connecticut and tennessee. it had sales of about $33 million for the year ended jan. 2
oak brook-based spiegel sells apparel, household furnishings and other general merchandise through catalogs distributed to more than 30 million u.s. households
the chicago board of trade has suspended trading in its 5-month-old cbot corporate bond index futures contract because of a lack of sustained volume
the contract, based on an index of bonds issued by 100 u.s. corporations, was launched oct. 28, nine days after the stock market collapse
the launch date, sandwiched between the market's plunge and the traditionally low-volume winter holiday season, may have been one reason for the contract's disappointing performance, william murschel, an exchange spokesman, said monday
the commodities futures trading commission approved the exchange's request to place the contract in ``dormant status,'' meaning the exchange could relaunch it at some future date, murschel said
the commodity exchange in new york also trades a corporate bond index futures contract. that contract, based on moody's investment-grade corporate bond index, was launched one day after the cbot contract and also has failed to attract much interest
japanese exports of cars, trucks and buses fell 0.3 percent last month from february 1987 levels, the japan automobile manufacturer's association announced tuesday
japan's automakers exported 528,605 vehicles last month, the association said
the decline followed a 9.1 percent slide in january and december's 2 percent climb, the first in 11 months
the environment surrounding japan's automobile exports continues to be severe,'' a jama official said. ``shipments to some markets showed growth, but those increases are marginal since they are small markets.''
exports to the country's two largest markets, the united states and the european community, remained stalled as the yen continued to climb
shipments to the united states totaled 208,266 vehicles in february, down 8.2 percent from a year earlier, while those to europe slid 5.4 percent to 133,473 vehicles
the strong yen has eroded the price-competitiveness of japanese-made autos, as well as those produced overseas
the investment firm of entertainment entrepreneur merv griffin amended a lawsuit against developer donald trump to allege the controlling shareholder in resorts international inc. schemed to depress the value of the casino operator's shares
griffin and trump are making rival bids to take over the hotel-casino concern, which has operations in new jersey and the bahamas
the amended suit, filed by the griffin co. in federal district court in manhattan, ``adds to our claims concerning mr. trump's scheme to depress the value of resorts shares and lock up his control in order to acquire resorts on the cheap.''
trump has denied the charges
the suit added no new allegations. rather it sought to buttress its existing claims with new evidence
the suit, which seeks $500 million in damages, contends trump misled other shareholders, the public and government agencies by withholding material information regarding the value of resorts
trump controls nearly all of resorts' 572,000 class b shares, which has 100 votes per share, giving him 88 percent of the company's voting power
he is offering $22 per share for the remainder of the class b stock and the company's 5.7 million shares of class a common stock, which has one vote per share
griffin initially offered $35 per share, or $225 million, for all of the company's stock. he has since boosted that offer to $295 million, allowing resorts' directors to decide how to apportion it between class a and class b stockholders
following in your father's footsteps is never easy. it's even tougher when your father built a nearly $3 billion computer company from scratch
but to hear fred wang talk, it's not that big a deal
i don't think i'm under any more stress or pressure than anybody else seems to be at work,'' said the 37-year-old president and chief operating officer of wang laboratories inc
having always worked for him, never having had a different father, never having worked for anybody else, i don't know what it's like _ i can't compare _ to be in a different environment.''
but that doesn't mean wang isn't under the gun: he must prove he can turn around a company that's had more than its share of hard times and a reputation for less-than-stellar customer service
wang, based in lowell, mass., was once a wall street darling. for over a decade its earnings increased more than 30 percent a year as its word processors became standard equipment in the secretarial suites of major corporations
but the good times collapsed in its fiscal year 1985, when, beset by the computer industry slump and its own high operating costs, wang's profit slid to $15.5 million from $210.2 million the year before
to shore up the company, the management under wang's father, an wang, went through several rounds of layoffs, pay freezes and other cost-cutting measures. but things got worse instead of better: the company reported a loss of $30 million in the quarter ended sept. 30, 1986. its stock price and its image both sagged
fred wang was named president in november 1986 and almost immediately took action. he eliminated 1,000 jobs _ on top of the 1,600 cut in 1986 and a like number the year before _ and reduced salaries by 6 percent for all u.s. employees
but things didn't improve quickly. in fact, they appeared to get worse. a little more than a month after he took office, the company announced a loss of $78.6 million in the quarter ended that dec. 30
morale among the 30,000 wang employees probably hit its nadir when that loss was announced, he recalled in an interview here
we said ok, we've really got to get the place turned around, get people focused in on, basically, expenses, getting more new orders in,'' he said
the tonic finally took its effect in the quarter ended march 31, 1987, when the company reported a profit of $5.9 million. but it still ended its fiscal 1987 a quarter later drenched in red ink _ $70.7 million worth of it
wang also changed the structure of the company, letting out some slack in the tight reins his father held by giving divisional chiefs more authority. and he launched an innovative advertising campaign _ in which actors posing as wang employees boast in computerese about their products
since the profitable quarter ended march 31, 1987, wang has recorded earnings in three more quarters, including $34.1 million in the period ended dec. 31
the mood has turned around, and i think we've done some things not only on the expense side but also on the advertising side and really on the management side to get things moving in the positive direction,'' he said
an wang, a chinese immigrant who founded the company in 1951 as a maker of custom electronics components, has denied speculation that he made his son the president because of the company's problems. instead, he said, the younger wang was ready for more responsibility. an wang remains chairman and chief executive officer
and fred wang denies that he's made any real departure from the way the company was run by his father, universally called ``doctor'' in deference to his harvard doctorate in physics. instead, wang says, he's managed to communicate better with the employees to battle corporate inertia
what sometimes gets lost in this fred vs. dr. wang issue is that a lot of the changes he has been a proponent of for some years anyway, but a lot of the people said, `we did this five years ago, that's the way we are going to do it
where he always had a grand strategy for the organization, he kept most of it in his head. ...''
wang says he never set out to work at the company, let alone run it. but when he graduated from brown university with a math degree _ after changing majors several times _ he had little career direction
so here i was, 21 years old, june of 1972, unemployed,'' he said
but since he learned to write computer programs at brown, he said he decided to work at wang
after going through the ranks in the programming department, wang moved into marketing. later, he headed the research and development operations, and served as corporate treasurer. he also is on the board of directors
now, at the helm, wang faces several challenges. in addition to maintaining profitability, he must manage the company's transition from a maker of word processsors to a broad-based seller of minicomputers, data networks and information storage and management tools, finding a niche for it alongside the giants of the computer industry, international business machines corp. and digital equipment corp
wang says he's not talking about sheer size. instead, he wants wang labs to be viewed as an industry leader in other areas, such as technology
the ads are part of the company's image-raising plan. he said they're designed ``to change the nagging image of our being a word-processing-only company to one of being a computer company that specializes in the office.''
they also serve another purpose: ``our sales people had gone through one hell of a year, with the industry slowdown and our own internal problems. we wanted them to be seen as the hero of the ad program,'' he said
grain and soybean futures opened mixed to lower today on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices were pressured by profit-taking after monday's sharp gains. but the outlook for soybeans remains bullish, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
i think today may be the pause that refreshes,'' lespinasse said. ``hopefully we'll resume the uptrend tomorrow.''
contracts for may and july delivery of corn advanced slightly in reaction to news that the government had granted one-year extensions on certain corn loans from 1984, 1985 and 1986
the extensions mean farmers can delay decisions about marketing hundreds of millions of bushels of corn that could have gone onto the market this year, lespinasse said
other corn contracts posted early losses; wheat was fractionally lower
in early trading, wheat was \ cent to 1 cent lower with the contract for delivery in may at $2.99\ a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to { cent higher with may at $2.11 a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1 cent lower with may at $1.65} a bushel; soybeans were 2{ cents to 4} cents lower with may at $6.52 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .10 cent to .40 cent lower with april at 75.22 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent to .28 cent lower with march at 82.85 cents a pound; hogs were .23 cent lower to .22 cent higher with april at 45.82 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .30 cent lower to .03 cent higher with may at 56.15 cents a pound
cattle futures settled higher on monday while pork futures retreated
prime minister margaret thatcher told parliament that there isn't any policy split between herself and chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, the treasury's top official
both mr. lawson and i put downward pressure on inflation as topmost priority. both of us think interest rate stability can be very useful to industry,'' mrs. thatcher said tuesday in response to a question in the house of commons
it was the first time that the conservative prime minister had publicly denied a split with lawson, according to observers
after the government's recent decision to allow the british pound to rise above 3.00 west german marks, there were press reports that lawson had been against allowing the pound to rise but had been overruled by mrs. thatcher. the prime minister was more concerned about the inflationary impact of any effort to stem the pound's rise on world currency markets, the reports said
a stronger pound could hurt british exports and company profits
earlier tuesday, lawson told a gathering of the association of american correspondents in london that ``the whole (government) policy is to ensure to continue to have downward pressure on inflation.''
there is no sign whatsoever of resurgence of inflation,'' lawson said. britain's annual inflation rate is currently 3.3 percent
he said britain's intervention in the foreign-exchange markets wasn't inflationary
lawson also said he is ``perfectly satisfied'' with the current trading level of the pound against the mark
the british currency was quoted at around 3.1050 marks on tuesday afternoon in london
but lawson added that ``you shouldn't draw the conclusion from that that there is a target'' for the pound against the mark
lawson's lack of concern about the current inflation rate might mean there is room for british interest rates to fall further. the banks' base lending rate currently stands at 8.5 percent
the reported policy split between mrs. thatcher and lawson fueled speculation in recent weeks that he would resign his post, which he has held since 1983
i haven't formed myself a view of how long i will remain chancellor,'' lawson said. ``i am not worn out and you can see my hair hasn't turned gray.'' but he also said that no one holds a job forever, and added, ``i have been chancellor longer than most.''
lawson also said he wasn't particularly concerned about britain's widening trade deficit, ``provided there is no resurgence of inflation.''
the treasury is forecasting a doubling this year of the current-account deficit to 4 billion pounds, or about $7 billion. but the government on friday reported a worse-than-expected february deficit of 1.56 billion pounds, or around $2.9 billion, which made the financial markets nervous
a new hampshire company monday said it would build a catalog sales distribution center in mexico, bringing 135 new jobs to the east-central missouri city
brookstone co. of peterborough, n.h. is building a 100,000-square-foot facility on a 16.9-acre site. investment in the plant was expected to be near $9.5 million
the city was told last week that it had been awarded a $500,000 grant to extend streets, water lines and sewer lines to the site
construction was to be completed by july to allow the plant to begin distribution of products purchased for the christmas season
brookstone's commitment represents a significant step in the growth of the mexico-area economy,'' said mexico mayor larry webber
brookstone officials said they selected mexico because of the available work force and the positive relationship city officials have with existing employers
brookstone offers tools, household items and automotive products. besides it's catalog sales operation, brookstone has 80 retail outlets in 26 states
representatives of four states met with new york officials today to discuss antitrust lawsuits that have been filed against major insurance companies
the states are seriously considering whether to join the lawsuits and are seeking additional information
the new york attorney general's office briefed antitrust lawyers from connecticut, ohio, maryland and new jersey on the investigations that led to the filing of the suits last week, according to chris braithwaite, a spokesman for new york state attorney general robert abrams
nine states, including new york, filed suit last week alleging that insurers conspired to restrict coverage and boost prices, resulting in severe affordability and availability problems faced by businesses, towns and other public agencies during 1985 and 1986
eight of the suits were filed in u.s. district court in san francisco. texas filed in state district court in austin
we can't speak for other states, but the door is certainly open to others who want to file,'' braithwaite said
most likely we will be filing'' to join the other states in the antitrust challenge, said john r. hagerty, spokesman for new jersey attorney general w. cary edwards. ``it's just a matter of putting together the necessary information for that.''
neither the states that already have sued nor states considering joining will comment on the evidence in the antitrust litigation. however, the suits describe alleged conspiracies with details on meetings and signed agreements
connecticut has requested and received investigation materials from california, said robert langer, connecticut assistant attorney general in charge of antitrust and consumer protection
ohio wants to determine if its own state antitrust laws were broken by insurers, said michael webb, spokesman for ohio attorney general anthony j. celebrezze jr
maryland also is asking its towns about their insurance problems in the mid-1980s, said michael f. brockmeyer, assistant attorney general and antitrust division chief
defendants in the lawsuit are aetna casualty and surety co., hartford fire insurance co., cigna corp., and only in the texas lawsuit, travelers insurance cos. american, lucky; picks up 7th graf pvs: the combination ...</note>
american stores co. says it is prepared to increase its offer for lucky stores inc. to more than $1.9 billion if a friendly merger of the two grocery store chains can be worked out
american also filed a lawsuit in delaware state court to enjoin lucky officers from defending against american's unsolicited tender offer, indicating american may be bracing for a takeover battle
in a letter to the board of the dublin, calif.-based lucky late monday, american chairman l.s. skaggs said his company was ready to offer $50 per share if a ``mutually acceptable agreement'' could be worked out with lucky
earlier in the day, american launched a cash tender offer for lucky at $45 per share, or a total of $1.74 billion. that offer expires at midnight april 22
we made clear our willingness to negotiate concerning all aspects of our offer, including the price,'' said skaggs in his letter to lucky
so far lucky's representatives have declined to negotiate
american stores vice president michael holt today said the company would have no comment on either the lawsuit or increased stock cash offer. lucky officials were not available to discuss the matter this morning
the combination of american, the nation's third-largest grocery retailer with 1,700 stores and annual sales of $15 billion, and lucky, the sixth-largest with 480 stores and sales of $7 billion, could produce the biggest grocery retailer in the country, analysts say
lucky officials were not immediately available for comment on the latest developments, which were announced in a press release after the close of stock trading
lucky shares advanced 87{ cents to close at $48.62{, while american shares lost $1.75 to finish at $54.87{ on the new york stock exchange
before american revealed the contents of its letter, lucky spokeswoman lissa perlman said company officials had been reviewing the offer with financial and legal advisers since last week
ms. perlman said lucky was advising stockholders not to take any action on the american offer until lucky's board of directors has a chance to study the bid and make its recommendation
american's lawsuit, filed friday in wilmington, del., alleges lucky and its executives have breached their fiduciary duties by ``following a course of conduct directed towards entrenching themselves in control of lucky stores.''
in the lawsuit, american said its representatives met with lucky's march 21 to announce the tender offer. american claimed the $45 offered for each lucky common share is about 40 percent over the market price of the company's stock immediately before the offer
american said its representatives advised lucky chairman john m. lillie that their company preferred to negotiate a friendly acquisition and requested a prompt meeting to do so
but ``within hours of this meeting, lucky ... set out on a course of conduct which would deny the lucky stockholders a premium price for their shares and would preserve the position of the company's management and the board,'' the suit alleged
the lawsuit further claimed that lucky initially threatened to take injunctive action against american and urged the utah company to delay its tender share filings with the securities and exchange commission, not to publicize the offer and to consider certain arrangements between the two companies leading to abandonment of the offer
based on those attempts, the lawsuit said, american believes lucky's management ``will continue to refuse to negotiate seriously ... and will employ an array of defensive measures to prevent the acquisition of the company in violation of the defendant's fiduciary obligation and duties to its stockholders.''
in a march 26 letter telling lillie of the takeover plans, skaggs praised lucky's management and marketing strategies and invited lucky executives to stay on if the deal is completed
lucky's headquarters would remain in dublin, skaggs said
the bid for lucky came 16 months after takeover specialist asher edelman dropped his hostile effort to acquire the company. in return, lucky agreed to pay his $2.8 million in legal bills
lucky kept edelman at bay partially by selling off its non-grocery divisions and adopting anti-takeover measures
after the text of the letter was released last week, lucky officials had no comment on the american's tender offer except to say company bylaws contain a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover provision limiting the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
in 1984, american spent $1.1 billion to take over jewel companies inc., a chicago-based grocery, drug and convenience store chain
that acquisition expanded american's operations from just over 1,000 retail outlets to its present 1,700. the company has three divisions _ skaggs, which operates supermarkets in the western united states; american superstores, which runs outlets in the midwest and east, and osco drug stores, which has stores nationwide
the company operates stores under the names acme, jewel, star, buttrey, skaggs, skaggs alpha beta, and osco drug
british aerospace plc said tuesday it reached an agreement, as planned, to acquire rover group plc from the british government, for 150 million pounds, or $279 million
british aerospace said that after it acquired the government's 99.8 percent stake in the automaker, the government would make a cash injection of 800 million pounds, or $1.49 billion, into rover to cover the car maker's debt
british aerospace said the acquisition is conditional on approval of the cash injection by the european commission, and on the approval of british aerospace shareholders
rover's board of directors said it welcomed the agreement
british aerospace said it ``intends to hold and develop the principal businesses of the rover group.''
the group is made up of the austin rover carmaker and the land rover utility vehicle maker. it sold off its leyland truck operations last year
the government took over the automaker, then called british leyland, in 1975 to prevent its collapse. it sold off jaguar plc, the luxury automaker, in july 1984
british aerospace agreed to make unspecified payments to the government if it decides to sell any of rover's principal businesses as going concerns
rover recently announced trading profit, or profit before tax and interest charges, of 27.9 million pounds, or $52 million, for 1987. that compared with a trading loss of 355.6 million pounds, or $661 million, in 1986
british aerospace said it also intends to purchase the remaining 0.2 percent of rover shares, which are held by private investors. the company will detail the terms of that offer to the private shareholders after it secures the other approvals
british aerospace said it values rover's existing production agreements with the japanese automaker, honda motor co., and ``wishes to build upon that relationship.''
rover chairman graham day said the british aerospace deal ``offers a speedy route to privatization with the minimum disruption to our management, work force, dealer networks and suppliers.''
trade secretary lord young had announced in march that british aerospace had shown a serious interest in acquiring rover, which the government previously had said it intended to privatize
british aerospace makes a variety of airplanes and aerospace products for civilian and military use, and makes wings for airbus industrie, the european civilian aircraft consortium
stock prices advanced broadly this morning, helped by relatively strong economic reports, a stable dollar and falling interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 17.58 at 1,997.35 by noontime on wall street. the closely watched index had closed a scant 0.82 higher monday, although the rest of the market lost ground
in the broader market today, advancing issues outpaced declines by more than 2 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 936 up, 401 down, and 479 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 72.98 million shares as of noon eastern time, compared with 70.43 million shares at the same point in monday's session
before the stock market opened, the government reported its chief economic forecasting gauge climbed 0.9 percent in february, after falling in three of the past four months
in another economic report, the commerce department said that sales of new homes jumped 20.3 percent in february, the biggest advance in almost two years
hugh johnson, chief investment officer at first albany corp., said the leading indicators figure suggested to some traders ``that maybe those fears that the economy is going to run out of steam either this year or next year are unfounded.''
he said that news was welcomed by traders who saw prices hammered last week, leaving stocks ``somewhwat oversold by most measures.''
traders said the dollar's improvement in foreign exchange trading helped stock prices by easing inflation fears and pushing interest rates lower
the fact that the dollar has stabilized and is no longer going into a free-fall, that's a psychological prop,'' said larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
bond prices were up in early trading, depressing yields on long-term treasury issues that had risen to two-month highs on monday. at midday, 30-year bonds were yielding 8.78 percent compared with 8.83 percent late monday
among most actively traded issues, rjr nabisco rose 4} to 52}; gillette fell 2] to 42}; philip morris rose 3 to to 91~; and ibm rose [ to 108\
lucky stores jumped 1} to 50]. american stores co. said it was prepared to raise its offer for lucky to more than $1.9 billion if a friendly merger of the two grocery store chains can be achieved
the nyse composite index was up 1.15 at 147.26. at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.58 to 293.58
officials of ibp inc. said they will build a $40 million state-of-the-art hog processing plant at waterloo
we truly believe that waterloo will be good for ibp and ibp will be good for waterloo,'' ibp chairman robert l. peterson told a tuesday news conference
the pork and beef processing giant said in november 1986 it was considering building a plant in northeastern iowa. the company focused attention on a delaware county site south of manchester before opposition arose to ibp plans to dump treated sewage into tributaries of the maquoketa river
ibp will begin construction on the 365,000-square-foot plant this spring at a 130-acre site in northeastern waterloo. completion of the plant is expected to take a year and a half
when at full capacity, the plant will employ 1,200 to 1,500 people with an annual plyroll of more than $20 million and will process 4 million hogs a year. ibp currently has four pork plants _ at storm lake, louisa county and council bluffs in iowa and madison, neb. _ and employs 20,000 people at 15 plants in eight states
corporate raider carl c. icahn will not take over texaco inc., which is coming out of bankruptcy, company president james kinnear predicted today
icahn, who owns 14.8 percent of texaco and is the oil giant's largest single shareholder, has threatened to run a panel of five candidates for the texaco's 14-member board at the next annual meeting unless texaco offers to put itself up for sale
but kinnear, whose seat on the board of directors also is threatened for takeover, said texaco management will do its best to keep icahn out. texaco officials have repeatedly said the company is not for sale
he recently said in public that he has no intention of being on texaco's board or wanting to take control of the company, but the next day he said he might run a proxy slate,'' kinnear told a news conference. ``i just don't know what his intentions are. my prediction is that he will not take over this company.''
kinnear did not elaborate on the strategy for keeping icahn from making a run at the company
icahn is not the only takeover artist known to be interested in texaco. oilman t. boone pickens has said he is seeking federal regulatory permission to acquire 15 percent or more of texaco's stock, as has getty petroleum co., a large independent distributor that was born of texaco's takeover of getty oil
kinnear talked to reporters after a speech to the national petroleum refiners association
he said the company would become leaner and stronger by selling some assets to clear up its huge debt
last week, a u.s. bankruptcy court judge approved a reorganization plan that will enable texaco to emerge from chapter 11 protection early next month
texaco filed for that protection last april to avoid having to post an $11 billion security bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgment against the company held by houston-based pennzoil co
the judgment stemmed from a november 1985 ruling by a houston jury that texaco had improperly interfered with a pennzoil bid to acquire part of getty oil co., then bought getty itself
texaco's reorganization plan calls for payment of $5.6 billion, with $3 billion going to pennzoil to drop the judgment and the rest going to creditors
texaco expects to sell $3 billion in assets to finance the program, kinnear said
in his speech, kinnear said that the petrochemical industry could profit if it remains lean
u.s. chemical manufacturers must adjust their thinking to a slower-growth economy and to competition from new players,'' he said. ``revamping facilities, stretching existing units, or making strategic acquisitions will generally yield far greater returns than investing in new, grassroots plants with the expectation of growing to full capacity in two or three years.''
hallmark cards inc. has announced that it will sell its costume jewelry subsidiary to crystal brands inc. of southport, conn
terms of the sale of trifari, krussman &amp; fishel inc. of new york were not disclosed
trifari, which has about 1,000 employees, was being sold because hallmark wanted to concentrate on larger companies and investments, said steve doyal, a hallmark spokesman
hallmark bought trifari in 1975 from the family that started the company in 1925. at that time, doyal said trifari was a good complement to hallmark's composition as a greeting card and gift company
hallmark last year acquired a spanish language television network for $300 million. its other subsidiaries include printing and graphics companies, crown center redevelopment corp. and binney &amp; smith inc., the maker of crayola crayons
sundstrand corp., a major aerospace contractor, has agreed in principle to plead guilty to filing false statements with the government and pay $12.5 million for overcharging on military work, a newspaper reported
the proposed plea agreement covers allegations that the company's seattle-based sundstrand data control unit improperly included patent-litigation expenses in overhead costs on government military contracts, the wall street journal reported tuesday, quoting unidentified sources
sundstrand said in a filing with the securities and exchange commission that it expected to face unspecified criminal charges in both washington state and illinois in connection with federal grand jury investigations of its accounting methods for handling government contracts and tax matters
the government has advised that it intends to charge the company with criminal violations in both districts,'' sundstrand's filing stated
the document also reported that the company, rockford's largest employer, was working on a settlement in one, and possibly both, of the actions
federal charges could lead to the suspension of new government contracts for sundstrand, which had $579 million in military sales in 1987
but if the company settled the dispute by paying ``materially adverse fines and penalties,'' it might be suspended only temporarily from new government business, according to sundstrand's filing
the 12-nation european economic community loses at least $250 billion a year in extra costs and lost economic opportunities by staying divided along national borders, a two-year study concludes
the study, which was released tuesday, is designed to give economic undepinning to the trade bloc's plan to abolish national frontiers and create a single european market by the end of 1992
the report concluded that fusing the economies of the individual member states into one would add 5 percent to the bloc's gross domestic product and create up to 5 million new jobs
the report was prepared by a team of economists supervised by paolo cecchini, a former senior eec official,
jacques delors, president of the eec executive commission, said at a press conference that he hoped the report would launch a european debate about economic integration. ``we are simply providing food for thought ... we want to get a debate going,'' he said
he said the purpose of the study was not to provide an economic forecast, but rather to outline the economic potential of a europe united in a single market
lord arthur cockfield, the eec commissioner responsible for the integration process, gave a more prosaic appraisal of the study: ``we wanted to show there is a lot more juice to be squeezed from this particular lemon.''
pointing to the more than 6,000 pages that the report and its underlying studies contain, cockfield said, ``nothing like it has ever been done before.''
he said the results show ``clearly the extent to which the division of europe results in non-competitive behavior, missed opportunities, high unemployment and higher prices.''
according to the study, the eec stands to gain from market integration the equivalent of at least $250 billion a year, largely by foregoing the cost of border controls and by improving productivity and competitiveness
abolishing controls and removing non-tariff barriers to trade, the report concluded, could save up to $99.2 billion and shave as much as 3.5 percent of the cost of products
an additional $75.6 billion could be gained from ``exploiting economies of scale more fully,'' the report estimated
restoring competition in state-controlled industries and reducing ``business ineffectiveness'' would add $57 billion in economic benefits, the report said
the study predicted that in addition to boosting output, employment and the standard of living, the creation of a single market would ``simultaneously cool the economy, deflating consumer prices by an average of 6 percent.''
deregulation of public transport, the energy industry, banking, indurance and defence procurement would lead to price cuts of up to 20 percent, the report said
the report estimated that market integration alone would add 4.5 percent to the gross domestic product and add 2 million new jobs. but if combined with tax reduction and increased spending, the report said, a single market would boost gross domestic product by 7 percent and create 5 million new jobs
the report did not estimate which eec countries would benefit most from the single market, but said all 12 were likely to ``make substantial economic gains.''
the stock market rose broadly today, as some new signs of economic strength, a stable dollar and lower interest rates helped push a key blue-chip indicator over the 2,000-mark
trading activity was moderate
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 20.40 at 2,000.17 with two hours left in the session. the closely watched index had closed a scant 0.82 higher monday, although the rest of the market lost ground
in the broader market today, advancing issues outpaced declines by 5 to 2 among issues listed on the new york stock exchange, with 1,019 up, 409 down, and 471 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 104.05 million shares as of 2 p.m. eastern time, compared with 100.33 million shares at the same point in monday's session
before the stock market opened, the government reported its chief economic forecasting gauge climbed 0.9 percent in february, after falling in three of the past four months
hugh johnson, chief investment officer at first albany corp., said the rise in the index of leading indicators suggested ``maybe those fears that the economy is going to run out of steam either this year or next year are unfounded.''
he said that news was welcomed by traders who saw prices hammered last week, leaving stocks ``somewhwat oversold by most measures.''
traders said the dollar's improvement in foreign exchange trading helped stock prices by easing inflation fears and pushing interest rates lower
the fact that the dollar has stabilized and is no longer going into a free-fall, that's a psychological prop,'' said larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
among most actively traded issues, rjr nabisco rose 4] to 52]; gillette fell 1{ to 43|; and philip morris rose 2| to to 91{
lucky stores jumped 1| to 50\. american stores co. said it was prepared to raise its offer for lucky to more than $1.9 billion if a friendly merger of the two grocery store chains can be achieved
the nyse composite index was up 1.36 at 147.47. at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.90 to 293.90
grain and soybean futures closed mixed tuesday on the chicago board of trade. soybeans posted losses, most wheat contracts made slight gains and corn finished nearly unchanged
the decline in soybean prices was mostly due to profit-taking after monday's sharp advances, analysts said
wheat prices also did an about-face as traders bought contracts after a fairly steep drop on monday, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
contracts for may and july delivery of corn advanced marginally in reaction to news that the government had granted one-year extensions on certain corn loans taken out in 1984, 1985 and 1986
the extensions mean farmers can delay decisions about marketing hundreds of millions of bushels of corn that might otherwise have gone onto the market this year, lespinasse said
trading volume is expected to drop on wednesday and thursday ahead of two eagerly awaited agriculture department reports _ the annual spring planting intentions report and the quarterly grain stocks report _ due out after thursday's close
at the close, wheat was 1{ cents lower to 1{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.01 a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to } cent higher with may at $2.11\ a bushel; oats were 1\ cents lower to 3 cents higher with may at $1.63} a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents to 6 cents lower with may at $6.51 a bushel. wires.</note>
a law that barred publisher rupert murdoch from continuing to own television stations and newspapers in the same city was struck down today as unconstitutional by a federal appeals court
the divided panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals here voided a provision passed by congress late last year that would force murdoch to sell the boston herald or wfxt-tv in that city by june 30 to comply with rules that forbid single ownership of a newspaper and a television station in one city
the 2-1 court decision does not affect murdoch's $37 million sale of the new york post to real estate developer peter kalikow, a deal that was spurred by the law's enactment as part of a massive spending bill
in his contract to sell the post, murdoch retained the right to make the first offer for the paper if kalikow should decide to sell. howard j. rubenstein, spokesman for both men, said the contract obliges kalikow to allow murdoch to make a ``first offer'' for the paper, but does not oblige kalikow to accept it
but lawrence kessler, general counsel for news america, said murdoch was not contemplating repurchasing the post, which kalikow says he is committed to turning into a profitable newspaper. kessler also said he was ``heartened and encouraged that the court of appeals shared our concern for the protection of publishers' constitutional rights.''
the court's ruling could enable murdoch to retain temporarily ownership of both his boston media outlets if the federal communications commission extends his waiver from the enforcement of the common-ownership rule
the court ordered the fcc to consider murdoch's application to extend the temporary waiver that he has held since 1986
murdoch charged that the law forbidding the fcc to extend his temporary waivers for both the new york post and the boston herald was politically motivated and amounted to an unconstitutional attempt to silence criticism of sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., by the herald
the court ruled that the provision of a massive spending bill was unconstitutional because it singled out murdoch's news america inc
while the court declined to inquire into congress's motives, it concluded that the provison ``strikes at murdoch with the precision of a laser beam,'' and therefore violates the equal protection clause of the constitution
the amendment to the spending bill prohibited the fcc from extending temporary waivers to the common-ownership rules. it was sponsored by sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c. and supported by kennedy
the court did not rule on the merits of any claim that murdoch's news america publishing inc. should retain ownership of both the herald and wfxt-tv. but the judges cleared the way for murdoch to seek an extension of the june 30 deadline for complying with the common-ownership rules
murdoch has indicated he wanted to retain the herald and sell the television station if forced to do so
the court ruled that because murdoch's company was the sole holder of temporary waivers specified in the hollins amendment, the law was aimed solely at him
because the law appears to serve no legitimate purpose except to prohibit murdoch from obtaining extensions of his waivers, it unconstitutionally singled him out, the court said
congress's exclusive focus on a single party clearly implicates values similar to those behind the constitutional proscription of bills of attainder,'' judge stephen williams wrote in an opinion joined by judge laurence silberman. such bills are aimed at specific individuals
the safeguards of a pluralistic political system are often absent when the legislature zeroes in on a small class of citizens,'' he wrote
nowhere are the protections of the equal protection clause more critical than when legislation singles out one or a few for uniquely disfavored treatment,'' williams said
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., who had the legislation attached to the spending bill, said in a statement that the court's decision does not mean murdoch should retain ownership of his boston newspaper and television station
nothing in the constitution or even the court's decision says that rupert murdoch is entitled to be the only newspaper owner in american who can buy a broadcasting station and keep his newspaper in the same community,'' kennedy said
he said he continues to believe ``that congress was on sound constitutional grounds when it adopted the provision, and that the right of congress to take this action will be vindicated by the supreme court if the parties appeal today's decision.''
a stable dollar and lower interest rates helped push stock prices sharply higher today, with the dow jones industrial average surpassing the 2,000-mark again
the closely watched index of 30 industrial stocks jumped 23.88 to 2,003.65 with an hour to go on wall street. on monday it closed a scant 0.82 higher, while other indicators registered a loss
the broader market also posted gains today. advancing issues outpaced declines by 7 to 3 among issues listed on the new york stock exchange, with 1,022 up, 443 down, and 472 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 126.78 million shares as of 3 p.m. est, compared with 118.6 million shares at the same point in monday's session
traders said the dollar's improvement in foreign exchange trading helped stock prices by easing inflation fears and pushing interest rates lower
the fact that the dollar has stabilized and is no longer going into a free-fall, that's a psychological prop,'' said larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc. ``the market is in an oversold condition.''
hugh johnson, chief investment officer at first albany corp., said a report showing the index of leading indicators _ the government's chief economic forecsting gauge _ rose 0.9 percent in february also lent support to stock prices. the index had fallen in three of the past four months
maybe those fears that the economy is going to run out of steam either this year or next year are unfounded,'' he said
among most actively traded blue-chip issues, american telephone and telegraph rose [ to 26~; ibm fell { to 107|; general electric rose [ to 41[; and exxon was unchanged
texaco rose 3 to 47}, after kohlberg kravis roberts said it intended to buy up to 15 percent of the oil giant's shares
rjr nabisco was up 4] to 52]. the company said it planned to buy back as much as 8 percent of its stock
lucky stores jumped 1{ to 50[. american stores co. said it was prepared to raise its offer for lucky to more than $1.9 billion if a friendly merger of the two grocery store chains can be achieved
the nyse composite index was up 1.26 at 147.37. at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.75 to 293.75
roper corp.'s board of directors changed sides tuesday in the takeover fight for the appliance manufacturer, saying stockholders should sell to general electric co. instead of whirlpool corp
roper's board determined that ge's $508 million tender offer was clearly superior to whirlpool's $470 million one, the company said in withdrawing a recommendation of whirlpool made march 18
discussions with whirlpool ... have not to date led whirlpool to propose an increase in the price offered for roper shares,'' roper's statement said
the battle began in february when roper announced it had agreed to be acquired by whirlpool for $37.50 for each of roper's 9.4 million shares outstanding, or about $352.5 million. general electric then entered the fray with a bid of $45 per share, or $423 million
both companies have since increased their bids, with ge's currently at $54 per share and whirlpool's at $50
whirlpool and ge have filed federal court suits challenging each others' actions, with ge claiming the roper board failed to tell stockholders of an earlier interest in the company and whirlpool complaining ge was trying to sabotage an already announced deal. hearings are scheduled this week in whirlpool's suit
the board said roper stockholders should withdraw their shares already offered to whirlpool and tender them to ge instead
whirlpool, in a statement issued from its benton harbor, mich., headquarters, said the company will continue to pursue roper
our definitive merger agreement with roper still stands,'' david r. whitwam, whirlpool's president, chairman and chief executive, said in the statement. ``the roper board's action is disappointing in light of its corporate charter to consider the best interests of all constituents. ... however, it is understandable in view of the current price differential and the pressures being applied by ge.''
roper employs about 4,750 people, 3,000 of them in four georgia plants. in addition to electric and gas appliances, the company manufactures tillers, lawn mowers and lawn and garden tractors. its customers include sears roebuck &amp; co., the nation's largest retailer
it also manufactures some ge ranges, and the fairfield, conn.-based company has said its interest in roper stems from that association
roper had net income of $24 million on $703 million in sales for the fiscal year ended july 31
ge, which also has financial and broadcasting interests, had 1987 revenues of $40.5 billion and net income of $2.9 billion. its major appliance business was responsible for $4.72 billion in revenue and a pretax operating profit of $490 million
whirlpool had $4.2 billion in sales last year. counter</head>
odyssey partners sweetened its tender offer for j.p. stevens &amp; co. to $1.14 billion tuesday, but analysts predicted further bidding in the battle for the textile giant
west point-pepperell inc., which has made a $1.1 billion bid for stevens, is expected to compete fiercely for the crown jewels _ three state-of-the-art factories and licenses for hot designer labels that lure consumers around the world to stevens' quality sheets and towels
odyssey, a new york investment firm, said it would pay $64 for each of stevens' 17.8 million outstanding shares, up from the $61.50-a-share tender offer stevens' management accepted earlier this month
in ``consideration'' for the sweetened offer, stevens' board agreed to pay odyssey up to $8 million if it is acquired by a third party for more than $64 a share
pepperell made its $62.50-a-share bid after stevens forged its agreement with odyssey. pepperell had said it might be willing to increase its offer to $64 a share if stevens agreed to a friendly deal
a spokesman at pepperell's headquarters in west point, ga., had no comment after odyssey announced its increased offer
but asked in an interview last week whether pepperell would consider raising its offer above the conditional $64 a share, chairman joseph l. lanier said, ``i wouldn't preclude it.''
in afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange, stevens rose 37{ cents to $64.87{a share
odyssey partner brian d. young noted in a statement that while odyssey's bid matched what pepperell said it was prepared to pay under friendly terms, odyssey's tender offer expires on april 11 _ 10 days ahead of pepperell's offer
investors are likely to find the earlier expiration attractive unless pepperell raises its bid
west point-pepperell wants stevens very badly,'' said george zimmerman, director of research at gruntal &amp; co
the acquisition would quickly further pepperell in its goal of becoming a major international marketer of branded products
not only does stevens have some of the best brand names in the business, but they have bigger international operations, particularly in canada and japan,'' said josephine esquivel, a textile analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc
pepperell's brands include arrow, martex, lady pepperell and burberrys. among stevens' arsenal of top designer names are ralph lauren, laura ashley, pierre cardin, vanderbilt, perry ellis and givenchy
in addition to the attraction of the licenses to use those names, pepperell is keen on acquiring stevens' sheet plant in clemson, s.c., and two top towel plants in wagram, n.c., analysts agreed
how much higher pepperell can go is another matter. esquivel noted that the company's debt-to-equity ratio, currently at 28 percent, would jump to 63 percent based on a $64-a-share tender offer
odyssey's young has charged that a pepperell merger with stevens would violate antitrust laws
pepperell has sought to soothe potential antitrust concerns with a plan that includes the sale of half of stevens' bath lines and 20 percent of its sheet lines for about $170 million. pepperell signed a definitive agreement for the sale with ntc group, parent of bibb co., a textile manufacturer
but young said the proposed sale to bibb ``does not cure the antitrust problems.'' he said odyssey will ``strongly present our views to the appropriate governmental authorities and will continue to oppose any amended proposal if we believe that the antitrust problems have not been solved.''
bidding for stevens began after it received a leveraged buyout offer several weeks ago from a group led by its own senior management, including chairman whitney stevens _ a fifth-generation member of the family that founded the company in 1813
the management group initially offered $43 a share and later sweetened its bid to $55 a share in cash and securities. in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired largely with borrowed money repaid with a target company's profits or the sale of assets
the stock market was broadly higher today, bolstered by a stable dollar, lower interest rates and some positive economic news
five minutes before the close, the closely watched dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 18.24 to 1,998.01
new home sales, which had fallen for three months following the october collapse of the stock market, soared 20.3 percent in february, the fastest increase in almost two years, the government said tuesday
the commerce department said that new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 628,000 units. it was the first monthly increase since a 1.4 percent rise in october, but it still left sales 14.9 percent below where they were a year ago
sales had fallen 10.3 percent in january, 6.8 percent in december and 4.2 percent in november, declines which analysts had blamed on high mortgage rates and consumer jitters following the record plunge in stock prices that occurred on oct. 19
because housing is often the first sector to weaken at the start of a new recession, the string of declines had raised concerns about whether another downturn was imminent
but analysts said the strong february rebound erased those worries and indicated housing should strengthen further in coming months
the february numbers spell relief and optimism,'' said david seiders, chief economist for the national association of home builders. ``we feel we are back on track where we should be.''
james christian, chief economist of the u.s. league of savings institutions, said the february housing performance ``is another piece of evidence that we are shrugging off the aftershocks from the stock market crash.''
christian predicted that new home sales would rise further during the spring sales season and help boost sales for the entire year to around 650,000. while that would be down from the 671,000 new homes sold in 1987, it would still be considered a strong sales year for the industry
analysts said it is unlikely that mortgage rates will fall much further. fixed-rate mortgages currently stand at 9.99 percent, down from a high last year of 11.58 percent just before the stock market decline
economists predicted rates would begin rising later this spring and would probably top 11 percent by the end of the year
the economy is too strong and the dollar is too weak to believe that interest rates will go down from here,'' said martin regalia, chief economist of the national council of savings institutions
the big february sales rebound was the largest monthly increase since a 21 percent gain in march 1986. it was accompanied by a sharp decline in prices, reflecting in part the re-entry into the market of first-time buyers, who normally buy less expensive homes
the median, or mid-point, price of new homes was $110,800 in february, down 6.1 percent from the record january price of $118,000
the average price of a new home fell 4.6 percent to $139,000 last month, down from $145,700 in january
the big jump in sales was propelled by a 42.9 percent surge in sales in the south. this region of the country, which accounts for 40 percent of all new homes sold, is still 9.6 percent below the year-earlier sales pace
sales were up 29.3 percent in the northeast and 18.2 percent in the midwest. the west was the only region of the country to suffer a sales decline in february, a drop of 7.1 percent
sundstrand corp. has agreed in principle to plead guilty to filing false statements with the government and to pay $12.5 million in connection with alleged overcharges on defense contracts, according to published reports tuesday
sundstrand corp., an aerospace contractor, previously revealed in a financial filing with the government that it would face criminal charges resulting from two federal grand jury investigations into alleged overcharges
the wall street journal reported tuesday that sundstrand had agreed to the guilty plea and payment in one of those investigations and that justice department officials hoped to gain an agreement in the second, larger investigation
sundstrand reported a year ago that the government was seeking repayment of $13.5 million plus interest and $102.9 million plus interest in two separate disputes over contract pricing
the journal said the two cases, taken together, could result in the largest total payment ever for alleged military contracting fraud
claude bernam, a spokesman for sundstrand, referred inquiries about the investigations to the company's lawyers, who were not available for comment
in a report filed recently with the federal securities and exchange commission, sundstrand acknowledged the ``government has advised that it intends to charge the company with criminal violations'' in both rockford and seattle
sundstrand is based in rockford and operates a subsidiary in redmond, wash., near seattle, that is part of its advanced technology group
sundstrand, which makes flight data equipment, engine start-up systems and other electronic equipment for commercial and military aircraft, said in its sec filing that it was ``in the process of entering a settlement in one or possibly both actions.''
such settlements, the company also noted in the filing, ``could result in the imposition of materially adverse fines and penalties.''
in the seattle case, the newspaper said sundstrand failed to disclose improper accounting procedures during negotiations with the defense department. in the rockford case, sundstrand allegedly charged private commercial costs to air force and navy contracts and subcontracts
sundstrand's military sales last year amounted to $574 million and accounted for more than half of all sales in the aerospace segment
in 1986, sundstrand put aside $61.5 million to cover settlement and legal expenses relating to the government disputes. as a result, 1986 profits were down 39 percent
one analyst said sundstrand has the market presence to weather a temporary halt in government business
the question is, is this jeopardizing on a long-term basis,'' said steven colbert, at prudential-bache securities. ``the answer right now is, `i don't think so.' right now they have very strong market share.'' 
the stock market pulled out of its slump today, bolstered by a more stable dollar, lower interest rates and some positive news about the economy
analysts, however, were uncertain whether today's broad-based rally represented a bullish trend or just a much-needed respite following three sessions of losses
in light of what we've seen in the equity market today ... much of this action is almost like an oversold bounce,'' said dennis e. jarrett, a technical analyst for kidder, peabody &amp; co. ``it's too early to say whether it's sustainable.''
the dollar's improvement in foreign exchange trading helped stock prices by easing inflation fears and pushing interest rates lower, analysts said. a sharp decline in the u.s. currency had been largely responsible for driving down the stock market on monday
the fact that the dollar has stabilized and is no longer going into a free-fall, that's a psychological prop,'' said larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
the dollar was aided today by central bank intervention and remarks from japan's foreign minister, kiichi miyazawa, who called for major industrialized nations to follow last year's currency stabilization accord
hugh johnson, chief investment officer at first albany corp., said a report showing the index of leading indicators _ the government's chief economic forecsting gauge _ gained 0.9 percent in february also lent support to stock prices. the index had fallen in three of the past four months
maybe those fears that the economy is going to run out of steam either this year or next year are unfounded,'' johnson said
the senate on tuesday effectively rejected legislation to warn up to 300,000 workers a year they risk cancer and other diseases from occupational exposure to toxic chemicals
on a 52-42 vote, senate sponsors of the house-passed measured failed by 18 of the 60 votes necessary on a fourth attempt to break off a conservative republican filibuster over the past eight days against the union-sought bill
the bill's author, sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, conceded defeat but said the issue will not go away
in this one i've lost,'' he said. ``but as long as workers are kept in the dark about occupational hazards, we will continue to try to bring them light
the defeat was the first for the afl-cio on the senate floor since helping return the 100-member body to democratic control. but 15 of the senate's 54 democrats, most of them from the south, ended up siding with the leader of the filibuster, sen. orrin hatch, r-utah
we've had 50 years of these type of give-away programs that don't work,'' said hatch, who claimed the measure could cost businesses up to $7 billion if exposed workers began filing and winning liability suits against their current and former employers
the bill was aimed at addressing what the national institute of occupational safety and health estimates is one in every four americans who has been exposed to carcinogens at work, most of them unaware of it
metzenbaum, the measure's chief sponsor, repeatedly cited american cancer society estimates that warnings to at-risk workers could have saved 250,000 lives over the next 10 years
tens of thousands of american workers are dying each year from occupational diseases and could prevent many of these deaths ... by telling them the truth that they are at risk,'' he said
metzenbaum accused the national association of manufacturers and the u.s. chamber of commerce of waging an ``orchestrated campaign of misrepresentation, innuendo and hype'' in citing the potential costs to employers
alexander trowbridge, the nam's president, called metzenbaum's charge ``irresponsible,'' saying worker health is a prime concern of every responsible manager in the country
we care a great deal about preventing disease from happening rather than discovering it after the fact, which is what his proposal would bring about,'' trowbridge said
the bill would have established a panel of seven scientific experts to identify the most hazardous substances in workplaces and the groups of employees most susceptible to disabling diseases because of exposure to them
niosh would have been required to individually notify between 100,000 and 300,000 of those at-risk workers every year at an annual cost of $25 million. employers then would be required to finance medical monitoring program for them at a cost of up to $250 each annually
if a physician recommended transferring a monitored employee to less hazardous work, he or she would have had to be paid the same level of wages and benefits to them in the new job. if no other job is available, the employee would have been entitled to full wages for up to a year after leaving work
in addition to unions, the bill was supported by public health and environmental groups, the chemical and electronic industries and several giant companies, most of which have instituted such notification programs on their own. 03-29 0094</first>
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 18.57 to 1,998.34
advancing issues outpaced declines by about 13 to 6 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,015 up, 467 down and 482 unchanged
big board volume totaled 152.69 million shares, against 142.82 million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index climbed 1.11 to 147.22
at the american stock exchange, the market value index stood at 294.33, up 2.33. cross-ownership</head> ... today's decision.; and subs 26th graf pvs, the issue ... further action., to clarify that fcc barred from acting during current fiscal year. also on general news wires.</note>
congress unconstitutionally singled out publisher rupert murdoch by prohibiting his continued ownership of newspapers and television stations in the same city, an appeals court ruled tuesday
a recently enacted provision barring the federal communications commission from extending temporary waivers from its cross-ownership rule is unconstitutional because it ``strikes at murdoch with the precision of a laser beam'' without a legitimate purpose, the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington ruled in a 2-1 opinion
the law violates the the constitution's equal protection clause as well as the first amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press, the court said
the decision means murdoch may petition the fcc to extend past june 30 the waiver that allows his news american publishing inc. to own both the boston herald and that city's wfxt-tv
murdoch also had sought an extension of a waiver that allowed him to own both the new york post and wnyw-tv until march 6, but the newspaper was sold earlier this month for $37 million to real estate developer peter kalikow. the decision, therefore, won't affect the post's sale
lawrence kessler, general counsel for news america, said murdoch has no plans to repurchase the newspaper in light of the court's ruling
the provision that banned the cross-ownership waiver extension had been tucked quietly into a massive spending bill last december by sens. ernest hollings, d-s.c., and edward m. kennedy, d-mass
in its ruling tuesday, the court said the ban was so narrowly drawn that it applied only to murdoch _ who held the only two waivers from the cross-ownership rule
the court is saying congress ``should not enact legislation that is aimed in a punitive way at a single individual,'' said howard squadron, a new york attorney who argued the case for news america
i would think it's a benefit to all people who enjoy the first amendment freedom,'' squadron said
howard rubinstein, a spokesman for both news america and kalikow, said news america was ``gratified'' with the court's ruling and that kalikow has instructed his attorneys to seek to purchase a radio station or television station in new york city. he would not name stations
rubinstein said kalikow will challenge the cross-ownership rule itself because he believes the reasons for the rule no longer exist since there are an ample number of radio and televison stations
the fcc, which defended the law's constitutionality but not the policy it enacted, appeared as pleased with the decision as murdoch's lawyers
the court by this decision has demonstrated that the congress does not have a free hand in the regulation of the broadcast press,'' fcc chairman dennis r. patrick said in a statement. ``i am pleased the court will hold the congress to a higher standard when first amendment freedoms are implicated.''
the court did not specify how the commission should rule on murdoch's request for an extension except to say political pressure from congress should ``play no role in agency adjudications involving important constitutional rights.''
the court found that the law had no other purpose than to prohibit extensions of the waivers and therefore unconstitutionally targeted a specific individual for no legitimate purpose, the court said
congress's exclusive focus on a single party clearly implicates values similar to those behind the constitutional prosription of bills of attainders,'' judge stephen williams wrote in an opinion joined by judge laurence silberman. bills of attainder are aimed at specific people
murdoch and some politicians had criticized the ban as an attempt to muzzle the conservative editorial policies of the newspapers, particularly the herald, which repeatedly has been critical of kennedy
kennedy and hollings, however, said they merely were trying to force murdoch to comply with rules that other publishers must observe
in a statement tuesday, kennedy said the court's decision does not mean murdoch should retain ownership of his boston newspaper and television station
nothing in the constitution or even the court's decision says that rupert murdoch is entitled to be the only newspaper owner in american who can buy a broadcasting station and keep his newspaper in the same community,'' kennedy said
he said he believed congress ``will be vindicated by the supreme court if the parties appeal today's decision.''
hollings, meanwhile, said the court ``has arrested the policeman on the beat, while the culprit has gone free.'' he called the decision a ``legal contortion'' that ``set up murdoch for special treatment.''
while the court did not speculate on the senators' motives, it noted the provision did not bar new temporary waivers that are normally extended to give a company time to divest itself of a tv station or newspaper acquired during a merger or acquisition
nor did congress mention waivers from the cross-ownership rules, the court said
in dissent, circuit judge spotswood robinson said ``congress pursued a wholly legitimate purpose when it acted to protect the cross-ownership rule from circumvention or erosion.''
even though a statute so narrowly drawn ``naturally arouses suspicions about its legal propriety,'' robinson concluded that congress ``selected a method that was more than adequately related to the purpose it sought to achieve.''
the issue arose last fall when the fcc was asked in a petition to consider abolishing the cross-ownership rule. the fcc said it would solicit comments on the idea but the law's enactment barred the agency from taking further action during the current fiscal year
murdoch, meanwhile, has indicated he would keep the herald and sell his boston tv outlet if the fcc forces him to divest one of the properties
a stable dollar, lower interest rates and some positive news about the economy helped push the slumping stock market broadly higher tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks closed up 18.57 to 1,998.34, after venturing across the 2,000-mark during the afternoon. the closely watched index had lost more than 80 points since thursday
the broader market also gained ground tuesday. about 13 stocks rose in value for every six that fell on the new york stock exchange, with 1,015 up, 467 down and 482 unchanged
as measured by wilshire associates 500 equity index, stocks gained $18.5 billion in value
volume on the big board totaled 152.69 million shares, higher than the 142.82 million shares that changed hands in the previous session
stock prices started out on a strong note with the help of the dollar's advance in foreign exchange, which, in turn, eased inflation fears and pushed interest rates lower. a sharp decline in the u.s. currency had been largely responsible for the market's recent losses
the fact that the dollar has stabilized and is no longer going into a free-fall, that's a psychological prop,'' said larry wachtel, market strategist and first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
the dollar was aided in part by reports of central bank intervention
hugh johnson, chief investment officer at first albany corp., said a report showing the index of leading indicators _ the government's chief economic forecasting gauge _ gained 0.9 percent in february also lent support to stock prices. the index had fallen in three of the past four months
maybe those fears that the economy is going to run out of steam either this year or next year are unfounded,'' johnson said
analysts said they were uncertain whether tuesday's rally represented a bullish trend or just a much-needed respite following three disappointing sessions
in light of what we've seen in the equity market today ... much of this action is almost like an oversold bounce,'' said dennis e. jarrett, a technical analyst for kidder, peabody &amp; co. ``it's too early to say whether it's sustainable.''
among most actively traded blue-chip issues, american telephone and telegraph was up [ at 26~; ibm fell 2\ to 105~; general electric rose [ to 41[; and exxon was down \ to 42]
texaco jumped 3\ to 48, after kohlberg kravis roberts said it would seek federal permission to buy up to 15 percent of the oil giant's shares
rjr nabisco was up 4[ to 52[. the company said it planned to buy back as much as 8 percent of its stock
lucky stores rose 1\ to 49~. american stores co. said it was prepared to raise its offer for lucky to more than $1.9 billion if a friendly merger of the two grocery store chains can be achieved
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 178.58 million shares
the nyse's composite index climbed 1.11 to 147.22
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 2.62 to 301.70, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 2.01 to 260.07
at the american stock exchange, the market value index stood at 294.33, up 2.33. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 372.96, up 2.54
the dollar surged upward tuesday from its lowest point since early january, responding favorably to reports of modest efforts by central banks to support it
gold prices edged higher. republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $455.25 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $455.10 late monday
there were conflicting reports on the extent of intervention by central banks, although traders agreed the bank of japan bought some dollars with yen in the tokyo market
the federal reserve bank of new york also bought dollars tuesday, said david h. arbesman, president of kemper currency inc
the rally generated by reports of the central banks' action squeezed out investors who had bet on further declines in the dollar, forcing them to buy dollars to cover borrowed positions, arbesman said
traders who bought dollars were pushing aside the concerns that have sent the dollar lower the past several weeks. the dollar closed monday at its lowest levels since the first week in january against major currencies
the bearish factors include ``disenchantment with anything being really done about the budget, the fear of renewed inflation, and the fear of another stock market collapse,'' arbesman said
those are all really still in the backs of people's minds, but they're taking a back seat,'' he said
the dollar showed little reaction to reports tuesday that the government's chief economic forecasting gauge rose 0.9 percent in february and sales of new homes shot up 20.3 percent, said david godwin, chief foreign exchange dealer for the union bank of switzerland in new york
the british pound was bolstered by rumors, later firmly denied, that british chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson had resigned and by a statement by prime minister margaret thatcher that keeping inflation down was the government's top priority
lawson, whose job is equivalent to the u.s. secretary of the treasury, reportedly has been arguing against allowing the pound to continue its recent rise against other currencies
in london, the pound rose to $1.8705 from $1.8590 monday. later, in new york, the pound fell to $1.8642 from $1.8705
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar fell 0.06 yen to a closing 124.37 yen. later, in london, it was quoted at 124.50 yen. at the end of the trading day in new york, the dollar jumped to 125.26 from 123.84 late monday
other dollar rates late tuesday in new york, compared with late monday, included: 1.6693 west german marks, up from 1.6562; 1.3768 swiss francs, up from 1.3652; 1.2360 canadian dollars, down from 1.2372; 5.6505 french francs, up from 5.6130; and 1,236 italian lire, up from 1,226
other dollar rates late tuesday in europe, compared with late monday, included: 1.6610 west german marks, up from 1.6605; 1.3735 swiss francs, up from 1.3705; 5.6280 french francs, up from 5.6275; 1.8690 dutch guilders, up from 1.8685; 1,232.50 italian lire, up from 1,231.00; and 1.2363 canadian dollars, down from 1.2377
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery was bid at $455.40 a troy ounce, down 40 cents from late monday
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $454.75 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $454.00. in zurich, gold was higher, closing at a bid $455 compared with $453.50 late monday. earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $2.21 to close at a bid $456.88
silver bullion prices rose on the london market, where silver traded at a late bid price of $6.69 a troy ounce, compared with monday's $6.63. on new york's comex, silver bullion for current delivery was bid at $6.705 a troy ounce, up 4 cents from monday
platinum futures prices surged $7 a troy ounce tuesday on the new york mercantile exchange as the economic outlook continued to brighten and racial unrest in south africa prompted fears of supply disruptions, analysts said
on other exchanges, gold futures retreated while silver advanced; energy futures were mixed; grains and soybeans were mixed; livestock and meat were mostly lower; and stock-index futures advanced
platinum prices have been gradually re-establishing their traditional dominance over gold after falling to an even par with the yellow metal late last year, when recession fears were widespread
although it is considered a precious metal, platinum is also an industrial base metal and is more widely used by industry than gold
in a healthy economy, platinum is likely to do better than gold,'' said craig sloane, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. ``the economic activity we've seen in the last couple of months is very positive for platinum.''
tuesday's government report showing a 0.9 percent increase in february in the index of leading economic indicators further dispelled fears that the october stock market collapse was a harbinger of recession, sloane said
most platinum comes from south africa, and a recent upswing in violence there sparked fears of supply problems that helped support platinum prices, said peter cardillo, commodity futures trading adviser for josephthal &amp; co. in new york
platinum settled $7 to $8.30 higher with the contract for delivery in april at $518.70 a troy ounce
tuesday's economic data had little impact on gold and silver futures prices, which registered only slight moves on new york's commodity exchange
gold settled 30 cents to 60 cents lower with april at $455.60 a troy ounce; silver was 3 cents to 4 cents higher with march at $6.705 a troy ounce
indications of continued overproduction by the organization of petroleum exporting countries sent crude oil futures prices sliding lower in light trading on the new york mercantile exchange, said michael rothman, senior energy strategist for merrill lynch capital markets
in addition, the market was skeptical that an opec meeting next month will produce support for a production cut, rothman said
heating oil futures prices also declined while unleaded gasoline gained a bit
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 12 cents lower across the board with may at at $16.98 a barrel; heating oil was .02 cent to .40 cent lower with april at 48.15 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .10 cent lower to .24 cent higher with april at 48.26 cents a gallon
soybean futures settled lower on the chicago board of trade but the grains finished nearly unchanged
the decline in soybean prices was mostly due to profit-taking after monday's sharp advances, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
contracts for may and july delivery of corn advanced slightly in reaction to news that the government had granted one-year extensions on certain corn loans taken out in 1984, 1985 and 1986
the extensions mean farmers can delay decisions about marketing hundreds of millions of bushels of corn that might otherwise have gone onto the market this year
wheat settled { cent lower to 1{ cents higher with may at $3.01 a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to 1 cent higher with may at $2.11{ a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 3 cents lower with may at $1.63} a bushel; soybeans were 4\ cents to 7{ cents lower with may at $6.50\ a bushel
livestock and meat futures finished mostly lower on the chicago mercantile exchange in position-evening ahead of thursday's quarterly usda hogs and pigs report and the three-day easter weekend
live cattle were unchanged to .40 cent lower with april at 75.42 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .13 cent to .55 cent lower with march at 82.82 cents a pound; hogs were .30 cent lower to .13 cent higher with april at 45.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .55 cent lower with may at 55.90 cents a pound
stock-index futures advanced slightly on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .05 point higher at 259.95. the underlying spot index gained 2.01 points to close at 260.07. 3rd graf pvs bg'ng, weakness in ...</note>
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge shook off the october stock market slump to post a 0.9 percent increase in february in a performance which analysts said should lay to rest fears of a 1988 recession
in a second upbeat economic report tuesday, the government said that sales of new homes, which had fallen for three consecutive months, shot up 20.3 percent in february, the biggest monthly gain in almost two years
the positive economic news helped pull the stock market out of its slump in a broad-based rally. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 18.57 points to 1,998.34, following steep declines last thursday and friday and a fractional gain in monday's session
share prices also were bolstered by a more stable dollar and lower interest rates. the u.s. currency surged upward from its lowest point since early january, responding favorably to reports of modest efforts by central banks to support it. the dollar jumped to 125.26 japanese yen in late new york trading from 123.84 yen late monday
interest rates declined, meanwhile, as bond prices rose. the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond jumped about ~ point, or $8.75 for every $1,000 in face value. its yield, which moves inversely to its price, tumbled to 8.75 percent from 8.83 percent late monday
weakness in home sales and in the index of leading economic indicators in the months following the oct. 19 stock market crash had raised fears that the five-year-old economic recovery was in imminent danger of collapsing
housing is often the first sector to weaken in a new downturn and the index of leading indicators is designed to forecast turning points in the economy. for that reason, the february rebounds in both were greeted as good news by economists
i think we can pretty well bury the recession fears,'' said robert dederick, executive vice president of northern trust co. of chicago. ``we have dodged the bullet from the stock market decline. the economy seems to be getting its second wind.''
similarly, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the index ``shows that the economy is very promising. the size and broad-based nature of last month's index of leading indicators are encouraging.''
the 0.9 percent rise in the leading index was the biggest advance since a 1 percent rise last june. the index had fallen in three of the past four months, including declines of 0.1 percent in october, 1.2 percent in november and 1.1 percent in january
only a 0.4 percent increase in december kept the index from posting a string of three or more consecutive declines, which is often viewed as a harbinger of a recession
analysts said the declines were correctly signalling slower growth this year than in 1987. but they said the economy should strengthen as it moves into the spring
the first quarter economic slowdown will be brief and mild and the fundamental strengths of the economy will emerge as the months go on,'' said lyle gramley, chief economist for the mortgage bankers association
gramley predicted that the economy, as measured by the gross national product, would rise 2.7 percent this year, an even more optimistic outlook than the administration's prediction of 2.4 percent growth
more than half of the strength in the leading index in february came from a big jump in building permit applications
analysts said the increase in building permits, after three months of declines, reflected optimism on the part of builders that home sales would strengthen because of declining mortgage rates
in the report on home sales, the commerce department said new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 628,000 units last month, the first advance since october and the biggest gain since march 1986
the housing rebound suggests that the october crash worries have been shaken off,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co. ``we have good fundamentals on consumer spending and consumer confidence because of strong employment growth and strong growth in disposable incomes.''
in all, five of the available nine indicators were positive forces on the leading index in february. after building permits, the sources of strength came from a drop in unemployment claims, a rise in stock prices, faster growth of the money supply and a rise in consumer goods orders
four indicators held the index back. the biggest negative factor was a decline in the length of the manufacturing workweek, followed by a decline in orders for plant and equipment, a change in raw materials prices and a speed-up in business delivery times, considered a negative because it is often a sign of dropping demand
the various changes left the index at 190.6 percent of its 1967 base of 100
right now the economy is looking a lot better than we thought it was going to look three months ago,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc., of lexington, mass
at the end of last year, some analysts had feared the economy could suffer a decline in the gnp in the first three months of this year, something that has not occurred since the end of the 1981-82 recession. they feared that a big run-up in unsold goods would cause production cutbacks and rising unemployment at manufacturing plants
while there have been some production declines, notably in the auto industry, employment has risen sharply in the first two months of the year, pushing the jobless rate down to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent in february
former federal reserve board chairman paul volcker and david elliott, president of mbia corp., were elected directors of mbia inc., the company said tuesday
volcker will also serve as a consultant to the company, it was announced by william o. bailey, chairman and chief executive officer of mbia
mbia inc. is the holding company of muncipal bonds investors assurance corp., a leading insurer of municipal bonds
volcker is chairman of james wolfensohn inc., a new york investment banking firm, and was chairman of the federal reserve board from 1979 to august 1987
elliott has been the president and chief operating officer of mbia corp. since its formation in late 1986
mbia corp. insures municipal bonds, including new issues and bonds traded in the secondary market. said. updating with most passengers flown out of palma, other arrangements and detail. picks up 11th graf pvs, on tuesday ...</note>
a charter airline shut down operations unexpectedly for lack of funds, stranding about 7,000 angry easter vacationers in airports around europe on tuesday, an official of the carrier said
the spanish-based airline spantax, which is about $88 million in debt, closed operations after it ran out of money and couldn't find new investors, said pedro caro, the carrier's director of sales
about 100 employees protested the shutdown by blocking entry roads as 1,000 passengers waited anxiously for flights at son sant joan airport in palma, the capital of this mediterranean island where the company is based
caro said there was ``absolute chaos'' at the airport
late tuesday, airport official fernando echegarray said most of the passengers stranded on this island were able to leave on substitute flights
about 6,000 passengers were expected to be stranded at other airports in spain, finland, denmark and italy, caro had said earlier
there aren't enough airplanes in all of europe to resolve this,'' caro said
he said the situation was expected to get worse this weekend at the height of the easter vacation boom
by sunday i'll be hiding under the bed,'' he said
echegarray said tour operators made arrangements for palma passengers originally scheduled to fly on seven incoming and seven outgoing spantax flights, all canceled tuesday. spantax had 30 routes
he said charter airlines air europa, canafrica and tae arranged to carry spantax passengers. some passengers booked on a flight from palma to barcelona on the spanish mainland were to travel by boat, echegarray said
he said passengers reserved on a 6 a.m. plane tuesday to helsinki were expected to reach the finnish capital early wednesday
in madrid, a spokesman for a tour operator said 350 people scheduled to fly spantax to new york tuesday were to leave wednesday morning on another airline
earlier, antenna 3 radio reported in madrid that the passengers there staged a protest after being told their flight was canceled
on tuesday, spantax chairman wolfgang krauss told the company's 800 employees they would not be paid at the end of the month
there's no money to keep operating and no investors,'' the spanish national news agency efe quoted krauss as saying. the employees rejected krauss' appeal that they work unpaid for a 48-hour period
according to caro, the company's revenues totaled $150 million in 1987
in 1982, 51 people died and 121 were injured when a spantax dc-10 crashed while taking off from the mediterranean coastal city of malaga
first city bancorporation of texas inc. debt holders balked for a third time at tendering securities for a loss tuesday and officials responded by granting another extension and cutting its compliance goal for a federally assisted bailout
chicago investor a. robert abboud, who would become chairman under the bailout plan, and the federal deposit insurance corp. decided to modifiy the tender offer to 70 percent for the outstanding unsecured publicly held securities of first city
under the modification, the 90 percent minimum tender requirement has been eliminated,'' said first city spokesman jim day. ``but we still hope to get 90 percent. actually we'd like to get 100 percent
what we're saying is that we can get to 70 percent and still close and the projections of the company will be the same.''
another condition under the modification is that the new first city entity at the time of closing not differ materially from what was originally planned because of the lower participation level, day said
in addition, the terms of the offer have been amended to include payment of accrued interest on tendered debt securities through the date of acceptance and payment by first city acquisition of such tendered securities
houston-based first city also extended the deadline for the tender offer until april 12. the deadline now has been extended four times
as of tuesday, first city's third deadline, 62 percent, or $140 million, of bank's $225.8 million in bonds had been tendered. only 51 percent, or $115 million, were tendered by an earlier march 15 deadline
the deadline for debt holders was extended to march 15 when only 41.4 percent _ or $93.6 million _ was redeemed for cash by the first deadline of march 8
under the arrangement, first city senior debt holders have been offered 45 cents on the dollar for their debt, while subordinated debt holders have been offered 35 cents
since the current reorganization is the only open-bank proposal being considered by the fdic, it is unlikely under any alternative that holders of first city subordinated debt would receive anything for their interests: holders of first city senior public debt would in all likelihood receive, at best, only a fraction of the amounts represented by their securities,'' abboud said tuesday
wall street sources have said that almost $55 million of the outstanding bonds can be traced to arbitragers holding out for a sweetened offer
first city, with 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota, grew quickly during the texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate losses when oil prices plummeted. for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss
the bailout plan for texas' fourth-largest bank holding company calls for $970 million in assistance from the fdic, $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by abboud and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets
on march 4, more than 71 percent of the houston-based company's 37 million shareholders approved the controversial bailout
other options available to the fdic, analysts say, include canceling the abboud deal and reopening bidding for the bank, or having the fdic itself take over first city
