th korean mobilization, arrests of pro-north korean group, details; pickup 8th pvs, `about 250 ...</note>
a bid to forge a united opposition to president roh tae-woo collapsed monday because of violence between supporters of the two political groups meeting to discuss a merger
the nation's two main opposition parties, controlled by rivals kim young-sam and kim dae-jung, blamed each other for the collapse
both parties said monday there was no chance of reuniting before national assembly elections next month and they would mount separate election campaigns. in other developments, north korea announced monday its armed forces have gone into a state of ``combat mobilization.'' it was the fifth time since 1983 that north korea has issued such a order to coincide with annual u.s.-south korean military exercises
in seoul, the agency for national security planning announced monday that it had cracked an anti-u.s., pro-north korean underground student ring. it said the group backed planned bombings at u.s. information service buildings in seoul and kwangju last month
the agency said seven members of the group have been arrested and 60 members were at large
the reunification democratic party said it was abandoning efforts to unite the opposition after attacks sunday by members of the smaller party for peace and democracy
the party concluded it would be meaningless and impossbile to continue merger talks because the positions between the parties are so wide apart,'' said kim pae-ryong, a rdp spokesman
this shows the rdp was not sincere,'' said ahn dong-sun, a spokesman for kim dae-jung's party for peace and democracy
about 250 party for peace members and supporters occupied the main lobby of a seoul hotel where merger talks that began friday were to have resumed saturday
the protesters kicked and punched reunification negotiators, calling them ``betrayers'' and ``swindlers.'' a reunification democratic party negotiator was slightly injured. a television cameraman was beaten and taken to a nearby hospital
the reunification party negotiators called off the talks but were barred from leaving the hotel until after midnight. another round of talks was called at a different hotel early sunday morning, but the reunificaton officials refused to attend
the two opposition parties have been bitter rivals since kim dae-jung and his supporters split from kim young-sam's party and both kims ran in the december presidential race
the two kims split 55 percent of the opposition vote in the presidential elections, giving the victory to roh, who won without a majority. graf after 13th graf to include romero barcelo quote; picks up 14th graf pvs, bgng: on saturday...</note>
vice president george bush won puerto rico's republican primary sunday and added another 14 national convention delegates to his tally, while jesse jackson won the democrats' non-binding ``beauty contest'' balloting
with nearly a third of the precincts reporting, bush was picking up 97 percent of the vote, while gop rival sen. bob dole of kansas was receiving just 3 percent
counting was proceding slowly, but puerto rico gop chairman luis ferre said, ``bush has the 14 delegates.''
with results from 28 percent of the precincts, bush had 1,907 votes, while dole had 48
republican returns were sparse because the vast majority of voters turned out for the democratic primary
on the democratic side, with 31 percent of the precincts reporting, jackson led with 25,971 votes, or 35 percent, followed by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 17,023 for 23 percent, illinois sen. paul simon with 14,870 votes for 20 percent, tennessee sen. albert gore with 13,210 for 18 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt with 2,707 for 4 percent
the democratic primary had no effect on who won delegates to the national convention. the 51 delegates at stake sunday were expected to go uncommitted to the convention. in all, puerto rico will send 56 delegates to the convention, including the governor and four other party leaders, who automatically receive seats as delegates
one million puerto ricans were expected to vote sunday in democratic and republican presidential primaries that also are a test of strength between the two main political parties on this caribbean island and u.s. commonwealth
the 33 delegates being elected sunday will choose the leaders of the local democratic party, in addition to choosing the remaining 18 members of the delegation. the delegation was expected to vote as a bloc at the convention
both the popular democratic party of gov. raphael hernandez colon and the out-of-power new progressive party of ex-gov. carlos romero barcelo want to control the local party so as to better influence federal legislation, patronage and the debate on puerto rico's political status
the npp wants puerto rico to become the 51st u.s. state. the pdp wants things to remain as they are _ with puerto ricans as u.s. citizens with almost every right and obligation except they cannot vote for president in the general election and do not pay federal taxes
as the returns came in sunday the pdp claimed it would win at least 29 of the 33 delegates being elected directly in the primary, and launched a noisy celebration
romero barcelo acknowledged defeat for his npp, although he did not specify the margin for the loss
we lost today but we will continue fighting for political liberty and economic opportunity,'' romero barcelo said. ``there's nothing to be ashamed of.''
on saturday, both local parties organized miles-long caravans of supporters. pdp partisans waved their red and white banners of a peasant wearing a straw hat. npp supporters draped from cars and trucks their banners showing a blue palm tree
for romero barcelo, a victory by the npp slate of 33 delegates, which he heads, would have raised his chances to win his party's june 12 gubernatorial primary against san juan mayor baltasar corrada del rio
at a separate rally, hernandez colon called on his supporters to vote for the pdp slate ``to bury the body of carlos romero barcelo.'' hernandez colon edged romero barcelo in the 1984 gubernatorial election, having lost similar head-to-head contests in 1980 and 1976
acting to forestall trouble, the police department canceled days off and vacations, and stationed 3,000 officers at or near polling stations and party offices. the sale of alcoholic beverages was prohibited from midnight saturday to sunday night
an elderly man at a polling station near the poor san jose housing complex outside the capital's hato rey banking district said he was not at all interested in the primary and did not intend to vote
this primary is like chicken and rice (a popular puerto rican dish) without spices,'' he said, declining to give his name. ``it has no interest for me. it's a north american thing.''
in 1980, the republican presidential primary was held two weeks before the democratic primary, and npp voters cast ballots first for george bush, a longtime proponent of statehood for puerto rico, and then for jimmy carter. the pdp supported edward kennedy
mcdonald's is recruiting in a working-class area for employees at a restaurant in this affluent community 70 miles to the north
radio commercials last week urged bilingual job-seekers to apply for the openings here at a hialeah mcdonald's. workers would be bused to and from palm beach county, with the travel time counted as work hours
it's just an extension of our age-old tradition of always trying new, creative ways to staff our stores,'' said les lucas, mcdonald's regional personnel manager. he declined to give details about the program, including why the company was seeking bilingual workers
bill hutchinson, a senior economist with the consulting firm of ch2m hill, which recently completed an economic study of the county, said people who would work at mcdonald's can't afford to live here
and john rosenbaum, a work-study coordinator at boca raton high school, said boca raton teen-agers consider a $4.50-an-hour job at mcdonald's ``a little beneath them.''
any way you slice it, lucille and glenn stafford have an unusual recipe for extinguishing car fires _ milk and bread
mrs. stafford said experience with south dakota winters caused her to buy an extra gallon of milk and a loaf of bread during a march 3 trip to town ``just in case of an emergency.''
the emergency came, but it wasn't the late-winter blizzard she anticipated
the staffords were heading home late at night when ``suddenly we saw a flame flickering in the heater vent,'' she said
the car was filled with black smoke and ... fumes,'' she added. ``the flames were rapidly melting the instrument panel. i thought we might be asphyxiated. we stopped as quickly as we could.''
they were 14 miles from home and about a mile from the nearest farmhouse. they had no flashlight and no fire extinguisher, and no other cars were in sight on the country road
we remembered the gallon of milk and loaf of bread,'' mrs. stafford said. ``we subdued the flame with the milk then stuffed the hole in the panel with the bread saturated in milk
we used almost the whole gallon of milk and there were just a few slices of bread left.''
the milk-bread solution eased the smoke enough so the couple could make it back to town to get help
a short in the light switch caused the blaze,'' she said. ``the car has been fixed and everything has been taken care of. now we just have to clean the interior.'' researcher says ^eds: for release at 6 a.m. est; embargo set by source</head>
scientists have identified a tiny portion of the aids virus outer coat as a potentially promising target for an aids vaccine, a researcher says
we think this is the achille's heel of the virus,'' scott putney of repligen corp., of cambridge, mass., said in an interview sunday
the site constitutes less than 3 percent of the overall virus coat, but studies suggest it acts as a dominant spur to making the immune system try to fight the virus, he said
putney told science writers at a conference sponsored by the american cancer society that the fragment appears on glycoprotein 120, the sugar-and-protein outer coating of the virus
the coating is one target the immune system attacks when it tries to fight the virus causing acquired immune deficiency syndrome. the body makes proteins called antibodies that fit precisely to portions of the virus as part of the attack
the idea of a vaccine is to spur the body into creating the right kind of antibodies ahead of time, so they are lying in wait when the virus shows up. a vaccine acts as sort of a template against which the body makes those antibodies
researchers are trying to find the right portion of the aids virus to use in a vaccine, to make the body create effective swarms of antibodies. several teams are studying different portions of the viral coat
two experimental aids vaccines are being tested in humans, but putney said his work has not advanced far enough for that step
the glycoprotein is made up of a long series of molecules called amino acids. the fragment putney is focusing on is 24 amino acids long
research in chimps and humans shows this stretch is a key target for several kinds of so-called neutralizing antibodies the body makes against the virus coating and the virus as a whole, he said
neutralizing antibodies are those that can block virus infection of a cell
our vaccine development studies are now vigorously pursuing these 24 amino acids,'' he said
evidence suggest that antibodies against that fragment may not only block infection by the virus, but also the merging of infected cells with uninfected ones, which kills uninfected cells, he said
aids leaves the body open to fatal diseases by killing key cells of the immune system
at least two basic hurdles stand in the way of basing a vaccine on the glycoprotein fragment, putney said
one is that the fragment is highly variable, with different versions appearing in different samples of the aids virus, he said
it can vary by 40 percent to 50 percent between two samples of the virus, he said. that means that a vaccine based on the fragment from one virus strain would not work against other strains
so researchers are considering a ``cocktail vaccine'' based on multiple versions of the variable region, aimed at being effective against multiple strains of the aids virus, he said
putney noted that the polio vaccine is similarly designed to work against three different strains of that virus
nobody knows how many versions of the fragment would have to be included in an aids vaccine, putney said, but ``we're hoping it's between five to 10.'' if it were as high as 100, a cocktail vaccine would probably not work, he said
a second problem is finding a way to spur high enough concentrations of antibodies against the fragment to prevent aids virus infection, he said. concentrations seen so far are too low, he said
putney said he hopes experiments in chimpanzees can begin in a few months
the glycoprotein fragment, called rp135, also has been identified and studied by scientists at duke university in durham, n.c., at the national cancer institute and at the university of amsterdam in holland, putney said. results are in the process of being published, he said
the hometown crowd gushed with praise saturday after the local premiere of the robert redford-directed ``the milagro beanfield war.'' and he returned the compliment, saying the real star of the movie is ``the people of new mexico.''
residents of truchas, santa fe and taos and surrounding areas, who worked on both sides of the camera during the 1986 filming, exulted after the first of four benefit screenings saturday to raise funds for local non-profit organizations
redford, co-producer as well as director of the film, welcomed the crowd by urging them not to be distracted by the details, but to ``go with the experience.''
there's no real star of this film, but the star is the people of new mexico,'' said redford, whose only other hollywood directing credit, ``ordinary people,'' earned him an oscar. ``it could not have been made if it wasn't for you people.''
some locals said they had had reservations about the film, fearing the simple life of a northern new mexico native would be misrepresented, but that their fears had been unfounded
it's better than i expected it to be,'' said pablo trujillo of taos, who plays a member of the ``senile brigade,'' a group of old men who come to the aid of the film's protagonist, handyman joe mondragon, when he uses a ich developer's water to grow pinto beans in an abandoned field
the movie is based on a 1974 novel by john nichols, a veteran of land and water-rights disputes in taos similar to the one portrayed in the film. nichols co-wrote the screenplay but didn't see the film for the first time until saturday
it's a very sweet, very gentle, quite magical movie, and i'm real proud of it,'' nichols said afterward. ``i think the people who worked on it should be quite proud of it also.''
the film stars chick vennera as the handyman, and also features sultry brazilian actress sonia braga, who starred in ``kiss of the spider woman''; richard bradford; and latin pop musician ruben blades. chemical to silane sted saline, clarify that liquid carbonic manufactured suspect compound; subs last graf with 2 grafs to update with further idaho evacuations, other detail.</note>
crews safely removed seven chemical-filled containers near a flaming and potentially explosive canister in the ruins of a burned chemical plant saturday, clearing the way for nearly 1,500 evacuees to return home
the burning, gas-filled container was found friday in the gollob analytical services chemical plant, where an explosion and fire killed three men thursday and severely injured a fourth. a canister that had been sent to the plant for analysis caused the explosion, and authorities say it may have been mislabeled or contaminated
in pocatello, idaho, meanwhile, a semiconductor plant that may contain a similar canister was also evacuated saturday, as was a nearby nursing home
new jersey authorities, fearing that the burning container that was discovered friday might ignite surrounding ones, called for a half-mile evacuation around the ruined plant friday night
once the chemical containers near the one that was burning were removed, the cordon was reduced to one-quarter mile at 6 p.m. saturday, allowing most of the 1,500 affected residents to return home, said mayor jeffrey maccarelli. the remaining canister continued to burn saturday evening but appeared to pose no hazard, he said
neil mulvey, coordinator for the state department of environmental protection, said thursday's explosion had obliterated the lettering on at least one of the surrounding canisters, which hampered their removal
investigators said the plant burst into flames thursday after a cylinder exploded outside the facility and became a projectile, shooting into the building
dep spokesman jim staples said the canister that exploded had a potent combination of 70 percent silane and 30 percent nitrous oxide. minutes before it blew up, gollob officials had called liquid carbonic industries corp., a chicago-based chemical distributor that had manufactured the compound, to come and remove it
after the explosion, liquid carbonic alerted the gould semiconductor plant in pocatello, idaho, that similar canisters might be stored there
pocatello police lt. steve stuart said he was told the cylinder that exploded in new jersey had been shipped there from idaho after it failed to work properly when being used in manufacturing at the pocatello plant
dan schroeder, gould's plant manager, would not comment except to confirm sandbagging and an evacuation of a nearby nursing home were going on saturday. ``there is very little jeopardy of a major disaster happening,'' he said
in addition to the plant and a nursing home, the idaho state university research park complex and a junior high school where a sports function was being held also were evacuated. the nursing home housed 91 persons, authorities said
plant officials had placed 2,800 sandbags around a suspect canister, and a hazardous materials expert from carbondale, colo., was at the plant evaluating the situation
boris yeltsin, who lost his job last fall as moscow communist party chief, harshly criticized the soviet communist party's no. 2 official in a dramatic speech before the central committee, according to a published report
the account of the speech in the march 28 issue of u.s. news &amp; world report was written by seweryn bialer, director of the research institute on international change at columbia university, based on interviews with officials in moscow
according to the account, which was released saturday, a visibly nervous yeltsin asked for permission to speak after soviet leader mikhail gorbachev had finished a two-hour speech oct. 21
yeltsin said he was resigning from his posts as head of the moscow party and as candidate member of the politburo, then spoke for about 10 minutes, the report said
he accused the party leadership of misleading the soviet public about the extent of the nation's economic problems, overstating the potential of gorbachev's restructuring program, called perestroika, and showering too much praise on gorbachev. then he criticized yegor ligachev, the party's chief ideologist and no. 2 official, u.s. news reported
there is one top leader i cannot work with any more. this man, ligachev, is an intriguer,'' yeltsin told the central committee
he is a false man who still adheres to the old and condemned style of leadership. he compiles secret dossiers on all members of the leadership. again and again, he sabotaged my efforts to improve living conditions in moscow. ligachev should be censured by the central committee.''
according to the magazine, yeltsin blamed ligachev for blocking steps to provide housing and food for an influx of workers to moscow
i am no angel and make mistakes,'' yeltsin said. ``i can justly be blamed for at least part of the difficult situation in moscow. but comrade ligachev's responsibility for this state of affairs is very great, and he does not admit any of his wrongdoings.''
gorbachev at one point interjected, ``boris nikolaeevich, withdraw your resignation, and let us try to work together.'' but yeltsin replied, ``i sent my resignation, and i stand behind it.''
ligachev rose to speak and denied the charges, according to bialer. ``what yeltsin said about excessive praise for gorbachev is simply a disgusting and politically harmful insinuation. we give the general secretary the respect that is clearly his due for his immense work and wise stewardship,'' ligachev said
after ligachev spoke, 22 other colleagues turned on yeltsin over a three-hour period, the magazine reported
yeltsin was given a chance to rebut his accusers, and in a 15-minute speech he denied that he was charging gorbachev with creating a personality cult
gorbachev then spoke again, and called yeltsin's action ``a bitter surprise'' and accused him of ``deserting the field of battle.''
yeltsin was dismissed as moscow party chief several weeks later and removed from the politburo in february. pvs, bgng, `with 115.' deletes redundant grafs 21-23.</note>
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis captured the kansas caucuses saturday while richard gephardt won a major share of the national delegates in south dakota as the state went the way of its earlier primary
meanwhile, in texas, the democratic party was slow in tabulating the results of county conventions and caucuses. however, with 2,508 of the 5,288 delegates accounted for, jesse jackson had 1028, dukakis 895 and 276 were uncommitted
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 235 local delegates, missouri rep. richard gephardt 57, illinois sen. paul simon 16 and former candidate gary hart 1
based on the results, jackson will capture 27 of the 64 delegates texas will allot through its second-track system, dukakis will gain 24 and 13 will be uncommitted
texas already distributed 119 delegates based on the results of the super tuesday primary, with dukakis winning 43, jackson 42, gore 25 and gephardt nine
with 115 of the kansas caucuses reporting their results to state party headquarters in topeka, dukakis had 278 delegates, jesse jackson 235, sen. albert gore jr. 125 and gephardt 12. another 114 local delegates had been elected in uncommitted status
no democrats turned out in greeley and wichita counties in far western kansas, reducing the number of caucus sites from 117 to 115 and the number of local delegates selected from 768 to 764
it's terrific,'' dukakis said at the jefferson-jackson dinner in detroit, where all the democratic hopefuls except jackson gathered saturday night. ``we've had a major victory in kansas and feel good about it. now we're on to michigan and here we are.''
asked about the significance of the kansas win, dukakis said, ``i think it's the first farm and agriculture state that i've won and won decisively. i think that's a very good sign for the future.''
dukakis picked up 16 of the 39 national delegates at stake in kansas. added to the six delegates he gained earlier in the night in south dakota, dukakis maintained his democratic lead in the delegate race with 503.5, according to the associated press survey
jackson garnered 14 delegates in kansas for a total of 483.55 and gore gained 5 for 362.8. four of kansas' delegates were uncommitted, raising the national total to 276.65
a total of 2,082 delegates are needed to nominate
gephardt, who captured nine delegates in south dakota for a total of 154, said he wasn't really concerned about kansas and that his campaign's focus has been on michigan for the last couple of weeks
i'm concerned about doing well michigan and i think we will,'' said gephardt, who also spoke at the detroit dinner
michigan holds caucuses next saturday to decide 138 delegates
gore, who also was campaigning in michigan, said the kansas caucuses ``looks like ... a contest that's going to be divided up between the three front-runners. we expect to get our share of delegates in kansas. i'm very pleased with the results as they're coming in.''
illinois sen. paul simon, who has 171.5 delegates, said before the start of the jefferson-jackson dinner that he expected the party to have to go through a bitter convention fight to selects its nominee
i'm just saying that's a reality,'' simon said. even the current front runner, dukakis, would have to win about 80 percent of the remaining delegates to wrap up the nomination on the first ballot, he said, adding, ``that just isn't going to happen.''
but gore rejected that view, saying, ``some things that people think are inevitable turn out not to be. the race for the nomination is wide open. anybody who thinks otherwise at this point is going to be surprised.''
in south dakota, which has 15 delegates at stake, democrats honored the results of the feb. 23 primary in which gephardt received 44 percent of the vote and dukakis 31 percent
this is a good demonstration of democratic unity in south dakota,'' said rick hauffe, the newly named executive director of the state democratic party. ``it's going to go uphill from here.''
in a poll conducted for the detroit news, dukakis garnered the support of 33 percent of the 385 people who said they likely would vote in the michigan caucuses
jackson received 31 percent, while gephardt was a distant third with 10 percent, said the survey, which was published in sunday editions. former colorado sen. gary hart, who has dropped out of the race, received 7 percent of the vote, while gore had 5 percent and simon 2 percent
the survey had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
among republicans, front-runner george bush was expected to capture the 14 delegates at stake in the winner-take-all primary in puerto rico on sunday. the vice president was the only gop candidate to mount an organized campaign on the island
in a poll conducted by the milwaukee journal, bush held a substantial lead over his gop rivals among republicans who will vote in the wisconsin primary on april 5
bush had 69 percent, kansas sen. bob dole had 25 percent and pat robertson had 6 percent. the survey of republican voters had a margin of error of 6 percent
among the democrats, dukakis led with 38 percent, jackson was second with 30 percent, gephardt and simon tied for third with 11 percent and gore was fifth with 10 percent. the democratic survey had a margin or error of 5 percent
the poll, conducted wednesday and thursday, surveyed 782 wisconsin residents. lockers</head>
an author up for an oscar for co-writing the screenplay to ``full metal jacket'' was being sought for questioning after thousands of books from libraries as far away as australia were found in storage lockers, police said saturday
an estimated 10,000 books were recovered from a pair of lockers rented in the name of jerry gustav hasford, author of the novel ``the short timers,'' said detective ray berrett of california polytechnic state university campus police
the book was adapted into the 1987 vietnam war drama ``full metal jacket,'' directed by stanley kubrick from a screenplay written by kubrick, hasford and michael herr. the three share an academy award nomination for the screenplay
the raid was staged thursday by university police, who were seeking 87 overdue books that had been checked out from the polytechnic university library in hasford's name. fines totaled $3,000
we found a lot more than we bargained for,'' said wayne carmack, another campus investigator
in addition to books and periodicals from the university, they found thousands of books marked as belonging to libraries as far away as england and australia, some dating back to the 1860s, he said. also in the lockers were books missing from libraries in sacramento and st. louis, mo
police said they had not yet contacted foreign library officials to confirm whether those books were stolen
hasford, who in recent years lived in nearby morro bay, doesn't attend the university, but got a university library card under a procedure open to state residents, carmack said. however, the address and social security number listed on the card were false, he said
university investigators said they are seeking hasford for questioning but did not immediately seek an arrest warrant, because they want to inventory the estimated 10,000 books in 396 cardboard boxes, berrett said
the man who checked out the books was known to library workers and the operators of the storage locker as jerry hasford, the author
he told everybody where we've been that he is the author of the book, `the short timers,''' berrett said. copies of the book and the ``full metal jacket'' screenplay were in the lockers, he added
efforts to reach the author by telephone saturday through directory assistance in the san luis obispo area failed, as did efforts to reach him through bantam books, publisher of ``the short timers.''
he didn't appear friday night at the writers guild of america awards ceremony, where he was considered for a similar award but didn't win. the oscar ceremony is set for april 11. on its side of border. nicaragua formally protests. pickup 7th graf pvs ``both incursions...''; edits thereafter to tighten</note>
two honduran warplanes bombed nicaraguan positions saturday afternoon in a rugged border area where president jose azcona hoyo was reinforcing troops to oust the sandinista soldiers
the nicaraguan defense ministry said the raid was on nicaraguan territory and caused no damage. azcona, in a telephone interview with the associated press, would neither confirm nor deny the attack, but the honduran military said it occurred on the honduran side of the ill-defined border
honduras says the sandinistas crossed the frontier in the bocay region last week in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels. thousands of u.s. troops have been sent to honduras as a show of force, but officials say they will not be sent to combat areas
azcona threatened the sandinistas friday with air raids unless they pulled out of honduras. nicaragua has denied its troops crossed the border, but a sandinista military official has indicated nicaraguan troops entered honduras
the honduran statement, issued by military intelligence late saturday, said the raid was ordered by the military high command ``with the objective of forcing the immediate withdrawal of the nicaraguan troops from our soil.''
the statement said two u.s.-made f-5 fighter jets carried out the raid but it gave no further details of the attack
the nicaraguan defense ministry statement issued in managua said the raid was in the same area where honduran jets dropped several bombs on thursday. honduras has said that raid also was on its side of the border
nicaraguan foreign minister miguel d'escoto sent a protest note to honduran foreign minister carlos lopez, saying his government ``energetically and formally protests'' the attack, which it called ``aggression against nicaraguan territory.''
the nicaraguan defense ministry statement said two american-made f-5 jets staged a 10-minute attack saturday afternoon in the bocay area about 65 miles northeast of managua, dropping four bombs against sandinista army positions but causing no damage
the ministry also said two f-5 warplanes flew over sandinista positions saturday morning in the frontier sectors of mukuwas, san andres de bocay, waniwas and wayawas, but dropped no bombs
there was no immediate comment by honduras on the reported overflight
both incursions were repelled by sandinista anti-aircraft fire, the ministry said
azcona had announced he was sending more troops to the bocay region and also said he would not hesitate to seek more u.s. help
a few hours after azcona made the statements and before nicaragua reported its territory was being bombed, the honduran armed forces said the nicaraguans were pulling back
col. manuel suarez benavides, the armed forces spokesman, said in a telephone interview ``their troops are withdrawing. about 600 sandinista soldiers are still inside our country, and the rest have abandoned the area during the past 24 hours.''
azcona had said before the armed forces announced the nicaraguans were withdrawing that the situation in the mountainous bocay region deteriorated when sandinista troops re-entered honduras after having retreated to the nicaraguan side. he estimated the nicaraguan strength in honduras at about 2,000 by saturday morning
the president told the associated press he was reinforcing the 2,000 honduran troops at the border with several more battalions
a honduran military intelligence officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said honduran troops surrounded the sandinistas and were to shoot or capture any nicaraguan soldiers found on the wrong side of the border
about 3,200 u.s. troops have been sent to honduras at the request of the honduran government since thursday. the pentagon said the troops would be in central america for about 10 days
nicaraguan president daniel ortega has said his government is still willing to hold peace talks monday with the contras. a rebel spokesman said the contras also are willing to negotiate
nicaragua is thought to be trying to wipe out contra bases along the border and a large rebel supply depot in the jungle north of san andres de bocay
ortega said he was appealing to the international court of justice for an injunction to prevent action that would heighten tension between the nations, and he asked the united nations to investigate the border dispute
the decisions of what is known as the world court, a u.n. agency based in holland, are rarely enforceable unless both sides agree to its jurisdiction
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar decided to send a u.n. team to nicaragua at nicaragua's request, said u.n. spokesman mahbub ahmad. diplomatic sources said the team was likely to include two military observers and probably would leave on tuesday
fire erupted out saturday night at the radford army arsenal, killing one worker and injuring six others, a spokeswoman for the arsenal said
the fire broke out about 7 p.m. in a building where a propellant for rockets is produced, and was under brought control by 8:50 p.m., said the spokeswoman, frances selnow
killed in the blaze was terry w. crawford, 32, of radford, a production operator, she said
kenneth r. rollins, 24, of radford was severely burned and was taken by helicopter to roanoke memorial hospital and later to the burn center at the university of virginia's hospital in charlottesville
five others who suffered less serious injuries were treated and released at the plant hospital, ms. selnow said
the dead and injured were employees of wilmington, del.-based hercules inc., which operates the government-owned arsenal. the 7,095-acre arsenal operates 24 hours a day
ms. selnow said the cause of the fire was under investigation. america</head> figure at san francisco demonstration, picking up 6th graf pvs, `in boston ...'. ^by the associated press</note>
protesters scaled an air force base fence in new jersey, battled with police in san francisco, and converged in other cities saturday to oppose sending u.s. troops to honduras, while a few smaller groups voiced support for the action
opponents of the reagan administration central american policy gathered in san francisco for the third straight day, rallying in the largely hispanic mission district before parading through other parts of town. police estimated the crowd at more than 4,000
in the evening, protesters battled with police for 25 minutes after a fire was lit in the street near where demonstrators held their last of several rallies
several bottles, wooden crosses and bags of garbage were thrown at two-dozen riot-clad police as several hundred protesters, some wearing bandannas to hide their faces, rushed the officers and tried to stop them from putting out the blaze
one person was arrested for felony assault on a police officer, and four others were arrested on assorted charges, including malicious mischief, vandalism and graffiti writing, said police capt. mike yalon
elsewhere saturday, few people were arrested at demonstrations. on friday, more than 350 protesters were arrested nationwide, with 250 of them occuring in san francisco
in boston, about 5,000 people, some carrying signs with slogans such as ``reagan and north _ boy scouts from hell,'' rallied on the common at noon saturday. vietnam veterans, elderly couples and young families with children listened to speeches, while some protesters handed out copies of the socialist worker. police reported no arrests
shortly after the rally began, about 10 members of the young americans for freedom appeared. carrying signs in support of president reagan and lt. col. oliver north, the group recited the pledge of allegiance and chanted ``ollie north, he's our hero, all you commies are one big zero!''
we wanted to show that people support reagan,'' said ken mccracken, 24, a boston university student. ``we believe the u.s. has the right to send troops to protect our interests. we love our country.''
one of those protesting on the other side was robert hickey, 34, a vietnam veteran. ``i'm here because i don't believe we should send our troops to honduras,'' he said. ``i think the reagan people have a communist hysteria. anytime they see people rising up for their rights _ they use the excuse that they're communists.''
in wrightstown, n.j., four people were taken into custody at mcguire air force base during a protest by about 100 demonstrators, base officials said
about 25 demonstrators who sat down inside the base entrance were carried outside the gate by air force police and 35 officers dressed in riot gear. one man who broke away and entered the base was taken into custody, as were three others who climbed over or crawled under a fence. the four were later released
the air force ``maintained standard security precautions to ensure the security of the base's perimeter and there was no property damage,'' said airman 1st class timothy hoffman
in chicago, between 50 and 100 people carrying signs and flags walked about the downtown daley plaza to back u.s. policy in central america
we believe the struggle against russian dominance has to take place wherever russia is grabbing territory,'' said julian witkowski, 66, a retired furniture finisher who said he represented a polish-american group
many of those who marched in the 45-minute demonstration said they or their families were from eastern european nations now dominated by the soviet union
on friday, the number of arrests among those protesting administration policy was far larger. more than 350 people were arrested in protests across the nation
among the largest were those in san francisco; and in minneapolis; chicago; salt lake city; washington, d.c.; seattle; lewiston, maine; and sweetwater, fla. firebombers</head> pickup 6th graf pvs ``an army...''</note>
an israeli soldier was shot and killed in the west bank on sunday, hospital officials said. it was the first such incident since widespread unrest began 14 weeks ago
also on the west bank, israeli troops shot and killed a palestinian man saturday night when their patrol was attacked with firebombs, the army said. israel radio said the death resulted from new orders that soldiers shoot at firebomb throwers
an army spokeswoman said assailants shot the soldier in the head with a pistol as he stood watch near a government building in bethlehem. soldiers immediately closed off the area and began searching
the soldier died shortly after arriving at jerusalem's hadassah hospital, hospital spokeswoman ruth mekel said
it was the first time since unrest began last december that a soldier was shot, the army said. last thursday, an israeli civilian was shot and wounded in legs near a refugee camp in the occupied gaza strip
an army spokesman said palestinian youths hurled gasoline bombs saturday night at a patrol in the village of kfar dan near jenin, about 50 miles north of jerusalem. troops responded with gunfire, killing one villager and wounding another
the arab-owned palestine press service said troops fatally shot nameq milhem, 26, during a raid on the west bank village
israel radio quoted maj. gen. amram mitzna, commander of troops in the west bank, as saying the army had changed firing regulations and soldiers were now ordered to shoot at firebomb throwers
the army spokesman, who spoke on condition he not be identified in accordance with regulations, said he had no comment on the report
israeli gunfire, tear gas and beatings have killed 103 palestinians since arab unrest erupted in the occupied west bank and gaza strip in early december, according to unofficial united nations figures
arab reporters in gaza said troops forced closure of the main vegetable market in gaza city sunday morning, firing tear gas to disperse crowds. they said merchants were told shops could open at noon
the closure, similar to one enforced last week in the west bank town of jericho, appeared to be aimed at thwarting a palestine liberation organization call for shops in the two towns to open only during the mornings in protest of the israeli occupation
the army also said it demolished two houses in the village of ubeidiya near bethlehem saturday night. it accused the owners of taking part in attacks on arabs suspected of collaborating with israeli authorities
on saturday, the defense ministry announced that authorities outlawed shabiba, the youth group of yasser arafat's fatah wing of the palestine liberation organization, making its members subject to arrest
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze left moscow sunday for a meeting with president reagan and other officials in washington on cutting long-range missiles
shevardnadze is also to discuss other regional conflicts as well as participate in the opening of a ``risk reduction center'' to improve communications between the superpowers
shevardnadze's departure was announced in a brief statement by the tass news agency
the soviet foreign minister will be in washington until march 23 on one of a series of exchange visits between him and secretary of state george p. shultz in which they are trying to prepare for a moscow summit meeting later this year
reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev hope to sign at that meeting a treaty cutting both sides' long-range nuclear missiles by 50 percent. they signed a treaty in december to completely eliminate their medium-range weapons
shultz visited moscow in february and said he and shevardarnadze instructed their arms negotiators to draft verification and other key parts of a treaty by the time of shevardnadze's visit
an explosion sunday morning destroyed two houses in the center of this port city, killing two people and injuring four while two others were missing, police said
a police official, who asked not to be named, said the 6 a.m. blast was probably caused by a gas leak. the bodies of a mother and 3-year-old daughter were recovered from under the rubble while the father was hospitalized, suffering from shock
official documents showed that 10 people were living in the four-story houses and only eight were accounted for 6 hours after the blast. police using specially trained dogs searched the rubble for two women
four people were slightly injured
the blast also damaged several other houses, while all windows were shattered in a radius of 100 yards. bombings</head> pickup 3rd graf pvs ``sunday's pre-dawn...''; adds 5 grafs at bottom with detail of tanker attack.</note>
iran said it fired two long-range missiles into baghdad early sunday in retaliation for iraqi missile and air raids and claimed that 5,000 kurdish civilians died in iraqi chemical bomb attacks
in the persian gulf, iran attacked a liberian-flag tanker sunday, riddling it with rocket-propelled grenades but inflicting no reported casualties, gulf-based shipping executives said
iran's official islamic republic news agency said the missiles were launched at the iraqi capital ``in response to savage attacks by the baghdad regime.''
sunday's pre-dawn missile attacks came as iranians celebrated the persian new year
the revolutionary guards corps, whose troops fire the missiles, said in a communique that the missiles were aimed at ``two important military centers'' in the iraqi capital, a city of 5 million people
the official iraqi news agency reported one iranian missile demolished an apartment block in baghdad, killing or wounding ``a number of civilians, including women and children.''
the reports from both capitals were monitored in nicosia
both sides, fighting a 7{-year-old war, have fired more than 200 missiles of various types into each other's main cities and border towns since the latest eruption in the ``war of the cities'' erupted feb. 29. hundreds of civilians have reportedly died in the attacks
waves of iraqi fighter-bombers pounded iran's big kharg island oil terminal in the northern persian gulf saturday, leaving at least two tankers ablaze. iran said it shot down three iraqi warplanes
irna reported that at least six civilians were killed in iraqi missile attacks on tehran saturday night and in air raids on the western cities of dezful, hamedan, bakhtahran, broujerd, qazvin and arak
the agency quoted foreign minister ali akbar velayati as disclosing that 5,000 kurdish civilians were killed and 4,000 wounded when iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on the towns of khormal. halabja and dojaila when iranian forces captured them thursday
irna said velayati, giving the figures in a letter to united nations secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, criticized the united nations for failing to force iraq to stop using chemical weapons banned under a 1925 geneva agreement
the iranian gunboat attack on the 84,631-ton atlantic peace was the fourth in three days near the strait of hormuz in the southern gulf. the strait is the waterway's only outlet
the ship was hit about noon off the coast of sharjah in the united arab emirates as it sailed northward into the gulf, shipping executives said
the sources, speaking on condition they were not named, said the assault apparently started a small fire that the crew put out
the attack boats were not described, but the ship was hit by several of the shoulder-fired rocket grenades commonly used by speedboat-borne iranian revolutionay guards
iran has attacked neutral shipping in the gulf in retaliation for iraqi raids on vessels doing business with iran. picking up 8th graf pvs, ``michniak estimated ....''</note>
a disturbance erupted late saturday among more than 1,000 students on spring break, leaving four people with stab wounds and two police officers with injuries, authorities said. a car was missing after going off a ferry dock into the water
it's an all-out riot,'' said anthony lloyd, a coast guard spokesman in port aransas. ``they are setting cars on fire. people are hurt on the beach.''
the disturbance began when a motorist hit a girl on the beach at this popular gulf coast vacation spot and tried to leave the scene, said corpus christi department of public safety officer a.g. michniak
there was a hit-and-run accident on the beach that injured one,'' michniak said. ``the crowd stopped the car, took out the occupants and tipped it over and burned it.''
they stomped the car, broke all the glass out of it and flipped it over,'' said tom frazier, 22, a student at the university of texas
at least eight people were arrested, michniak said
coast guard divers sunday morning battled a strong rip current to search for the missing car
a ferry captain and deck hand watched the car ``drive through a barrier and into the water because there was no ferry to catch the car. they witnessed the car going down and we were called out. we have no idea how many were in the car,'' said coast guard spokesman steven e. sander
the car broke in half a barrier similar to those at railroad crossings and equipped with red flashing lights, he said
most likely, whatever was in the car is still in the car,'' he said
the car was in water about 18 feet deep. coast guard vessels dragged the water, and divers hunted for the vehicle
we feel it is related to the spring breakers,'' sander said. ``it happens every year. just drunk college kids not thinking.''
more than 100 law enforcement officers from south texas and the coast guard, using two helicopters and tear gas, responded to the disturbance on the beach, the corpus christi caller times reported
michniak estimated the crowd on the beach at about 3,000, while lloyd put it at about 1,000. lloyd said most of the students appeared to be high-school age
law enforcement officials in port aransas said ambulances were unable to get through the crowd to assist the injured
there are injuries, but we're unable to pull them out,'' said a port aransas police dispatcher, who did not wish to be identified
paul guerra of port aransas said he witnessed a stabbing as he left the beach
i walked by a group on a roadway. all of a sudden, somebody yelled and a guy fell. he had blood all over his chest,'' guerra said. ``i heard them shout, he's stabbed! he's stabbed!' they started tearing at his clothes, and then the police came running over
i left,'' guerra said. ``i hate to say it, but i was afraid for my life.''
helicopters from the coast guard and the dps swept the area with searchlights
michniak said the dps received the first call at 11:35 p.m. and declared the disturbance under control at 2:40 a.m. sunday
about 30,000 students were staying in this island resort for spring break, lloyd said
editors note: moscow chief of bureau michael putzel accompanied soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev on his trip last week to yugoslavia and reports on the differences between the two communist countries
in a downtown high-tech shop, a hungarian computer is connected to a japanese monitor and an american printer. western news magazines virtually unatainable in moscow are sold openly at newsstands
it's typical of accommodations yugoslavia has made as it looked both east and west in building a nonaligned communist nation
during a visit to three yugoslav cities last week, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev was introduced to contrasts between socialist societies in yugoslavia and the soviet union, which has developed in relative isolation from the west
in the heavily roman catholic city of ljubljana, people rise to the clanging of church bells
the the ruling yugoslav league of communists, like the soviet communist party, is officially atheist, but the roman catholic and orthodox churches operate openly with little interference from authorities. in contrast, religious practice in the soviet union is severely restricted, and the state long ago seized most church property
kiosks throughout yugoslavia display and sell both domestic and foreign publications. brassy color photos on foreign erotic magazines that are banned in the soviet union share newsstand windows with tracts on marxism
the free-wheeling local press, ostensibly under the thumb of government and party officials, is less inhibited than the most avant-garde soviet publications, testing ``glasnost,'' or the policy of opennness pushed by gorbachev
shops in belgrade sell a wide array consumer goods and gadgets, and farmers' markets during the winter show off fresh fruits and vegetables that haven't been seen in moscow for months
in yugoslavia there are no apparent shortages, in contrast to moscow where long lines form on the street at the first hint of something desirable _ like egyptian oranges or shoes from yugoslavia
in slovenia, the prosperous northern republic gorbachev visited, most lines seem to be for state lottery tickets
private restaurants abound in yugoslavia, competing for customers with attentive service and local and foreign specialties. in the soviet union, such restaurants, known as cooperatives, only started springing up in the last year
mcdonald's is scheduled to open its first outlet in the communist world in downtown belgrade this week. crowds already gather at the door of a neatly renovated old building to examine the signs depicting a big mac, french fries and other fare more familiar in the west
the hamburger chain has been negotiating with the soviets for years but has so far been unable to satisfy itself that stores in the soviet union could maintain quality control. and there remain sticky questions about how western investors could take their profits out of the country
a holiday inn sign on a modern hotel in downtown ljubljana attests to the yugoslavs' ability to make joint ventures work
the soviets usually trade oil and other raw materials for prized finished goods from yugoslavia, such as shoes, clothing, furniture and machine tools
yugoslavs speak enthusiastically about their freedom to travel abroad, a privilege accorded few soviet citizens
many yugoslavs have visited relatives in the united states. more than 1 million work abroad either because they could not find work at home or can get more lucrative jobs elsewhere
the flight of growing numbers of workers is but one indication this socialist society is struggling with some problems of its own, such as 15 percent unemployment, triple-digit inflation and a $20 billion foreign debt
typical of price increases announced almost daily, the airport tax in belgrade doubled the day gorbachev left
on a street just off the main downtown square in belgrade, a white-bearded old man rummaged through a trash bin. a despairing yugoslav observer said such scenes have grown increasingly common in recent years as the nation's economic crisis has dragged living standards down from the boom years of the 1960s and early '70s
just outside the gates of a sleek modern factory gorbachev visited in slovenia, one of the most prosperous regions in the communist world, a pathetic shantytown bore grim testament to the inequality that persists, even in this socialist society
gorbachev, a peasant's son, might find such deprivation all too familiar. but the adriatic might also have reminded him of home. the route to dubrovnik was reminiscent of the beautiful coastal drive to the crimean resort of yalta or the black sea tourist mecca of sochi in gorbachev's native southern russia
the craggy coastlines are similar in all three places, lined with cyprus and palm trees and defined by dramatic drops to lapping seas
but in dubrovnik, the stickers on the windows of every boutique and shop inviting visitors to pay with western credit cards is an unfamiliar sight to the soviet visitor
passengers on two flights to xinjiang, china's northwesternmost province, reported ufo sightings, an official report said sunday
the state-run xinhua news agency said a passenger on a flight from beijing to urumqi, the provincial capital, last friday sighted the unidentified flying object to the right in front of the plane at 9:35 p.m
when the flight crew contacted local airports, they were told there was no plane in the area at that time
the object was described as being about the size of a basketball and sending out a beam like a searchlight. the crew sent a light signal to the object, which was flying opposite the plane, but received no response, xinhua said
three minutes later, the object changed directions and headed north, then split into two, with a smaller ball above a bean-shaped object. they were spinning at high speeds and gave off a ring of green light, the news agency said
by 9:48 p.m., the objects had disappeared, according to the crew
half an hour later, passengers aboard a flight from canton to urumqi spotted the ufo over the same area in western xinjiang, xinhua said
president corazon aquino said sunday that she does not plan to seek re-election in 1992 and told a radio audience that she lacks political ambition
mrs. aquino also announced on her weekly radio show that four manila policemen would answer charges before the human rights commission that they tortured captured communist rebels
asked by a caller about her plans to seek a second six-year term, mrs. aquino responded, ``i said earlier that i had no political ambitions and i feel i really was meant for one term
and so one term it will be,'' she said. ``but i want to thank the filipino people for having given me this opportunity to serve you at such a difficult time
i was only meant for transition. even now i consider this the transition period from dictatorship to full democracy,'' she said
mrs. aquino said the ``pillars of democracy'' _ the executive, legislative and judicial branches of the american-style government _ are already in place in the philippines
but because of the economic problems there is no full democracy because we must also have economic freedom,'' she said
mrs. aquino was swept to power in february 1986 by a popular revolt that ended president ferdinand marcos' 20-year authoritarian rule. both she and marcos claimed to have won the fraud-tainted presidential election earlier that month
mrs. aquino said in response to another question that four western district police officers would testify before the government human rights commission, but did not specify when this would be
the commission is merely an investigatory body, but it could make its evidence available to a court of law if it finds wrongdoing
she said commission chairwoman mary concepcion bautista ``has looked into the matter of recently captured communist insurgents.''
authorities rounded up two dozen suspected communist rebels last month in sweeps throughout the capital. seven were released for lack of evidence and 17 remain in custody
shortly after their capture, some of the detainees claimed they had been tortured. three of them appeared before the house of representatives' human rights committee and displayed marks on their bodies they said were the result of torture
the committee chairwoman, rep. nikki coeseteng, later told reporters the panel had found evidence of human rights abuse by the military, and called the treatment given the detainees ``inhuman.''
earlier this month, the london-based amnesty international and the local task force detainees charged there were widespread human rights abuses in the philippines
the church-backed task force said its investigation showed 7,444 filipinos were arrested illegally in 1987, eclipsing the 5,967 arrests in 1985 when marcos was president. it said many of those arrested last year were tortured
mrs. aquino called the amnesty report one-sided, and said the body had relied on task force for its information. she urged the two groups to bring their evidence to the rights commission
communist party chief zhao ziyang urged faster and bolder reforms of china's government and economy in a major speech published sunday, making clear his opposition to recent calls for caution
the speech was zhao's last salvo before china's parliament, the national people's congress, begins a session friday during which opposing views are expected to be aired
the head of the national people's congress, peng zhen, and the head of government, acting premier li peng, both are more conservative than zhao in their approach to reforming china's centralized economy and inefficient bureaucracy
zhao urged increasing incentives to foreign businesses to trade and invest in china, a thorough shake-up of the sluggish government bureaucracy, more competition among factories and more openness in party and state affairs
in the speech's only reference to opposition, zhao said the party ``demands that all communist party members working in the state council, especially high-ranking officials, should contribute their bit in the reform.'' the state council is china's cabinet
the speech was delivered to the party's 175-member central committee, which ended a five-day meeting saturday. the official xinhua news agency published a lengthy summary of the speech but did not say what day it was delivered
chinese incomes have more than doubled in the 10 years since senior leader deng xiaoping began the campaign to decentralize the economy and government and restore market forces and economic incentives
no top officials openly criticize the reforms, but some conservatives have emphasized the need to move slowly
among them is li peng, who has emphasized the need to control inflation and other ills triggered by the reforms. li is expected to be confirmed as premier at the national party congress
in a speech marking the lunar new year on feb. 17, li said the government may expand its subsidies of major commodities in order to reduce inflation, which hit 7.5 percent nationally last year but reached 19 percent in some cities
such a move would be a dramatic reversal of zhao's program to gradually reduce subsidies and allow supply and demand to set prices
in his central committee speech, zhao called for continuing price reform and said higher food prices would send a signal to farmers to produce more
some officials have indirectly criticized the reforms by warning about growing materialism in china and corruption among government and party workers
zhao acknowledged the problem and called for closer supervision of government employees and regular wage increases so they will be less tempted to engage in extortion
said zhao: ``communists should be the first to be concerned about their country and people and the last to enjoy themselves.''
a man and his two daughters drown when they went out for a ``holy dip'' in a river during the solar eclipse, the nepalese national news agency reported sunday
hindu legend has it that a bath in a natural spring or river during a solar eclipse will cleanse away one's sins and the sins of one's ancestors
the news agency said the man, who was the chief officer of the mahendranagar municipal council, and his daughters were swimming in the mahakali river, 375 miles south west of katmandu, friday when they drowned
millions of hindus in nepal and india bathed in rivers, pools and streams during the solar eclipse that passed over large parts of asia and the pacific ocean
police sunday seized nearly 50 pounds of pure heroin, worth about $24 million, and arrested two south africans in the biggest drug bust at rome's fiumicino airport since 1984
irene viljoen and luis frederick zehmke, both 22, were en route from bombay to madrid when they were arrested
italian news agencies said the heroin was found during a routine luggage check. it was concealed in secret compartments in two suitcases
the identification tags on the suitcases matched those on the tickets of the two south africans
both men, who could face up to 15 years imprisonment, denied owning the suitcases. they said the luggage had been handed to them by strangers in bombay
in 1984, police confiscated 116.6 pounds of heroin from 11 thai citizens at the airport
scuffles broke out when chanting protesters clashed with security men sunday outside a hotel where former u.s. defense secretary caspar weinberger was scheduled to address a press conference
demonstrators surrounded weinberger's car and hit it before police removed them
about 30 demonstrators protesting u.s. foreign and military policies greeted weinberger, who was visiting australia as president reagan's official bicentennial representative
australia is celebrating the 200th anniversary of white settlement this year
weinberger later told journalists the protest was a ``very pallid little affair'' compared to demonstrations he had been subjected to in california
commenting on the u.s. decision to send 3,200 troops to honduras, weinberger said it was purely a military exercise
these forces are not committed to combat overseas, but they are having a very important exercise,'' he said
we do this frequently without some of the overtones that a lot of people are perceiving in this,'' weinberger said. ``we are not seeking a war, we're not going into a combat zone.''
the fourth parliament in bangladesh's 17-year history was sworn in sunday, but allegations of a rigged election raise doubts about the legitimacy of the lawmaking body
parliament speaker huda choudhury gave the oath of office to the new members, although the 18 members of the combined opposition party failed to attend the ceremony. there was no immediate explanation for their absence
despite its name, the opposition bloc consists of 76 small parties loyal to the government of president hussain muhammad ershad
the parliament was chosen march 3 in an election where there was much evidence of vote tampering and little of voter turnout, despite the government's claim that more than 50 percent of voters took part
opposition parties boycotted the polling and charged that fewer than 1 percent of voters cast ballots
no parliament in bangladesh ever has served its full five-year term. the previous one, elected in 1986, was dissolved by ershad last dec. 6 in a move to compromise with opposition parties demanding the president's ouster
the main opposition coalition of 21 parties denounced the move, however, and boycotted the elections, saying fair elections under ershad were impossible
ershad's jatiya party won 251 of the 300 seats. the national socialist party got three, the freedom party two, and independent candidates won 25 seats. election for one seat was postponed after a candidate was slain
the president told a religious gathering on march 13 that he would offer legislation to amend the constitution to make bangladesh an islamic state. the country's population is more than 90 percent moslem
ershad's party could easily adopt such legislation, having well over the needed two-thirds majority in the parliament
but the opposition parties _ still carrying out a four-month campaign of strikes and rallies to oust ershad _ already have announced they will oppose the move
even the leader of the fundamentalist moslem party jamaat-e-islami, abbas ali khan, denounced the proposal. ``this is a political gimmick by ershad to perpetuate his rule,'' he said
ershad, a former general, has vowed not to resign. he took power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and was elected in 1986 in a vote that the opposition claims was rigged
bangladesh became an independent state in 1971 after a civil war with pakistan
u.s. envoy philip habib arrived in jordan on sunday for talks on the u.s. plan for peace in the middle east after meeting with officials in egypt, where he said negotiations went well
habib met with egyptian president hosni mubarak in cairo and later told reporters the talks were ``extraordinarily good,'' egypt's state-run middle east news agency reported
his tour also will take him to saudi arabia and morocco
high-ranking jordanian officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said habib would meet with king hussein and other officials. but they noted that jordan would not deliver an immediate response to the u.s. proposals
jordanian officials also have said recently that the government was unlikely to respond to the proposals for about another week
habib's mission is a follow-up to a tour by u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, who shuttled among egypt, jordan, israel and syria in early march to pitch the american peace plan for the 40-year old arab-israeli conflict
the plan calls for a three-year period of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians living in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip. negotiations on the final status of the occupied territories would start in december
mubarak has called the plan encouraging, but suggested, without going into specifics, that some of its provisions be ``developed.''
habib was quoted by the middle east news agency as saying u.s. officials had emphasized that the plan ``would not be altered or cut up.''
state department spokesman charles redman said in washington on friday that habib would solicit the views of leaders of the four countries on his itinerary and would also brief them on talks this week in washington between administration officials and israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
some years ago, rating the nation's federal judges, american lawyer magazine praised the ``mental strength'' of gerhard a. gesell, but took off points because his ``arrogance is offensive to many attorneys.''
as a judge who has dealt with watergate and other highly publicized cases in his 20 years on the bench, 77-year-old gesell is on the hot seat again. he was hand-picked by the capital's chief federal judge to try former national security adviser john m. poindexter, lt. col. oliver l. north, and two arms dealers in the iran-contra affair
american lawyer found gesell ``widely regarded as the most agile and powerful mind on the d.c. bench,'' but it also had ``a suspicion that he is too sure of his own abilities; that he is perhaps overbearing.''
few lawyers who ever appeared before gesell would disagree with those assessments. gesell is tough. he was once described by a washington columnist as having ``a rosy troll-king's face,'' but more often than not it's that of a storm king
such things are not said publicly, but the probability is gesell was tapped because he is the most likely to get the job done swiftly and cleanly. it will be up to gesell to decide the politically absorbing question of the trial's timing. before the november election or afterward? before reagan leaves office or after?
gesell is the emperor of his courtroom. he makes things move. long-winded lawyers quickly learn to change their ways
when he is displeased, everyone knows it
gesell conducted the 1974 ``plumbers'' trial in which john d. ehrlichman, the former presidential domestic adviser, was convicted of violating the rights of a psychiatrist by sending white house agents to burglarize his office
ehrlichman found gesell ``obviously hostile.'' he wrote later that ``a number of spectators at that trial gave us affidavits describing gesell's facial reactions and gestures, which seemed intended to indicate to the jury how he felt about me and my attorneys.''
gesell called the case ``a shameful episode in the history of our country.'' and he expressed a sentiment that may come into play in the iran-contra trial: ``it is impossible to preserve freedom anywhere when zealots take over and the rule of law is ignored.''
four years ago, gesell had a case that involved the language in the law that governs how federal commissions operate. ``another example of unimpressive legislative drafting,'' he grumped. ``the courts do not welcome their role in such disputes,'' he said
in 1980, gesell ruled that the air force was wrong in ousting a decorated vietnam veteran because he was a homosexual. gesell accused the service of perverse behavior
but three years earlier, he had dismissed the suit of another acknowledged homosexual to be reinstated to the service. gesell concluded that ``an individual's right to privacy does not extend to homosexual conduct even when it occurs in private between consenting adults.''
gesell is among a generation of americans whose parents used the book ``the child from five to ten'' as a guide to bringing them up. in his case, however, the teaching was more direct: the author was his father, noted yale child psychologist and pediatrician arnold gesell
a yale graduate himself, gesell made a name as an antitrust lawyer with covington &amp; burling, one of washington's most renowned law firms. he was named to the federal bench in 1968 by president lyndon b. johnson
he quickly developed a reputation as one of the most scholarly judges in the courthouse
gesell's opinions have ranged widely: in 1970 he ordered the house internal security committee not to publish a report that listed 65 people as radical campus speakers. it was a landmark decision limiting congressional power
in 1968, he broadened the district of columbia's law to permit abortions virtually at a physician's discretion. the ruling was reversed by the supreme court
and in 1971 he ruled that the washington post could publish the pentagon papers study on the origins of the vietnam war, saying ``there is no proof that there will be a definite break in diplomatic relations, that there will be an armed attack on the united states ... or on an ally, that there will be war.''
outside toilets, cornmeal for dinner and police visits in the middle of the night gave 170 white christians a taste of everyday life in this black township
the event, designed to bring whites and blacks together and break down apartheid barriers, was organized by two christian groups and ended sunday with an emotional church service at a ymca hall
hundreds of worshipers clasped hands and swayed in rhythm to hymns of christian fellowship. said the rev. nico smith, one of the encounter's organizers: ``i thank god that this is still possible in south africa.''
on saturday night, while soldiers checked cars entering the township a few hundred yards away, the black hosts and their white guests barbecued sausage and dipped cornmeal from a huge iron pot while discussing the four-day encounter at a picnic
ten years ago if we did this the police would have just come and chased all the blacks away,'' said smith
murray hofmeyr, 29, a white theology student, was asked repeatedly to tell how police had come to the door at 3:30 a.m. friday to arrest him and his host, black churchworker sandy lebese. he said they refused to say why and ``were very rude.''
police freed hofmeyr a few hours later ``when i finally convinced them what was going on, that there were 170 white people staying in the township that night. they didn't believe me.''
lebese, who was imprisoned from 1977 to 1983 on a sabotage conviction, remained in detention without explanation
another delegate, nick paton, grandson of novelist alan paton, said police came to his door, also, at 2:30 a.m., asking what he was doing in the township
it's not normal to see a white man putting up in a black house,'' said one of the hosts, joe sekese, who was not surprised by the police action. ``i think it's a breakthrough, because in fact, i expected something tragic to happen, that the soldiers would break up the whole thing.''
smith, a white dutch reformed minister who moved into mamelodi with government permission two years ago, said he believed the police action ``was just the way they harass you, to let you know they're there, in control.''
but hofmeyr said he thought police were looking for a white man they believed responsible for a car-bombing thursday 20 miles southwest of pretoria
jacques bosch, 11, spent four days playing with 12-year-old mandla mabena as their parents tried to get to know each other
mandla's mother, betty, who works as a maid in a white home in pretoria, said she was worred about having a white woman come to her house as a guest. she said her employers ``treat me like family,'' but they have never been to her home
i was concerned about what food to serve, what beddings i had,'' said mrs. mabena
some delegates stayed in typical four-room township homes, with a toilet in the yard, a zinc basin to bathe in, and not enough beds to go around. others stayed in the more modern homes that the government and private industry are building to combat political unrest
some of the worst violence of the past three years occurred in mamelodi, and soldiers still patrol the streets
most of my black friends are ... mostly radical people fighting for a better south africa, fighting their bitterness. it was an experience to see the peace and quiet here,'' said annemarie bosch
when guests took their hosts out for dinner friday night, some reported rude comments and noticed stares from other diners in the restaurants. most said they had no trouble
the delegates, including about 40 blacks who stayed in white homes in pretoria, tried to adopt a joint statement at the end of the encounter that would reflect their mutual experience, but found they could not
apartheid was very successful,'' said smith. ``it succeeded to divide the people, to separate them from one another. it eventually ended up with the whites fearing the blacks and the blacks being furious with the whites, and you know anger and fear is a recipe for violence.''
smith promoted a separate message from the whites to tell other whites what they had learned and urge an end to ``this forced separation'' of the races under apartheid
david ramakgadi, a church field worker, read the blacks' statement: ``we are thrilled that at last, after a struggle of more than 50 years, you have come to our township not to tell us, but to listen. we see our communities as schools to educate people about the need to liberate south africa.''
under apartheid, south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
a 24-hour telephone line set up to field questions about aids has been averaging 100 calls daily in its first week of operation, a newspaper reported sunday
most callers want to know how the virus can be transmitted and ways to prevent it, dr. doyin odupe, president of the nigeria council on aids education, which runs the national hot line, was quoted in the lagos concord newspaper as saying
nigeria, with an estimated 100 million people, has only 20 known cases of acquired immune deficiency syndrome
it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
prince charles returned to britain on sunday after spending a somber weekend near the site of an avalanche that killed his friend and just missed the prince during a skiing trip
the march 10 avalanche also injured another member of the royal skiing party, patricia palmer-tomkinson
charles called on her twice at the davos hospital during his two-day stay. she has twice undergone surgery after suffering complicated fractures of both legs
he also took a long walk in the mountains not far from the spot where maj. hugh lindsay was fatally struck by the snowslide that narrowly missed the prince. charles palmer-tomkinson and swiss guide bruno sprecher accompanied him
mrs. palmer-tomkinson's condition was reported to have considerably improved
michael j. fox delved into the drudgery of fact-checking while preparing for his role in the upcoming movie ``bright lights, big city'' and found the experience ``very frustrating.''
fox, who plays wise-cracking alex keaton on nbc's family ties, checked pie recipes during a stint at esquire magazine to get a feel for the job of the protagonist in the movie based on jay mcinerney's novel
fox plays jamie conway, a fact-checker at a new york magazine who can't handle the fast lane and retreats into cocaine
i ended up checking recipes for black cherry pie, and let me tell you, it's a very frustrating job,'' fox told the chicago tribune
people just aren't that cooperative on the phone, so i started to relate to jamie pretty quickly, and to his ambition and his idealizing,'' fox said
bright lights, big city'' makes its debut april 1
a lot of people told me it was so strange to think of me playing a guy with a drug problem,'' fox told the chicago sun-times. ``i dunno. if there's a consistent quality about my acting and the characters i play, it's a guy who's gonna make it
but there is a fine line in this movie between a guy who has unfulfilled potential and is very frustrated, and a guy who starts taking himself out of his mind chemically,'' he said
fox's next project is a movie in thailand, directed by brian de palma and co-starring sean penn
elizabeth taylor's star-studded aids benefit earlier this month, featuring a glittering parade of parties and black-tie affairs, netted its goal of $2.5 million, organizers said
we're really pleased and proud,'' said al evans, chairman of the community alliance against aids. ``it's been fabulous.''
participants shelled out $2,500 to attend dinner parties held in homes from miami to palm beach and break bread with some 40 celebrities. the guests and celebrities then converged march 12 at the fontainebleau hilton hotel for a grand finale
half the money raised for patient care, education and research, is earmarked for the university of miami aids programs. the other half is destined for the american foundation for aids research, a los angeles-based organization chaired by ms. taylor
the widow of crooner rudy vallee married an attorney she met last year while playing tennis in a match that apparently ended love-all, her secretary said
eleanor vallee, who was married to her late husband for 36 years before his death in july 1986, wed edward hustedt in a ceremony saturday, said secretary kim basaran
the two met last year and ``fell in love immediately,'' she said. ``they came up here to play to tennis, and as she says, it was `zing, zing, zing' from there on.''
hustedt is 56 and the new mrs. hustedt, who became vallee's fourth wife when she was 16, also is in her 50s
the newlyweds planned an 18-day honeymoon in tahiti, and then were scheduled to attend a maine tribute to vallee, the singer-actor known for such songs as ``the vagabond lover.''
comedian arte johnson surprised his wife and other diners at a california restaurant with a case of goo goo clusters, nashville-made candy bars, said theme park officials who provided the treats
johnson conspired with the manager of the bistro garden in beverly hills to have the 24 six-packs of goo goo clusters served as dessert at a birthday luncheon last week for his wife, gisela johnson. the women were presented with the chocolate, marshmallow and caramel bars arranged on a sterling silver platter
it brought the restaurant to a stop,'' johnson told opryland usa spokesman tom adkinson
johnson, who appeared on the old tv show ``laugh-in,'' was introduced to goo goos while taping a tv special at opryland usa in nashville. opryland then sent johnson a case of the chocolate treats. question</head>
emergency action by federal regulators to stabilize two big banking companies hit by deposit runs is sure to revive charges of a double standard for dealing with ailing financial institutions
while small banks are closing at a rate unseen since the great depression, the government, in effect, has declared large banks too big to fail, the critics say
the best known example of the ``too-big-to-fail syndrome'' is continental illinois corp., which in 1984 required $4.5 billion in the largest-ever government bailout
the federal deposit insurance corp., the agency that insures deposits in commercial banks, hopes to recover all but $1.7 billion of that by selling its stake in continental. but nearly four years after the bailout, the fdic is still the major stockholder in the bank
two government moves last week to prop up institutions nearly identical in size to continental are renewing concerns
the fdic on thursday pumped $1 billion into first republicbank corp. of dallas, which has lost nearly $2 billion in deposits since the start of the year. with $33.2 billion in assets, it is the nation's 13th largest commercial bank holding company
the agency also promised to protect all depositors and general creditors of the company's 73 subsidiary banks
the federal home loan bank board, which regulates savings institutions, made a similar pledge on friday regarding the $33.7 billion financial corp. of america, owner of the stockton, calif.,-based american savings &amp; loan association
the second largest thrift holding company in the country, fca had lost $493 million in deposits in january and february. its request for $1.5 billion in assistance is under review
the eventual price tag of solving the problems at first republicbank and fca isn't known for certain, but analysts believe the bailouts ultimately could rival, and possibly even surpass, the continental illinois rescue
the promises made by the fdic and bank board go beyond the agencies' normal practice. usually, deposit accounts are protected only to $100,000, and creditors are not protected at all
when smaller banks fail, as 184 did last year, the fdic pays off depositors up to the insurance limit or arranges for the accounts to be transferred to a solvent institution
big banks, with their extensive ties to other banks, present a more complicated problem. the failure of a large institution could cause a chain reaction of insolvencies at smaller banks and end up costing the fdic more than the amount needed to keep the big bank operating
using government aid to entice private investors to take over an ailing institution also is often cheaper than a straight payoff of depositors
that logic doesn't make it any easier for executives who watch their small banks go under while their colleagues at large institutions stay in business
beyond the big bank-small bank double standard, there is what some regard as a dual standard in dealing with large regional banks like first republicbank and the even bigger money center banks deeply involved with shaky loans to third world countries
paul getman, a financial economist with the wefa group, a philadelphia consulting firm, said bankers at the large regional institutions, whose loans are in real estate and energy, believe regulators are much more reluctant to force money center banks to write down the value of overseas loans
texas bankers feel ... the fdic is not clamping down as hard on new york city banks because the nature of their bad loans is such that they can get away with saying they're worth 50 cents on the dollar, for example,'' getman said
there's a lot of political play (in how loans to third world countries are valued), whereas everyone knows that loans on texas real estate are worth 15 cents on the dollar,'' he said
rep. ferdnand g. st germain, d-r.i., chairman of the house banking committee, said he plans hearings this spring on the criteria used to decide ``who survives and who fails among the troubled institutions.''
st germain has voiced concern in the past about ``sweet fail-safe deals for private investors.''
fdic chairman l. william seidman, however, has pointed out that government bank rescues bail out depositors, usually not stockholders, corporate debt holders or management
bert ely, a private financial institutions analyst in alexandria, va., defended bailouts as saving money for the insurance funds, which are funded by premiums paid by banks and savings and loans and ultimately backed by the taxpayer
ely argued that regulators ought to make bailouts far sooner than they usually do
the important thing is that they end the tragedy. ... every hour that goes by increases banks' losses and the losses (to the insurance funds). it is so critical to get that assistance in there and stop the bleeding right away,'' he said
dave skidmore covers banking and financial issues in washington for the associated press
liberal and conservative chinese leaders gather friday to wrangle over the future of the country's economic and political reforms in a congress that could reveal how deep divisions are between the camps
featured at the annual meeting of the national people's congress, china's parliament, will be communist party chief zhao ziyang, and acting premier li peng, who heads the conservatives
zhao, 69, the protege of semi-retired senior leader deng xiaoping, is the champion of rapid reform. in a speech published sunday, zhao urged faster and bolder reforms, making clear his opposition to recent calls for caution
li, 59, a soviet-educated engineer, is regarded as a cautious technocrat who supports the reforms but would limit their scope and slow their implementation
zhao was the star at a major party congress last fall that laid down guidelines for china into the 21st century. at the congress, however, li will be at center stage, delivering a key report at the opening of the three-week session that will define the nation's immediate goals
li is expected to sound several conservative themes _ that the government must pay more attention to the countryside following three straight disappointing grain harvests and that controlling double-digit inflation must take precedence over further reform of china's inefficient pricing system
analysts also will watch how much support li gives zhao's ambitious proposal to turn factories along china's coast into processing centers for exports. the plan is controversial because it would allow coastal regions to develop faster than china's vast interior
some observers say open disagreement between zhao and li is unlikely. both support china's economic changes, but they differ on the pace
five years ago you could talk about reformists and conservatives,'' said one asian diplomat. ``but today nobody would come out against reform.''
the first session of the 7th congress _ each congress sits for five years _ will be one of the busiest and most important in years. it will confirm li as premier, replace li xiannian as president and fill dozens of important government posts
the 2,970 delegates will approve a government reorganization in which several ministries are to merge or be eliminated. they also will amend the constitution to legalize private businesses and pass several laws
most important is the industrial enterprise law, which will give legal definition to the government's attempts to separate the functions of the owner _the state _ and the manager of businesses
factory managers will be given the right to run their plants without undue interference from government and party officials. they also will take responsibility for profits and losses
the congress will also vote to make southern china's hainan island, a focus of zhao's coastal development plans, a new province
the congress will also enact important personnel changes
several elderly leaders, who have opposed most economic reforms, will finally step down
but conservatives who favor cautious change, and not rapid reformers, will probably take their place
li, named acting premier when zhao was appointed head of the party last fall, will take over the post held for 27 years by his foster father, chou en-lai. he will also head the commission for restructuring the economy, giving him greater influence in determining, and possibly slowing, the course of reforms
li xiannian, 78, will end his five-year term in the largely ceremonial post of president, and is likely to replace deng yingchao, 84, chou en-lai's widow, as chairman of the chinese people's political consultative conference, an advisory body
tapped to be the next president is yang shangkun, 80, a senior military officer, member of the party politburo and friend to deng xiaoping
yao yilin, 71, a respected but somewhat conservative economist, is slated to head a powerful economic planning commission
the new defense minister, replacing 78-year-old zhang aiping, is expected to be qin jiwei, 74, former beijing military region commander and a politburo member
peng zhen, an 86-year-old conservative curmudgeon, will resign as chairman of the people's congress, with vice premier wan li a likely successor
dreaming of life in the circus, a handful of would-be big top stars practiced slapstick skits, laughed at pretend jokes and even took a shaving cream pie in the face at auditions for clown college
for two hours saturday, about 35 people _ including an actress, a singer, a history teacher and a retired dentist _ tested their mettle as clowns, vying to get into the school in venice, fla., dubbed the ``yale of yucks'' and the world's only institution of higher laughter
in order to be a good clown, you have to have a heart the size of alaska and be willing to give it away on a daily basis,'' said steve smith, director of the college run by ringling bros. and barnum &amp; bailey circus
you can't go out and flap your arms around and think that's clowning,'' smith told the clown hopefuls. ``you have to feel it and believe it.''
with a videotape camera rolling, smith tested the applicants' abilities in mime, acting movement and classic clown gags in a dance practice room at depaul university
competition to get into clown college is nearly as keen as for the ivy league
the school holds about 25 auditions a year around the country for a maximum of 60 openings. last year, 2,000 people applied to be trained as clowns and only 50 were accepted, smith said
to make the cuts, smith and ruth craddock, a teacher at the college, review audition videotapes and written applications submitted by the aspiring clowns
the clown candidates pantomimed different emotions, contorting their faces in anger, drooping in sadness and beaming with happiness. they acted out a simple slapstick skit and practiced laughing hysterically when a fellow auditioner pretended to tell a joke
we're giving a collective hug to 20,000 people (in the circus audience) and are trying to make them forget for two hours that the toilet won't flush, the bills are overdue and their kid needs braces,'' explained smith, wearing a clown suit of blue pants, rainbow suspenders, red polka-dot bow tie, yellow hair and red bulb nose
for those who are accepted, the 10-week program in such skills as stilt-walking, gymnastics and pantomime is free _ with a catch. the students must agree to join the ringling bros. circus as a clown if they are good enough
we think of it as boot camp for the circus,'' said smith, the former host of a children's television program in chicago. ``we're very serious about being silly.''
jason stern, a 46-year-old retired dentist who runs an international contracting business, tried out on his 23rd wedding anniversary because, he said, he harbors a secret desire to be a clown
i'm at that stage in life where i want to really enjoy myself,'' stern said. ``i'd drop everything i'm doing'' to join the circus
noah budin, a 27-year-old singer wearing a hawaiian shirt and a cleveland indians hat, said he has dreamed of working as a clown since his childhood
i've just never grown up,'' he said. ``i want to perform for people and make them laugh. ... i want to feel that power.''
we're not looking for people who can juggle and ride unicycles because we can teach that,'' said smith, who went through clown college in 1971 and has been its director since 1985. ``what i'm really looking for are people who have a sincere desire to learn the craft and who have a big heart.''
israelis strafed hills and combed the countryside in their deepest push into southern lebanon this year in an apparent effort to knock out guerrilla bases there, police said sunday
their troops, however, met no resistance saturday as they pressed north several miles beyond the eastern end of their buffer zone toward the shiite moslem village of maydoun, police said. they withdrew about four hours later
the ground assault followed increased guerrilla attacks on the security belt with soviet-made katyusha rockets. israel said it needed the buffer area to deter such attacks when it withdrew most troops from lebanon in june 1985 after its 1982 invasion and three-year occupation
the israelis and militiamen from the mainly christian south lebanon army fought a seven-hour artillery duel with shiite amal militiamen on saturday before moving north
amal said 10 militiamen from the south lebanon army were killed or hurt and one shiite fighter wounded in the exchanges engulfing the villages of mashgara and ein el-tineh near maydoun. police reported two civilians and a syrian soldier wounded
syria has 25,000 troops in lebanon under a 1976 arab league peacekeeping mandate. chief's yard</head>
two days after the police chief's father died, authorities began digging in the chief's front yard. they kept digging until they found a skeleton 20 feet down that turned out to be the first husband of the chief's current wife
no charges have been filed and authorities have released few details of their investigation
they have only confirmed, from dental records, that the skeleton was the remains of russell bean, and that he had been beaten on the head and chest with an unidentified object
bean was 25 when he was last seen in 1978. he and robert chambers, who became the part-time police chief three years ago, apparently met while working together at a factory in keene and became drinking buddies
after bean disappeared, chambers divorced his first wife and married bean's wife, sylvia, about 35
chambers, 36, and other members of the family have said nothing publicly about the case
chambers was part-time police chief in marlow and nearby gilsum; he has resigned the marlow job and taken indefinite leave from the gilsum post. he has also been suspended from the police force in winchester
his wife has left her job as a school-bus driver and their four children from former marriages have been taken out of school
chambers' former wife, deborah, living in jaffrey, was hospitalized while authorities were digging in chambers' yard; authorities won't say why or disclose her condition
the mystery began unfolding march 9 with the death of chambers' father, clifton chambers, 61
the keene sentinel reported that sources with detailed knowledge of the investigation said the elder chambers told his daughter melissa that bean died accidentally in a fist fight when he fell and hit his head on a rock, and that the elder chambers had helped bury him
melissa chambers reportedly told authorities the deathbed tale the next day, and the digging began march 11
on march 14, clifton chambers was buried. hours later, when the hole in robert chambers' yard was 20 feet deep and 25 feet in diameter, bean's skeleton was found
on thursday, march 17, it was determined bean had been beaten with a blunt object
chambers' lawyer, mark sisti of the public defender's office, said he could not answer questions about how the body came to be buried there or whether chambers knew. but he said, ``my client had nothing to do with causing the death of mr. bean.''
sisti filed a motion friday to gain access to documents that persuaded a judge to issue the search warrant that allowed authorities to dig up chambers' yard. ``a lot of reports have been generated through rumors and speculation and we'd like to see exactly what's in there,'' he said
the attorney general's office said it will try to keep the documents sealed
all that has left the 600 residents of the rural community in hilly southwestern new hampshire speculating on what happened. rumors spread rapidly from talk at the general store, at vic's, the only restaurant in town, or at private gatherings
mabel champney, who knew the elder chambers for 45 years and had been dating him the past three years since the death of his wife, emphatically rejected any thought that he would hide a crime
i don't think he knew a thing about it,'' she said. ``i don't think he would hold back anything if someone did something wrong.''
harry briggs, the elder chambers' brother-in-law, said melissa chambers was ``very bitter against bob,'' something that had ``built through the years. they always fought back and forth.''
bean helped chambers build the 1{-story cabin where he still lives, one town resident said. the house sits on two acres remaining from the 100 acres once owned by chambers' father
the union leader in manchester quoted people as saying chambers and his wife and bean and his wife were good friends
but then robert and deborah chambers separated in 1978 and divorced in june 1979
bean disappeared in september 1978, and sylvia bean won a divorce the next year. she and chambers were married in september 1979
chambers was a trainee and was ready to become a full-time policeman for winchester after passing a 10-week course at the state police academy, but the digging began the day he graduated
federal officials disappointed by lukewarm response to a year-long amnesty program for illegal aliens hope a blitz of sideshow-like hoopla in the final weeks will spark a last-minute flurry of interest
we are expecting to see a surge in applications,'' immigration and naturalization service spokesman vern jervis said in washington, d.c
our feeling is there has been a lot of procrastination. but we already have seen an increase in recent weeks, and we believe we will have good numbers between now and the end of the program as people realize time is getting short.''
the last day illegal aliens can apply for amnesty to legalize their presence in this country and permit them to seek citizenship is may 4. the program began may 5, 1987
after an initial surge that saw illegal aliens standing in long lines for hours at ins centers around the country, interest tapered off substantially
when the amnesty program started, officials estimated there were between 4 million and 6 million illegal aliens in the united states and that between 2 million and 4 million might apply for amnesty
through march 16, the latest date for which figures were available, 1.39 million undocumented aliens had applied for amnesty, jervis said
critics claim the government mismanaged the amnesty program by failing to adequately publicize it and failing to overcome illegal aliens' ingrained distrust of the ins, perceived in the past only as the agency that wanted to hunt them down and deport them
in recent weeks, ins officials have waged aggressive programs to spread the message that the amnesty program will end soon
we have done everything except stand on our heads,'' said william king, who oversees the amnesty program for the ins western region, including california, arizona, nevada, hawaii and guam
the efforts have ranged from sponsoring old-fashioned neighborhood block parties and participating in ethnic parades to speaking to community groups, at catholic masses in the southwest and west and baptist services in the south, and on radio talks shows nationwide
some of the more unusual schemes include stuffing messages about the deadline inside packages of tortillas and in fortune cookies
critics point out that most fortune cookies are eaten by middle-class caucasians
ins workers also have donned sombreros at hispanic festivities, hugged babies at chinese, korean and southeast asian gatherings, and swaddled themselves in polynesian costumes and roasted pigs at ``tongan night'' parties. they have tried to reach sports fans by hiring planes trailing amnesty messages to fly over stadiums and have flashed messages on electronic stadium signboards
in mcallen, texas, ins worker art zuniga wrote a song in spanish entitled ``amnistia'' and persuaded local radio stations to play it often. in some neighborhoods, boy scouts have been enlisted to go door-to-door handing out leaflets
in recent weeks, ins officials with much fanfare staged ceremonies to present temporary residency permits, commonly known as ``green cards,'' to a 98-year-old woman in texas and a 101-year-old man in california. in each case, the person was billed as the oldest undocumented alien to receive legal status
in other nations where similar amnesty programs have been offered, 10 percent of all applications came on the last day, not unlike the way people file their tax returns, king said
if that happens, we're going to be out there with mail bags accepting applications until 11:59 p.m., may 4,'' king said
to make it easier for people to get amnesty, the ins announced friday it would accept applications that are simply filled out and signed by may 4. those applying will have an additional 60 days to supply the documentation required to suport the applications
under the immigration reform and control act of 1986, illegal aliens who have lived in this country continuously since before jan. 1, 1982, are eligible to seek amnesty. the process costs applicants $185 per person up to a maximum of $420 per family, plus a $75 counseling fee and a $10 photo and fingerprint fee
the recent nato summit in brussels proved that the western alliance is trying to unilaterally disarm the soviet union so it can achieve military superiority, a top soviet general said in an article published sunday
gen. sergei akhromeyev, chief of the general staff of the soviet armed forces, said in the defense ministry newspaper, krasnaya zvezda, that nato was unreasonably seeking cuts in soviet conventional military forces
one draws an absolutely definite conclusion that the nato leadership is trying to impose unilateral disarmament upon socialist countries, to break the existing structure of the soviet general-purpose forces and in the final account, attain military superiority,'' akhromeyev said
a march 3 declaration by leaders of north atlantic treaty organization countries called for cuts in soviet conventional military forces. nato says the soviet-led warsaw pact has a 2-1 advantage in tanks and artillery
but akhromeyev reiterated the soviet view that nato and the warsaw pact are roughly equal in strength. while nato calls for a reduction in tanks and artillery, it is superior in aircraft and sea power, the general said
akhromeyev also criticized nato for refusing to link conventional arms and reduction or elimination of tactical, or long-range, nuclear missiles
the soviet union is willing to meet the west halfway, ``but its initiatives should be reciprocated by the other side. it is just a waste of time to demand unilateral disarmament from the ussr,'' he said
nato has not directly responded to a warsaw pact proposal made in june 1986 for a comprehensive plan to cut military forces throughout europe, from the atlantic ocean to the soviet union's ural mountains, he said
michael dukakis, chatting with laid-off steelworkers on chicago's east side, was munching on a big, messy danish pastry. but _ not wanting to get his breakfast all over his crisp business suit _ he was eating it with a spoon, to the amusement of the rough-hewn onlookers
this prim approach illustrated what the democratic presidential candidate from massachusetts freely admitted to chicagoans in a campaign ad narrated by bricklayers union chief tommy mcintyre: ``he's not your shot-and-beer kind of guy.''
but in the course of dukakis' campaign, it's often been easier to figure out what kind of a guy dukakis isn't than what kind he is
in iowa, dukakis crusaded against aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels. in new hampshire, he pushed his opposition to the seabrook nuclear plant. and he spoke out against space-based missile defenses and additions to a navy carrier task force
but in the south, dukakis said he would fight communist aggression in central america, and he reminded voters that he has cut taxes and kept the state budget balanced
in illinois, he portrayed himself as a friend to labor while largely steering clear of substantive issues. instead, he spoke about the need to pick a candidate who can win in november
the multiple portraits of the massachusetts governor reflect a conscious campaign strategy to seek the broadest support possible. in some ways it has paid off
on super tuesday, for example, dukakis won in all regions of the country. and although he finished third in illinois last week, dukakis did equally well among liberals, moderates and conservatives, according to exit polls
when nbc news asked illinois voters which democratic candidate was more conservative, the choices included tennessee sen. albert gore and missouri rep. richard gephardt. on the most-liberal list were jesse jackson and illinois sen. paul simon. only one candidiate was on both lists _ michael dukakis
dukakis has to have some image,'' said pollster sheldon gawiser. ``is he tough? i don't know. is he compassionate? i don't know. is he new? i don't know. is he old? i don't know.''
dukakis has promised not to reduce spending on social programs and to increase college scholarship programs for needy high school graduates. he wants a $500 million ``partnership'' between the public and private sectors to invest in economically depressed areas. he talks about protecting the environment
more often, though, dukakis has stuck to a generalized stump speech that only touches lightly on his policy views. his super tuesday victory speech, delivered in chicago, was filled with phrases like, ``you don't have to be from chicago to want a president who will make america no. 1 again,'' and ``the best america isn't behind us; the best america is yet to come.''
even in massachusetts, where dukakis has been in public life as a legislator and governor for 25 years, labels don't stick fast to dukakis, because his positions don't fit conventional pigeonholes
dukakis was a reform-minded liberal when he first won the governorship in 1974. he succeeded a popular republican chief executive and inherited an enormous budget deficit
those deficits forced dukakis to break his promise of no new taxes, a move some believe cost him his job four years later. yet he also lost liberal support in that same race because he approved reuctions in welfare benefits
1978 was ...the turning point in his political life,'' wrote robert turner and charles kenney in their recent biography of the governor. ``political pragmatism dictated what changed. it was not an alteration in character, but a shift in style, approach _ a change he had to make if he was to be successful again in politics.''
what dukakis calls ``an involuntary four-year sabbatical'' at harvard's kennedy school of government kept him in touch with massachusetts politics and exposed him to a pool of talent that he has since tapped for his presidential campaign. the governor's staff is dotted with former students and faculty members from the kennedy school
in 1982, dukakis defeated arch-rival gov. edward king in a bruising campaign in which dukakis made it clear he considered the king administration corrupt
his second term was marked by its pragmatism and emphasis on encouraging business expansion. the four years between 1982 and 1986 found dukakis facing protests from welfare recipients who claimed their benefits kept them far below the poverty level and from gays and lesbians who accused him of discriminating against homosexuals by forbidding them from being foster parents
in the south, dukakis, addressing his image as a cool problem-solver, commented a tag many have been eager to pin on him
i have a defintion of a technocrat,'' he said. ``a liberal who can balance a budget.'' attention</head>
texas playwright larry l. king is scratching his beard in puzzlement
his blockbuster musical, ``the best little whorehouse in texas,'' ran on broadway for 1,588 performances to rave reviews, spawned four national touring companies, played on four continents, became a hit movie and has grossed more than $175 million at last count
but when he mailed the script of his latest play, ``the night hank williams died,'' to a big new york producer, it was returned a week later stamped ``unsolicited materials not accepted.''
other producers and theater directors responded with polite yawns, broken promises, excuses or no response at all
ford's theater in washington didn't bother to acknowledge receipt of his manuscript
perhaps i should have sent them `the night abe lincoln died,''' king says
after investing four years and an estimated $7,000 in travel, phone calls, postage, script copying and lawyers' fees, king finally got his play on the boards at washington's small, financially struggling new playwrights' theater, where it finished a successful five-week run in early march
it's something of a humbling and perplexing experience for king, who already has 11 books, five stage plays, four television documentaries, hundreds of magazine articles, a tv emmy and nominations for tony and national book awards to his credit
but the playwright shrugs off suggestions that new playwrights' was a humiliating comedown after the bright lights of broadway
during the day, king hustled tickets by phone and delivered show posters to swank downtown restaurants where his pals dined without him
on arriving at the 125-seat theater near dupont circle, his first job was to wash coffee cups for the cast and crew. then he donned costume and makeup to perform a starring role in his own play, seven times a week
king has concluded that getting plays produced anywhere in america is ``a perpetual crapshoot,'' no matter how famous the playwright
this is not as good as billy dick's stuff,'' king said in a recent interview, using his down-home nickname for william shakespeare. ``but i know this is not a bad play.''
the critics agree. and a new playwrights' spokeswoman, paige gold, said ``it was the biggest ticket-seller we've had this season.''
the night hank williams died'' is not a play about the legendary country western singer. it's about the death of ``a dreamer in a dreamless land,'' a former high school football star named thurmond stottle who's pumping gas in a small west texas town, working on a beer gut and desperate to escape
king tells the tale, both funny and sad, with dialogue as hot and spicy as three-alarm chili and the indisputable truth of a man who's been there himself. unlike stottle, who was gunned down before he could flee with his guitar and his dream of singing fame in nashville, tenn., king made good his escape from west texas
he began his writing career as a reporter on a string of small newspapers in texas and new mexico before he moved to washington in 1954 as a congressional aide. while working for rep. jim wright, d-texas, now house speaker, king finished his first book, a political novel titled ``the one-eyed man.''
today, while trying to arrange future engagements for ``hank williams'' in texas theaters and a possible off-broadway run this fall, king is finishing his 12th book, a largely autobiographical anti-war novel called ``war movies.''
at the same time, he's working on another play, ``the golden shadows old west museum,'' which is tentatively scheduled to premiere next season at the arkansas repertory theater in little rock
it's a helluva hard way to make a living,'' said king, 59, as he lit another cigarette and brushed his blue jeans in the den of his comfortable home in a wooded section of northwest washington
because of enormous production costs and limited financial resources, he says, most theaters play it safe in favor of proven hits. ``there just aren't that many theaters willing to do new plays,'' he said
he finds it ``very peculiar'' that the author of the wildly successful ``whorehouse'' would have so much difficulty finding a producer for his new play, even in texas where he is immensely popular
all i can figure is those folks don't have much imagination,'' he said. ``when you send in your manuscripts, you just don't hear from theaters. i don't know if they open their mail or even see it. that's not good manners, much less good business.''
after five years of debate about futuristic space weapons, both supporters and critics of president reagan's star wars system agree that the program will remain one of reagan's chief legacies after he leaves office next year
there is no way this program will die when reagan leaves office, regardless of who is elected in november,'' said john pike of the federation of american scientists, a chief critic of reagan's program
there's a constituency for the program now and that means it is here to stay,'' pike said. ``the next president, whether republican or democrat, is going to have limited options. he won't be able to significantly raise it because of budget restrictions, but he won't be able to cut it deeply, either.''
rep. les aspin, d-wis., chairman of the house armed services committee and another critic of the missile defense system, agreed. ``politically, the star wars issue is here to stay. it's not going to go away,'' aspin said
and on the other side, retired air force gen. daniel graham, who is one of reagan's strongest supporters, said, ``i believe that it is almost inexorable that the program will continue to grow. the debate has been changed.''
we are making progress. the debate now is about what kind of system, not whether any defense at all is a good idea,'' said air force lt. gen. james abrahamson, head of the program
the debate began almost as soon as reagan proposed the idea five years ago at the end of a nationally televised speech. in the speech, reagan referred to the current nuclear doctrine of mutual assured destruction, which holds that each superpower is deterred from a nuclear attack against the other because of the threat of devastating retaliation
science, reagan said, should be devoted to defense, not offense, and he laid out his dream of building a defensive system that would ``free the world from the threat of nuclear war.''
reagan dubbed his plan the strategic defense initiative (sdi), although pike and other critics began calling it ``star wars,'' after the hit movie, a name that stuck
one of the strongest supporters of the program was graham, head of a private foundation known as high frontier, and the chief advocate of deploying a system of orbiting ``garages'' full of rockets that could be readily fired at attacking soviet missiles
the united states had been devoting hundreds of millions of dollars to defensive research before reagan's speech, but the president's interest changed the program and set off a national debate about whether such a system could be built and what it would cost
originally, pentagon officials said the program would look at a variety of exotic, futuristic weapons, such as neutral particle beams, electromagnetic rail guns and electron lasers
but many of those technologies have not panned out and while research on them is continuing, the program is now concentrating almost half its $4.2 billion budget on a so-called ``phase one'' defense that would, at best, be able to knock out less than half the soviet land-based nuclear missiles
that would still leave hundreds of land-based rockets to attack the united states, along with submarine-based missiles and soviet bombers
they haven't really come up with a successful technology yet,'' pike said. ``in fact, they've had a lot more success eliminating some things, such as the rail guns and the really exotic stuff.''
among the chief critics of star wars have been a succession of soviet leaders, particularly mikhail s. gorbachev, the current soviet leader
gorbachev has warned time and again that star wars is the major hurdle to a u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating half the thousands of atomic weapons each side has aimed at each other. but reagan has adamantly refused to agree to any limits on star wars research
gorbachev has also warned that the soviets are working on a system to counter sdi. at last december's summit meeting in washington, he said, ``if the americans have a lot of money, let them squander it on sdi. we will look for a response along other, asymmetrical lines that will be less expensive.''
u.s. officials no longer talk about the possibility of eliminating nuclear weapons. instead, they say sdi will make it more difficult for the soviets to be sure of knocking out american weapons in any attack, thus making it harder for the soviets to attack
defense secretary frank c. carlucci, in his annual report to congress, said, ``the deterrent value of strategic defenses derives from the effect these defenses would have on soviet calculations on the costs and benefits of launching an attack.''
this type of defense would enable us to influence the soviet decision-maker's calculus by diminishing his confidence in the ability of his forces to execute an effective attack, rather than by increasing the severity of our retaliation,'' he said. ``a strategic defense need not be `leak-proof' to achieve this objective.''
star wars also has been the subject of annual congressional fights over spending. the democratic-controlled congress has consistently reduced sdi spending
reagan took aim at congress last week, when he said capitol hill ``should realize it's no longer a question of whether there will be an sdi program or not _ the only question will be whether the soviets are the only ones who have strategic defenses while the united states remains entirely defenseless.''
while the debate goes on, so does the research, particularly on the so-called ``phase one'' system
the plan is based on a system of 200 to 400 orbiting satellites, each of which would have 10 so-called ``kinetic kill vehicles,'' or rockets, that would destroy a target by slamming into it at high speeds
the pentagon declines to estimate the cost of phase one, but the congressional research service recently said the bill could come to more than $200 billion
pike said one of the main obstacles to sdi eventually will be the budget. ``you've already seeing intense competition for defense department dollars and that will only increase in the future,'' he said
anti-apartheid activists pledged to defy authorities monday in the first nationwide protest since the government banned leading black opposition groups last month
pamphlets urging a general strike were circulating through black townships in defiance of government regulations. police have threatened action against strike organizers and promised to protect blacks wishing to work
organizers called for the one-day strike to commemorate the 28th anniversary of the sharpeville massacre and protest banning of the united democratic front and other groups
the front, the country's largest anti-apartheid coalition, coordinated previous nationwide protests during the 21-month-old state of emergency. emergency regulations outlaw calls for strikes and boycotts, but hundreds of thousands of black workers and students have joined past protests by staying away from jobs and schools
in soweto, one major protest meeting was held sunday at a roman catholic church. speakers from some of the organizations which have been restricted addressed a crowd of more than 1,500
police entered the church during the meeting to ask that the participants stop singing freedom songs, but the songs resumed after the officers left, according to people at the church
services were scheduled monday in several cities and townships to mark the anniversary of the 1960 massacre in sharpeville, a township south of johannesburg. sixty-nine blacks were killed and about 180 injured when police fired on thousands of demonstrators protesting pass laws, repealed in 1986. those laws restricted freedom of movement as part of the national apartheid system of racial segregation
several affiliates of the united democratic front that were unaffected by the ban took out newspaper advertisements announcing monday's protest
the depth and extent of our people's anger about the bannings has surprised even us,'' said a statement issued by the affiliates. ``not sated with the whole country under the state of emergency and hundreds filling the prison cells, the regime is turning to blocking all avenues of peaceful protest.''
the predominantly white university of cape town and mostly mixed-race university of the western cape were shutting down monday in solidarity with the protest. monday's performance of ``district six,'' a musical with an anti-apartheid theme playing to full houses in johannesburg, was also canceled
sharpeville made news again last week because friday had been set as execution date for six black prisoners, known as the ``sharpeville six.'' they were convicted of complicity in the mob killing of a black town councilor during anti-apartheid riots in 1984
president p.w. botha rejected worldwide appeals for clemency, but a supreme court judge granted a one-month stay of execution thursday to consider defense claims of lying by a key witness
president francois mitterrand on sunday promised to reveal this week whether he will seek re-election, a question that has kept the country in suspense for months
i hear you, believe me. it seems you want me to tell you today, today about tomorrow,'' mitterrand said in a videotaped message to a political rally of 20,000 socialists and presidential supporters in the paris suburb of bourget
political pundits predict mitterrand will announce his plans at a meeting of the socialist party in strasbourg on friday, just four weeks before voters go to the polls
guessing about the socialist president's plans has become something of a parlor game in france. sometimes the 71-year-old president has hinted he would like to retire, but on other occasions has left the impression he would seek another term
the magazine paris-match has sponsored a contest asking readers to guess whether mitterrand will run, the day of his decision, and the exact minute it will be announced. the winner will have income taxes paid by the magazine for the seven-year term of the next president
as the april 5 deadline nears for candidates to place their names on the ballot, it seems increasingly likely mitterrand will run
lionel jospin, first secretary of the socialist party, reinforced this impression in comments made to reporters before the president's speech
to win, it is necessary that a candidate have the stature of a president. we have it, or in any case in some days i am convinced we are going to have it _ with francois mitterrand,'' jospin said
polls have consistently placed mitterrand ahead of the two other leading contenders for the presidency, conservative premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre, the other main conservative candidate
in fact, the first round of the election april 24 is regarded as a sort of primary election between the rival conservatives. the winner would then face mitterrand _ if he runs _ in a decisive second round may 8
a poll published in the journal du dimanche newspaper sunday showed 55 percent of the 1,813 people polled were satisfied with mitterrand. forty-eight percent were satisfied with chirac as premier
a handful of minor-party contenders, including andre lejoinie of the once powerful communists, are expected to draw a total of 5 percent of the vote or less. jean-marie le pen of the extreme-right national front could get about 10 percent of the vote
francois cornut-gentille, a political expert with the independent sofres polling firm, said ``the right is divided between barre and chirac, so mitterrand is the unifier. he has the image of ... a man of state.''
the image has led to a groundswell of support for the president who has enjoyed enormous popularity, despite his national non-campaign. independent campaigns have sprung up around the country, gathering signatures and putting up posters for ``tonton,'' mitterrand's nickname, an affectionate term for uncle
chirac spokesman alain juppe said mitterrand's strategy has been to ``remain outside the melee and continue to act like the father of the country on his little pink cloud.''
some experts predict that when mitterrand enters the political fray his image may take a beating
carol pittas thought it was a little strange when a passing motorist asked if the lion on the hill was real. but after a few more passers-by asked the same question, pittas and her fellow rip van winkle bridge toll collectors thought twice
sure enough, a full-grown, 200-pound adult lioness was resting just 25 feet from the entrance to the upstate hudson river bridge friday night
it was just lying there and all these passing cars were asking about it,'' pittas said. ``one guy asked if he could keep it if he caught it.''
it seems the lioness was an escaped pet from a nearby river estate. the owners were on vacation and somehow the lioness broke free and found its way to the bridge approach, state trooper ron levin said
police were called to the scene along with two animal handlers from the nearby catskill game farm to sedate the animal with a tranquilizing gun
it wasn't too friendly,'' levin said. ``and it got really upset when it was shot.''
when hit by the dart, the lioness roared and ran into an adjacent wooded area and headed toward the river. police and the animal handlers followed
animal handler jurgen schultz used a flashlight to find the cat again and gave her another tranquilizing dart in the flank for insurance
after the tranquilizer took effect, six men took the lioness out of the woods on a stretcher and loaded her into a rescue van, levin said
the lioness was held at the catskill game farm until the feline's owner, martin kosich, picked it up late saturday afternoon
political wheels are turning in an effort to prevent the navy from bailing out of the famous nanaimo-to-vancouver bathtub race
the canadian armed forces has provided a communications network, boats and emergency personnel free of charge for the race ever since it was first run in 1967. but organizers at the loyal nanaimo bathtub society were told this year they would have to foot the bill if the navy takes part
the move has spurred a lobbying effort by nanaimo-alberni legislator ted schellenberg, who raised the issue in parliament last week
the citizens of nanaimo call on the department of national defense to once again take part in tubbing and to sail with those who bail,'' the progressive conservative member of parliament said
bathtub society commodore john ruttan said the pullout is a serious concern for organizers of the summer event. nanaimo mayor frank ney blamed the retreat on ``some bureaucratic paperslinger'' who interpreted department rules too closely
i'm quite sure that when the message gets to the right person, the navy will be allowed to return,'' said ney. ``they may even make someone walk the plank.''
the race with motorized tubs is about 20 miles long, from nanaimo on vancouver island to the mainland across georgia strait
a lightning bolt struck the minaret of a vacant mosque on sunday and sent it toppling onto the home of the building's caretaker, killing one woman and seriously wounding a child, police said
an eyewitness told israel army radio: ``at noon fire came out of the sky and struck the minaret of the mosque. at the top of the minaret was a crescent made of copper. the lightning hit the crescent and started a fire.''
police spokeswoman dalia gilad said the mosque, which was abandoned during the 1948 middle east war, was run down and badly battered during heavy winter rains. it sits in an exclusively jewish suburb of tel aviv
it was looked after by razi deib, an israeli arab whose home was inside the courtyard of the building
gilad said stone blocks fell on deib's house, killing his mother-in-law, naha takos, 70, and seriously wounding his 3-year-old son, ahmed deib. deib's wife suffered minor injuries. deib and two other children were not at home
the israeli news agency itim said the mosque hadn't been used for worship since 1948 but that moslems came to the site to celebrate family occasions and festivals
anglican bishops from throughout southern africa plan an emergency meeting this week to discuss the threat of government action against archbishop desmond tutu, the church said sunday
tutu, the first black to lead the anglican church in south africa, has been engaged in increasingly bitter confrontations with the white-led government since last month, when it banned political activity by leading black anti-apartheid groups
tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize for his fight against apartheid, was briefly detained three weeks ago when he and other church leaders tried to march to parliament with a petition protesting the crackdown on opposition activity
he and other clergymen, including the rev. allan boesak, subsequently vowed to continue challenging the government. boesak is president of the world alliance of reformed churches
south africa's anglican bishops, in a statement sunday, said the government has ``launched a carefully planned attack'' on tutu and boesak ``aimed at portraying them as marxists and isolating them from their churches as a prelude to state action against them.''
president p.w. botha met with tutu last week and suggested that the archbishop had aligned himself with the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement
the bishops' meeting on tuesday is to take place at jan smuts airport outside johannesburg. the right rev. keith sutton, a bishop from litchfield, england, is to join african bishops at the meeting as the representative of the archbishop of canterbury, the right rev. robert runcie
watergate conspirator jeb stuart magruder says his past was the perfect prologue to his new post as the head of the city's commission on values and ethics, formed after scores of people scooped up cash that fell from an armored car
magruder, now a presbyterian minister, was a deputy director of communications in the nixon white house and spent seven months in jail for his role in the watergate scandal
magruder, 53, who calls watergate one of the greatest ethical scandals of modern times, said in an interview that what he learned from watergate qualifies him to lead the 15-member panel of business, education and religious leaders
watergate happened 15 years ago. since that period of time, i have spent most of my life in preparation for the ministry and in the ministry. and in doing that i took on as kind of my issue _ because of watergate i'm sure _ the issue of ethics. that automatically hit a responsive chord in me,'' he said, laughing
magruder was ordained a presbyterian minister in 1981 and since has divided his time between his duties at first community church and speaking to groups around the state about ethics. he is almost finished writing a book on the subject
i do have a fairly unique kind of a pattern to discuss ... being involved in one of the great scandals of our country, which was an ethical scandal,'' he said. ``and studying ethics from a theological viewpoint, i have come to some conclusions about what is happening in this life.''
those conclusions include a major change from his code of ethics in the watergate era
if they haven't changed, then it has been a real waste of time, hasn't it?'' he said
the commission's goal is to generate discussion of ethics and values by city residents. to that end, it is sponsoring a forum april 23 featuring sen. mark hatfield, r-ore., plans presentations in schools and eventually will distribute a questionnaire posing ethical questions that it hopes will spur consideration of the issues
it was the brainchild of mayor dana rinehart and others, including magruder, who have gathered monthly for informal lunch meetings since last fall. their talk turned to values and ethics in october after the rear door of an armored car flew open and bags of cash spilled onto interstate 71
an estimated 200 people converged on the freeway, some to gawk but most to scoop up flying bills
a telephone worker was given a mayoral proclamation and a reward for returning $57,000, but many others kept the money
how much cash was lost and how much was recovered has never been publicly released, but published figures estimate that as much as $1 million may have fallen from the truck
i wasn't surprised people didn't return the money,'' magruder said. ``but ... that same week, a poll came out that said something like 90 percent of the state wants honesty as its key factor in its elected officials, yet when people were polled about whether they would have taken the money on the freeway, 60-some percent of them said they would
when you have that kind of hypocrisy in the body politic, you're going to have confusion.''
rinehart said he wasn't surprised either, but began to think more about values and ethics when he talked to his three children about it
they didn't have a clear-cut answer. they said it probably didn't matter since the money was insured and then they said that nobody would know if they kept it,'' rinehart said. ``i couldn't believe it. i said, `you'd know
that's why we have the commission, to get a grip on where our values and ethics are and spark a little discussion, to get rid of this myopic view some of have of reality. i really don't think the rolex watch and bmw neighborhoods are fulfilling people anymore. people need more in their lives.''
the owner of a popular bar where a bomb blast injured 13 people, including five american servicemen, said sunday that he had never received threats or warnings of an attack
no extremist organization claimed responsibility for the blast at popular oscar's bar, and greek police said the saturday night attack did not fit the style of greek terrorist organizations
the blast smashed windows and collapsed the bar's wooden ceiling but caused no serious injuries. about 25 people _ greeks, britons and americans _ were drinking when the bomb went off
people round here know us as an american hangout but i never got any threatening calls,'' said the bar's owner, panayotis papoulias
the four americans injured suffered cuts and puncture wounds and were released after treatment from the hospital at hellenikon air force base, an american embassy official said
a statement issued by the base identified the americans as air force staff sgts. larry morrison, timothy johnson, ricky hoover and john fines, all serving at hellenikon. their ages and hometowns were not given
the statement said a fifth serviceman, staff sgt. michael grasta, had been examined by medics at the scene of the explosion
it was the first time i'd been to oscar's, and i was standing at the counter with my drink, there was a big noise and i saw the bar blow up in front of me,'' said costas pabalos, 25, a greek man who suffered first-degree burns
a police spokesman said fragments of a timing device were found among debris in the bar, indicating the bomb went off as planned at 11:10 p.m
oscar's is a well-known meeting place for americans in the seaside suburb of glyfada, close to the hellenikon base
more than 1,200 americans are stationed at the 7206 air base group at hellenikon, next to athens international airport
a spokesman at the asklipeion voula hospital where the injured were taken said two britons, identified as christine slater and john summers, 24, were released sunday
the spokesman said four greeks were still hospitalized
the explosion came two weeks after a greek left-wing terrorist organization, november 17, claimed responsibility for killing a leading greek businessman, but a senior police official said there was no indication the attacks were linked
this bombing doesn't follow the style of any known greek terrorist group,'' the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity
november 17 has claimed attacks against americans in the past, including bombings in april and august 1987 against buses carrying u.s. servicemen in athens. more than 30 americans were injured in the two attacks, one seriously
the group, which seeks immediate closure of american bases in greece, is named for the day in 1973 that troops crushed a student rebellion against the 1967-74 right-wing dictatorship
greece and the united states currently are negotiating a new agreement for the four american military bases in greece
the last bar bombing in athens took place in february 1985. more than 60 people, including 34 americans, were injured in an explosion at bobby's bar in glyfada
no extremist group claimed responsibility for that attack and no arrests were made. spelling to maher. picks up 19th graf, ``the panamazation ...'</note>
when strikes shut down the rest of the country, panama canal employees went to work. when flaming barricades blocked downtown streets, roads to the canal were clear. the crisis gripping the rest of the country has barely touched the waterway so vital to panama's economy
even at the height of this week's protests, rioters demanding the ouster of strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega avoided the canal zone just outside the capital
canal officials said the most serious problem was a transit stoppage that made it impossible for many canal employees to get to work
after last wednesday's failed coup attempt and street riots, the joint u.s.-panamanian commission that has governed the canal since 1979 issued a reassuring statement
we expect surface transit to continue without interruption,'' said the canal's marine director, george hull
but not everyone agrees
capt. john maher, president of the 230-member panama canal pilots association, said continued political instability could sound the waterway's death knell
ship builders are already planning for the year 2000, when panama takes full control of the waterway, he explained, and they must decide now whether new fleets will be small enough to fit through the 110-foot-wide lock chambers
the association pilots guide ships large and small through the canal, its locks and other installations
maher fears that if builders have doubts about the canal's future, they will opt to build larger ships. about 1,800 ships worldwide are already too big to pass through the locks
an average of 33 ships a day pass through the 50-mile set of locks and lakes. canal officials said 37 made the trip the day of the coup attempt and 39 passed through the next day, despite work stoppages at ports on both sides of the waterway
even the power outages that plagued the rest of the country did not affect the canal because the commission generates its own power
the canal, along with offshore banking, a thriving re-export industry and a large u.s. military presence, has made panama the most prosperous country in central america. canal revenues make up about 10 percent of panama's gross national product
in 1987, the canal made direct payments of $78.1 million to panama from toll revenue of just under $330 million. much of the rest of the revenue, which goes to maintenance, salaries and other expenditures, also helped swell the national economy
but years of deficit spending also piled up a $4.5 billion foriegn debt that led to civil unrest, capital flight and loss of government income. local banks have been closed for weeks because the government could not provide them with enough money to cover a run. panama has no currency of its own and uses the u.s. dollar
the united states has been applying economic pressure in hopes of forcing noriega to resign. it cut off military and economic aid and withheld $6.5 million in canal fees last week
the canal commission is sensitive about the problems the chaos is creating for what it insists is a ``non-political maritime waterway.'' commission spokeswoman mercedes morris said the rioting and unrest have unfairly frayed the waterway's reputation
maher finds the cloud over the canal particularly galling because of its smooth transition so far to direct panamanian control under a 1979 treaty with the united states
the panamazation of the canal has been a great success,'' he said.``and if the canal can come through the current problems unscathed, the future is great.''
the canal and the treaties returning it to panama evoke fervent nationalism
in 1979, the united states turned the canal zone over to panama, ending an era of american courts, postal services, police and even a company store
but about 10,000 american troops are still stationed in bases in panama, home of the u.s. southern command, the nerve center for all american military activity in latin america. the canal treaties say the u.s. bases will go at the end of the century
shopkeeper steve nicholson is offering a pay now, die later service _ a do-it-yourself casket
he says it can serve as a handy table or cocktail cabinet until needed for its true purpose
customers can buy a wooden casket kit in sections for assembling at home at prices from about $100. nicholson said he sold five in his first week, the observer weekly reported sunday
the idea was initially an alternative for people who could not afford expensive funerals,'' nicholson, 29, said at his shop in gainsborough, eastern england
customers will save a fortune as the price of coffins continues to go up. naturally i have reserved one for myself,'' he said. shultz' comments on contra aid proposal.</note>
national security adviser lt. gen. colin powell said sunday the fighting between nicaragua and honduras is basically over and the chance of involvement by u.s. troops in combat is unlikely
i don't expect that they (the u.s. troops) will get anywhere near the combat zone,'' powell said. ``the combat zone is rapidly disappearing as the sandinistas appear to withdraw, and i don't think there is any reasonable likelihood that they would be anywhere near the combat zone or getting themselves in a combat situation.''
the reagan administration dispatched 3,200 troops to honduras this week in response to the nicaraguan incursion across the border to destroy contra rebel camps and supplies. the u.s. troops were to participate in exercises far from the fighting
powell, who appeared on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' said the exercises should be completed shortly and the troops will return to the united states
i would expect that in a short period of time the exercise will end and they will be on the way home,'' powell said
defense secretary frank c. carlucci had said friday that u.s. forces would remain in the region for 10 days and not take part in border fighting between the two central american nations
powell said sunday that based on ground fighting, ``the battle is pretty much over. the sandinistas have withdrawn. they're apparently on their side of the border again. they appear to be in a process of withdrawing or have withdrawn.''
and our troops are 50-60-100 miles away from the site of action, and no plans are being made to move them any closer,'' he said. ``i see no prospect of their entering into a combat situation.''
cease-fire talks between nicaragua's sandinista government and leaders of the contra forces were scheduled to resume monday in managua, but the possibility of negotiations seemed slim in light of the fighting
secretary of state george p. shultz, who appeared on nbc-tv's ``meet the press,'' said he was uncertain about the future of the peace talks
i think the likelihood is they will (resume), but i'm not certain of that,'' shultz said. ``there seems to be a certain amount of maneuvering among the parties, but i think a reasonable and sensible cease-fire would be a good thing. and so we're for it.''
shultz also said the administration is examining a bipartisan congressional plan of $48 million in new aid to the contras, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
it's a very interesting plan. we're studying it,'' shultz said. ``(it) seems a little low on money, but it is an interesting effort on their part and deserves careful study, and i hope that something goes forward. it should go forward.''
powell denied published reports that the administration turned down honduran president jose azcona's request that u.s. helicopters be used to ferry honduran troops to the battle zone
the new york times, quoting an unidentified senior administration official, reported sunday that the united states rejected the honduran proposal, which was never made formally
we did not say no,'' powell said. ``we were in the process of examining that request. it had some funding problems and some policy problems. and before we had to answer definitely `yes' or `no' or even get a formal request, we found another way to exercise.''
he did not specify what type of exercise, but the times reported that u.s. officials were able to persuade honduras to accept a joint training exercise in which u.s. helicopters would carry honduran troops to about 30 miles from the nicaraguan border but 100 miles from the battle zone
we are not using u.s. airlift to move honduran troops to the scene of the action at the bocay,'' powell said, referring to the major battle site
powell denied that he had misled congress when he briefed legislators on wednesday and failed to mention that president reagan had decided, in principle, to send troops to honduras if azcona asked
we did not go into the specific options because we did not want it all over the newspapers,'' powell said
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., in an interview on cbs-tv's ``face the nation,'' contended the administration did mislead congress about plans to send u.s. troops to honduras
i think that what happened is that we were being briefed at 4:30 in the afternoon on day and they had made a decision that morning to go down. and they told us in that meeting that it was not even under consideration to send troops down to honduras,'' coelho said
i think that what is happening here is that we are being misled, or we were being misled,'' he added
gen. dwight d. eisenhower viewed his role in the 1944 invasion of france as the high point of his career, his son john eisenhower said as he helped launch the first navy ship named the normandy
former ambassador to belgium john eisenhower, the only surviving child of the world war ii military hero who went on to serve two terms in the white house, said saturday the invasion demonstrated the need then and now for a naval fleet capable of delivering forces anywhere in the world
a strong naval fleet keeps the american way of life viable,'' he told the 4,500 spectators who watched the 567-foot-long normandy, an aegis guided missile cruiser, slide down the ways at bath iron works' shipyard
i feel like i am representing my father, who regarded his role in the normandy invasion as a high point in a long career of service,'' eisenhower said, recalling how he accompanied his father to the beaches of normandy nine days after the allies' june 6, 1944, landing
the allied expeditionary force of 9,000 ships and landing craft, headed by the late general, carried 176,000 troops, 20,000 vehicles and 1,500 tanks across the english channel to reopen the western front against nazi germany
u.s. sen. george j. mitchell, d-maine, said the new ship's name ``is a reminder of the purpose for which she was constructed _ to protect american interests at sea.''
the normandy, the third aegis cruiser to be built at the maine shipyard, was sponsored by gayle wilson, wife of u.s. sen. pete wilson, r-calif. as mrs. wilson broke a bottle over the normandy's bow, scores of brightly colored balloons were released into the air
the ship, which will have a crew of 375, is expected to be completed in about 18 months, when it will be commissioned, said bath iron works spokesman jim mcgregor
a gunman opened fire at close range sunday on a reserve soldier standing guard near a palestinian refugee camp, marking the first israeli army fatality in four months of unrest in the occupied lands
the army's chief of staff, st. gen. dan shomron, said the shooting could augur greater use of guns by palestinian activists. he stopped short of saying it signaled a major change in the tactics of protesters, who have mainly hurled stones and bottles at israel's occupation forces
i don't think we can yet see this as a shift to an armed struggle,'' he said
but defense minister yitzhak rabin indicated stronger action would be taken to quell palestinian uprisings
to the extent that extremist palestinian terrorist elements try to combine terrorist acts with the civilian disturbances, we will have to adjust our operations and take harsher measures to cope with both,'' he said
the army identified the slain soldier as sgt. moshe katz, 28, from the northern port city of haifa
he was shot two or three times in the head at close range while guarding a government building facing the small beit jibrin palestinian refugee camp in this biblical city, the military said
troops immediately sealed off the road, the main tourist route from jerusalem to the city's manger square, the site of christ's birth. they also slapped a curfew on the refugee camp and ``rounded up everyone who was in the area'' for questioning, an army spokesman said
shortly after the killing, a dozen israeli soldiers guarded about 100 palestinians in front of shops. soldiers led them away in small groups for questioning
rabin and shomron rushed to the scene
it's a painful day, but we are determined to go on to make sure security will prevail in israel and the territories,'' rabin said later at the western wall in jerusalem's old city, the most sacred site in judaism
he told a group of supporters that the protests in the occupied territories had the same goal as the arab wars against israel: ``the purpose is through the use of force to get rid of us.''
bethlehem mayor elias freij said the situation in the territories ``will be aggravated'' by the shooting. but he blamed the frustration of arab protesters on israel's occupation of lands captured in the 1967 middle east war
the key to calming down the situation is in the hands of the (israeli) minister of defense and the government,'' he said
freij said that the army had used welding torches during the two previous days to seal 20 shops that were following hours mandated by the palestine liberation organization. he said souvenir shops on manger square had been shuttered for six days because of conflicting army and plo demands
in gaza city, troops closed the main vegetable market for three hours after firing tear gas to disperse arab youths who blocked a main street and hurled stones at troops, arab reporters said
israelis have been using economic pressure in addition to military force in trying to quell the unrest. they have cut international telephone lines and blocked fuel shipments
plo chief yasser arafat has said throughout the unrest that he ordered his followers to forgo use of guns against israeli forces. the army has reported only scattered cases of arabs shooting at soldiers or civilians
last thursday, an israeli civilian was shot in the legs near a refugee camp in the occupied gaza strip
israeli troops have killed 103 palestinians since dec. 8, according to united nations figures
the arab-run palestine press service said two more palestinians died sunday of wounds suffered in earlier clashes with soldiers, but these were not confirmed by the army
katz's killing took place a day before what underground leaders were billing as potentially the most severe confrontations yet. a recent communique circulated in the gaza strip and west bank called for major protests monday. they were aimed at marking the 1968 battle of karameh, when plo fighters helped repel an israeli force that attacked a guerrilla base in jordan
in other west bank violence, the army said israeli troops shot and killed a 26-year-old arab late saturday when their patrol was attacked with firebombs in the village of kfar dan, about 50 miles north of jerusalem. the arab-run palestine press service identified the victim as nameq milhem
israel radio said the death resulted from new orders calling for soldiers to shoot at arabs who throw firebombs
the ``midgetman'' atomic-tipped missile is a good idea that can do more to improve u.s. nuclear deterrence than putting mx nuclear missiles aboard trains, according to a house armed services study released sunday
the report by the democratic-controlled panel was the latest round in a long-running fight between the pentagon and congress over the best type of land-based nuclear weapons to build
the report was critical of air force plans to put mx weapons aboard trains for transport on the nation's railways during times of crisis
the air force is assuming that because mx would be roaming commercial rail lines only in times of international crisis, public resistance to launch-ready missiles in boxcars will evaporate,'' said rep. les aspin, d-wis., chairman of the panel
maybe that's true, but the air force has no evidence to support the assumption. on the other hand, rail-basing schemes have been shelved twice in the past because of public opposition,'' he said
but the air force was sharply critical of aspin
there he goes again,'' gen. larry welch, air force chief of staff, said, referring to previous aspin criticism of air force atomic weapons that the service says was unfounded
in a statement, the service said the rail-basing plan ``has been subjected to a rigorous, analytical, and careful acquisition process,'' and it said civilians would support the idea
the dispute has its roots in the bitter fights during president reagan's first term about whether the build the mx as a successor to the aging minuteman missiles, which are the heart of the u.s. land-based atomic deterrent force
reagan wanted 100 of the 10-warhead weapons, but congress cut the total to 50 because of fears that the large number of warheads on each missiles, combined with their placement in stationary silos, would make them easy targets for soviet attack
a presidential commission said the mx program should go ahead, but should eventually be succeeded by a single-warhead weapon, dubbed midgetman. aspin became one of the biggest champions of the midgetman and tentative plans were drawn up to build a force of 500 of the weapons and put them in western silos
but pentagon budget cuts in recent years have forced a revision of the plans to buy both the mx and midgetman, and air force and pentagon officials have made clear that their choice would be purchasing more mx weapons
in addition to the 50 mx weapons approved for land-based silos, the air force wants to build 50 more and put two on each of 25 trains
defense secretary frank c. carlucci told congress last month that he preferred to kill the midgetman program outright, but consented to including $200 million in next year's air force budget so it could be kept alive until a new administration makes a final decision
the house panel's study noted that a force of 500 midgetman weapons would cost an estimated $40 billion, but pointed out that the figure has decreased from the $57 billion estimate when the program was first proposed four years ago
by contrast, putting the mx aboard railroads would cost an estimated $13.8 billion, the study noted
aspin said that the midgetman cost figures, which would make it the most expensive weapons program in the pentagon, could be reduced as part of the effort to cut defense spending
giving each missile two warheads would cut the number of deployed missiles in half, or it may be that the job can be accomplished with fewer than 500 single-warhead missiles,'' aspin said
the report said the midgetman ``program appears to be operating under a sound acquisition strategy emphasizing risk reduction, competition and a realistic schedule at a time when some strategic programs are experiencing severe difficulties.''
but air force secretary edward aldridge, noting the higher cost estimates for the midgetman, said aspin's report took ``an extremely narrow view of what is in the best interests of our country'' because the money to pay for the more expensive weapon would have to be taken out of the budget for on-nuclear weapons
the net result would be a decrease in our conventional deterrence posture,'' aldridge said in a statement
   
workers unloaded tons of imported white florida sand from a barge in a developer's effort to turn a stretch of brown gulf coast beach into a sparkling bit of paradise
yes, it is white,'' said jay bottoms, a spokesman for the company unloading the 5,425 tons of sand saturday from the barge to the docks at galveston
the sand, amounting to a pile 200 feet long, 20 feet high and 60 feet wide, will be moved this week to the site of a multimillion-dollar resort development
later this spring, it will be spread over a three-acre area to be called palm beach, after the posh florida community
when completed, the resort it will accommodate about 3,000 people and include a 1,000-foot waterfront boardwalk, two freshwater lagoons complete with a 12-foot waterfall and white sand bottom. there will also be more than 100 palm trees, a jogging trail and a covered eating and concession area
one man was ordered held without bail sunday in the drug-related abduction of three boys and the shooting deaths of two of them as police searched for three other suspects, authorities said
police said they were looking for three jamaican males, aged 16 to 23, who frequent parts of philadelphia and brooklyn, n.y
john garrett, 25, was denied bail in connection with the deaths of anthony williams, 13, and his brother, cornell, 15, and held on $1 million bail in connection with the abduction joseph jones, 12
the boys had been missing since last saturday. anthony williams was found tuesday alongside a railroad track with a bullet wound in his head and died wednesday afternoon, police said
garrett was arrested friday after jones told police he escaped from kidnappers near philadelphia international airport early friday. the boy said he and the williams brothers had been abducted by drug dealers march 12 and forced to sell crack, a derivative of cocaine
cornell williams was found dead near the airport friday with two bullet wounds in the head, the medical examiner's office said
iran's ayatollah ruhollah khomeini on sunday publicly ruled out any peace settlement of his country's 7{-year-old war with iraq
in a rare public appearance, khomeini said iran would press for ``final victory'' in the conflict. he said last week's iranian offensive in iraq's northeastern suleimaniyeh province constituted ``a slap on the face'' of iraqi president saddam hussein
khomeini urged his nation not to be ``deceived by foreign propaganda'' in an apparent complaint that the international media have ignored victories that iran claims on the war front
the 87-year-old patriarch of the iranian revolution made his comments in a nationwide speech broadcast by tehran television and monitored in nicosia, cyprus. he spoke in a strong voice and looked healthier than when he appeared on television earlier this year
his 15-minute speech marked nowruz, the start of the iranian new year
khomeini also urged moslems worldwide to rise up against the soviet union and the united states, describing them as ``forces of oppression and evil.''
the superpowers claim to advocate justice,'' he said. ``in fact, all they want is to impose their will and make us obey them.''
the national leader hailed ancient martyrs who sacrficed their lives preaching islam after the death of prophet mohammed in the 7th century
it is incumbent upon every moslem to rise up and sacrifice all he has for the cause of islam,'' he said
several thousand people marched to a u.s. naval facility sunday to call for dismantling of all spanish bases leased by the united states
protesters, mobilized by regional pacifist groups and the spanish communist party, marched nine miles from el puerto de santa maria to rota on spain's southern atlantic coast
they shouted slogans against nato and demanded an end to the jointly used naval base at rota as well as three u.s. air bases and nine communication centers throughout spain. when they arrived at rota, they formed a three-mile human chain outside the wall of the base
no violence was reported by police, who estimated the crowd at 7,000. organizers said 12,000 people took part
on jan. 15, the united states agreed to a spanish demand to withdraw the u.s. air force's 401st tactical fighter wing of 72 f-16 aircraft and an estimated 4,000 troops within three years from the base at torrejon. but the united states will keep use of its other facilities under a new eight-year treaty expected to be signed this spring
the socialist government of prime minister felipe gonzalez won a march 1986 referendum in which spaniards approved continued membership in nato, a military alliance joining western european nations to the united states. but the vote said the united states must reduce its 12,500 troops in spain
the warden of the federal detention center that was destroyed last november in an uprising by cuban prisoners is being promoted to a regional position in california
j.r. johnson became warden in september 1986, about five months after the center opened and about the time it was changed from a center for aliens awaiting trial or detention to a holding place for some of the cubans who arrived in the ``freedom flotilla'' boat lift but were deemed undesirable
he moves to san francisco on april 24 to become assistant director of the bureau of prisons' western division, overseeing the nine prisons in the western region
most of the center's buildings were burned in fiery riots that began nov. 21, after the 1,000 cubans there learned that fidel castro had agreed to accept up to 2,500 cubans who were convicted of crimes or were mentally ill. cubans at the federal penitentiary in atlanta also rioted
the oakdale inmates held 26 hostages for eight days before surrendering and being dispersed to prisons around the country. truck</head>
two men who helped retrieve some of the estimated $771,000 that accidentally fell from an armored truck nearly two weeks ago have been given plaques and rewards for their honesty
luis lopez, a television repairman, and daniel higginbotham, a postal worker, were also given certificates of recognition from the legislature at friday's ceremony
loomis armored inc. gave a check for $10,000 to higginbotham and $2,000 to lopez for their efforts in rescuing some of the money bags that fell off the truck march 8
three to five people who were driving or walking by when the truck dropped the loot in an industrial area scooped up plastic bags full of cash and sped off
a spokesman for loomis declined to reveal how much money was lost in the incident, but published reports have placed the figure at about $700,000
the opportunistic motorists or pedestrians could face felony charges of grand theft if they took $500 or more, police said. however, lt. barry johnson said friday that police have checked out quite a few leads but still have not found the culprits
lopez, 29, of daly city, was on his way home when the incident occurred. he picked up two bags containing $20,050 each and headed straight to a nearby loomis office
the following day, a unidentified woman gave police two plastic bags containing a total of $28,000
the money bags fell out of the truck in a crate. higginbotham moved the crate out of the street and waited for police to arrive. witnesses said he even grabbed bags of money from other people's hands and put them back in the crate
the armored truck, filled with more than $1.7 million collected from 20 banks in the san francisco bay area, was headed for oakland-based loomis' offices from downtown when the incident occurred
the driver, who was not identified, told police that the rear door was locked but that a dolly holding the crate slammed against it and forced it open
the driver did not realize the crate had fallen out until a honking motorist pointed it out several blocks away. by that time, a crowd had gathered around the bags of money
about $1 million in cash remained inside the loomis truck
an explosion sunday demolished two houses in the center of this port city, killing three people, including an 8-month-old baby, and injuring four others, police said. one woman was still missing
police said the 6 a.m. blast was apparently caused by a gas leak
the explosion killed a mother, her baby and one other woman who also lived in one of the houses
four people were slighty injured in the blast, which reduced the two four-story houses to rubble and damaged houses 300 feet away
police used specially trained dogs to look for more victims. they said there was little hope of recovering anyone alive from the debris
police said there were indications that workers had repaired the gas lines in the neighborhood during the week, and police were investigating whether this was linked to the blast
a newspaper reported sunday that druse militia members in lebanon considered trying to rescue anglican church envoy terry waite from his abductors but dropped the idea because they thought it lacked u.s. support
the sunday telegraph said waite is alive and being held by an iranian-backed radical group blamed for other kidnappings in lebanon
according to the newspaper, waite was involved in an accident that required surgery, but it did not give specifics
the newspaper said its story was based on an unnamed lebanese source who played a key role in investigating waite's disappearance in beirut in january 1987
the newspaper said in a dispatch from washington that waite, 48, is being held captive by a shiite group headed by imad mugniyeh, a member of the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god
hezbollah is believed to be the umbrella organization for groups blamed for many of the kidnappings of 22 foreigners held hostage in lebanon, including nine americans. the longest-held hostage is terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, who was captured march 16, 1985
waite, special envoy of archbishop of canterbury robert runcie, disappeared while on a mission to help win the release of hostages. no group has claimed to be holding him
the sunday telegraph said for three days after his disappearance, waite was kept in a house in the southern suburbs of beirut and was in frequent contact with the u.s. embassy in lebanon
it said waite was ``not really a hostage'' during this period, but was driven around the southern suburbs under escort to visit people in the area
the newspaper said waite was spotted by members of the druse militia who had served as his bodyguards. it quoted the source as saying they found the house in which waite was staying, tapped the telephone and monitored his calls to the embassy
it quoted the source as saying the druse considered a military rescue but ``did not feel they had the full backing of the americans for this.''
after three days of semi-captivity the negotiations broke down and mr. waite became a fully-fledged hostage,'' the newspaper said
leftist guerrillas exploded a powerful bomb at the peru headquarters of royal dutch shell oil company, wounding two people and starting a fire, police said sunday
the attack, the second in a month against the british-dutch firm, came a week after shell signed a preliminary contract to develop a rich natural gas deposit in peru's eastern jungle
a carpenter working inside the third-floor office and a woman selling candy and fruit on the sidewalk suffered serious cuts by flying glass when the bomb detonated shortly before midnight saturday, police said
the two were hospitalized and listed in stable condition
shell's main office is about four miles south of downtown lima
police blamed the attack on the tupac amaru revolutionary movement, a leftist guerrilla band that endorses a cuban-styled marxism. the group has been carrying out attacks in lima, mainly late-night bombings against targets it considers imperialistic, sice 1984
the blast gouged a large hole in the marble floor of shell's entryway, shattered windows and lights, demolished furniture and office equipment and sparked a small fire, which was put out quickly, police said
the explosive also knocked out windows and damaged doors of three banks and two other businesses in the building, according to police. 0164</first>
a small civilian airplane crashed sunday on quantico marine base as it was trying to fly out of a snowstorm, killing all three people on board, authorities said
nobody on the ground was injured, said federal aviation administration spokesman fred farrar
the single-engine cessna 210 left greensboro, n.c., at 8:25 a.m. and was headed for washington national airport, he said. shortly after 10 a.m., the pilot radioed an air traffic control center at leesburg for directions out of the storm, farrar said
the center was trying to provide that assistance when it lost radio and radar contact with the aircraft at an altitude of 5,000 feet,'' farrar said
marine base spokesman randy gaddo said the plane crashed in a field between a chapel where sunday morning services were in progress, and lejeune hall, the base headquarters
identities of the victims were being withheld until relatives could be notified
a small civilian airplane crashed sunday on quantico marine base as it was trying to fly out of a snowstorm, killing all three people on board, authorities said
nobody on the ground was injured, said federal aviation administration spokesman fred farrar
the single-engine cessna 210 left greensboro, n.c., at 8:25 a.m. and was headed for washington national airport, he said. shortly after 10 a.m., the pilot radioed an air traffic control center at leesburg for directions out of the storm, farrar said
the center was trying to provide that assistance when it lost radio and radar contact with the aircraft at an altitude of 5,000 feet,'' farrar said
marine base spokesman randy gaddo said the plane crashed in a field between a chapel where sunday morning services were in progress, and lejeune hall, the base headquarters
identities of the victims were being withheld until relatives could be notified. off</head>
drugs to relieve some of the devastating effects of alzheimer's disease are still years off, but there is at least a glimmer of hope for victims of the progressive brain disease, a scientist says
researchers from several nations met in springfield over the weekend at the first international symposium on the use of drugs in treating the disease
no one would have dared to hold a symposium until now, because there was no hope before,'' said dr. ezio giacobini, an organizer of the conference at southern illinois university school of medicine in springfield. he is a professor and the chairman of pharmacology at the school
the disease was first discovered in 1917, but there was not even a glimpse of progress until five years ago,'' he said in a telephone interview saturday
alzheimer's disease is an irreversible deterioration of the brain characterized by memory loss, with no known prevention or cure. an estimated 25 million people in the united states are afflicted
one of the encouraging aspects highlighted at the symposium, said giacobini, is that about a dozen drugs which may relieve symptoms are in various stages of testing around the world
for the first time we're looking at a number of compounds that do what has not been done before _ improve memory,'' he said
however, most of the drugs under investigation so far produce only minor modifications for short times
one drug that does seem to work is tetrahydroaminoacridine, or tha, but it has severe side effects, said dr. serge gauthier of the mcgill center for studies in aging, in montreal
it is being tested in the united states and dosage levels have been reduced to lessen liver damage, reseachers said. results are not yet known
experimental use of tha in canada has shown that while it improves memory as long as a patient takes it, about 80 percent of the subjects experience extreme nausea and vomiting, gauthier said
if we could find something similar but a little easier on the liver and stomach, that would be an improvement, but there's nothing better so far,'' he said
giacobini said chinese investigators at the symposium told of identifying two drugs _ huperzine a and huperzine b _ from a plant called huperzia and testing them on 500 victims of various diseases with memory-loss symptoms
they found that the drug increased the memory substantially,'' said giacobini. ``however the trials have only been done in china so far. they've never been replicated.''
the chinese drugs also have not yet been synthesized and must be painstakingly extracted from plants
tests of huperzine are planned outside china, in switzerland and in giacobini's laboratory at southern illinois
giacobini predicted that within five or 10 years some safe and effective drug should surface, ``not to cure but to help a lot.''
parliament on sunday approved a three-year extension of emergency laws passed in 1981 after the assassination of president anwar sadat by moslem fundamentalists
the government said the laws were needed to combat terrorist threats
the middle east news agency said the new extension would be in force from may 1, 1988 to may 31, 1991
the emergency measures are conducted within the framework of legality and sovereignity of the constitution and are under complete judicial supervision, and there is no reason to fear these measures which enable us to weed out plots,'' mena quoted a parliamentary committee's report as saying
the emergency laws ban demonstrations, unauthorized assembly and strikes, and give the government wide powers of search without warrant and detention of people regarded as security risks
they have been in existence since sadat's slaying on oct. 6, 1981. they were extended in april 1986 for two years
in asking for the extension of the emergency laws, prime minister atef sedki told parliament that the laws will be used in limited incidents and will not affect anyone with ``legitimate ideologies.''
interior minister zaki badr, who is in charge of police and internal security, told parliament that in the past two years, authorities had uncovered 227 cases of ``extremist action'' involving 1,458 defendants
he said these included cases such as the reconstruction of the jihad or holy war group. about 300 jihad members were tried after sadat's assassination and half of them were sentenced to varying prison terms for forming an illegal organization and attempting to overthrow the government
in addition, 20 members of the egypt's revolution group were charged with carrying out four anti-american and anti-israeli terrorist attacks between 1984 and 1987. no date has been set for the trial
badr said that police had seized large amounts of explosives, hand grenades, automatic rifles and other weapons with the various defendants
it does not take long to see the seriousness of the challenges and the amounts of dangers that surround us from every side,'' he said
i can honostely said that the emergency laws are a necessary measure that have no alternative. they will secure the society and protect it from serious dangers,'' badr said.  
a 35-year-old prison inmate who was barely literate when he began a life sentence in 1975 for the rape and stabbing death of a teen-age girl was honored sunday as one of seven outstanding adult learners
westville correctional center inmate ernest tope was selected for the award by the american association for adult and continuing education
i'm hoping that it will inspire more people in my situation to devote more time to education and vocational training so they themselves can achieve personal growth,'' said tope
he was the only prison inmate selected for the award. a 94-year-old california woman and a nicaraguan immigrant also were among those honored for overcoming great odds in pursuing their educations
since his imprisonment, tope has earned an associate's degree in general studies from ball state university and will complete an associate's degree in business in may from purdue university's north central campus, which operates the college programs at westville. he has a grade point average of 5.5 on a 6.0 scale and plans to earn a bachelor's degree
besides his achievements in education, tope has earned a reputation as a jailhouse lawyer. one case he worked on was argued before the u.s. supreme court
his publishing credits include an article in the journal of correctional education and an essay in a college textbook
prison education program director s. shannon reffett contends tope's greatest achievement is the impact he has on other inmates
a successful student out of the prison system is a far greater advocate than any of us,'' said reffett, who wrote tope's recommendation. ``someone like ernie, they can comprehend. his life is kind of a testament to what can be done in prison.''
tope said he had a criminal history at age 13, having spent time at the indiana boys school for joy riding and house burglaries. he said education had never been important to him, and he quit school at age 15 to work at a gasoline station
tope was convicted of murdering 19-year-old cheryl ann felger, who was abducted as she rode her bicycle near van wert, ohio, in april 1974
after he was sentenced, he was encouraged by another inmate at the indiana state prison to better himself and later took advantage of educational programs when he transferred to westville
tope's award was to be presented during a meeting of the indiana chapter of the adult and continuing education association, with a department of correction representative accepting it on his behalf
spring arrived sunday with a blast of snow and low temperatures in much of the northeast, while much of the west had balmy weather
by the time spring arrived here in pittsburgh, we had 2 inches of snow on the ground,'' said frank wells, a specialist with the national weather service
a cold front pushing across the northern and middle atlantic coast states was accompanied by snow showers scattered from the upper ohio valley through the central appalachians into southern and central new england
a small civilian airplane trying to fly out of a snowstorm crashed sunday on quantico marine base in virginia, killing all three people on board, authorities said. base spokesman randy gaddo said the plane crashed in a field between a chapel where sunday morning services were in progress and lejeune hall, the base headquarters
a thundershower with sleet and snow rumbled across nantucket, mass., during the morning, accompanied by wind gusting to 52 mph, and thunder also accompanied snow in new york city
four or more inches of snow fell overnight in northeastern ohio, with 8 inches reported at solon, ohio. up to 8.5 inches of snow was reported at sinclairville, n.y., with 3 to 5 inches elsewhere across western new york state and western pennsylvania and 7 inches in northwestern pennsylvania near lake erie
midday temperatures were only in the teens and 20s from central and eastern north dakota across the great lakes into northern new england
westerly to northwesterly wind blowing at 15 to 30 mph, with gusts to near 40 mph, was common from new york state and southern new england southward to the carolinas. the wind combined with the low temperatures to produce subzero wind chill values across interior sections of new york state
elsewhere, patchy light snow fell from eastern north dakota into upper michigan, while rain was scattered along the northern pacific coast
temperatures warmed to spring levels in the western half of the country with readings mostly in the 50s, 60s and 70s, and much of southern california and southern arizona got into the 80s
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 13 degrees at saranac lake, n.y., to 89 at palm springs, calif., and the miramar naval air station at san diego. the early-morning low for the day was 7 below zero at ironwood and marquette, mich
for monday, showers were forecast from the northern half of the pacific coast into western montana. a little rain or snow was forecast in minnesota and northern wisconsin, with snow flurries in northern maine and the lower great lakes
highs only in the teens were predicted for northern new england; in the 20s, 30s and 40s in the rest of the northeastern quarter of the nation; in the 70s in the central plains; in the 70s and 80s from the southern half of california to florida, georgia and tennessee; near 90 in parts of the desert southwest and southwestern texas; and in the 50s or 60s in most of the rest of the nation
the sandinista government on sunday protested attacks on sandinista targets by honduran forces and prepared for its first direct cease-fire talks with contra rebels
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the mediator in previous talks and an observer to the monday discussions, expressed a hint of pessimism about their outcome
i see the situation as quite complicated,'' he said during his sunday homily. ``it is very difficult to reconcile two things that are completely opposite.''
the negotiations were scheduled for the southern border post of sapoa, 90 miles south of the capital near the costa rican border
the honduran bombings thursday and saturday along the isolated northern border were aimed at retaliating for an alleged sandinista troop incursion last week into honduras to chase contra rebels. there were no reported casualties in the air attacks
the nicaraguan troops are now in nicaraguan territory in the border area,'' deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco said at a news conference sunday, suggesting that the army had crossed the border. ``we can't retreat from the border area, because we can't abandon our right to defend our national territory.''
he denied reports that the sandinista troops remained inside honduran territory, calling them a lie by the reagan administration ``to obtain more money for the contras.''
the rebels have been fighting the government since nov. 1981 in a conflict that has killed more than 40,000 people. the cease-fire talks are included in a regional peace plan signed in august by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and costa rica. the pact calls for amnesty, democratic reforms and an end to support for insurgencies
tinoco said monday's talks will center on finding a way for the rebels to lay down their arms. the government delegation will be headed by the nation's top military leader, gen. humberto ortega, brother of president daniel ortega
the contras say the talks should include political issues. their top delegate will be the rebels' leading political leader, adolfo calero
the sandinista newspaper barricada repeated its call sunday for nicaraguans to maintain a state of alert in the face of honduran bombs and american troops
the way the honduran government borrows yankee planes to provoke an incident could serve as a pretext for a direct invasion,'' the paper said in an editorial
vice president george bush held a strong lead among republican voters here, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson were ahead of other democrats in the wisconsin presidential primary race, according to a newspaper's public opinion poll published sunday
the milwaukee journal said it questioned 782 wisconsin resdents who said they were fairly certain to vote in the april 5 primary. the poll, conducted wednesday and thursday, asked the respondents which candidate they would choose in the open primary, which does not require voters to state party preference
among democrats, 38 percent chose dukakis and 30 percent supported jackson. missouri rep. richard gephardt had 11 percent; sen. paul simon of illinois also had 11 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 10 percent. the margin of error was 5 percentage points, the survey said
among republicans, 69 percent supported bush; 25 percent backed sen. bob dole and 6 percent chose pat robertson. the margin of error on the republican was 6 percentage points, the newspaper reported
with the new york presidential primary less than a month away, gov. mario cuomo indicated sunday that he has plans for a more active advisory role in the democratic presidential campaign
cuomo said he had asked his most trusted political adviser, son andrew cuomo, to begin consulting with all the democratic presidential candidates
up until a week ago, he was getting calls from everybody, but he told them all that he wasn't involved,'' said the governor. ``i have asked him in the last week or so to start taking calls from the candidates and help us by letting us know what he thinks of their campaigns in new york.''
the new york primary is april 19
cuomo's comments came on the eve of a meeting with tennessee sen. albert gore jr. but cuomo said he would give gore the same message he has given to all the other candidates _ that he he's not endorsing anyone yet
meanwhile, sunday's new york daily news reported that andrew cuomo might be on the verge of joining the gore camp
andrew is not leaning toward anybody,'' said his father when asked about that
gov. thomas kean scheduled a meeting monday with vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination, prompting speculation that an endorsement could be in the offing
the meeting was arranged at the request of bush's campaign, said carl golden, a spokesman for kean. golden would not comment on whether kean would endorse bush
joseph ``bo'' sullivan, the chairman of a new jersey fund-raising group backing bush, said it was unlikely bush would meet with kean in the heat of the primary campaign unless the governor was prepared to back his presidential campaign
the time is ripe for everyone to make an endorsement. i don't see how anyone can beat bush at this point,'' sullivan said
kean has remained uncommitted to any of the candidates in the presidential primary
some of gov. bill clinton's enthusiasm for the super tuesday 20-state contest held on march 8 has apparently abated
instead of such a large-scale super tuesday, clinton suggested smaller seven- or eight-state primary elections, separated by enough time ``for candidates to really go into the states and get to know the people and the issues.''
a lot of the campaigning leading up to the march 8 voting, the governor said in his weekly radio address on saturday, consisted of airport news conferences and television advertising. thus, clinton said, well-funded candidates benefited unfairly
the governor said he had hoped super tuesday would give southern voters ``a more personal identification with the candidates.''
he said, though, that super tuesday accomplished some goals that had been his reasons for supporting the massive regional effort, including bringing candidates to the south and giving the region more influence in the nominating process. conventions</head>
jesse jackson has solidified his presidential bid in texas and should have about as many delegates as michael dukakis when democrats hold their state convention this spring in houston, the texas democratic party chairman said sunday
although dukakis earned more delegates in super tuesday's primary voting in texas, jackson appeared to have gathered more at-large delegates in saturday's 270 county and senatorial district conventions across the state
those conventions determine the allocation of 64 at-large delegates to the national convention, but statewide results of saturday's meetings were not tallied
with just over half of the 5,288 delegates accounted for, jackson had 41 percent and dukakis, governor of massachusetts, 36 percent. uncommitted delegates were running 10 percent; tennessee sen. al gore had 10 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt, 3 percent, and illinois sen. paul simon, 1 percent. former colorado sen. gary hart had one delegate, from a district in houston
i would just guess the state convention will be composed of one-third jackson, one-third dukakis and about a third of the people either gore, gephardt or uncommitted,'' said state democratic party chairman bob slagle
state democrats meet for their convention june 9-11 in houston, where they will chose delegates to the national convention
on saturday, republicans met in senatorial district and county conventions. many counties reported a record gop turnout at the meetings
although vice president george bush won all 111 national delegates to the convention, the gop battles were over delegates who will eventually write the party's platform and rules
a pat robertson-controlled convention in nueces county adjourned when their alloted time ran out and reconvened in a church a short time later. backers of bush tried to block the move to the church, but were voted down
that place was full of religious fanatics,'' said nueces county bush delegate steve cobb. ``they voted down everyone who voted against reconvening in a church out of concern for separation of church and state.''
among the democrats, supporters of dukakis and jackson wrestled in several areas. dukakis finished first in the march 8 primary, with jackson finishing second
in the 9th senatorial district of dallas, jackson carried the day by winning 153 delegates to only two for dukakis, while 104 remained uncommitted. jackson also scored an upset in travis county, which dukakis won in the primary. jackson took 138 delegates to dukakis' 99
texas democrats use a peculiar two-track system of picking delegates, with 119 chosen by state senatorial districts through the primary vote and the remaining 64 allocated statewide through a separate process of caucuses and conventions. overall, texas democrats were selecting 5,288 delegates for their june state convention, where the 64 at-large delegates to the national convention actually will be chosen
delegates to the state convention were picked from 63,380 people selected at precinct conventions held when the polls closed on super tuesday. saturday's conventions were held in each county, and in state senatorial districts in counties that have more than one state senator. the proportion for awarding of the 64 delegates was set at the more than 6,000 precinct conventions on march 8
the bureau of justice statistics will award grants totaling about $5 million to 20 states and the district of columbia to assist them in improving their crime reporting systems, the bureau said sunday
the federal aid, ranging from $18,000 for delaware to $373,000 for virginia, will enable the states and district to upgrade their crime information systems and make the information they submit to the fbi more accurate, the bureau said
under the new system, state and local law enforcement agencies will forward individual records to the fbi monthly for selected crimes and arrests rather than submitting monthly summary statistics, as they currently do
the bureau, which is part of the justice department, said the new system will enable police departments to describe the crimes in their area more accurately and could help them reduce the number of offenses
the new information that will be forwarded to the fbi will include the time and location of the crime, the victim-offender relationship, the presence or absence of a weapon and the number and types of offenses that occurred during each criminal incident
police departments and others reporting crimes will cross-reference arrests to the crimes that have been committed and distinguish between completed and attempted crimes. the definition of rape also will be broadened to include all forcible sexual offenses
alabama, arkansas, california, delaware, iowa, kentucky, maine, massachusetts, minnesota, montana, new york, north dakota, oklahoma, south carolina, wisconsin, virginia and the district of columbia have received their grants
four other states will be announced at a later date, the bureau said
the bureau announced the amount of the grants for only delaware and virginia
twenty-six states applied for the grants, although the bureau invited all 50 states to compete
production faltered in latin america last year after three years of growth, the interamerican development bank reported sunday
in the years 1984 to 1986, the official value of all production in latin america grew by an average of 3.8 percent a year, the bank said in its annual report. in 1987, the growth was only 2 percent. since population also grew at about that rate, the average income remained stagnant for the area as a whole
there was a wide range within the average
brazil is the biggest and most populous country and accounts for about a third of the area's total production. in 1986, its growth was more than 8 percent, and so was peru's. two of brazil's neighbors _ guyana, and trinidad and tobago _ saw declines in their production of more than 6 percent that year
the report does not furnish figures for individual countries in 1987, but says that none of the big four _ argentina, brazil, mexico and venezuela _ had a growth rate of more than 4 percent
however, about one-third of the 25 countries did achieve a growth rate of more than 4 percent, with the dominican republic and peru recording the largest increase, the bank said. the others in that group were chile, colombia, honduras, jamaica, paraguay and uruguay
meanwhile, incomes of people in about half the countries dropped again in 1987, the bank said, but did not provide any figure for that year. it put average income in 1986 at $2.145. the world bank estimated the u.s. average at $16,400 in 1985
lack of jobs and social security protection for the unemployed led to a big increase in latin america of what the report calls the ``informal sector,'' which refers to a huge portion of the economy never reported in the official statistics, ranging from bootblacking to heroin production
for example, the international monetary fund reported colombia's exports at $2.87 billion in 1986. according to estimates quoted by the manchester guardian weekly, colombia's medellin drug cartel grosses at least $7 billion a year
the report says that in 1986, only 10 out of 25 countries increased their production faster than the labor force and that preliminary figures showed a similar picture for 1987
this is a disquieting development,'' it adds
it explains that investment in new factories and equipment _ that is, the capacity to produce more goods _ must grow faster than the number of working people if more jobs are to be created. otherwise, the prospect is poor for reducing unemployment
with few exceptions, the high levels of unemployment and underemployment which have prevailed ... in the 1980s show no signs of diminishing,'' it says
it notes that over the past 20 or 30 years there has been:
_a massive shift of people to cities, out of farming and into industry and services;
_an ``explosive growth'' in the number of women working outside their homes;
_a significant improvement in the level of education;
_a slowdown in the overall growth of the labor force because of a declining birth rate
money flowed out of latin america for the fifth year in a row, reversing the historic trend: new investment usually brings a net inflow of cash to poor countries from richer ones. much of the outflow was in the form of interest payments and repayments on latin america's debt of more than $400 billion
the bank itself, owned by 44 govermnments, disbursed $1.919 billion in new loans to raise living standards in 1987, and got back $2.116 billion in repayments and interest. it authorized $2.361 billion in additional loans, down from $3.037 billion in 1986
efforts to increase its lending were stalled by refusal of borrowing governments to accept a change in the voting system on new loans. now, borrowers control the lending. the united states proposed shifting percentages needed to approve a loan so that it would have a veto over new loans whenever it could get canada to go along with it
chrysler corp. officials who met with business leaders to discuss the city's future after the automaker closes its plant here say they're being careful not to build false expectations
chrysler vice president robert perkins said saturday that company chairman lee a. iacocca cautioned him against making any promises about continued employment after the september shutdown
iacocca was censured earlier this year by state and union officials who accused chrysler of breaking a 1987 pledge to continue kenosha production for at least three years. chrysler denies making any written commitment
perkins led a delegation of 15 chrysler executives who met with state, city and county officials to discuss the company's plans to halt auto production in september, putting about 5,500 people out of work
perkins said iacocca told the company delegation before the meeting: ``don't repeat the mistake that chrysler management made, building up an expectation that we can't deliver.''
but the company ``is making a sincere effort'' to see if business can be sustained at the factory, perkins said
perkins also cautioned that government contracts sent to kenosha might not arrive soon enough to avoid the fall layoffs. it would take time to gear the factory to a new product line, he explained
in the defense business, there are long lead times. in the auto business, there are long lead times,'' perkins said
while pay for workers on the auto assembly line averages $27 an hour including benefits, the department of defense contracts held by chrysler pay $15 an hour or less, said rep. les aspin, who arranged saturday's meeting
aspin, chairman of the house armed services committee, was asked if he would use his influence in washington to get military work for kenosha
everyone who is in wisconsin doing defense work gets tender loving care from this congressman,'' he said
after saturday's meeting, an aspin aide said the congressman wanted another meeting with chrysler scheduled in the next month. perkins said, however, that no meeting had been scheduled yet, although follow-ups with individual companies would take place. elections</head>
chancellor helmut kohl's christian democratic union won a major election test sunday, retaining power in baden-wuerttemberg state but with a smaller margin
west germany's three other major parties also suffered percentage losses in the state balloting. two small right-wing parties scored surprising gains, apparently getting votes from dissatisfied farmers
three hours after the polls closed at 6 p.m., computer projections by the national television networks gave the christian democrats about 49 percent of the vote
they dropped under the 50-percent mark for the first time in 16 years, but the party will maintain its absolute control of the state legislature
its main opposition, the social democrats, had 32 percent, down from 32.4 percent in 1984
the environmentalist greens received 7.9 percent, just under the 8 percent four years ago, while the free democrats who had hoped to force the cdu into a coalition suffered a blow, getting 6 percent compared to 7.2 percent in 1984
two far-right parties acted as spoilers, but neither won enough votes to gain any seats in the legislature. the national democratic party of germany had about 2 percent and the republicans 1 percent
several smaller parties shared the remaining vote
according to baden-wuerttemberg's complicated election laws, the number of seats in the state parliament can vary, and the new legislature was expected to have 125 seats, one less than the previous one
led by lothar spaeth, the governor for 10 years, the christian democrats were expected to win at least 66 seats, compared to 68 in the previous legislature
social democrats had 42, a gain of one, and the greens also gained one for a total of 10
the free democrats lost a seat and will have seven
spaeth, 50, campaigned on baden-wuerttemberg's strong economic performance, and kohl said the results were a ``great personal victory'' for the governor
at 5 percent, the state has the lowest unemployment rate in the country, about four points under the national average
spaeth has transformed the southwestern state from a predominantly rural area into a major base for the growing electronics and high-technology industries
the result was a welcome relief for kohl's party, which had been slipping since the national election in january 1987
the christian democrats lost their majority in kohl's home state of rhineland-palatinate last may, and were forced into a coalition with the free democrats. the christian democrats and free democrats also are governing coalition partners in the federal government and in six of west germany's 11 states
kohl, speaking on national television, said the two small right-wing parties apparently picked up votes from farmers who are unhappy with spaeth's policies and want more aid
i don't see a radical trend,'' he said
a prosecutor says police officers misinterpreted an order to ``go on in'' when they broke down the front door of a house, drawing gunfire from an 84-year-old occupant who was then shot and killed by an officer
police converged on the home of dillard free last christmas eve after getting a tip that a rape suspect was hiding there
a grand jury on march 10 declined to indict the officer who shot free. a georgia bureau of investigation report on the incident remains sealed because of indictments against two people who directed police to the house and are accused of making false statements
but in an interview published sunday in the times of gainesville, district attorney andy fuller said he had decided to discuss the gbi's findings because ``the people of hall county need to know this information.''
fuller said the gbi found that six law officers who planned the approach on the free home remembered that detective robert gable directed them to use the normal procedure for serving an arrest warrant, that is, knock and announce: ``warrant.''
but officers lee west, gary lenderman and kirk williamson, who took up positions in front of the house, were not in the group given that instruction, fuller said
fuller gave this account of the subsequent walkie-talkie conversation: detective russell elrod told the officers: ``go on in.'' lendermen seemed surprised and asked: ``you want us to go?'' elrod answered: ``10-4,'' police parlance for ``yes.''
elrod meant for the officers to knock on the door, but the officers thought they were being told to enter the house, fuller said
west then knocked down the front door and he and williamson entered the darkened living room while sgt. benny patrick rushed onto the front porch, the district attorney said
fuller said patrick saw a silhouette moving inside and shouted ``police,'' but a shot was fired that narrowly missed his head. he said west, inside the living room, also shouted ``police'' and the figure fired again, this time striking a door frame
west then fired two shots, fatally wounding free
free's wife, agnes, 73, was hospitalized suffering from shock. she died march 5, three days after suffering a heart attack
the grand jury expressed outrage about the shooting despite its decision not to indict west, and called for a review of police procedures
the free family has hired a lawyer who said a lawsuit is likely
the rape suspect the officers were seeking was arrested on christmas day in texas
after three weeks tending to the dead and dying in india, former california gov. jerry brown says he has returned home with his mind on politics
after all,'' brown writes in the april issue of life magazine, ``that's what i spent a good part of my life doing.'' and while he never explicitly says so, he hints that he'll be returning to politics
after a six-year odyssey that took him to several continents and included an extended stay at a zen buddhist retreat in japan, the 48-year-old brown volunteered for duty earlier this year at mother teresa's clinic for the terminally ill in calcutta
he said his routine included bathing and hand-feeding men suffering from tuberculosis and malnutrition, changing and washing blankets and receptacles for phlegm, and holding the hands of the dying
to work with the dying and destitute _ getting a person a glass of water, helping with a bedpan _ is to encounter life at a very basic level,'' he wrote. ``people can be surprisingly happy and grateful when you help them with even the smallest things. ..
in calcutta i never escaped human suffering,'' he added. ``the most distressing thought of all was that much of this would be preventable or curable if nations could be mobilized to combat human suffering rather than to engage in national rivalries.''
brown, who sought the democratic presidential nomination in 1976 and 1980, said he returned to the united states on the day of the iowa caucuses and watched the coverage on television
as i watched, i wondered: `how could i ever take the spirit of mother teresa and apply it to the ordinary world of business and politics?'''
noting the emphasis this year on the personal character and private lives of politicians, he said: ``people are not just looking for a program or a list of ideas. they want virtue. they want a leader they can trust.''
a federal study has found no suggestion that drinking alcohol increases a woman's chance of breast cancer, a result that clashes with recent research
conclusive statements or general recommendations concering the relationship between alcohol consumption and breast cancer seem premature,'' said susan chu of the federal centers for disease control in atlanta
perhaps some alcohol-related factors, rather than alcohol itself, account for the effect shown by other test subjects, she said. ``we have difficulty explaining why our study differs from those other studies,'' she said
nobody has shown any biological reason why alcohol would raise a woman's breast cancer risk, she said
at a meeting of science writers sponsored by the american cancer society, chu described results of a study of 3,252 women between the ages of 20 and 54 with newly diagnosed breast cancer and 2,971 other women chosen for comparison
all the women were interviewed in their homes and asked about their alcohol-drinking habits in the previous five years. if they drank, they were asked to estimate how many days a week they drank and how much they consumed on each day
when data from the two groups were compared, chu said, ``we found no relationship between drinking in the past five years and breast cancer risk.''
two studies released in may that did find an increase in risk gained a lot of attention, she said
the studies, directed by scientists at the harvard school of public health and the national cancer institute, cited an apparent increase in risk with as few as three drinks a week
but the principal authors of both studies said the data were not strong enough to recommend changes in drinking habits for american women
the cancer society has no formal recommendation on alcohol and breast cancer
lawrence garfinkel, the society's vice president for epidemiology, said sunday that several studies had shown no added breast cancer risk from moderate drinking
the jury's still out,'' he said. if there is a risk, he said, ``it has to be very, very minimal.''
future studies should focus on the age that alcohol consumption began and how long it has lasted, chu said
in another paper presented at the science writers' conference, a researcher cited research data challenging the link others have found between dietary fat and cancer
calories are the dietary villain rather than fat, said david klurfeld of the wistar institute in philadelphia, who studied rats that were chemically treated to encourage tumor growth
the contention has been debated for some time among scientists, whose findings have been mixed
klurfeld said his studies showed the direct link to cancer risk appeared to be body mass, because the rats that exercised enough to work off calories had a lower cancer risk than animals that were sedentary
the cancer society says dietary fat may play a role in breast, colon and prostate cancers. it also says obese people run a higher risk of colon, breast and uterine cancers. klurfeld said he agreed with the second statement but not the first
he said his research was funded by the national institutes of health, the american institute for cancer research and several food companies that he did not name. the source of the funding did not affect results, he said
the cancer society's garfinkel said the fat-vs.-calories issue is an open question
i don't know how soon we can get it resolved'' because of the difficulty of studying it in human populations, he said. missile attack</head> pvs: in the persian... edits thereafter to trim</note>
iran claimed on sunday that iraq killed 5,000 iraqi kurds in poison gas attacks while trying to blunt an iranian offensive. it also said iran blasted iraq's two largest cities with 13 missiles
iraq reported its gunners fired a long-range missile into tehran, the iranian capital, late sunday. a military spokesman was quoted by the official iraqi news agency as saying such attacks would continue ``until the tehran rulers accept international calls for peace.''
there was no response from the iraqi government in baghdad on the iranian allegations about chemical weapons
but the iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the army's 2nd corps repulsed an overnight iranian assault in the central sector of the front, killing or wounding 1,200 soldiers
iran said it fired 13 missiles into the iraqi capital, baghdad, and the southern port city of basra on sunday in the continuing duel known as the ``war of the cities.'' it reported ``heavy casualties'' in its shelling of iraqi border cities
in the persian gulf, shipping sources said iranian gunboats attacked the 84,631-ton liberian-flag tanker atlantic peace with rocket-propelled grenades. no casualties were reported
it was the fourth iranian assault on neutral shipping in the past three days in the long tug-of-war for control of the persian gulf. iraqis made an air strike on iran's kharg island oil terminal saturday, leaving two tankers in flames
the iranians claimed they captured the kurdish towns of halabja, kholmar and dojaila in sulaimaniyeh province on thursday in the week-old offensive in the northeastern mountains of iraq
iran's official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the iraqis used cyanide, mustard and other unidentified nerve gases in the attacks ``to prevent the people from joining iranian combatants.'' many kurds, a semi-nomadic sunni moslem people, have been fighting the baghdad government for years
the agency quoted iranian foreign minister ali akbar velayati as telling u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar that 5,000 kurdish civilians were among the dead
the iranian official reportedly criticized the united nations for failing to halt iraq's alleged use of chemical weapons. iran has warned it will begin using the same weapons in the 7{-year-old gulf war if iraq persists
the iraqi attack, if true, would be the struggle's worst with chemical weapons, outlawed under a 1925 agreement in geneva, switzerland. iraq denies it uses the weapons
the iranians said nearly 1,000 of the kurdish casualties had been airlifted to iranian hospitals for treatment. they appealed to the international red cross and other humanitarian agencies for medical aid
in the continuing exchange of missiles, the iranian news agency reported that, as iran celebrated the persian new year, its forces fired two long-range missiles into baghdad and 11 short-range rockets into the battered southern port city of basra
both sides have fired more than 200 missiles into each other's main cities and border towns since feb.29
the iranian news agency reported that at least six civilians were killed in iraqi missile attacks on tehran saturday night and in air raids on several of its western cities
a man who allegedly told police he killed his brother and three other people after they played a stereo too loud faces a indictment as early as next month, authorities said sunday
earl losier jr., 32, of bangor was being held without bail in the penobscot county jail after being charged with murder saturday and undergoing psychological testing at the augusta mental health institute
right now, he's charged with one count of murder, but i'm sure he'll be indicted on four counts of murder,'' said richard w. hall, the suspect's court-appointed attorney. hall said he expected the indictments to come in april or may
losier was arrested early saturday at his parents' house, downstairs from the apartment where the shootings occurred. he entered no plea during an appearance in district court
autopsies revealed the victims ``all died of gunshot wounds. at least a couple died of multiple gunshot wounds,'' said fernand larochelle, chief of the maine attorney general's criminal division
losier said he shot the four ``because he was taking cough syrup and because they were playing the stereo too loud,'' bangor police detective roy e. mckinney said in an affidavit filed in court that quoted a policeman sent to investigate the report of a shooting
police testified in court that a .45-caliber semi-automatic handgun was seized at the scene of the shooting, a dilapidated building containing several apartments about a block from the police station
bangor police lt. don o'halloran left word with a dispatcher sunday that no information about the investigation would be immediately forthcoming. police investigators continued to work at the scene
o'halloran said saturday that he believed losier is an unemployed laborer
police identified the victims as peter prendergast, 26, of brewer; his brother, michael prendergast, 31, of bangor; and sister, sharon prendergast, 23, of bangor; and stephen losier, 26, of bangor. ms. prendergast, described as stephen losier's girlfriend, was pregnant at the time of her death, officials said
jesse jackson, in an emotional, revival-style speech sunday punctuated by listeners' shrieks, told california democrats that ``there's room for you in the jackson campaign.''
the democratic presidential contender addressed some 1,200 delegates and guests at the state democrats' annual convention in affluent palm springs. he was the only democratic candidate to accept the state party's invitation to speak
jackson, arriving in the midst of a fractious party battle over primary election endorsements, called on democrats to unite and ``have hope when the jackson campaign comes to town.''
there was little that was new in jackson's 40-minute address, but delegates repeatedly stomped, cheered and applauded the candidate as jackson called for peace in the middle east, more jobs for american workers and help for farmers
jackson got his loudest response for denouncing the reagan administration's decision to send combat troops to honduras
we're sending troops to latin america, when we should be sending negotiators to latin america. our reasoning has collapsed in latin america,'' he said
the administration policy, he said, reflects ``desperation, a state of panic. we put military first, economics second. we're militarily strong, and diplomatically weak. we have guided missles and misguided leadership,'' he said
jackson called his presidential bid a no-frills effort
we're short on money, long on message and clear on mission,'' he said, ``if i can win against the odds i face, every american can win.''
he touted the fact that he leads in popular votes garnered in contests to date. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis leads in the delegate count, however
california's primary is june 7, and the state sends 336 delegates to the democratic national convention this summer in atlanta _ the largest state delegation
jackson said he has been successful at fund-raising, but he refused when asked afterward to detail how much money he has raised in california
we're doing incredibly well, and i can say that we will have every dollar we need to wage an effective campaign, a competitive campaign in california,'' said assembly speaker willie brown, jackson's national campaign chairman
brown has said jackson must raise and spend at least $1 million in california to win the state primary
peter kelly, the state democratic party chairman, said jackson's decision to appear at the convention ``definitely gives him a jump in california.'' says</head> catholic youths, reax from catholic minister; pickup 7th pvs, `the thought ...' subs last graf pvs, `protestant militants ...' to update with burial of protestant. edits to trim</note>
two british soldiers killed in a brutal attack by an angry mob had ignored orders to stay away from an irish republican army funeral procession, the british army said sunday
officials reported police fired plastic bullets sunday at youths who hijacked a bus in roman catholic west belfast. the shots were fired when the youths tried to attack a riot squad, police said
no injuries were reported
all soldiers in the british province had been told to stay away from saturday's funeral, an army spokesman said. he said an army investigation is under way
the two corporals should not have been where they were and we are interested in examining how that came about,'' said the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity
they would have been briefed about the route of the funeral procession, and the two corporals were not expected to be there and had no requirement to be there.''
corporals derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23, who were wearing civilian clothes, were shot to death in belfast after people in the funeral procession dragged from their unmarked car, beat them unconscious and stripped them naked
the outlawed ira claimed responsibility for the deaths and the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, said it was questioning three people. police said they were studying videotapes of the attack
sinn fein, the ira's legal political wing, blamed the british government for the violence and praised those who beat the soldiers for their ``bravery in protecting the cortege from attack.''
there was a bomb scare sunday morning at a catholic church near the site where the soldiers were slain
although it was a hoax, the minister of st. agnes church, the rev. thomas toner, said at mass that ``the foul and bloody murders ... committed in our parish'' had put his congregation ``in the direct firing line'' of vengeance-seeking protestants
the thought of these two soldiers being savagely beaten and then shot in cold blood will give rise to feelings of revulsion in every irish man or woman who has a spark of human feeling,'' said cardinal tomas o fiaich, head of the catholic church in ireland
both soldiers belonged to the royal corps of signals, a regiment often engaged in secret monitoring of communications. wood joined the army in april 1980 and howes in august 1981
the army spokesman said the two had been traveling in civilian clothes between the belfast battalion's headquarters and near falls road and the british army's northern ireland headquarters
there are a number of possible routes available to them, but it is a matter of speculation how they came to be in a place they were not supposed to be in,'' he said
their restraint under the most hideous provocation was obvious to the entire nation,'' the statement said
the soldiers were killed when they encountered the procession following the coffin of kevin brady, an ira member and one of three people killed last wednesday at milltown catholic cemetery
in that attack, a gunman alleged to be a protestant extremist opened fire and hurled grenades at mourners during the burial of three ira guerrillas shot by british commandos in gibraltar on march 6. another 68 people were injured in the funeral attack
witnesses to the attack saturday said the soldiers' car was engulfed by angry mourners who apparently assumed they were undercover agents spying on the crowd
the army said the soldiers' weapons apparently were taken from them and used against them
witnesses said the soldiers were thrown into a taxi and driven to a nearby vacant lot where shots were heard and where their naked, bullet-riddled and battered bodies were found a short while later
prime minister margaret thatcher of britain and irish premier charles haughey condemned the violence
more than 2,630 people have died in 19 years of sectarian strife in northern ireland, where the ira is fighting to drive the british out. the mainly roman catholic guerrilla group wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic
gillian johnston, a 21-year-old protestant killed by ira guerrillas, was buried in county fermanagh sunday. the ira said she was killed by mistake friday night and that the shots were aimed at her brother who it claimed works for the security forces. the family denied that
children found playing with the lid to a radioactive device missing from the trunk of a stolen car were not exposed to radioactive elements in the gadget, officials said sunday
however, because the lid had been removed from the device, officials said, there was a greater possibility for release of radioactivity
as of sunday, authorities were stymied in their search for the device, which measures the density of moisture in soil and contains the radioactive elements cesium 137 and americium 241, said larry krieger, a spokesman for the newark fire department
both substances are considered extremely dangerous
a much larger amount of cesium 137 killed four people and injured 121 in goiania, brazil, last year when a lead canister from a medical device was broken open at a junkyard and the glowing powder wase passed around
but the amount of cesium in the missing device was only a fraction of the 17 grams of the substance involved in the brazil disaster, officials said
the device contains only 0.1 milligram of cesium and about 15 milligrams of americium, said karl abraham, a spokesman for the philadelphia office of the federal nuclear regulatory commission. a milligram is one one-thousandth of a gram, so the amount of cesium involved in brazil was 170,000 times as much as is contained in the missing new jersey device
the gauge's lid was recovered saturday after police received an anonymous tip that the device was in a vacant lot where stolen cars are routinely abandoned, krieger said
authorities didn't find the device there, but they did find about four or five youngsters playing with the lid, he said
the children gave conflicting stories about how they got the lid, krieger said. they tested negative for exposure to radioactivity, he said
the gauge can be carried safely, but the nrc warned that ``any attempt to extract the gauge from the case could result in serious radiation exposure to anyone tampering with it.''
on thursday, authorities arrested four youths on charges of possessing the auto, stolen march 10 while its owner, a soil engineer, attended classes at the new jersey institute of technology
the bright yellow plastic box containing the device and labeled ``radioactive'' was missing from the trunk of the car when essex county police recovered the vehicle tuesday in the christopher columbus housing project
three hundred and sixty eggs did a delicate balancing act early sunday morning in a symbolic ritual attended by about 200 celebrators welcoming spring
considering the hour, more people showed up than i expected,'' said donna henes, the performance artist who helped organize the event
the egg balancing took place on a long table-like platform set up at the south street seaport in lower manhattan at 4:39 a.m., the precise moment of the vernal equinox, one of two points in the year when the sun crosses the equator and day and night are equal
according to henes, balancing an egg on its end is an ancient chinese custom that brings good luck to the successful balancer
scientists are dubious whether eggs really do balance during the equinox because of changes in the gravitational pull, but henes is convinced
its funny, because i've asked a lot of scientists about it and they say its impossible,'' henes said. ``however, when i ask them to join in the ritual and they see it happen, they become instant believers.''
henes, who has been observing the egg-balancing ritual for the past 13 years, said eggs are ancient symbols of fertility and spring around the world. ``easter is only one of many spring holidays where the egg is used as a symbol of rebirth,'' she said
participants began arriving at about 3:45 a.m., and after balancing their eggs they enjoyed them at a breakfast prepared by a chef from one of the seaport tourist attraction's restaurants, according to betsy jordan hand, a spokeswoman for the seaport. in israel</head>
american jews must take a more active role in israeli affairs if they hope to affect the country's policies in the occupied territories, a former aide to president jimmy carter told the american jewish congress on sunday
the congress, which will consider resolutions calling for israel to withdraw from the riot-torn west bank and gaza strip, opened its biennial convention sunday with a keynote address by stuart e. eizenstat, former adviser to carter for domestic policy
if we are only sideline kibitzers who throw darts at israeli policy from long range and then retreat to our comfortable everyday pursuits, we will not deserve to participate in the political discussions in israel,'' eizenstat said
eizenstat told about 200 conventioneers that american jews must end the ``passive, check-writing mentality'' and become much more involved in the political, religious and economic spheres of israeli life
it is also our future they are debating,'' he said
he urged his fellow american jews to make investments in israel and to spend time in israel to understand the country's perspective. however, he said, they should keep their comments balanced to avoid the ``volatile domestic political cauldron.''
the american jewish community ``should be full participants in the broad debate about the direction israel takes on political questions, such as the future of the territories, but it should carry on this debate, to the extent possible, in israel rather than the united states,'' he said
the discussions that do occur in the united states should take place in private, he said
public criticism will be used by israel's enemies to ``drive a wedge between american jewry and israel,'' he said
the convention, which will attract 400 to 500 delegates, also will consider the peace plan proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz in the face of arab rioting in the territories
shultz's plan envisions that talks on self-rule would begin may 1 between jordan, israel, palestinians and any other arabs wishing to take part, under the auspices of the united states, the soviet union, china, england and france. the plan also calls for talks to start dec. 1 about the future of the west bank and gaza strip that israel captured from the arabs in the 1967 mideast war
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who concluded talks with president reagan last week, has said he was outraged by the united states' suggestions of a withdrawal from the occupied territories
shamir has rejected another u.s. proposal, for a full-scale mideast conference, saying such a meeting would give the soviet union and its arab allies too much influence and might force israel to withdraw from the territories
a bird that apparently was blown 1,000 miles off course was flown back to its place in the sun with full vip treatment aboard a jetliner sunday
the alpine swift was cared for at a bird reserve until british airways offered to fly it back to faro, portugal
it was placed in a special box and given a seat on the birmingham-faro flight, the airline said
it has to be released carefully back into the wild,'' said a spokesman. ``it will be placed on the ground by a brick wall so it can climb up and get its bearings'' in its home territory
a new mexico high school student was selected sunday as the nation's top student leader, winsning a $10,000 college scholarship in the 1988 century iii leaders program
tony ortiz, a senior at goddard high school in roswell, n.m., was chosen from among 102 student leaders who gathered thursday through sunday to discuss national issues, said spokeswoman tracy curtin
being with these young people and participating in the century iii leaders program is enough to give an older person like myself a lift about the future,'' said former chief justice warren burger, who delivered the conference's keynote address
the program _ administered by the national association of secondary school principals _ included two students from each of the 50 states and the district of columbia
in addition to ortiz, nine runners up each will receive $500 scholarships
those nine included erik bliss of santee, calif., who attends helix high school in la mesa, calif; brad hammock of morgantown high school in morgantown, w.va.; susan hassan of grand blanc, mich., who attends goodrich high school in goodrich, mich.; donald kennedy of clinton high school in clinton, miss., and anna muzzy of blanchester high school in blanchester, ohio
the other runners up were christopher roblyer of edison high school in tulsa, okla.; brad sears of grain valley, mo., who attends blue springs high school in blue springs, mo.; danny siciliano of shadow mountain high school in phoenix, ariz., and kimberly west of enloe high school in raleigh, n.c
the program is supported by the shell oil company foundation. pvs, at the</note>
sen. bob dole, kicking off a wisconsin campaign swing sunday, flipped two coins into a wishing well, thinking perhaps of a badly needed win in wisconsin's april 5 primary
as he strolled around a sports exposition at the city's convention center, dole was asked by reporters about a milwaukee journal poll suggesting vice president george bush led him by a margin of nearly 3-1 among wisconsin voters considered likely to vote in the republican primary
there are no secrets,'' he said
i've got a lot of hill to climb before april 5,'' he said later in an interview
i met a lot of friendly people out there. it's tough when you're losing. it's a lot more fun when you're winning,'' he said
but i still have a lot of supporters out there. and we want them to know bob dole is a fighter, that we're going to stay in this race.''
the kansas senator said, however, that he would have to reassess his standing if he lost in wisconsin
we shouldn't be into this game about are you going to run or are you going to drop out,'' he said
but he added that after wisconsin, he would have to do some thinking about whether to stay in the race
we've been hearing the end is near, but people forget george bush stayed in eight weeks after he began losing to ronald reagan,'' dole said. ``eight weeks was enough for him to lose. but i think eight weeks would be enough time for me to turn some things around.''
at the sports exposition, he was presented with a fishing rod and fisermen's vest, and viewed a tank that served as an artifical fishing pond containing trout. a demonstrator cast a few lines but came up empty
dole was also visiting a veterans administration hospital on sunday. on monday, he was attending a farm day in northwestern wisconsin, visiting a vocational school in eau claire and touring a brewery in la crosse
dole's state campaign chairman michael grebe said he expected the senator's visit to be ``the kickoff to a strong effort in wisconsin.''
we expect to have a direct mail effort, radio and television advertising and continuing volunteer effort and volunteer phone banks,'' grebe said
dole was trounced by bush on super tuesday, and lost again last week in illinois. he has indicated he intends to remain in the race at least through the wisconsin primary
the milwaukee journal poll of 732 wisconsin residents showed 69 percent of those planning to vote republican preferred bush, 25 percent chose dole and 6 percent chose pat robertson. rioting</head>
a government commission announced it will begin an investigation monday into the death of a university student that sparked riots in the burmese capital
guards protected government buildings in rangoon over the weekend, following protests friday in which demonstrators wrecked cars, set fire to a department store and chanted anti-government slogans
some rangoon residents said there were casualties and mass arrests by security forces, but the government-controlled news media was virtually silent on the disturbances
open protests have been rare in burma since president ne win seized power in 1962 and instituted one-party rule
but over the past two years, small demonstrations and outbursts of violence have occurred in reaction to worsening economic conditions
last september, hundreds of students in rangoon rioted to protest a government decision to invalidate three denominations of banknotes
friday's demonstrations began in support of students at the rangoon institute of technology, who had rioted march 12
one student, maung phone maw, 23, was shot march 12 and the government panel was set up to investigate his death
the rioting began after students clashed with local residents over whether to play a cassette tape in a tea shop, and police then moved in firing tear gas and making arrests. mission</head> palestine,' to reflect that korten now saying justice department might not file monday, but would file within the next two days if the plo doesn't close the mission</note>
the justice department is planning to file suit in federal court in new york to force the closing of the plo observer mission at the united nations, a department spokesman said sunday
we're ready to go ahead and file the papers if they don't close the mission voluntarily,'' said spokesman patrick korten
the palestine liberation organization served notice last week that it planned to defy any u.s. effort to shut the mission, which is in a new york city townhouse
sunday afternoon, korten indicated that the department would file suit monday, but sunday evening he said that such action might not occur until tuesday or wednesday due to possible delays in paperwork
the chances are it would be within a day or two if they are not out,'' korten said. ``we are hoping those who walk into the office (monday) to look for them would find them gone. if that's not the case, then we would proceed with legal action.''
the justice department announced march 11 that it planned to enforce the anti-terrorism act of 1987 by going to court to close the mission. that act takes effect monday
korten said the department planned to seek a court order directing the plo to vacate its offices in new york and said he expected the court order to be ``immediately enforceable.''
last year, the state department closed down the only other plo office in the united states, an information office in washington, in what was a futile attempt to head off legislation ordering the u.n. mission closed
the united states and israel consider the plo a terrorist organization, but the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate representative for the palestinians
a truck taking 71 pilgrims to a roman catholic shrine on sunday crashed through a highway guardrail and tumbled 300 feet down a cliff, killing 65 people, police reported
they said the driver was among those killed and the seven other people aboard the truck were seriously injured
the accident occurred as the packed truck approached the town of cachoeira, 1,170 miles northeast of rio, according to police chief jose braga who was contacted by telephone by the associated press
he said the truck had left nearby coracao de maria to go to the ``miracle grotto'' in sao felix, 100 miles away
we don't know what happened yet, but it seems the bus lost its brakes as it sped down the wooded mountain road, crashed through the guardrail and plunged down the cliff,'' braga said. ``the driver was found dead clutching the handbrake.''
he said the driver and 60 pilgrims were dead at the scene and four died en route to a hospital
among the dead were 20 children, according to rio's jornal do brasil radio station
braga said police and rescue crews from six towns in the remote region of northeastern bahia state went to the scene
truck loads of peasant families regularly make trips to the colonial city, built in the 1700s, and the grotto to seek favors of st. barbara, the region's patron saint, braga said
gold dropped 23 cents an ounce monday, opening at $447.67. it closed saturday at $447.90
a truck taking 71 pilgrims to a roman catholic shrine on sunday crashed through a highway guardrail and tumbled 300 feet down a cliff, killing 65 people, police reported
they said the driver was among those killed and the seven other people aboard the truck were seriously injured
the accident occurred as the packed truck approached the town of cachoeira, 1,170 miles northeast of rio, according to police chief jose braga, who was contacted by telephone by the associated press
he said the truck had left nearby coracao de maria to go to the ``miracle grotto'' in sao felix, 100 miles away
we don't know what happened yet, but it seems the bus lost its brakes as it sped down the wooded mountain road, crashed through the guardrail and plunged down the cliff,'' braga said. ``the driver was found dead clutching the handbrake.''
he said the driver and 60 pilgrims were dead at the scene and four died en route to a hospital
among the dead were 20 children, according to rio's jornal do brasil radio station
braga said police and rescue crews from six towns in the remote region of northeastern bahia state went to the scene
truck loads of peasant families regularly make trips to the colonial city, built in the 1700s, and the grotto to seek favors of st. barbara, the region's patron saint, braga said. part-cattle known as `beefalo.' picks up 9th graf pvs, ``what they're...'.</note>
a herd of a relative of the buffalo known as the beefalo roamed onto the florida turnpike early sunday, causing five accidents and costing the lives of seven of the huge animals, police said. one motorist was slightly injured
about 75 to 100 buffalo broke through a hole in the fence on the florida turnpike extension'' in northwest dade county about 12:30 a.m., said florida highway patrol sgt. alvis chinn
the animals _ part buffalo, part beef cattle _ were part of a 400-head herd kept on a ranch near the turnpike extension, which borders the everglades northwest of miami
five of the beefalo died instantly or nearly so after they collided with vehicles on the highway, chinn said. ``i believe that two other buffalo had to be killed later by the humane society,'' he said
the animals caused an estimated $18,000 to $20,000 damage overall to the cars that collided with them, he said
the injured motorist was treated at a local hospital and released, chinn said
state troopers, animal-control officers, passers-by and workers from the ranch herded the rest of the animals back home
investigators believe the beefalo left their pasture after horse thieves cut the fence
what they're doing apparently is stealing the horses in the early morning hours, and they're leaving without fixing the fence,'' chinn said
police have recorded 29 horse thefts in the area, with seven horses stolen in the last two weeks, chinn said
dr. arnie oper, owner of the ranch, did not return messages left on his answering machines sunday
oper recently made the news by offering any would-be buffalo bills a chance to hunt and kill his animals for $3,500 each _ with the hunter getting to keep the meat and the hide. not needed much longer and nicaraguans in retreat, u.s. congressman says u.s. forces may be withdrawn within a week; pickup 3rd graf pvs: `nicaragua formally .... subs two grafs for 10th pvs, `the ministry ...' with conflicting claims over saturday's raid. edits thruout to comform</note>
president jose azcona said sunday the 3,200 u.s. soldiers on an emergency mission in honduras probably won't be needed much longer because nicaraguan troops are retreating from honduran territory
things are getting back to normal,'' azcona said in an interview sunday, a day after two honduran warplanes fired rockets at sandinista positions in a section of the disputed bocay region that honduras considers its territory
if there are no more incidents, the americans will leave,'' azcona said
he declined to give details on the sandinista pullback or be more specific on when the u.s. troops that arrived last week would depart
rep. g.v. montgomery, d-miss., a member of a congressional delegation visiting honduras, said he expects the u.s. military personnel to pull out in about a week
i think it'll all be over by then,'' said montgomery, a member of the house armed services committee
american soldiers practiced military maneuvers sunday at a honduran airstrip about 20 miles from the nicaraguan border
these guys are not going to get involved in any sort of conflict,'' said maj. gary hovatter, spokesman for u.s. troops in the central american nation
nicaragua formally protested the honduran air raid saturday as an unwarranted act of aggression. it has denied that its troops crossed the jungle-choked border between the nations
the u.s. house delegation observed a military exercise involving u.s. infantrymen and honduran soldiers at jamastran, a dirt airstrip about 55 miles southeast of tegucigalpa and 20 miles from the border
the exercise was held about 80 miles south of the bocay border region
honduran officials said saturday's air strike was carried out because about 600 sandinista soldiers were moving too slowly from the bocay area. two honduran jet fighters carried out a similar raid thursday
no one was hurt in either raid and no damage was reported in saturday's attack
nicaraguan foreign minister miguel d'escoto sent a protest note to honduran foreign minister carlos lopez, saying his government ``energetically and formally protests'' saturday's attack, which it called ``aggression against nicaraguan territory.''
honduras said the attack took place eight miles inside honduras. nicaragua claims it was five miles inside nicaragua
the nicaraguan ministry also said two f-5 warplanes flew over sandinista positions saturday morning in the frontier sectors of mukuwas, san andres de bocay, waniwas and wayawas, but did not attack
the 600 sandinistas were part of a force estimated at 2,000 that was believed to have entered honduran territory last week in pursuit of u.s.-backed rebels known as contras
the action prompted president reagan to send in u.s. troops to non-combat areas for military exercises in a show of force to the leftist government
in washington, national security adviser lt. gen. colin powell said the fighting between nicaragua and honduras was essentially over
powell, who appeared on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' said the u.s. military exercises should be completed shortly and the troops will return to the united states
he said ``the sandinistas have withdrawn. they're apparently on their side of the border again. they appear to be in a process of withdrawing or have withdrawn.''
president daniel ortega of nicaragua has denied that the sandinistas were in honduran territory
on sunday, deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco said reports that sandinista troops remained inside honduras territory was a ruse by the reagan administration to obtain more money for the contras
tinoco also said monday's first-ever direct talks with contra rebels inside nicaragua will focus on the mechanics of a cease-fire. the contras want the talks to include political issues
in new york, the eight-nation contadora and its support group issued a statement condemning the sending of additional american troops to honduras
they also urged both the honduran and nicaraguan governments ``to reduce immediately tension in their border region and respect each others' territorial integrity.''
contadora is made up of mexico, colombia, venezuela and panama and is backed by a support group formed by argentina, brazil, uruguay and peru
the group has been trying to negotiate an end to the contra war in nicaragua and leftist guerrilla wars in el salvador and guatemala for the past six years
although it did not mention the united states by name, the contadora statement ``expressed deep worry over the escalation of a forign military presence in ... honduras.''
veteran hollywood screen star douglas fairbanks jr. returned to the british stage for the first time in 12 years sunday night
the 81-year-old fairbanks, an honorary knight, was a master of ceremonies at the adelphi theater for a royal gala entertainment to raise funds for the blind, attended by princess margaret, sister of queen elizabeth ii
fairbanks, who lives in new york and palm beach, fla., last acted in london's west end in 1976 in a comedy, ``the pleasure of his company,'' at the phoenix theater
crews on sunday removed two cylinders of explosive gas left in the rubble of a chemical plant where a blast killed three workers and forced 1,500 people from their homes
a gas-filled cylinder sent to the gollob analytical services plant for analysis exploded thursday. fears of new explosions, because another container of chemicals was still afire in the rubble of the plant, prompted the evacuation friday
most of the 1,500 evacuees were allowed to return home saturday after seven cylinders near the flaming container were removed from the plant. sunday, the remaining 120 evacuees, nursing home residents who lived closer to the plant than the other evacuees, were allowed to return home and nearby businesses got the go-ahead to reopen
meanwhile, in pocatello, idaho, a container of what was believed to be the same gas that caused the original explosion in new jersey was vented at a semiconductor plant early sunday. ninety-one residents of a nearby nursing home, who had been evacuated saturday as a precaution, were allowed to return home
before the new jersey explosion, workers at gollob became worried when tests showed the gas in the tank they were testing was not silane, which they had expected to be inside, but silane mixed with nitrous oxide, a potent combination
chicago-based liquid carbonic industries corp., which apparently manufactured the gas, was called to pick it up, officials said
new jersey environmental commissioner richard dewling has said the tank either was mislabeled or contaminated
silane, a toxic and highly flammable gas, is used by the semiconductor industry
investigators said the plant burst into flames thursday after the cylinder exploded outside the facility and became a projectile, shooting into the building
two cylinders containing the gas phosphine were removed sunday night, said james staples, spokesman for the state department of environmental protection. the toxic, flammable gas also is used in electronics manufacturing
in pocatello, idaho, workers at the gould semiconductor plant safely vented a tank there to prevent a possible explosion, said jerry corbett, a spokesman for gould's offices in chicago
the cylinder was purchased from liquid carbonic, corbett said
pocatello police lt. steve stuart said he was told by company officials there that a cylinder from the gould plant had been shipped to new jersey after it failed to react properly in a manufacturing process at the pocatello plant. but corbett would not confirm whether a tank from the idaho plant could have caused the new jersey explosion. connery, bancroft</head>
jean de florette,'' french director claude berri's epic film about peasant greed and lust, won three british cinema awards sunday. american oliver stone was named best director for his vietnam film ``platoon.''
the ``baftas,'' or british academy of film and tv arts awards, are the nation's top movie awards
other awards went to anne bancroft for her role in ``84 charing cross road,'' about an american's correspondence with a london bookseller in world war ii, and sean connery for his portrayal of a medieval monk-detective in ``the name of the rose.''
at the ceremony, ``jean de florette'' was cited as best film and best adapted screenplay, and daniel auteuil won an award as best supporting actor
a special citation went to swedish director ingmar bergman. britain's defunct monty python satirical troupe was honored for its contribution to cinema. passengers on board, sted 69, quote from witness, emergency chutes used, flight number, other details. no pickup. darrel is cq in 4th graf.</note>
a jet with 78 people aboard made an emergency landing sunday after a section of its landing gear malfunctioned, and one wing caught fire briefly as it scraped the runway, officials said. no one was injured
the delta air lines boeing 727 was safely evacuated by emergency chutes after it landed about 4 p.m. at portland international airport, said port of portland spokeswoman sara roberts
flight 314 carried 71 passengers and a crew of seven, said david zielke, a delta spokesman
port of portland spokesman darrel buttice said the pilot was unable to lower the left wheel assembly, forcing the airplane to land on the remaining two sets of wheels, right rear and center front
emergency crews put out a small fire on the left wing, which scraped the runway as the airplane came to a halt, he said
it looked like he had everything under control and then as he started to get close to the ground, he ... looked like he just kind of leaned into that one side a little bit,'' said a witness, gary spencer
he landed and just immediately the fire equipment was right on top of him, spraying foam,'' spencer said. ``i didn't see any fire but i guess there was a little bit.''
inflatable yellow emergency chutes were deployed from the doorways, and passengers were evacuated from the airplane without incident, ms. roberts said. passengers were bused from the runway to the terminal
as far as we know, people are on their way home,'' she said
the flight originated in atlanta and made a stop in salt lake city before heading to portland, buttice said. news digest: boston-meet dukakis; mamelodi, south africa _ trading places; panama city _ panama canal; undated _ amnesty hoopla; columbus, ohio _ magruder-ethics; washington _ too big to fail; washington _ gesell profile; belgrade _ yugoslav contrasts; washington _ star wars; dover, del. _ hotel reunions; washington _ playwright king.</note>
american soldiers practiced military maneuvers sunday on a honduran airstrip just 21 miles from the nicaraguan border, but u.s. officials said the threat from sandinista troops had subsided and combat appeared unlikely
nicaragua formally protested a honduran bombing raid on sandinista positions saturday as an unwarranted act of aggression. it has denied that its troops crossed the jungle-choked border dividing the nations
a gunman opened fire at close range sunday on a reserve soldier standing guard near a palestinian refugee camp, marking the first israeli army fatality in four months of unrest in the occupied lands
the army's chief of staff, st. gen. dan shomron, said the shooting could augur greater use of guns by palestinian activists. he stopped short of saying it signaled a major change in the tactics of protesters, who have mainly hurled stones and bottles at israel's occupation forces
two british soldiers who were killed in a brutal attack by an angry mob ignored orders to stay away from an irish republican army funeral procession, the british army said sunday
all soldiers in the british-ruled province were told the funeral was taking place on saturday and had been warned to steer clear, an army spokesman said. he said the army had begun an investigation
salvadorans defied guerrilla threats and voted sunday in legislative and municipal elections after explosions ripped through the capital and sabotage knocked out power to much of the nation
early turnout was moderate, without long lines at polling places in the capital. there were some organizational difficulties, including late delivery of ballot boxes to some voting stations and arguments over the placement of party observers at tables where registrations were checked
the central electoral commission blamed the sabotage for the problems
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis remained the leader of the democratic presidential pack as the dust settled on more delegate-counting in kansas, texas and south dakota. meanwhile, puerto rico was holding republican and democratic presidential primaries sunday, with vice president george bush poised to sweep the winner-take-all gop contest
the democratic race in puerto rico hinged far more on local issues than the candidates. the u.s. commonwealth sends 14 delegates to the republican national convention and 53 delegates to the democratic national convention, with the democratic delegation expected to go as uncommitted and vote as a bloc
bob dole, fighting for the survival of his republican presidential bid, was in wisconsin campaigning for the state's april 5 primary. the kansas senator, who has suffered a series of crushing losses to bush, has pledged to keep his faltering campaign alive at least until that contest
iran claimed on sunday that iraq killed 5,000 iraqi kurds in poison gas attacks while trying to blunt an iranian offensive. it also said iran blasted iraq's two largest cities with 13 missiles
iraq reported its gunners fired a long-range missile into tehran, the iranian capital, late sunday. a military spokesman was quoted by the official iraqi news agency as saying such attacks would continue ``until the tehran rulers accept international calls for peace.''
there was no response from the iraqi government in baghdad on the iranian allegations about chemical weapons
insurance companies should pay for efforts to detect cancer early in return for slightly higher premiums, the head of the american cancer society said sunday
insurance reimbursement would help primary care doctors to do screening and counseling against cancer, society president harmon eyre told science writers at a society-sponsored conference
in an interview earlier, eyre said he was talking about pap tests for cervical cancer, stool blood tests for colon or rectal cancer, visual examination of the lower colon, called sigmoidoscopy, and breast x-rays called mammograms for breast cancer
hundreds of partying young people rioted on a gulf coast beach during the night before police moved in with tear gas and helicopters early sunday. and a car that sped off a nearby ferry dock was pulled out of the ocean with two bodies inside
at least four people were stabbed and two law officers were injured in the midnight beach melee, police said. eight people were arrested, and one person remained hospitalized sunday. moved in advance.</note>
the great u.s. airline giveaway seems to be grinding to a halt
worried about the potential financial impact of burgeoning frequent-flier programs and triple-mileage travel awards, many major air carriers have imposed restrictions on the plans or are thinking of doing so
the frequent-flier plans, which reward passengers with free tickets or upgrades to first class after they have flown a set number of miles, were launched in 1981 to stimulate ``brand loyalty'' to airlines in a fiercely competitive climate
the giveaway escalated to fever pitch at the beginning of this year, when delta air lines introduced a new program to automatically triple the mileage accumulated by frequent fliers. most big airlines quickly followed suit
but the u.s. airline industry is facing a staggering revenue loss if the estimated 8 million people enrolled in those programs start redeeming their bonuses and bumping paying passengers. the accumulated value of those bonuses is around $1.24 billion, reckons julius maldutis, senior airline analyst for the investment firm salomon brothers inc
that compares with total industry revenue of around $46.7 billion in 1985, $50.5 billion in 1986 and just over $60 billion last year
the frequent-flier programs have really gotten out of control,'' said dan sheehy, a spokesman for united airlines. ``we're concerned with the direction that the programs are taking.''
john zeeman, united's executive vice president for marketing and planning, said in a speech early this month that the airline is considering imposing restrictions on its frequent-flier programs. he said the options under review include requiring that travel awards be redeemed by a certain deadline, and even eliminating free trips and providing only first-class upgrades instead
if united decides to limit its program, the changes would be announced in early may, zeeman said
many other airlines have recently slapped restrictions on their programs _ most notably by limiting the number of free tickets for any one flight. but the limits being mulled by united, a subsidiary of allegis corp. and the nation's largest airline, are more far-reaching and could be matched by the other carriers
the last thing these airlines need is more damage on their balance sheets,'' said peter tanous, an editor of frequent, a monthly newsletter on frequent-flier programs published in colorado springs, colo. ``the airlines are scared stiff that they may be forced to take a hit against their earnings.''
observers warn that the internal revenue service could decide to tax the programs, sparking a ``mad rush'' by passengers to redeem their travel bonuses. the irs indicated recently that it considers travel awards a form of reportable income when transportation costs for a frequent business flier are paid by an employer
and the financial accounting standards board is expected to require airlines to provide for the liability of unredeemed awards in their 1988 financial statements
the looming crisis has taken hold during an already turbulent period for the nation's airline industry. the business is coming off one of its worst safety performances in 1987, struggling with unions and threatened strikes against some big carriers, and worrying about the possibility of a recession later in the year
for now, though, many airlines are enjoying robust passenger traffic and earnings _ prompting them to raise fares recently and to eliminate some discount fares
analysts say nearly all the major airlines except delta have started to limit their frequent-flier largesse by instituting ``capacity control,'' or reducing the number of freebies on a flight
everyone else is doing it; you have to control and manage your inventory,'' said bob gibbons, a spokesman for northwest airlines _ which will start capacity control on april 1 for bonuses issued after feb. 15
even holdout delta has ``blackout'' dates, or certain peak travel periods when free tickets cannot be used. delta, the third largest airline, also has the unique requirement that frequent fliers must charge their tickets on an american express card
we want to remain competitive with the industry,'' delta spokesman jim lundy said when asked what might happen if united instituted major restrictions
some airlines also are looking at other approaches, such as replacing free travel with merchandise awards or hotel and car rental premiums
while they could significantly restrict their frequent-flier programs, the airlines are not about to eliminate them or triple-mileage awards altogether, observers say. when the triple-mileage plans were launched at the start of the year, the carriers assured passengers that the popular gimmicks would be retained through 1988
we recognize that there certainly is an economic impact associated with the triple-mileage program,'' said frank dinuzzo, managing director of sales promotion for american airlines. but, he added, american has no intention of canceling its program
indeed, some observers suggest the airlines may be caught in a sort of ``catch-22'' by their frequent-flier programs, forced to keep them because there is no way to end them
i suspect that if the airlines had their druthers, they would throw frequent-flier programs into a bonfire because they've just become so expensive,'' said michael j. friedman, a vice president of sh&amp;e inc., an aviation consulting firm
however, he noted, it would be extremely difficult for a carrier to end its frequent-flier program without all its competitors doing the same
u.s. businesses might have to pay billions of dollars in additional state taxes if the u.s. supreme court upholds louisiana's taxation of a new orleans store for catalogs that it produced and mailed from other states, attorneys say
the case involves a disputed $43,937.03 tax assessment against the d.h. holmes co. department store chain, but lawyers for both sides agree the monetary ramifications go far beyond that
i threw out the figure of $800 million at a meeting of the tax executive institute in new york. ... people said that was a half or a quarter of the taxes it would raise,'' william f. grace jr., an attorney for holmes, said in a recent interview
the case to be heard tuesday by the supreme court could be the most significant interstate commerce decision since the l.l. bean sales tax case in 1973, say grace and william pugh, a private attorney representing the state of louisiana
in the bean case, the court ruled that mail-order companies don't have to collect sales taxes from customers in states where they have no employees or property
use taxes such as louisiana's are imposed on property brought in from another state for use, consumption, distribution or storage. louisiana's use tax, as in most states, equals the state sales tax minus any sales taxes charged to the purchaser
the catalogs in question were designed in new york, printed in three other states and mailed from those states to customers with holmes charge accounts
we contend ... that holmes did not use these catalogs in louisiana. there was no use by holmes because when the taxes were imposed, the catalogs were being transmitted in the u.s. mails,'' grace said. ``at that time, they were not subject to tax. they can only be taxed when they came into use in the state of louisiana.''
if the high court upholds state court rulings against holmes, grace said, states could tax such things as flyers sent with credit card bills, catalogs from national chains with stores in their states, and telephone directories
all of the states are starved for revenues. they're going to look wherever they can ...it could turn into big bucks,'' said lee williams of the washington-based american retail federation, which filed one of seven friend-of-the-court briefs in the case
we think it would be a tremendous burden on business and could be crippling to ... retailers who send tons of their advertising and catalog materials across state lines,'' said williams, the ara legislative counsel
pugh said the case hinges on ownership
i would contend and did contend and shall contend that holmes owned the catalogs when they were designed, holmes owned the catalogs when they were printed, holmes owned the catalogs when they were mailed, and holmes owned the catalogs when they arrived at the post office boxes,'' he said
that kind of wording could mean big trouble for catalog companies, said bob levering, legislative counsel for the direct marketing association in washington, d.c
if the supreme court agrees that a company possesses and is using something while it is being sent through the mail, levering said, it could bring taxes on all kinds of mailings
they (states) could say ... your property is in our state, therefore we're providing police and fire protection for your property,'' he said
courts in tennessee, illinois, new york, ohio, south dakota, wisconsin and the district of columbia have ruled the opposite of the louisiana courts in such matters, said andrew rinker jr., another lawyer for holmes
since the louisiana decision, missouri has gone against us, based on the louisiana holding,'' he said
big guns have lined up on both sides of the argument
one of two legal briefs supporting louisiana was filed on behalf of the national governors association, national association of counties, council of state governments, international city management association, national conference of state legislatures, national league of cities and u.s. conference of mayors. the other was from the multistate tax commission
in addition to the retail federation, the direct marketing association, the national association of catalog showroom merchandisers and the committee of state taxation of the council of state chambers of commerce have filed individual friend-of-the-court briefs. magazine publishers of america inc., printing industries of america and r.r. donnelly &amp; sons co., a catalog publisher, joined forces for another
trade ministers from 27 countries ended three days of informal talks sunday without an agreement on agriculture policy, but issues a pledge to strengthen the 95-nation general agreement on tariffs and trade
the deadlock on agriculture is seen as a crucial issue in current world trade talks, which are scheduled to last four years
there was no movement of positions at all,'' australian trade minister michael duffy said after the meeting, which included trade ministers from the united states, japan and the european economic community
the united states insists that all agricultural subsidies be abolished worldwide by the year 2000. the eec maintains it will join in substantial cuts in agricultural subsidies, but rejects the long-term u.s. proposal
the third big party to the agriculture policy debate is the 13-country cairns group, the non-aligned, free-trade-oriented group of agricultural exporters. the cairns group is calling for short-term measures to freeze subsidies and for long-term reform in farm policy
duffy said he outlined the cairns group proposal to the ministers attending the meeting, but said he got little response from the eec or the united states
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said the cairns group proposal focused too much on short-term reforms
that's not good enough for us,'' yeutter said, adding that the united states soon would release an official reaction to the plan
willy de clercq, the eec commissioner for external affairs, said the cairns group proposal might present ``an opening'' for further negotiations. ``there should be a way to find common ground,'' he told reporters
although on the substantive level no progress was made, eveybody seems willing to continue working to resolve the issue,'' de clercq said
failure to reach some agreement on agriculture policy by december, when trade ministers will assess progress at the half-way mark in the current round of trade talks, would be disastrous, duffy said
west german economics minister martin bangemann described the mood among the ministers as excellent and said ministers had agreed that a number of issues would be ready for ``early harvest'' by the mid-term review in montreal in december
the ministers decided to meet for more informal talks early in october in pakistan, bangemann said
they agreed to improve gatt's surveillance of world trade practices, as well as its dispute settlement process, and said gatt should encourage greater cooperation with the international monetary fund and the world bank
one suggestion that won strong praise from the ministers was to introduce voluntary arbitration as an alternative to the regular dispute settlement process, bangemann said
the ministers also agreed that trade in textiles should again be governed by gatt regulations once the current multi-fiber agreement expires in 1991, he said. speech as delivered; subs 5th-6th grafs, `when a smoker ...,' with 2 grafs to note that example was given in prepared remarks; it wasn't used in speech. adds 4 grafs at end with poll on increasing use of screening tests.</note>
insurance companies should pay for efforts to detect cancer early in return for slightly higher premiums, the head of the american cancer society said sunday
insurance reimbursement would help primary care doctors to do screening and counseling against cancer, society president harmon eyre told science writers at a society-sponsored conference
in an interview earlier, eyre said he was talking about pap tests for cervical cancer, stool blood tests for colon or rectal cancer, visual examination of the lower colon, called sigmoidoscopy, and breast x-rays called mammograms for breast cancer
in addition, he said, insurors should provide reimbursement for ``health maintenance exams,'' which include counseling about smoking, evaluation of the mouth and lymph nodes for cancer, and discussions about diet, weight control, and self-examination for testicular or breast cancer
when a smoker is treated with antibiotics for pneumonia or bronchitis resulting from smoking, both physican and patient are reimbursed, he said in remarks distributed to science writers
but if that same smoker goes to a physician for counseling about that cigarette habit, no one is reimbursed,'' he said in the remarks. ``it is obviously more productive to prevent health deterioration than to treat it after an illness has begun.''
eyre said in the interview that insurance industry representatives have told the cancer society that expanded coverage would mean higher premiums
some companies have experimented with such policies, he said, but people focus on ``a slight increase in the cost of their health insurance premiums, and their first reaction is, `well, i'm not going to buy that.'''
we haven't convinced the american public they should buy that yet,'' eyre said
i think he's going to have a hard time making that sale,'' said robert waldron, spokesman for the health insurance association of america
insurance premiums rose an average of 15 to 25 percent this year, waldron said in a telephone interview. ``medical costs right now are out of control, and there's a lot of price resistance out there ... for the things that are covered now.''
resistance comes both from individuals and from employers, who buy 90 percent of the nation's health insurance, he said
in the long run, early detection should save money, eyre said. the cost of treating a cancer early is repaid with money saved from treating an advanced case five to 10 years later, he said
a mastectomy to cure an early breast cancer may cost about $5,000, while the cost of caring for a woman who eventually dies of advanced cancer is perhaps $65,000, he said
some health maintenance organizations and prepaid health programs have picked up some screening tests, usually the pap test, eyre said. he said he supports congressional interest in legislation to require medicare to cover mammography and pap testing
that would ``send a major signal'' to the insurance industry, he said
four states _ california, maryland, massachusetts and texas _ require at least some insurance policies to cover mammograms, said kerrie wilson, legislative representative for the cancer society. the massachusetts law also includes pap tests, she said
the society recommends a single mammogram in women between ages 35 and 39, then another mammogram every one or two years up to age 49, and annual mammograms after that
annual pap tests and pelvic examinations are recommended for women 18 or older or who have been sexually active. pap tests can become less frequent after three consecutive satisfactory examinations
for colon and rectal cancer, the society recommends the stool blood test annually after age 50 and sigmoidoscopy every three to five years after that age, following two annual exams with negative results
a poll conducted by the gallup organization for the cancer society at the end of last year found increasing use of screening tests
the poll found that 29 percent of respondents had had a stool blood test, compared to 13 percent in 1976. for sigmoidoscopy, the figure rose from 23 percent in 1983 to 28 percent in 1987
when asked about mammography last year, 52 percent of the women respondents had had a breast x-ray, vs. 41 percent in 1980. for the pap test, 87 percent of the women reported having a test, compared to 53 percent in 1970
the poll included a nationally representative sample of 1,549 adults, and had a margin of error of 4 percent, the society said
brazilian finance minister mailson da nobrega indicated sunday he was confident brazil would get a $1.8 billion ``bridge loan'' from commercial banks to continue interest payments on large portions of its $114 billion foreign debt
i think we're heading towards an agreement,'' da nobrega said after a meeting with osamu yamaguchi, executive director at bank of tokyo's new york main branch
the japanese bank represents brazil's asian creditors
the bridge loan is needed to meet interest payments owed to private banks on more than $68 million in debt for the second quarter of this year. brazil declared a unilateral moratorium last year over payments for that portion of its debt
last february, brazil resumed payments after reaching a basic agreement with its creditor banks on a refinancing package that would include $5 billion in new loans
brazil paid $994 million of its first quarter interest payments but still owes another $270 million to cancel the bill through march. brazil owes another $1.5 billion for the second quarter, da nobrega said saturday
da nobrega, upon arriving in caracas to attend the interamerican development bank annual assembly, said saturday that his country did not have the monetary reserves to cover interest payments for the second quarter
he said brazil needed the short-term bridge loan to help meet those payments while the new refinancing accord is ironed out. brazil wants a 20-year repayment accord plus a grace period of eight years, he said
yamaguchi told reporters that both the creditors and brazil are ``more realistic'' and look for an arrangement ``as soon as possible.''
da nobrega also met with william rhodes, a vice president of citicorp; michael hunter, of lloyds bank; and leighton coleman, of morgan guaranty trust. the brazilian minister said the meetings were ``good and cordial'' but declined to comment further upon them. attorneys</head>
sorting out the millionaire hunt brothers' bankruptcy court cases has required hundreds of attorneys and millions of dollars a month in legal fees for the numerous parties involved, according to a report published sunday
legal costs are estimated at close to $6 million monthly in the multimillion-dollar bankruptcy cases for dallas-based placid oil co. and the estates of william herbert hunt, nelson bunker hunt and lamar hunt, the dallas times herald reported
this is an enormous case requiring an enormous amount of hours to keep up with it,'' said grover hartt, the deputy attorney in charge of the u.s. justice department's tax division office in dallas. ``it is certainly one of the biggest cases our office has ever handled.''
the two bankruptcy cases now involve more than 20 banks, three federal agencies _ the justice department, internal revenue service and securities and exchange commission _ and hundreds of creditors employing armies of attorneys to protect their interests
a master list of parties involved in the placid case includes names of more than 150 different legal firms, said thomas armstrong, an attorney with simon, anisman, doby, wilson &amp; skillern
armstrong, as administrator of the case, sends copies of any developments in the case to everyone on the list
this has been a seven-day-a-week case since it started. just keeping up is the hard part _ we (send) notices to the world every time we do something,'' said armstrong
the william herbert hunt estate has the largest service list with 172 parties, placid is second with 155 and the nelson bunker hunt estate is third with 94, court documents show. documents for the lamar hunt estate were not available
r. paul wickes, an attorney for thompson &amp; knight, which represents first republicbank in its dealings with placid, said the number of lawyers involved is proportionate to the amount of money in question
the number (of lawyers) may be abnormal but there are not many bankruptcies that involve close to $1 billion in assets,'' wickes said. ``it is the kind of case that takes a lot of people putting in a lot of time.''
henry simon, who is the lead counsel representing placid, and other attorneys must submit applications to federal bankruptcy judge harold abramson before being paid. simon estimates he charges $350,000 to $450,000 a month
ed creel, the lawyer representing the william herbert hunt estate, estimates his fees are between $50,000 and $60,000 a month
