a specially equipped van that can churn out more than 7,000 slices of pizza a day for hungry muscovites was unveiled in preparation for its shipment to the soviet union
the mobile pizzeria, conceived by two new jersey entrepreneurs, will be put aboard an container ship early next week for the two-week trip to helsinki, finland, astro pizza ltd. inc. officials said friday in this new york harbor city
company operations manager patrick ferrante said he would drive the van 750 miles to moscow, and that muscovites should be munching on american-style pizza within a month
they're going to love it. who doesn't love pizza?'' said louis piancone sr., president of roma food enterprises inc. in piscataway, which is participating in the joint venture
pizza will be made every seven minutes and will cost about 70 cents a slice, piancone said. a 16-inch cheese pie will go for $5.50, or seven rubles
the 36-foot-by-11-foot van has an oven, refrigerators, freezers and a machine that presses dough in three seconds. it several hundred thousand dollars to design and build, officials said
all the pizza ingredients will come from the united states, said piancone
piancone and partner shelley m. ziegler, who operates a trenton real estate and import firm, said they intend to follow the mobile pizzeria with up to 25 stores to serve pizzas and italian dishes to moscow residents and tourists
pizza is served in the soviet union but ``the concept is totally different from in america and that's unfortunate,'' piancone said
piancone and ziegler set up astro pizza after signing an agreement with moscow officials who visited new jersey last october
officials credited soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or openness, with permitting their business to move ahead
piancone, who plans a later trip to the soviet union, said he hopes to serve pizza to gorbachev
to teach soviet employees the secret of making delicious pizza, several technicians from roma, which supplies pizza makers in 33 u.s. states with everything from pans to sauce, will accompany piancone
if the soviet venture succeeds, astro pizza outlets in spain, japan, china and italy may not be far behind, he said
the woman who resigned as head of gallaudet university after angry student protests says officials didn't foresee that having a deaf president would become ``a national civil rights matter.''
elisabeth ann zinser, who can hear and does not know sign language, said a week of outcry over her appointment at the school for the deaf made her see that deaf people as a group must ``take their place in society and this had become the time.''
i have responded to this extraordinary social movement of deaf people, not to the demands of the students and protesters,'' she said
as the search progressed and as we got to the point of actually making the offer to me, the situation was becoming more intense, but they still did not perceive that it would end up becoming a national civil rights matter,'' she said
she said she resigned when she realized how deeply the deaf community felt about the gallaudet presidency as a symbol
i eventually began to really believe what was being said here on the part of that community,'' she said
the 124-year-old school is the only liberal arts university for the deaf in the world, but has never had a deaf president
about 2,500 students and supporters rallied at the capitol after zinser resigned, claiming victory, but insisting that they would not stop until their demand for a deaf president is met
the students say they want the president chosen from the two deaf finalists from sunday
the students want jane bassett spilman, chairwoman of the board to resign, a deaf majority on the board, and guarantees that there would be no reprisals against any of the demonstrators
virtually all 2,200 graduate and undergraduate students at gallaudet participated in the week-long protests
we're still winning. we're still winning,'' said student leader jerry covell. he said he was pleased that zinser had resigned, but he urged the students to continue their battle
gary olsen, executive director of the national association of the deaf, told the students their protests had helped the cause of deaf people nationwide
truman stelle, a gallaudet faculty member, said, ``it is long past time that gallaudet had a deaf president, as testimony that deaf people are capable of leading themselves.''
stelle said the ouster of spilman was important because ``she clearly sees herself as owner of the gallaudet plantation, answerable to no one.''
at a news conference earlier friday, spilman criticized the ``external interests of people who perhaps are not as interested or involved in the day-to-day operations of gallaudet and not as well informed as the board and the administration.'' she did not elaborate
zinser, who was vice chancellor of the university of north carolina at greensboro, had never formally submitted her resignation there, and university of north carolina system president c.d. spangler said she would be welcome back
the house education and labor committee's subcommittee on select education, which has jurisdiction over funding for gallaudet, has scheduled hearings for tuesday to review the makeup of the board and the controversy over the presidential selection. three-quarters of the school's $76 million operating budget comes from the federal government
and john banzhaff, george washington university law professor and founder of the national center for law and the deaf, has filed a complaint with the district of columbia office of human rights charging the board with unlawful discrimination for never hiring a deaf president. up 3rd graf pvs, ``there were ...</note>
two car bombs exploded in the fashionable ``pink zone'' strip of restaurants and night clubs friday, injuring one boy and scattering dinner customers, witnesses said
the explosions occurred about 9:30 p.m., several hours after about 400 union activists marched through the capital to demand that the salvadoran government free a detained labor leader
the car bombs damaged five private cars and shattered windows in three businesses, the witnesses said
the boy had minor head and arm injuries but did not appear to be seriously hurt
no group immediately claimed responsibility for the explosions
leftist guerrillas assumed responsibility for a machine-gun attack in the same district june 19, 1985, in which 13 people, including four off-duty u.s. embassy marine guards and two american businessmen, were killed
in the march earlier friday, one demonstrator was wounded by a gunshot in the leg when other demonstrators identified an undercover security agent in their ranks and confronted him. the man pulled a pistol, shot a demonstrator and ran off
there were no confrontations with police or soldiers along the five-mile march route. uniformed security forces were not in sight
the demonstrators, many of whom carried nail-studded wooden clubs and iron bars, asked passengers to get off about 10 buses along the march route, then deflated the bus tires so the vehicles blocked side streets
a pickup truck was set afire near the u.s. embassy, where the marchers stopped for 30 minutes to denounce u.s. support for the salvadoran government
protesters painted the walls around the embassy with anti-american slogans, and set a stack of tires afire
the demonstrators demanded the release of humberto centeno, the leader of the telecommunications workers union, who was arrested thursday night
the union members alleged centeno was badly beaten by the troops who arrested him, and that he was hospitalized
the government acknowledged centeno's arrest but claimed he tried to attack a member of the security forces. it made no mention of his condition
centeno was arrested after about 50 union members occupied the labor ministry for nine hours thursday, demanding higher pay and reinstatement of fired workers
several metal boxes containing telephone line connections were pried open during friday's march, doused with gasoline, and set ablaze, leaving dozens of city blocks without phone service
take trend-setting princess diana, mix in a fashion collection that's cheeky and classic, long and short, and british designers hope to have the perfect ingredients for a smashing autumn season
conscious of the lingering effects of the october stock market crash and britain's soaring pound, london's top designers have abandoned the silly and unsaleable for a massive dose of realism _ what alastair blair calls ``just adult grown-up clothes.''
there is still plenty of individuality and a little zaniness _ vivian westwood's mini-crinoline skirt topped with a peplum and under-bust waistcoat _ but overall the fall collections launched friday were eminently wearable
the four-day london show attracting more than 6,000 buyers has become a regular stop on the international fashion circuit, sandwiched between the milan and paris shows. the clothing and textile industry is britain's third-largest export earner, with clothing exports alone totaling $2.4 billion
princess diana, one of the industry's biggest boosters, hopes to give britain's designers an edge over foreign rivals with a reception monday night at her home in kensington palace for 200 buyers, designers and fashion journalists
edina ronay, a favorite designer of the princess and her sister-in-law, the duchess of york, said: ``it's one-up on any other country that doesn't have a royal family that the whole world knows about.''
blair, another royal favorite, said of the princess: ``i think she's 98 percent responsible for the revival of interest in british fashion and i think what she's doing is terrific.''
like the italians, britain's designers couldn't decide whether hems should be long or short so they offered both with plenty of trousers, mainly wide, as well as some slimmer jodhpurs, breeches and dickensian stovepipes
several british designers also picked up on the italian fascination with ``ecological furs.'' arabella pollen, who did a circus theme, had fake leopard and zebra mini-suits and antony price did brocade suits and frock coats trimmed in fake mink
ronay's designs went edwardian. wendy dagworthy also explored ``retro themes of edwardian and late forties'' and betty jackson did hourglass edwardian jackets in a collection she called ``a complete mix-up ... which i love.''
the new realism of british fashion, the designers said, means choice, quality and price-consciousness
i think it's luxury dressing ... it's beautiful fabrics, it's opulent,'' said david sassoon of belville sassoon
and then there's a contradiction, well almost, with lots of trousers _ they're suddenly important again and they don't pose a length problem. women who don't know whether to go long or short will opt for pants,'' he said
betty jackson's collection was nearly all pants, wide and slim. rifat ozbek designed a clinging wool jersey jumpsuit with a tiny draped mini-skirt over it. bruce oldfield said shapes were more important than lengths _ and he's doing bell skirts
benny ong, who showed silks with short bell skirts as well as long tubular dresses, said: ``i think women want to look younger but without looking silly. give them a choice, but maintain their integrity.''
blair echoed that view, showing long and short skirts. ``i think women who do spend money on clothes are fed up that they have to look like 18-year-olds. you have to give people a choice.'' he said
with flounces and full skirts outmoded, blair said he was able to use less fabric and cut the cost of his daywear by 25 percent and his evening gowns by 17 percent _ a plus in the current financial climate
gina fratini, whose black velvet cocktail dresses with ruffles and dashes of hot pink, electric blue and turquoise were an instant seller, said the stock market crash had made the designers ``come out fighting.''
i think the stock market crash, if anything, has brought the fun clothes back because we want to cheer ourselves up,'' she said
a 30-year-old man slit his throat with a razor blade outside a judge's chambers shortly after being convicted of sexually abusing a 7-year-old girl and repeatedly burning her with a cigarette, authorities said
albert john lang of new derry was in serious condition today at westmoreland hospital in this western pennsylvania city, said a nursing supervisor who refused to give her name
the incident occurred friday after westmoreland county judge daniel ackerman excused the jury that convicted lang, said district attorney john driscoll
lang was handing his personal belongings to his wife when he suddenly charged toward ackerman's door, driscoll said. deputy sheriffs quickly locked the door
lang then sliced his throat with a razor blade and was subdued by the deputy sheriffs,'' driscoll said
lang was convicted of several counts of molestation and a charge of wounding the girl 90 times with a cigarette, according to driscoll
an agriculture department export program is helping alaska promote salmon in western europe and japan, two lucrative u.s. farm markets where competition is rising
the department's targeted export assistance program, popularly called tea, has allocated $1.95 million this fiscal year for the alaska seafood marketing institute, a quasi-independent commission of the state's department of commerce and economic development
according to a usda list of trade organizations sharing in the program, the only other comparable group is the catfish farmers of america, which was allocated $50,000
department officials said each tea plan is negotiated with the sponsoring group. some put up money to match or exceed the federal contribution, while others contribute less than tea provides
total funding of tea, which was authorized by the food security act of 1985, was pegged at a minimum of $110 million annually. about 40 different commodities, including alaskan seafood, share in the program
as directed by congress, the purpose of tea is to finance promotional activities for u.s. agricultural products that have been put to a disadvantage by subsidies and unfair trade policies of competitor nations
the institute is ready to pit alaska salmon against pen-raised salmon from norway being promoted in france and japan, according to roberta graham of evans-kraft bean, an anchorage public relations firm representing the institute
alaska processors also are attending trade fairs and food shows in tokyo and paris to promote salmon, ms. graham said this week (thursday) during a visit to washington
you have the corn belt and the wheat belt,'' she said. ``i choose to call alaska the fish belt.''
the importance of fishing to the alaskan economy cannot be understated, she said. it's second only to the oil, generating $900 million for the state's economy last year
in the first year of the tea program, the alaskans got $1.5 million from usda. the 1988 allocation, according to march 1 figures by the department's foreign agricultural service, is $1.95 million, making a two-year total of $3.45 million
but no matter how important fishing is to alaska, the state's tea allocation is a small part of the program's overall budget for the fiscal year that began on oct. 1. some other commodities qualified for much higher shares
the largest single tea allocation this year is $10.5 million to promote citrus from arizona and california. the american soybean association followed with $9.8 million. the u.s. feed grains council got $2.4 million, and u.s. wheat associates, $1.2 million
california, the nation's leading producer of agricultural products in terms of value, qualifies for the largest share of tea money. the 1988 allocations, for example, include six different california state commissions and boards affecting: avocados, $450,000; cling peaches, $5.7 million; kiwifruit, $500,000; prunes, $5.5 million; raisins, $9.8 million; and table grapes, $750,000
as the main producer of almonds, california also benefits from $6.5 million of tea money allocated for that crop this year. the walnut marketing board gets $6.5 million to promote walnuts overseas, another california crop
the keynote speaker for the agriculture department's conference on quality of farm products will be u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter
the meeting will be held in st. louis, mo., june 29 through july 1, said assistant secretary kenneth a. gilles
gilles said friday that the conference ``will focus on maintaining a quality advantage for american agriculture in the highly competitive domestic and international marketplace.''
subject matter will include cereals, oilseeds, fruits and nuts, vegetables, red meat, poultry, industrial crops, dairy, tobacco, cotton, wool, horticulture and forage crops
the major audience for this conference is farm organizations, farm market development organizations, agribusiness, wholesalers, retailers, trade associations, agriculturally related industries, and the agricultural higher-education community,'' he said
the agriculture department is adding the simbrah association to its list of registered cattle breeds so owners can qualify for higher federal payments when animals are slaughtered under the department's brucellosis eradication program
brucellosis is a highly contagious disease, said james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service
our experience has shown that indemnities encourage owners to remove infected animals from their herds to prevent the spread of the disease.''
brucellosis can be passed on to humans _ where it is known as undulant fever _ through raw milk from infected cows
simbrah cattle are a cross between simmental and brahman, the department said. approximately 2,200 u.s. producers own registered simbrah cattle
to receive federal indemnities for registered cattle, the owner must present a certificate of registration as proof that the animal belonged to one of the 61 usda-listed breed associations
the indemnity rate for all dairy cattle, and registered beef cattle and bison is $250 per animal, while the payment for non-registered beef and bison is $50 per animal
officials said the new rule goes into effect on april 11. leasing plan</head>
local environmental groups from new england to florida to the pacific northwest are joining forces against the reagan administration's five-year plan for offshore oil and gas leasing
no longer will the fight to block the administration's leasing plan be a series of pitched battles,'' lynn davidson of greenpeace said friday
coalition organizers said at a news conference following three days of meetings in washington that they will consider joint public education campaigns, lobbying efforts and perhaps an advertising campaign
this is not a state, local or regional issue, it is a national issue,'' said rachael binah of the ocean sanctuary coordinating committee. ``we want americans to see the bigger picture
if the department of interior is allowed to continue with its five-year leasing plan, the coastline of the united states will be systematically destroyed,' she said
environmental leaders said they will focus on federal legislation for sensitive coastal areas in new england, florida and california that would block or defer implementation of the five-year leasing plan, which was unveiled last year by interior secretary donald hodel
the most sensitive parts of georges bank, a fishing-rich area off the new england coast, already are protected under a congressional moratorium. rep. gerry e. studds, d-mass., vowed last week to fight for the georges bank ban again this year
ann whitfield of the florida public interest research group said hodel, because of the five-year plan, makes former interior secretary james watt ``look like an environmentalist.'' watt and his policies were constantly under attack by the environmental community during his tenure early in the reagan administration
richard charter, who represents some cities and counties in the offshore leasing controversy in california, said the coalition also wants to force the leasing issue into the presidential campaign
we're here to send a message that america cares about its coastline,'' he said
he said all the democratic presidential aspirants have vowed to either oppose or modify hodel's plan, which outlines the areas open for leasing and creates a timetable for the leasing of tracts
the republican candidates have not answered issue inquiries sent by the activists, charter said
regional activists said they are fighting proposals to lease tracts off the coasts of california, florida, new england, the gulf and the pacific northwest
a group of environmentalists in august sued the interior department to halt the interior department's leasing plan. that suit is pending in the u.s. court of appeals
congressional analysts are challenging president reagan's contention that a capital-gains tax cut would reduce the federal budget deficit
although boosting the tax rate probably would produce less revenue, the congressional budget office concluded that most evidence indicates that a lower rate would also result in a revenue loss. the study estimated that loss at $3.9 billion to $7.8 billion a year if the top rate on long-term capital gains were lowered from 33 percent to 15 percent
some advocates estimate the government would collect as much as $15 billion a year more under a 15 percent cut because the lower rate would encourage people to sell long-held assets
cbo researchers cautioned against putting too much faith in any prediction of how taxpayers might react to changes. there are so many uncertainties, the study said, ``that one cannot reject the possibility that a 15 percent rate might increase revenues.'' but the cbo said that is unlikely
as part of the massive revision of federal income taxes in 1986, congress eliminated the long-time preferential treatment accorded capital gains, which are profits from the sale of stocks, real estate and other assets owned more than six months. that action raised the top rate on capital gains from 20 percent to 33 percent
in a written message to congress on jan. 25, reagan said: ``the most important piece of unfinished (tax) business is to reduce the capital-gains tax rate to the level that will generate the savings and investment necessary for future economic growth. past experience demonstrates that lowering the capital-gains tax rate will mean increased realizations of capital gains upon which taxes are paid
reducing the capital-gains tax rate to an agreed-upon optimum should be a cornerstone of tax reform for the 1990s,'' reagan wrote
the president did not say how deeply the rate should be cut, but the level mentioned most often by congressional advocates is 15 percent
there is considerable support in congress for reducing the maximum capital-gains rate. advocates say this not only would raise revenue _ by encouraging the sale of long-held assets _ but also would encourage new investment
opponents, noting that eliminating the capital-gains benefit was a major factor in getting the 1986 tax law enacted, contend restoring it would threaten that entire package
most benefits of a capital-gains reduction would go to the wealthiest americans. the internal revenue service estimates that taxpayers with incomes of $100,000 or more account for 55 percent of all capital gains but only 9 percent of other income
in a report to chairman william gray, d-pa., of the house budget committee, the cbo concluded that any increase in capital-gains realizations _ the sale of assets _ was not likely to generate enough revenue to offset a cut in the tax rate
in addition, the study said, restoring preferential treatment to capital gains might reduce other forms of taxable income, such as interest and dividends, because investments that created capital gains would be made more attractive than other types
teamsters president jackie presser's attorney says he's pleased with a ruling that prosecutors improperly obtained statements from an fbi agent charged with lying about his role in handling presser as an informant
we look forward to a similar result in the jackie presser case,'' attorney john climaco said in an interview in cleveland friday after an appeals court in washington suppressed statements that former cleveland fbi agent robert s. friedrick allegedly made to government prosecutors in early 1986
friedrick was indicted in may 1986 on five counts of making false statements that forced the government to delay for nearly a year its planned prosecution of presser
presser, who has headed the 1.6 million-member teamsters union since 1983, was also indicted in may 1986. a grand jury in cleveland charged him with two counts of labor racketeering, one count of embezzlement and two counts of filing false reports with the government. his trial is set for july
friedrick orginally said presser had been authorized by his fbi handlers to hire ``ghost employees'' at a cleveland teamsters union local who did no work
the justice department wanted to prosecute presser for the alleged ghost hirings, but abandoned the investigation after friedrick's assertions
however, friedrick admitted during the ensuing fbi-justice department inquiry that his statements about authorizing the illegal acts were false, according to tapes and transcripts provided by the justice department. his alleged admissions revived the teamsters probe, which resulted in the indictment of presser
friedrick's attorney, william beyer, said friday's appeals court decision eliminates the only evidence prosecutors have against his client
i don't know of any other evidence that they have to support their claim,'' beyer said in a telephone interview from cleveland
but friedrick, who was fired from the fbi last august, succeeded in having his alleged admissions suppressed as evidence by u.s. district judge george revercomb on grounds that the justice department interrogators had not advised him of his constitutional right to remain silent
clendon lee, spokesman for the u.s. attorney's office in washington, declined comment
it was unclear what effect the decision would have on the government's case against presser
stephen jigger, head of the fbi strike force in cleveland and prosecutor in the presser case, declined comment, saying he had not yet received a copy of the court decision
during a june 26, 1985, interview at fbi headquarters in washington, friedrick signed an fbi form that said he was required to answer questions, but that the government could not use his statements against him in a criminal prosecution as long as they were true
during interviews the following january, friedrick made statements contradicting his previous assertion that presser had been authorized to put ghost employees on the local's payroll. the next day he failed a lie detector test
the appellate court upheld revercomb's finding that friedrick was not warned during the interview that statements he made could be used against him
the prosecutors ``made a conscious decision prior to the interview not to furnish friedrick with or even mention (the fbi form); indeed they hoped that friedrick would make incriminating statements that they could use against him in a subsequent prosecution,'' the court said in an opinion by judge kenneth starr
a sore jaw from a bout in the dentist's chair has put gov. mario cuomo out of action for a couple of days and will probably cause him to skip a gridiron-style dinner, his press secretary says
the governor's dental work friday was nothing serious but was enough for him to be told to ``lay low'' through today, said gary fryer
as a result, cuomo will probably skip an appearance tonight at the annual inner circle dinner, a satirical look at new york city politics and government staged by reporters, fryer said
fryer said he wasn't certain of the exact nature of the dental work, but said cuomo might have to return for more
baseball player steve kiefer says he's lucky to be alive after getting smacked with a beer bottle that cut his neck
kiefer, an infielder with the milwaukee brewers, suffered cuts that required nearly 200 stitches after the incident thursday night at a night spot here
the doctor told me it was one-sixteenth of an inch from the carotid artery,'' said kiefer, 27. ``if it would have cut that, it would have killed me. i feel lucky to be alive.''
delfino neira, 28, of bakersfield, calif., was charged friday with aggravated assault. police said there was an argument over a woman's belt before neira left the bar, and he returned later and hit kiefer with the bottle
kiefer said he found a belt on the floor of the nightclub and gave it to a woman who said it was hers
shortly after that, kiefer said, neira ``came by and nudged me. i didn't accost him. i just said `excuse me.' '' neira apparently left the bar but returned about 45 minutes later
i don't recall any argument,'' kiefer said. ``the police said he was a friend of the girl who the belt belonged to. but i don't see what that had to do with it, because i gave it back to her.''
kiefer was expected to return to team workouts sunday
the kennedy clan has grown by one, with the birth of a daughter to one of sen. edward m. kennedy's nieces, victoria lawford pender
the 8-pound, 9-ounce baby, alexandra lawford pender, is the 14th great-grandchild of matriarch rose kennedy. she was born friday at georgetown university hospital, the senator's office said
mrs. pender, 29, is a daughter of pat kennedy lawford and the late actor peter lawford. her husband, robert, is a washington attorney
both mother and child are doing well, officials said
lotfi mansouri has quit as general director of the canadian opera company with a parting shot to the local establishment, saying he would accept a similar post with the san francisco opera
the iranian-born mansouri, who has had the toronto post for 12 years, said he leaves the city with ``great sadness,'' but added, ``i am sick and tired of trying to justify the art form (here).''
at a news conference friday, he again expressed regret that the canadian company is not better supported by government funds and that there still is no definite word on a proposed new opera-ballet house in toronto
he will take up his new post in january 1989, succeeding general director terence mcewen, who is retiring for health reasons. both men are 58
the san francisco opera, second in size on the continent to new york's metropolitan opera, has a budget of $25 million, twice that of the canadian opera company
rosa l. parks, the 75-year-old heroine of the civil rights movement, left johns hopkins hospital with a new pacemaker
ms. parks, a detroit resident, received a pacemaker tuesday and was discharged friday, said hospital spokesman phil kibak
nearly 33 years ago, ms. parks refused to give up her seat to a white man on a segregated bus in montgomery, ala. she was arrested, and the black community retaliated by boycotting the buses
a national celebration in her honor is scheduled here in june
designer oscar de la renta will receive the first joslyn art museum fashion award
the joslyn women's association will give de la renta a crystal award inscribed with the joslyn insignia at a fund-raising luncheon june 13. plans for the award were announced thursday
the award will be given periodically to leading designers who show creativity and support the arts
president reagan says he is prepared to take additional steps against panama's government if a new series of economic sanctions does not force military strongman manuel antonio noriega from power
as expected, reagan announced friday that the united states will withhold a $6.5 million payment due to panama next tuesday for operations relating to the panama canal. he took other measures designed to make panmanian products less competitive in u.s. markets
until such time as a democratic government is restored in panama, the u.s. cannot proceed on a business as usual basis,'' reagan said in a statement
panama's ambassador, juan b. sosa, praised reagan's announcement. he told a news conference late friday that the sanctions, combined with anti-government actions by the panamanian people, will be enough to bring noriega down
sosa has refused to recognize the two-week old regime in panama, sharing reagan's view that it took power by unconstitutional means and is therefore illegitimate. sosa has declined to turn over the embassy to a new envoy named by noriega
rep. jack fields, r-texas, the ranking minority member of a house subcommittee that deals with the panama canal, said he was ``ecstatic'' over reagan's announcement. he predicted the sanctions will hasten noriega's departure
reagan said that noriega, under federal indictment on drug trafficking charges, would best serve panama by relinquishing his post as commander of panama's defense forces
reagan's announcement came two weeks after president eric arturo delvalle attempted to fire noriega but was instead ousted hours later in a move that had all the the earmarks of a military coup
the president said his decision to withhold the $6.5 million payment and place it in escrow was not in violation of u.s. obligations under the panama canal treaties
i am prepared to take additional steps, if necessary, to deny the transfer of funds to the noriega regime from other sources in the u.s.,'' reagan said
reagan also said that panamanian exports subject to u.s. tariffs will no longer be admitted at the lowest possible rates. secretary of state george p. shultz said the amount of annual trade affected by the decision is $96 million
in addition, reagan announced the suspension of panamanian participation in the caribbean basin initiative, under which some products are allowed duty-free entry into the united states
he also ordered stepped-up inspection of people and goods entering the united states from panama in order to apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers
shultz said there was no need to impose an additional sanction relating to the fees panama receives from alaskan oil shipments transferred to u.s. east coast ports through a panamanian pipeline
shultz said those fees already have been frozen based on earlier court action. estimates of the revenues panama receives from the pipeline range from $80 million to $120 million annually
the aim of the sanctions is to aggravate an existing cash-flow crisis in panama. panamanian newspapers said friday paychecks for government workers may have to be delayed because of the cash shortage
also on friday, abc news quoted diplomatic sources as saying the government of spain was prepared to offer asylum to noriega
the two countries most mentioned by opposition leaders as possible asylum sites are paraguay and the dominican republic. opposition leaders say they have sounded out the dominican republic and that noriega sent two military colleagues to paraguay this past week, possibly to discuss asylum prospects. saying fire might last four days, other quotes, color, smoke seen in fort-worth-dallas, val verde county fire, edits to tighten. no pickup.</note>
firefighters begged for help from neighboring counties friday in battling grass fires that seared a 60-mile swath across west texas ranch land
the fire is out of control on all fronts,'' the shackelford county sheriff's office reported. ``we're pulling all our forces back in to protect homes.''
the fire killed an undetermined number of cattle, set hunting camps ablaze, and destroyed at least one mobile home. some of the 500 firefighters suffered minor burns and were overcome by smoke, but no serious injuries were reported
the fire was reported within two or three miles of albany, a town of about 2,500 people, but evacuations were not immediately ordered. firefighters earlier burned ground near the town to divert the main fire
it's just an inferno in the pastures. and with winds of 35 mph, a horse couldn't outrun it,'' said albany resident liston f. todd, who was helping build firebreaks to detour the blaze
the fire, which began thursday, covered an area 60 miles long and 25 miles wide over three counties, with at least a 20-mile wide portion of the blaze out of control, officials said
joe fox, the texas forest service official overseeing the firefighting, said it could take four more days to finally put out the fire. smoke and haze reached the fort worth-dallas area, more than 120 miles east of the blaze
a u.s. forest service aircraft tanker was scheduled to fly over the area saturday morning, dumping up to 2,000 gallons of fire-extinguishing chemicals
shifting winds made it difficult to determine where the fire would spread, and in some cases firefighters were nearly surrounded by the swift flames
at least one firefighting bulldozer was caught and destroyed by the fire. a tv news team was momentarily threatened by a line of fire that suddenly changed course
twenty volunteer fire departments sent men and equipment to the area on friday, a day after gov. bill clements ordered 100 national guardsmen to help
they joined nearly two dozen forest service firefighters and the crews of 15 fire deparments. police radios crackled with pleas for more equipment and manpower to battle the blazes
texas forest service spokesman sam logan said there had been speculation that trash fires may have sparked the blazes when humidity dipped to 7 percent thursday. ``we consider anything below 30 percent is really dangerous.''
meanwhile, a blaze broke out in val verde county about 200 miles away, blackening 125,000 acres of ranchland about 60 miles north of the mexican border
no injuries were reported. a shift in the wind was expected to help the fire burn itself out, officials. est</note>
jesse jackson was hoping to win a clear majority of delegates today in south carolina's democratic presidential caucuses, while tennessee sen. albert gore jr. insisted he was a strong contender
if you believe it we're going to win this nomination,'' jackson told members of the south carolina education association friday
jackson said half the states have held primaries or caucuses and he has finished first or second in all but a few of them. ``in south carolina ... i want to win another gold medal.''
the caucus meetings at 1,788 precincts were scheduled to begin in the late afternoon
jackson came into south carolina second to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in delegates overall, and jackson predicted that after today's caucuses and the primary tuesday in his second home, illinois, he would be the delegate leader
illinois sen. paul simon has virtually ignored south carolina recently and his state campaign coordinator, dan king, said friday that the campaign was asking simon supporters to remain uncommitted in the caucuses today but to work to become delegates to the county conventions later in the month
missouri rep. richard gephardt campaigned two days in the state this week and also is looking for a share of the 44 delegates at stake
gore, who toured the state's major cities friday, said he expected to do ``extremely well'' today and said he was the candidate with the momentum. he told a crowd of a few hundred supporters at the statehouse that his strong showing on super tuesday surprised everyone
i believe that momentum is going to continue right through the convention in atlanta and right through november,'' he said. ``i'm excited about the possibility of victory.''
john dukakis said friday he believed his father would get some support because of his front-runner status and his vision for economic growth
we would like to pick up some delegates,'' he said. ``but we're realistic and know it's going to be difficult. we understand that we're up against two strong favorite sons and that they are going to do well.''
a construction company facing lawsuits and fines over a building collapse in bridgeport, conn., that killed 28 workmen filed friday for reorganization under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code
texstar construction corp. and its subsidiary continental lift slab corp. took the step so that any litigation can be heard in texas rather than the unfriendly judicial environment of bridgeport, said corporate counsel david t. turlington
it acted after a federal judge in bridgeport approved a $187 million lien against company assets to cover any damages that might result from a suit filed over the april 1987 collapse of the l'ambiance plaza apartment complex by victims and families
you basically have convicted the guy and taken his assets, and he still hasn't had the right to a trial,'' said turlington. ``we are concerned about the political and judicial atmosphere in connecticut, which has been attempting to ban the lift-slab method.''
san antonio-based texstar was the primary subcontractor on the l'ambiance plaza. it was constructed using the lift-slab method, in which concrete floors are poured on the ground, then lifted by jacks to their proper height along vertical steel columns
the occupational safety and health administration fined texstar $2.52 million for 238 instances of alleged willful violations. texstar also has been referred to the justice department for possible prosecution
on march 2, victims and families of victims filed suit in u.s. district court in bridgeport against texstar. judge warren eginton on march 2 gave the plaintiffs permission to attach $187 million of texstar's assets
texstar listed unsecured debts of almost $190 million and assets of about $1.3 million. continental lift slab listed unsecured debts of $150,449 and assets of $327,709
chapter 11 allows a company to hold off its creditors while it undergoes a financial reorganization
in a statement, texstar said friday that it has not been given the opportunity ``to a fair and impartial trial or hearing'' and that bankruptcy court would provide a forum to answer the allegations
we are certainly not going to stop the presses just because texstar has filed chapter 11,'' said bridgeport attorney richard beider, lead counsel for the victims' families
bieder called the action ``unfortunate because it is another blow to the families of the victims that comes on the heels of the tragedy itself and on the heels of laws that are like hurdles that the families have to overcome to receive just compensation.''
associations representing city and county governments are ``virtually certain'' to appeal a court ruling that is permitting the reagan administration to withhold $180 million in revenue sharing funds, an attorney says
a three-judge panel of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit on friday reversed a lower court ruling and said the administration did not have to distribute the money to local governments
i think it's virtually certain we'll ask the court to reconsider its decision,'' said david c. vladek, a lawyer for the national association of counties, the national league of cities, the u.s. conference of mayors and 10 city and county governments
my sense is the court did not fully comprehend the nature of our legal arguments,'' he said
the dispute involves president reagan's feb. 1, 1986, order under the gramm-rudman law that set aside 4.3 percent of budget items, including $180 million from that year's $4.2 billion appropriation to the revenue sharing trust fund
the local governments argued that the law provided that 1986 budget money that had been sequestered should remain in government trust funds and be paid out in 1987. they argued that even though congress had abolished revenue sharing after 1986, it intended that any money remaining in the trust fund be distributed
revenue sharing, begun under the nixon administration, provided nearly all local governments with unrestricted federal grants
u.s. district judge joyce hens green on july 28 ruled in favor of the local governments and said treasury secretary james a. baker iii had illegally transferred the revenue sharing money from the trust fund to the general fund
however, judge john r. gibson, who wrote the appeals panel's decision reversing green, said congress' intent with the gramm-rudman law was clearly to reduce the federal budget deficit
merely freezing (the monies in 1986) and resuscitating them (in 1987) would not result in any meaningful deficit reduction and could be characterized by critics to be a sham,'' said gibson, who was joined by judges patricia m. wald and david santelle
the result in this case may be harsh, but we believe it is consistent with congressional intent,'' wrote gibson, who was designated to the case from the u.s. court of appeals for the eighth circuit in st. louis
among the plaintiffs are new york city; kansas city, mo.; milwaukee county, wis.; and cuyahoga county, ohio, which includes cleveland
the u.s. conference of mayors, at the time of the original district court decision last summer, had estimated that new york would receive $10 million; chicago, $2.6 million; los angeles, $2.2 million; and detroit $1.3 million of the money
other estimates were $606,000 for new orleans; $554,000 for indianapolis; $677,000 for washington d.c.; $440,000 for denver and $104,000 for des moines, iowa. estimates for other cities were not provided
here is a transcript of gary hart's statement withdrawing friday from the race for the democratic presidential nomination
thank you very much
thank you all very much
i want to, first of all, introduce my wife, lee, our son, john
i want also to acknowledge the presence of some very good friends and great party leaders here today: the governor of the state of colorado, roy romer. our good personal friends and more than worthy successor to me in the united states senate, tim and wren wirth. and the chairman of the colorado state democratic party, and also a very good friend of ours, buie seawell
we want to thank each and every one of you for being here
few people have had the good fortune that i've had; good fortune measured in terms of my family and a far-flung network of friends and supporters around the country, and in the opportunities that i have been given to serve my country
fewer americans, still, have had the opportunity to run for president of the united states, and i've had that chance twice
the people are the strength of this country
i said i wanted them to decide about my candidacy
i got a fair hearing
and the people have decided
and now i clearly should not go forward
my candidacy represented a more complicated and difficult choice than in 1984
a choice beyond the scope of traditional politics, and i fully understood that
i also had a more far-reaching and complex economic, defense, and foreign policy agenda
that was difficult to reduce to slogans and sound bites
nonetheless, i did get a chance, particularly in the debates, to get my message of fundamental change and reform on the record, and to draw distinctions between my ideas and those of the other democratic candidates
for that, i want to thank all those, especially the young people who came to my speeches
and i want to thank members of the press and media who were fair, balanced and professional
lee and i want to congratulate mike and kitty dukakis, jesse and jackie jackson, and al and tipper gore, for their very impressive achievements last tuesday and before
they've all worked extremely hard, and they deserve every bit of the credit they have received
i also want to thank paul simon, along with the others, for his gentlemanliness towards me in the debates, and wish him well in his home state primary
while disagreeing with him strongly on trade and international economics, i've been extremely impressed with dick gephardt's thoughtfulness and his equanimity under harsh attack
despite his lack of political success, all of us gained great respect for bruce babbitt, as truth-teller and prophet on our national budget and fiscal policy
win or lose, each of these candidates has grown in stature and deserves to be considered as genuine national leaders
but win or lose, we also face an unhappy reality
the democratic party has won only one national election since 1964
the struggle in our party is not between the left and the right, it's between the past and the future
and those who cling to the past too often mask their lack of vision and direction with caution and vagueness and platitudes
we can only win if we are prepared to govern
and we can only be prepared to govern if we challenge the future with bold, specific new policies to make our economy productive once again, and to conduct a serious foreign policy in an increasingly complex world
the remaining candidates should forgo the bitter personal attacks so favored by political insiders, and, instead, show their concern for the national interest by seriously debating the issues that are threatening our country
instead of canceling or running from debates, now that there are fewer candidates, there should be more debates
a presidential campaign really is a debate over differences among the candidates
and that's what it ought to be
the remaining candidates should put out budget proposals to reduce reagan deficits and show how they would pay for their programs
this would demonstrate competence and show honesty on the tax issue
i encourage these candidates to learn the principles and philosophy of military reform, because that represents the best defense policy for our country
and they should spell out a foreign policy framework that's specific on issues such as third world debt and the use of military force to avoid the continuing pitfalls of ad hoc response of crisis after crisis
we should challenge our young people to help eliminate illiteracy and poverty and pollution, to give something back to their country through a voluntary national service
so now is the time that the candidates should welcome serious debates, not about personalities, but about policies for this country's future
the reason i got back in the race was to help stimulate that debate about the future, to challenge caution and narrow-interest politics of the past, and to lead the cause of reform
and i intend to continue that leadership for reform, because it is the best hope for our country
it's a cause that lives on beyond any campaign
i hope those who share that cause will help me continue the center for a new democracy, which we began in 1984
through the center, through speeches, through writing and symposiums around the country, we can provide a voice for those who know our policies must be fundamentally restructured to keep the torch of democracy and idealism and hope alive
most of all, i want to say that no one has ever been more blessed with family and friends than i have
my friends and supporters around the country have given the word ``loyalty'' new meaning
they've toiled tirelessly in an uphill fight, understanding the odds throughout, and having as their only reward the knowledge that they had done their very best to move our country forward
to all of you everywhere, particularly the young people, my very warmest thanks and deepest gratitude, and i promise that i'll find some way in years to come to repay your commitment and loyalty to the cause which we shared
public words, of course, are insufficient to express my feelings towards lee and andrea and john, each of whom has demonstrated in his or her own way inexhaustible courage and fortitude and conviction in that same cause
they're owed more than i can ever possibly repay
and to those of you in and out of politics who may face setbacks, failures, or defeats, who are told to give up, accommodate, or compromise, i hope you'll simply say, as i do, ``hell, no.''
preserve your integrity, study time and patience, and never give up
as i have before, i leave with you these words:
no great cause is ever lost or ever won. the battle must always be renewed and the creed restated, for some things are universal, catholic, and undying. they do not age or pass out of fashion, for they symbolize eternal things. they are the guardians of the freedom of the human spirit, the proof of what our mortal frailty can achieve.''
thank you all
god bless you
here is a brief chronology of the life of former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane, particularly events related to his involvement in the iran-contra affair:
july 12 _ born in washington, d.c., the son of william doddrige mcfarlane, a new deal democratic congressman. grows up in graham, texas
receives a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from the u.s. naval academy in annapolis, md. commissioned as a second lieutenant in the u.s. marine corps. four days after graduation, marries his wife, jonda
serves with the marines in the far east, including a combat tour in vietnam
works as white house fellow in the nixon administration
named military assistant to henry a. kissinger, who was then national security adviser to president nixon
becomes special assistant for national security affairs to president ford
frustrated with the policies of the carter administration, he resigns commission as lieutenant colonel in the marine corps. he serves as assistant to sen. john tower, r-texas, on the senate armed services committee
january _ named a counselor in the state department, under then secretary of state alexander haig
january _ becomes chief deputy to william p. clark, who was president reagan's national security adviser, and ran the day-to-day operations of the national security council
july _ named special envoy to the middle east, succeeding philip habib, at a time when israel was occupying a large part of lebanon
october _ chosen by president reagan to succeed clark as national security adviser. soft-spoken and shunning publicity, he gains a reputation for working 80-hour weeks
may _ mcfarlane meets with bandar bin sultan of saudi arabia to discuss the needs of the nicaraguan contra rebels
july _ israeli official suggests to mcfarlane that a transfer of arms to iran could lead to the release of u.s. hostages in lebanon. mcfarlane takes the message to reagan
aug. 30 _ first plane load of u.s.-made weapons sent from israel to tehran. mcfarlane and white house chief of staff donald regan later disagree over whether the president approved the shipment. mcfarlane says yes, regan says no
dec. 4 _ mcfarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by rear adm. john poindexter. sources say mcfarlane's rivalry with regan led to the resignation
he joins the center for strategic and international studies, a washington policy study center, but later continues working for the national security council as a consultant
may 25 _ mcfarlane and national security council aide oliver north fly to tehran with a shipment of military equipment, expecting hostages to be freed. they take a cake shaped like a key and a bible signed by president reagan. the negotiations fail and they fly home
dec. 1-3 _ he testifies to the senate intelligence committee in the initial congressional inquiry into the iran-contra affair
dec. 8 _ mcfarlane falsely tells the house foreign affairs committee that he did not know about solicitation of donations to the contras from an unidentified foreign country, later revealed to be saudi arabia
feb. 9 _ mcfarlane is hospitalized after taking an overdose of valium in a suicide attempt. he is hospitalized for two weeks. he says later in an interview, ``what really drove me to despair was a sense of having failed the country.''
may 11 _ mcfarlane begins four days of testimony before the congressional iran-contra committees. he tells committee members, ``shoot your best shot.''
in the testimony, mcfarlane says the president instructed his staff in 1984 to find ways around the congressional ban on military aid to the contras. he denies that he, north and poindexter concocted a cover-up story in november 1986
march 11 _ mcfarlane pleads guilty to misdemeanor charges that he misled congress in december 1986. he avoids the more serious charge of perjury and pledges to cooperate with the independent counsel investigating the iran-contra affair
the charges involve assurances that mcfarlane made in three 1985 letters that the administration was not secretly aiding the contras and a fourth statement in testimony before the house foreign affairs committee on dec. 8, 1986
following is the text of robert c. mcfarlane's statement to reporters after his guilty plea to misdemeanor charges of misleading congress in the iran-contra affair
i should say at the outset that from the beginning, judge walsh and all of his staff have dealt with me in a thoroughly professional way. as judge walsh has said, on the occasions that were cited inside, i did indeed withhold information from the congress. i believe strongly that throughout, my actions were motivated by what i believed was in the best foreign policy interests of the united states
from the first moment when the iran-contra disclosures were made in november of '86, i felt a profound personal obligation to testify fully and voluntarily before the bodies that were formally established to investigate this matter _ that includes the tower commission, the joint committee of the congress, and the independent counsel. i have done so, in more than 200 hours of public and private testimony, without access to my records, or with any request for or promise of immunity. i've told all that i know, and it's on the public record for everyone to see. and i intend to remain available to repeat it for as long as it's necessary to bring this matter to a conclusion
i do think that it's unfortunate that the fundamental issue here, that is, why congressional-executive relations broke down so tragically, has not been and apparently cannot be dealt with by the congress or the courts. it seems to me important _ indeed, imperative _ that an in-depth exploration of how to forge a better working relationship is essential if the united states _ and i mean by that the president and the congress _ is to shoulder its global leadership responsibility in the years ahead
and finally, i intend to do what i can to contribute to that continuing effort
here is a text of the statement president reagan released friday announcing a series of sanctions against the government of panama:
the united states has had a long and mutually productive relationship with panama. the people of the united states consider the people of panama to be near neighbors and friends. the historic panama canal treaties exemplify the close cooperation that has traditionally characterized the friendship between the two countries which created one of the great engineering works of the human race
out of concern for our friendship, we have been saddened and increasingly worried in recent years as panama's political crisis deepened. our policy with respect to the situation in panama is clear. we strongly favor a rapid restoration of democracy and the resumption by the panamanian defense forces of a role consistent with constitutional democracy
in the present circumstances, i believe that general noriega would best serve his country by complying with the instruction of president delvalle to relinquish his post. in so doing, general noriega would contribute very substantially to reducing political tensions and set the stage for a prompt transition to democracy in panama
until such a time as democratic government is restored in panama, the u.s. cannot proceed on a `business as usual' basis. today, therefore, i have taken a number of steps against the illegitimate noriega regime that will contribute significantly to the goal of a democratic, stable and prosperous panama
i have directed that actions be taken to suspend trade preferences available to panama under the generalized system of preferences and the caribbean basin initiative. further, in keeping with the spirit of our war against drugs, i have ordered that panama be subject to intensified scrutiny by our immigration and customs services in order to apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers
moreover, because we recognize president delvalle as the lawful head of government in panama, i have directed that all departments and agencies inventory all sources of funds due or payable to the republic of panama from the u.s. government for purposes of determining those that should be placed in escrow for the delvalle government on behalf of the panamanian people. in that light, i have directed that certain payments due to panama from the panama canal commission be placed in escrow immediately. this step is in complete compliance with our obligations under the terms of the panama canal treaties
i am prepared to take additional steps, if necessary, to deny the transfer of funds to the noriega regime from other sources in the u.s
we have welcomed the recent statements issued by president delvalle, the political parties and the civilian crusade of panama calling for a government of national reconciliation. we support their goal of restoring democratic government and constitutional order. once panamanians achieve this goal, the united states is fully prepared to work with the government of panama to help quickly restore panama's economic health
the united states has been, and remains, committed to fulfilling faithfully its obligations under the panama canal treaties. we are also prepared to resume our close working relationships with the panamanian defense forces once civilian government and constitutional democracy are re-established
here in brief are the sanctions imposed by president reagan against panama on friday:
monthly payments of about $6.6 million for operations relating to the panama canal will be held in escrow instead of being paid to the government. panama receives about $80 million from the canal annually
reagan also ordered all u.s. government agencies to inventory payments due panama ``for the purposes of determining those that should be placed in escrow for the delvalle government on behalf of the panamanian people.''
trade preferences available to panama under the generalized system of preferences, a special system for third world countries, and the caribbean basin initiative, were suspended. secretary of state george p. shultz said the action affects $96 million worth of trade a year
panama will be subject to intensified scrutiny by immigration and customs service officials ``to apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers.''
there was widespread speculation that reagan would order american companies to stop using a pipeline across panama, which generated revenue for the government. however, shultz said those funds already are frozen under a temporary restraining order issued by u.s. courts
shultz said ``if there are further steps needed ... he will take them.'' he refused to elaborate, saying, ``i think it's better to leave that a little uncertain.''
here are some of the latest comments by candidates for the presidency:

bob dole, seeking to save a candidacy he says is ``hanging by our fingernails'' and maintaining many voters are still undecided: ``it's like last-minute christmas shoppers. some people don't even know what they're going to buy until the last 24 hours and then they buy whatever is left. we don't want that to happen.''

george bush, declining a one-on-one confrontation with dole, recalling that he tried that with ronald reagan in 1980 and probably lost the gop nomination that year because of it: ``i may be older, but i'm a lot smarter now, too.''

michael dukakis, dining in chicago's ``greektown'' section and commenting on whether he is trying to build an ethnic coalition: ``we want to put together a coalition of people all over this country, whether they're first-generation or second-generation americans.''

albert gore, continuing to attack dukakis: ``his complete lack of experience in foreign policy is, i think, a major issue at a time when the next president must be prepared to seize the opportunities for a new relationship with the soviets.''

pat robertson, saying he will campaign all the way to the republican national convention: ``i'm in it until new orleans.''

gary hart, abandoning his presidential bid: ``the people are the strength of this country. i said i wanted them to decide about my candidacy. i got a fair hearing. and the people have decided. and now i clearly should not go forward.''

richard gephardt, complaining about negative television ads in the south: ``i feel like dukakis and gore have mugged me in an alley. they are borrowing my rhetoric, but they don't have any substance behind it.''

jesse jackson, urging blacks and whites in south carolina to unite around him: ``it's not so much black versus white as it is barracudas eating us small fish. they don't eat fish by color. they eat fish by size.''

paul simon, asking educators to help him win tuesday's illinois primary: ``we want to send a message to the nation from illinois. part of that message is that for people who need quality education, this administration has been out to lunch.''
a former top aide to gov. evan mecham acknowledged that he told the governor an alleged death threat by a state official was a ``frivolous matter'' mecham should forget about
max hawkins, former head of the department of administration, testified friday at the republican governor's impeachment trial that he thought the alleged threat was ``a matter that would probably go away by itself.''
mecham is accused of trying to thwart the attorney general's investigation of the threat, allegedly made against a witness testifying before a state grand jury that was investigating the governor's campaign finances
earlier friday, another former state official, sam steiger, testified the governor believed some of his decisions were ``divinely inspired.''
steiger had been asked by sen. john mawhinney whether mecham, a devout mormon, ``could and would make decisions on specific pieces of legislation through, he believed, some divine inspiration.''
asked by a reporter about steiger's testimony, mecham said only, ``sam, he's a little off the wall in some of his comments, too.''
mormon doctrine holds that faithful christians may receive guidance from god regarding worldly endeavors, including their occupations
the day marked the end of the second week of mecham's senate trial. in addition to the death threat allegation, he is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
former state prison construction chief lee watkins is accused of threatening the life of former top mecham aide donna carlson in a conversation with peggy griffith, head of the governor's office of women's services
hawkins testified that he spoke on nov. 13 with watkins and mrs. griffith and that he did not believe an actual death threat was made
instead, hawkins said he felt that watkins had said that ms. carlson should keep her mouth shut and ``there are a lot of people out there who are excitable and she could have harm come to her.''
hawkins said that when he told watkins that mrs. griffith had reported the matter to others, ``he laughed and thought that it was absurd'' that she was telling anyone about it
hawkins said he met with mecham later that day and told the governor that he had found ``that it was a little spat, a frivolous matter'' and that mecham should forget about it
watkins has denied threatening ms. carlson's life. he is scheduled to return to the stand monday. mecham could testify late next week, said defense lawyer fred craft
steiger blamed many of mecham's troubles on attorney general bob corbin, a republican
steiger said mecham resented corbin because the governor took the political heat for canceling a martin luther king holiday for state workers when it was corbin who first said the holiday was illegally created through an executive proclamation by mecham's predecessor, bruce babbitt
steiger faces an extortion charge brought by corbin's office on an unrelated matter
corbin, contacted for comment on steiger's testimony, said, ``just remember the position he is in with regard to our office and you can draw your own conclusions.''
mecham also faces a may 17 recall election and an april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan
he is the first u.s. governor impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict him, and lawmakers also could bar him from holding any future public office
mushers in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race traded rolling hills for the flat expanse of the frozen yukon river as they tried to catch 70-year-old joe redington, who's led since tuesday
redington arrived at ruby, a yukon village 653 miles from the race's start in anchorage and the first checkpoint on the river, at 12:30 p.m. friday and left six hours later
his closest rival, martin buser of big lake, pulled in at 5:05 p.m. in third was herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref, who arrived in ruby at 6:20 p.m
four-time iditarod champion rick swenson of two rivers was running fourth. he checked out of cripple, 120 miles back, at 7:25 p.m. thursday. joe garnie of teller followed swenson out at 8:45 p.m., and defending champion susan butcher of manley left at 9:50 p.m
jerry austin of st. michael, running in eighth place, said he and several mushers near him are still strong contenders in a race that won't reach the finish line in nome until later next week
don't write off anybody that's three or six hours off the pace right now,'' he said in cripple. ``we're just inching our way up. we're steadily gaining on them.''
butcher noted that redington and nayokpuk took their mandatory 24-hour layovers early in the race, an advantage because the leaders later got bogged down in new snow. but that advantage may be wearing thin, she said
it was a break for them in the beginning, but now they've been going with no real long rest for a while. i think our dogs are fresher,'' she said
but nayokpuk, who couldn't keep up with redington between cripple and ruby, said butcher and swenson may have trouble catching redington
i tried to travel with joe redington from cripple, but he disappeared in a hurry,'' a tired nayokpuk said as he sat on the porch of a house in ruby and changed his boots. ``i never saw him again. he has the dogs. if he gets those dogs running to nome, he's going to be a hard one to beat.''
redington is known as the father of the iditarod for helping found the race 16 years ago
the race started march 5 in anchorage. after ruby, mushers race 146 miles downriver to the village of kaltag, then cross to the bering sea coast for a final dash to nome
the winner will collect $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers will split the rest. two of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out
the arrest of two men is believed to have solved 21 bank stick-ups committed in the last two months by a motorcycle bandit and a robber dubbed ``the old man,'' police said
mark macadoo, 22, of san pedro, was arrested thursday by fbi agents and officers of the city police department's bank team while awaiting a bus
macadoo was held in connection with 10 robberies in which the bandit escaped on a motorcycle with a total of about $6,000, police lt. bruce meyer said friday
the second man, howard bonner, 59, nicknamed ``the old man'' because of his appearance, was arrested at a party thursday night, meyer said. ``the old man'' stole about $20,000 in cash in 11 robberies, meyer said
panamanians who have been unable to cash their checks for 10 days faced cuts in public services today as washington increased economic pressure on the government to force panama's strongman to resign
president reagan on friday froze millions of dollars in panamanian assets in the united states and again called on gen. manuel antonio noriega to step down as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces
panama's new chief executive, manuel solis palma, met with his cabinet in an emergency session friday
he was to meet with the cabinet again today, ``to work out a total package plan to deal with the crisis, especially a payment plan for public employees who must be paid by march 15,'' said an official, speaking on condition of anonymity
the government reportedly was considering delaying or reducing payments due tuesday to nearly 150,000 government employees
banks closed march 1 because of the lack of currency, leaving panamanians holding checks they cannot cash. panama's currency is the u.s. dollar
solis palma, ordered reductions in public services friday as the government's coffers ran low
the government ordered cutbacks in electricity and fuel consumption, telephone and public vehicles use. it also announced a two-hour reduction in working hours for government offices
reagan said the united states will place fees due to panama this month from the panama canal into escrow until a government led by ousted president eric arturo delvalle can claim them. a $6.6 million payment of canal fees is due tuesday
pro-noriega legislators ousted delvalle from the presidency feb. 26, a day after delvalle tried to fire noriega. solis palma was named to replace delvalle, who has been in hiding since
the united states continues to recognize delvalle as panama's legitimate president
reagan also suspended trade preferences granted panama and ordered increased scrutiny of the country by u.s. immigration and customs service officials to ``apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers.''
i believe that gen. noriega would best serve his country by complying with the instruction of president delvalle to relinquish his post,'' reagan said, calling noriega's regime illegitimate
noriega was indicted last month in the united states on drug trafficking and money laundering charges
boris moreno, a panamanian government spokesman, said the u.s. actions created a ``state of war'' and set a dangerous precedent
this means that if the united states government does not like the government of another country, it can withhold any funds deposited in the united states,'' he said
noriega made no comment on reagan's new sanctions. an official statement by the foreign ministry on the u.s. actions was expected
riot police firing tear gas grenades and spraying a stinging, acrid liquid from canisters prevented opposition parties from holding a demonstration in the central banking district friday
three journalists were injured when police sprayed tear gas in their faces at close range. they were: lucia annunziata, a reporter with the newspaper la repubblica of rome; david walters, a photographer with the miami herald; and manolo iscala, a cameraman for spanish television
the u.s. sanctions were expected to deepen a cash-flow crisis that has forced panamanian banks to close for 10 consecutive days. attorneys for delvalle have tied up an estimated $50 million in official panamanian funds in private u.s. banks
the government on friday asked owners of four supermarket chains, a department store and a pharmacy chain to act as check-cashing houses for government employees. the owners refused, saying it was up to the central bank to guarantee government checks
businesses have not been accepting credit cards or checks for purchases, only cash
more than 200 air ontario pilots walked off the job today over a wage dispute, shutting down the regional commuter services that handles 60,000 passengers monthly
company spokesman paul mcknicht said friday that the pilots agreed to continue flying air ontario air ambulances during the strike
the bulk of our flight operations will be curtailed but management personnel will be operating a few essential services in remote communities of northern ontario,'' mcknight said
those communities, north of timmins, depend on the airline to fly in commodities such as food and fuel, he said
negotiations between air ontario and the canadian air line pilots association broke off thursday over pay. the pilots walked off the job at 12:01 a.m. today
union spokesman roger burgess-webb said union officials have told the airline they would be willing to resume talks but no further discussions have been scheduled
neither side would predict how long the strike would last, but mcknight said it would be ``very very expensive.''
the airline acts as a feeder for air canada flights from london, where it is based, and 47 other communities around ontario
air ontario inc was created last may when air ontario ltd. merged with austin airways of timmins. air canada owns 75 percent of air ontario
air ontario has flights to winnipeg and montreal in canada, and to hartford, conn., and cleveland, ohio. mounts</head>
three intelligence operatives who say the fbi and cia asked them to infiltrate lyndon larouche's political operation repeatedly tried to involve him in illegal activities, a larouche attorney told a judge
defense lawyer michael reilly on friday urged u.s. district judge robert e. keeton to halt testimony in larouche's fraud and conspiracy trial until prosecutors finish searching government records for references to the operatives and evidence of infiltration of larouche groups
keeton canceled testimony for monday, and said he would decide then if a longer delay was necessary in the trial of larouche, six aides and five larouche organizations
the defendants are charged with conspiring to obstruct a federal grand jury investigation into alleged credit card and loan fraud during larouche's 1984 presidential campaign
keeton has ordered assistant u.s. attorney john markham to search the files of the fbi, cia, national security council and vice president george bush
reilly said he would present evidence of entrapment in private if keeton desired, but refused to be specific in open court. keeton did not request the information
the three operatives referred to by reilly are retired army sgt. maj. fred lewis, ron tucker and gary howard. in an fbi document declassified last week, lewis, tucker and howard said they were asked by the fbi and cia to infiltrate larouche organizations
markham filed a memo in which he charged the three men were lying
a search of the fbi files relating to them shows that they were never requested to penetrate the organization and that they never did so,'' markham said in the memo
reilly disputed that, saying markham's memo made no reference to infiltration on behalf of the cia. he also noted a memo between two pivotal players in the iran-contra scandal in which lewis is referred to by last name, but only as proof lewis was well known by government officials
in a memo sent to then-nsc aide oliver north by retired air force maj. gen. richard secord, one of north's principal operatives in the network helping nicaraguan contra rebels, secord said ``our man'' told him lewis had gathered ``info against larouche.''
lewis is the executive vice president of rhyolite management systems, a texas company larouche lawyers contend was one of several companies run by former military officers that the cia used to carry out covert activities
howard and tucker claim to be longtime government informants and were the founders of another texas company, now defunct, that reportedly carried out covert activities
markham originally told defense lawyers that ``our man'' referred to oliver ``buck'' revell, a top fbi official involved in counterintelligence. markham later said he was mistaken and that the reference was to john cupp, a secord associate who worked in the resupply effort
secord and cupp, in interviews this week, also have said the reference was to cupp. both denied any role in or knowledge of a government effort to spy on larouche
reilly on friday filed a motion demanding the information markham relied on when he initially said secord was referring to revell
if `our man here' is in fact oliver revell, it would create a motive for high-level forces in the fbi and national security council to conceal that in order to protect mr. revell,'' the motion said
larouche attorneys said the information might help them prove their contention that north asked the fbi and cia to infiltrate larouche groups because they were interfering with north's private contra resupply effort
an fbi spokesman said the agency would not comment on matters at issue in a trial
the general services administration says it is ``reluctantly'' extending the deadline for bids on a new multibillion-dollar government telephone system to give us sprint communications co. more time to draft its proposal
the gsa said friday it had extended the deadline by a month to april 29 ``to insure the fullest possible competition'' for the contract, one of the biggest ever let by the government
besides sprint, only two other teams of companies are bidding on the project, the work for which will be split 60-40 between two vendors
the other bidders are a team led by american telephone &amp; telegraph co. and another headed by martin marietta corp. with mci communications corp
the environmental protection agency says ford motor co. is recalling 214,900 cars from the 1982 and 1983 model years because some of the vehicles have been exceeding federal emission standards
the company is notifying owners of 185,000 cars from 1983 equipped with the 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine to bring them in for adjustment of the exhaust air-injection systems. these cars were sold as the ford escort, escort exp and escort wagon and the mercury lynx, lynx ln-7 and lynx wagon
the agency said friday that ford also will recall 29,900 cars from the 1982 model year to fix an exhaust gas recirculation system which can cause excessive emissions of nitrogen oxides
the cars affected all have 2.3-liter four-cylinder engines and automatic transmissions. they were sold as the ford mustang, granada and fairmont and the mercury capri and zephyr. cars originally sold in california are not affected
dealers will check the carburetor spacer plates, which allows some exhaust to enter the intake manifold, and clean them of deposits if necessary
the marine corps has devised a new training policy that mandates tougher physical conditioning programs to make sure those who already have made it through basic training are ready for combat
a new training policy order, signed last week and now being prepared for distribution to the field, will require all commands to refocus their physical conditioning program so that it goes beyond just staying in shape to pass the standard physical fitness test
the directive says commanders must ensure their marines face ``a minimum program of three hours per week'' of exercises that can be divided between anaerobic conditioning, progressive resistance training and aerobic conditioning
it says that marine conditioning programs historically have focused on physical fitness and adds: ``the focus, therefore, of our programs must change. each commander must emphasize unit and combat fitness training, (instead of) physical fitness testing, and reflect this distinction in training plans and schedules.''
a proposal to conduct field tests in wisconsin for a genetically engineered bacterium designed to improve the ability of alfalfa to use nitrogen in the air as a fertilizer has won federal approval
the tests, approved friday by the environmental protection agency, will be conducted in pepin county, wis., a county lying on the mississippi river about 20 miles southwest of eau claire
the bacterium, rhizobium meliloti, grows naturally on alfalfa roots, and mutant forms have been used to enhance plant growth in the past
using the techniques of recombinant dna, biotechnica inc. of cambridge, mass. has reinserted the genes responsible for nitrogen use _ nitrogen fixation _ back into the organism, giving it two copies of the genes
lab and greenhouse tests indicate this will enhance alfalfa yield, according to an epa announcement when the company applied for permission to test 13 months ago
jesse jackson won the coveted top spot for new york's april 19 democratic presidential primary ballot as the result of a lottery draw at the state board of elections
board spokesman steven lafever said friday that the order of appearance on the ballot, after jackson, is expected to be tennessee sen. albert gore jr., massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, illinois sen. paul simon, an uncommitted slate, political extremist lyndon larouche and missouri rep. richard gephardt
larouche supporters have filed a challenge to simon's nominating petitions and the board is expected to rule on that challenge monday. after that, the ballot lineup is to be finalized
while the democratic candidates run state wide by name and thus have only one draw for ballot placement, republican candidates rely on delegate slates filed in each of the state's 34 congressional districts. that means there's a separate ballot spot draw in each congressional district for the gop delegate slates
jesse jackson probably won't be on the democratic ticket in 1988, but he should have some sort of ``inspirational role'' in a democratic administration, says former virginia gov. charles s. robb
robb said jackson would be best ``in some part of the greater domestic policy portion where he is simply without peer _ in motivating young people, in encouraging young people not to get involved with drugs, in encouraging people to pursue education,'' robb told the cleveland city club on friday
i think it's probably clear that if he is to have a role in the next administration, it ought to be a role that is principally an inspirational role and not a managerial role,'' he said
vice president george bush's quest for the gop presidential nomination picked up steam in new jersey as three top republicans in the state endorsed him
assembly speaker chuck hardwick and u.s. rep. james courter announced their support of bush in a press conference friday. hours later, u.s. rep. matthew rinaldo endorsed the vice president
at a news conference in trenton, hardwick urged gov. thomas h. kean to change his noncommittal stance while republican leaders asked the party to unite around bush
not only is it time for all republicans to unite behind george bush's candidacy, but that i hope gov. kean, as the leader of our party ... will endorse the vice president in the near future,'' said hardwick
ruth h. berry has been named press secretary for the 1988 democratic national convention committee
donald l. fowler, the committee's chief executive officer, and paul kirk, democratic national chairman, announced the appointment friday
berry previously served as national trip director for the sen. joseph biden's presidential campaign. she did advance work for both the 1976 carter-mondale presidential campaign and the white house press office under president carter
she was a producer for cable news network's election unit in 1983 and worked as an associate producer for special events for abc news in 1982
thanks to a ``great volunteer army,'' jesse jackson can capture michigan delegates without spending a small fortune on television ads, says the head of the candidate's state campaign
organizer joel ferguson said friday he's confident jackson will be enough of a newsmaker that he can count on being on television without having to buy commercial time
jackson will spend the three days before michigan's march 26 democratic caucuses barnstorming the state, and has a full schedule of appearances before that, beginning with a commencement address today at michigan state university
after the address, jackson is scheduled to meet with supporters, labor leaders and gov. james blanchard _ activities that will be parallelled by rival michael dukakis, who plans today to tour a lansing machine tool plant before meeting with labor and the democratic governor
blanchard met thursday with rep. richard gephardt of missouri, another democratic contender
new york gov. mario cuomo thinks independent counsel lawrence walsh could do democrats a favor by delaying the release of any information that might link vice president george bush to the iran-contra affair
the worst thing that could happen now is to have some kind of exposure of irangate that knocks bush out and makes room for (bob) dole,'' cuomo said friday of bush's recent success in republican super tuesday primaries
cuomo has joked in the past that the best republican ticket, from a democratic standpoint, would be ``bush and bush.'' the governor has said dole would be harder for the democrats to beat
if there's going to be some revelation, let it come after it's too late to change bush,'' cuomo said of walsh's investigation
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning march 13. the information was provided by the candidates

sunday, march 13:

democrats:
dukakis _ chicago
gephardt _ downtime (home)
gore _ chicago
jackson _ chicago
simon _illinois

republicans:
bush _ illinois
dole _ illinois
robertson _ illinois


monday, march 14:

democrats:
dukakis _ illinois, boston
gephardt _ washington, d.c.; flynt and detroit, mich
gore _ illinois
jackson _ carbondale, springfield, peoria and chicago, ill
simon _ chicago, peoria, springfield and makanda, ill

republicans:
bush _ illinois
dole _ illinois
robertson _ illinois; virginia beach, va


tuesday, march 15 (illinois primary):

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ detroit, lansing, grand rapids and battle creek, mich
gore _ michigan; corcoran gallery, washington, d.c.; arlington, va. (home)
jackson _ chicago
simon _ illinois; michigan

republicans:
bush _ illinois
dole _ illinois
robertson _ virginia beach, va


wednesday, march 16:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ battle creek, marshall, albione and jackson, mich.; washington, d.c
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ washington, d.c

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ open
robertson _ open


thursday, march 17:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ washington, d.c
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ washington, d.c.; new york

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ open
robertson _ open


friday, march 18:

democrats:
dukakis _ michigan
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ pittsburgh, erie and harrisburg, pa

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ open


saturday, march 19:

democrats:
dukakis _ michigan
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ open


sunday, march 20:

democrats:
dukakis _ down time
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ open
two car bombs exploded in the capital's fashionable ``pink zone,'' sending diners diving for cover and running for safety and injuring at least two people, witnesses and officials said
no group claimed responsibility for the bombs that went off friday night in the affluent sector of san salvador
earlier in the day, about 400 union activists marched through the city to demand the release of a detained labor leader
the first bomb went off in front of flashback, a restaurant adjacent to two cafes where leftist guerrillas killed 13 people, including six americans, in a machine gun attack in june 1985
the second bomb exploded about five minutes later in a parking lot behind a pizza hut restaurant, causing no injuries
a red cross spokesman said two people _ a 12-year-old boy and a middle-aged man _ were wounded in front of flashback, one of a row of trendy restaurants and night clubs in the zona rosa
the boy was taken to bloom hospital for children. the spokesman, who refused to give his name, said the extent of the boy's injuries had not yet been determined, but that his life was not in danger
he said the man was treated at the red cross clinic for cuts to his hand, and released
glass shards littered the street in front of flashback
the remains of three cars in front of flashback were still smoldering an hour after the 9:30 p.m. blasts. the car that held the explosives was little more than a frame with some shreds of sheet metal. its make and year could not be immediately determined
the parking lot where the second blast occurred was nearly empty. the car that held the second bomb also was reduced to a twisted black metal skeleton. bomb squad members there said they had not determined what type of explosive was used
flashback was crowded with diners that spilled onto the restaurant's sidewalk tables when the blasts occurred
it was a powerful explosion. people dived for cover, then some jumped up and ran,''said porfirio valladares, a waiter at flashback
he said firefighters arrived in ``about 15 minutes'' and quickly put out the flaming cars
about 400 union activists marched had through the capital several hours earlier to demand that the salvadoran governent free humberto centeno, leader of the telecommunications workers union
one marcher was wounded by a gunshot to the leg when other protesters identified an undercover security agent in their ranks and confronted him. the agent fired a shot and fled
a pickup truck was set afire near the u.s. embassy, where the march stopped for 30 minutes to denounce u.s. support for the salvadoran government. protesters defaced a u.s. embassy wall
there were no confrontations with police or soldiers along the five-mile march route. uniformed security forces were not visible
centeno was arrested thursday night after about 50 union members occupied the labor ministry in demand of higher pay and reinstatement of fired workers
jesse jackson, stumping for votes on home turf in advance of tuesday's illinois democratic primary, says his presidential campaign is in its second phase _ a phase where people can view him as a winner
many of his supporters had hoped he would do well in other state contests but didn't really believe it would happen, jackson said friday night. but his campaign has been buoyed by strong finishes from the south to the midwest and north to alaska
so now we move into the second phase _ when you hope it and believe it. now, let's achieve it,'' jackson told a crowd of more than 1,000 cheering supporters who jammed a hotel ballroom for a $50-per-person fund raiser
jackson said he's finished first or second in 22 of 28 state political contests so far despite being outspent by his democratic opponents. he said his message is making believers of those who thought he could not win because he is black
don't judge the campaign by its budget,'' he told the crowd. ``judge it by its mission and its message.''
the message friday night included familiar themes: a campaign against drugs; emphasis on prenatal care and daycare for the young instead of ``jail care and welfare'' as they grow older; and a push for jobs
in illinois, polls show jackson's top opponents are sen. paul simon, another home state favorite, and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the front-runner in delegates. jackson has refused to attack his party rivals
if i stop to hit them, i might break my stride,'' he said
and he said he has proven his ability to manage a tight budget
if my competitors had my budget, they could not survive. if i had their budget, they could surrender,'' jackson said
u.s. rep. mario biaggi could have helped wedtech corp. for free, but chose to help plunder millions of dollars from the bronx defense contractor, a prosecutor told jurors in the congressman's racketeering trial
the crime is not what the congressman did. the crime is that he was paid for what he did, the extortion and bribes,'' howard wilson, an assistant u.s. attorney, said friday in u.s. district court
wilson's opening statement to jurors hearing the case of biaggi and six co-defendants outlined how ``a little company in the bronx'' was turned into ``an enterprise that was to be plundered, to be used by the people on trial here.''
and in the end, because of the corruption, because of the greed, because of the lies, the company went kaput,'' he said
wedtech, formed in 1965 as a machine shop, capitalized on laws allocating government contracts for minority-owned enterprises, and by 1985 had grown into a defense contractor with 1,000 employees and $117 million in revenue
the company suspended operations and laid off most of its workers in december 1986, then filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy act
the co-defendants are former bronx borough president stanley simon, 57; bernard g. ehrlich, 59, of bedford, biaggi's former law partner and a former major general in the new york national guard; biaggi's son, richard, 38, of fort lee, n.j.; peter neglia, 39, of armonk, the former regional administrator of the small business administration; former wedtech chairman john mariotta, 57, of scarsdale and ronald betso, 39, of brooklyn, a former policeman and friend of neglia's
all treated this company like a gold mine,'' said wilson
the defendants claimed that mariotta, who is hispanic, was the majority owner of wedtech, entitling the company to no-bid federal contracts, wilson said.but mariotta owned less than half, said the prosecutor
rep. biaggi, who at one point demanded 5 percent of wedtech's revenues, was given 5 percent of wedtech stock, which was put in his son's name, wilson said. the elder biaggi and ehrlich made $4 million from the 225,000 wedtech shares they received, he said
at another point, biaggi, 70, asked for $50,000 for expediting a lease before the city's board of estimate, the prosecutor said
simon demanded and received more than $50,000 in cash, meals, chips for gambling at atlantic city, n.j., casinos, marble for his home, a trip to rome and charitable contributions in his name, wilson said
simon also got a wedtech job for his brother-in-law and took half his raises over the years, wilson said
neglia was wedtech's ``paid-for friend,'' wilson said. among other things, wilson claimed, neglia warned the company about a congressional probe
neglia was paid with stock options, frequent meals, contributions to the republican party in his name and the promise of a job on leaving government, wilson said. less than a month after leaving office in early 1986, he went to work for the law firm of ehrlich and the younger biaggi
mariotta embezzled about $1 million and sold wedtech stock worth $6 million to $8 million, wilson said
ehrlich was ``mario biaggi's partner in the plunder of wedtech. when he got it, he split it,'' charged wilson, who said richard biaggi ``became the front man.''
wilson said the two men's law firm earned $1 million in retainers' fees from wedtech
betso took stock options in his name for his friend neglia, wilson alleged, then lied about it to the department of labor
wilson promised testimony to back up his claims from wedtech accountants, supervisors and workers; sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y.; and four former wedtech officials who pleaded guilty to crimes involving the company
defense attorneys begin presenting their arguments monday
the house ethics committee announced last month it would recommend biaggi be expelled following his conviction last year in another case on charges he accepted illegal paid vacations from an old friend and political ally
biaggi had asked the committee not to act until his appeal of that conviction was settled. the panel decided to postpone bringing the matter before the full house. sakharov</head>
a relative of andrei sakharov says he asked lyndon larouche's help in getting the dissident out of the soviet union but denied a claim by larouche attorneys that he was acting at the bidding of u.s. intelligence operatives
we came to him on our own initiative,'' efram yankelovich said in a telephone interview friday. ``nobody asked us or directed us or suggested it to us.''
yankelovich is married to the daughter of yelena bonner, sakharov's wife
larouche attorney michael reilly said yankelovich and alexei semyonov, sakharov's stepson, approached a larouche aide in 1984 and said a third party promised to spirit sakharov and bonner out of the soviet union if larouche paid $2 million
larouche refused to get involved and ended the discussions after the sakharov relatives identified the third party as a man the larouche organization believed was trying to entrap them, reilly said
attorneys for larouche, six aides and five organizations on trial here on fraud and conspiracy charges were denied access friday to classified fbi documents referring to an attempt to get sakharov and bonner out of the soviet union
the defense lawyers earlier this week were given declassified excerpts from the material. the excerpts say fbi files indicate that in 1984 two intelligence operatives approached two sakharov relatives and told them they could get sakharov and bonner out of the soviet union for $2 million
the operatives, gary howard and ron tucker, are quoted in the same fbi document as saying they and a third man, retired army sgt. maj. fred lewis, had been asked by the fbi and the cia to infiltrate larouche organizations
yankelovich said he never heard of tucker or howard
the larouche lawyers want the entire fbi file to help pursue leads they say show numerous attempts by government informants and operatives to entrap larouche
but u.s. district judge robert e. keeton said the file was properly classified and that the material not already given the defense lawyers was irrelevant
assistant u.s. attorney john markham said the file was created in the boston fbi office during an investigation of possible fraud against sakharov's relatives and possible violations of the neutrality act, which prohibits interference in foreign countries
tucker and howard, in a $1.4 million lawsuit against the government, describe themselves as longtime operatives involved in government sting operations
in the suit, tucker and howard said they gathered evidence against an arms merchant planning to sell weapons to iran but that the government refused to prosecute the case because it would have exposed the iran-contra scandal
a man aboard a pakistani airlines jet fired two shots and wounded a security guard today before being overpowered minutes before the aircraft was to land near the afghan border, officials said
karachi airport authorities said there were no other injuries among the 143 passengers and 13 crew members aboard the a-300 airbus. the jet, on a domestic flight from karachi to quetar, landed safely
the incident occurred as the jet prepared to land at quetta, a city near the afghanistan border in western pakistan
the man entered the cockpit with a revolver and two security guards tried to grab him, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity
a scuffle ensued in the first class cabin during which the man discharged his gun twice, wounding one of the guards, according to officials
they said the second guard managed to subdue the gunman
officials said the gunman has not been identified and his motive was unclear
pakistan's national news agency, app, reported that the gunman also was injured, but airport officials could not immediately confirm this
they could not explain either how the man was able to smuggle a firearm aboard the plane
airport security usually is extremely strict in pakistan. passengers pass through two metal detectors and have their carry-on luggage inspected at least three times before boarding a flight. pilot</head>
survivors of a commuter airliner crash that claimed nine lives expressed outrage at a government report that the pilot had traces of cocaine in his body
it makes me mad,'' said nancy hill of cortez, who suffered a broken leg and a dislocated shoulder in the jan. 19 continental express accident outside durango. ``we should have protection from this kind of thing.''
both the pilot and co-pilot died in the crash, and investigators have not determined which one was flying at the time
the eight survivors were rescued after one, peter schauer, trudged 1{ miles over a snowy mountainside to a house
our lives will never be the same, and when there is this kind of problem involved, you have to be even more angry,'' schauer said friday
the toxicology report released friday in washington said pilot steven s. silver had .022 micrograms per milliliter of benzoylecgonine, the principal metabolite of cocaine, in his bloodstream
he also had 1.8 micrograms per milliliter of metabolized cocaine and .022 micrograms of cocaine in his urine, according to the report by the national transportation safety board's bureau of technology
i would say that is a small amount'' of cocaine, said dr. merrit m. birky, an ntsb chemist who had an outside lab analyze the samples. ``it would be inappropriate for me to comment on the significance of this.''
birky said cocaine is quickly converted to benzoylecgonine in the bloodstream and has a half-life of seven hours in the body. but birky said he was unable to say how much cocaine the pilot ingested or when he ingested it
the ntsb did not characterize the finding as a cause of the accident or indicate whether the pilot might have been impaired
silver, 36, of denver was an employee of trans-colorado airlines inc. of colorado springs. trans-colorado leases planes and crews to rocky mountain airways, a continental airlines subsidiary that operates in colorado as continental express
the swearingen metro iii twin-engine turboprop crashed in a mountainous area in southwestern colorado after it was given clearance to land at durango-la plata county airport
the report said the toxicology report on co-pilot ralph harvey, 42, of denver will be released later
bill white, a denver attorney acting as trans-colorado's spokesman friday, said the company was ``obviously surprised. we're concerned.''
the air line pilots association said it was ``deeply disturbed'' by the report, but said it ``leaves unanswered more questions than it resolves.''
george james, president of airline economics inc., a washington consulting firm to the airline industry, said he was unaware of any other commercial airline accident in which drug use had been involved
the department of transportation on thursday proposed a drug testing program for more than a half million airline employees
in a statement friday, transportation secretary james burnley called the evidence of drug use by silver ``a tragic reminder that not even commercial aviation is exempt from the drug abuse problem which plagues our society.''
two passengers on a greyhound bus suffered gunshot wounds today when a bullet hit the vehicle as it rolled down a downtown highway, police said
the bullet apparently struck the bus near the middle of the vehicle around 1 a.m., hit the first victim's foot, then lodged in the second victim's leg, said police detective charles dudley
passengers sujal badami, 24, of clemson, s.c., and eric douglas, 21, of denmark, s.c., were treated at erlanger medical center and released, said hospital spokeswoman debbie goad
badami was wounded in the foot and douglas in the leg
the shooting on interstate 124 followed a similar case thursday, in which a truck driver was seriously wounded when two shots pierced his tractor-trailer on the interstate, police said
sam lands, hit in the chest and wrist, was in satisfactory condition today at erlanger, ms. goad said
the bus was hit as it headed for memphis, police said. the driver said he pulled over and flagged down a passing truck driver, who used his citizens band radio to call police
the bus driver said company policy prohibited him from giving his name
a drunken driver struck the bus a glancing blow while it was parked on the side of the interstate, police said. the driver, whose name was not released, was arrested, and was to be charged later today, police said
police have no suspects in either shooting, and could not say until ballistics tests were completed if they were related. it was not clear whether the shot that struck the bus was fired by a sniper or from a passing car
a 5-year-old died after his stepfather allegedly beat him with a tree limb, a belt and his hands because the boy couldn't recite the alphabet past ``g,'' authorities said
dwayne blocker, 24, was being held in the cook county jail today on $150,000 bond, said a jailer who refused to give her name. he is to be arraigned april 4
blocker, who was indicted on murder charges by a county grand jury friday, admitted beating stepson charles moss because he could only reach ``g'' when blocked asked him to say the alphabet, said police lt. james phelan
the boy's mother, joyce blocker, 21, was sick wednesday and blocker picked up charles from preschool, phelan said
after the child could not complete the alphabet, blocker shouted, ``do it again,'' the lieutenant said
then he punched him several times, hit him with a belt several times and then went outside and got a tree branch and struck him several more times,'' phelan said
after the attack, the boy ran upstairs to his mother's room, said david schneidman, a spokesman for the state department of children and family services
charles collapsed in the room, and the stepfather tried to revive him, schneidman said
the youngster, who died at st. francis cabrini hospital, had a broken arm, bruises on his leg and a solid bruise from the shoulder blade to his buttocks, schneidman said
when this guy said he became angry because the boy could not get past the letter g, that sounds absurd, ridiculous,'' he said. ``but frankly, reasons like that are very common among child abusers
in severe abuse cases, there are several things that can trigger an incident,'' said schneidman. ``the child's learning ability is one of the common reasons. others are eating habits and toilet training.''
another child from the family, 1-year-old jasmine blocker, was admitted to the hospital to check for potential abuse, schneidman said. the state has moved to gain temporary custody of her
only a very small number of people carrying the aids virus will fail to develop some form of the disease within six years, scientists predicted today
a study estimates that at least 75 percent of those with the virus will contract aids or aids-related complex in that period
the big question still is, `will everybody at some point progress (from the virus to aids) ... or is there a chance that some people will be able to ride it out for 15 years?''' said paul o'malley, author of an earlier study on the virus' progression
results of the study were published in today's editions of the british medical journal
the researchers at the university of california, san francisco and other institutions studied 288 men with the virus for three years,
the scientists used five ``markers'' in the blood to estimate how many would contract aids or arc, a milder form of acquired immune defiency syndrome which generally develops into active aids. the markers included measurements of proteins and cells
twenty-two percent of the participants developed aids during the three-year period and 19 percent progressed to arc. tests on another 24 percent showed abnormalities which the researchers found were highly predictive of aids or arc
although that adds up to 65 percent, the researchers extrapolated that at least another 10 percent of people infected with hiv, or human immunodefiency virus, will develop some form of the disease for a total of 75 percent
the scientists called the estimate conservative, saying the actual rate of progression may be much higher
even the men who had not developed aids or arc after three years showed clear signs of progression toward a worsened condition in their blood markers, the study found
hiv infection is much more serious than we thought in the early days,'' said andrew moss, ucsf associate professor of epidemiology and international health at san francisco general hospital. ``it may take eight or nine years, but eventually the infected person will probably get aids
what we saw was that the number of those showing no effects from hiv infection is very small,'' added moss. ``this means that if you are infected with the aids virus, you will almost certainly go on to get aids,'' he said
o'malley, the director of the city health department's aids research project, said the new study apparently provides important information for hiv-positive people trying to decide whether to take immediate risks with anti-viral drugs or await advances in treatment
as each year progresses we know more, but we still can't fully answer it,'' said o'malley. his study, released in february 1987, determined that the risk of developing aids increases in the second five years after infection
moss and his colleagues in the study are urging the expansion of current trials of antiviral drugs on people who are hiv positive, but do not have symptoms of arc or aids
we need to speed up the trials of the current drugs and look for more treatments as well,'' moss said
the national centers for disease control reported this week that 55,167 cases of aids have been reported since june 1981 and 30,932 of those people have died
a major blizzard continued blasting the northern plains today, packing winds of 30 to 50 mph that reduced visibility to near zero and piled up snow in drifts up to 10 feet high
a band of showers and thunderstorms spawned by the same storm system produced hail the size of golfballs in north-central texas. the rain extended across central arkansas and central illinois into southwest wisconsin and southeast minnesota
areas hit hard by the blizzard friday included northeast colorado, western and north-central nebraska, western south dakota and eastern wyoming. roads remain closed in many areas. bitterly cold wind chills of 10 to 25 below zero were common
blizzard warnings remained in effect today over much of the eastern dakotas and western minnesota
winter storm warnings or winter storm watches were up in sections of minnesota, wisconsin, iowa and michigan
on friday, snow was reported as deep as 31 inches, with snow drifts 5 feet deep in chadron, neb. drifts measured 10 feet in cody, although only 6 to 7 inches fell. snowshowers also lingered over the central rockies
strong winds over the northern plains included gusts to 69 mph at akron, colo. wind gusts over 50 mph were clocked at rapid city, s.d.; scottsbluff, neb.; limon, colo.; and duluth, minn
there were numerous reports of large hail across north-central texas friday night. hail the size of golfballs was reported in de soto and terrell. in arkansas, 1-inch hail fell at burg
today's forecast called for snow and strong winds from the dakotas and nebraska across the upper mississippi valley into upper michigan; strong winds in kansas and oklahoma; snowshowers lingering over the northern and central rockies and thunderstorms extending from alabama, mississippi and northwest georgia across the tennessee valley, the ohio valley and the middle mississippi valley, with rain reaching into southern wisconsin, lower michigan and the lower great lakes region
highs were expected in the 20s and 30s from the northern and central rockies across the northern two-thirds of the plains and the upper mississippi valley into upper michigan, upstate new york and northern new england; and the 70s and 80s from southern texas across the central gulf coast states and the southern atlantic coast states, with a few readings in the 70s across southern california and southwest arizona. the rest of the nation will have highs in the 40s, 50s or 60s
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 1 degree at yellowstone park, wyo., to 70 degrees at miami, key west, fla., and brownsville, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 46 fair; boston 31 fair; buffalo 31 fair; charleston, s.c. 40 fair; cincinnati 51 fair; cleveland fair; detroit 37 fair; miami 70 partly cloudy; new york 41 fair; philadelphia 37 fair; pittsburgh 38 fair; portland, maine 16 fair; washington 45 fair
_central: bismarck 12 snow; chicago 52 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 60 cloudy; denver 25 partly cloudy; des moines 37 partly cloudy; indianapolis 53 cloudy; kansas city 33 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 33 snow; nashville 56 windy; new orleans 62 fair; st. louis 51 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 30 fair; anchorage 35 cloudy; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 55 fair; phoenix 49 fair; salt lake city 26 fair; san diego 56 fair; san francisco 45 fair; seattle 41 fair
_canada: montreal 9 fair; toronto 28 partly cloudy
the rev. jamie mock-robbins, an early leader in the sanctuary movement to aid central american refugees, died at age 32
mock-robbins, co-pastor of university baptist church, died on thursday. he had been battling cancer since october, the seattle times said
in 1982, under the direction of mock-robbins and the rev. donovan cook, university baptist became the first church in the pacific northwest to declare itself a sanctuary for refugees fleeing persecution in central america. about 50 refugees have been sheltered at the church
mock-robbins also spent much of the past four years in central america working with schools and churches. he organized relief in 1986 for victims of the san salvador earthquake, which left about 1,000 people dead and hundreds of thousands injured and homeless
i have never known anyone as loving and gentle and dedicated to living the gospel, and he demonstrated it daily, especially in work in central america,'' said cook
mock-robbins also attended and helped organize demonstrations and vigils in seattle to protest u.s. military intervention in central american countries
a native of dearborn, mich., mock-robbins was a graduate of albion college and andover-newton theological seminary in boston
he is survived by his wife, katherine mock-robbins; his parents from dearborn, mich., and a sister
a memorial service was scheduled for sunday at university baptist
richard croxton adams, who invented the paint roller to help america adapt to a world war ii shortage of brushes, died at the age of 76
adams, a descendant of presidents john adams and john quincy adams, suffered a stroke last week and died wednesday in grossmont hospital, said his wife, mary
an engineer, industrialist and civic leader, adams invented and held the first patent on the paint roller. he developed it in his basement workshop while working in the market research department of the sherwin-williams paint co. in 1940
the invention was spurred by a shortage of paint brushes caused by world war ii, then raging in europe
at the time of his death, adams was working with a group of southern california educators to establish a research center where academicians could study biological and sociological issues
in addition to his wife, adams is survived by three sons, a brother and eight grandchildren
a memorial service was scheduled for monday
iraq claimed today it raided an iranian oil tanker in the persian gulf, resuming a campaign to cut tehran's economic lifeline after the foes halted 12 days of missile attacks on each other's cities
the raid came amid reports from u.s. military sources in washington that iran has started building launch pads for silkworm anti-ship missiles on its abu musa island near the strait of hormuz, the narrow entrance at the gulf's southern end
the official iraqi news agency quoted a military spokesman as saying iraqi warplanes on friday night attacked a ``very large maritime target'' _ usually meaning an iranian oil tanker _ off the iranian coast, scoring ``an accurate and effective hit.''
the air raid was within the framework of iraq's firm and legitimate right in tearing the arteries of oil supplies of the iranian regime to deprive it of employing its oil revenues for the purposes of aggression,'' said the spokesman, who was not identified
the agency, monitored in nicosia, gave no other details, and the attack could not be immediately confirmed by independent shipping executives in the gulf. iran usually does not report attacks on its shipping
the ship raid occurred only hours after a truce went into effect to stop the unprecedented long-range missile duel in the ``war of the cities'' that had begun feb. 29
iraq fired eight rockets at tehran and three at the holy city of qom, south of tehran, friday afternoon just 16 minutes before baghdad said it would stop shooting
more than 400 ships of different nationalities have been damaged in the gulf since the iran-iraq war broke out in 1980. the ``tanker war'' began in early 1984
iraq on friday had claimed another a ship attack but that also could not be confirmed
iraq's last confirmed attack on a ship was on tuesday, when warplanes blasted a maltese-flag tanker shuttling iranian crude
that attack was preceded by a lull since feb. 12, the last time iraqi warplanes were confirmed to have hit a ship
defense officials in washington, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the iranians are building launching pads in abu musa. they added that u.s. intelligence had not yet detected efforts by iran to move any of its chinese-built silkworms to the island, which serves as base for revolutionary guards
iran has batteries of silkworms, which have a range of about 50 miles, on its shore along the strait of hormuz
it also has fired missiles believed to be silkworms into kuwait's main oil port from the faw peninsula, which it captured from iraq in 1986
steve mills, a vaudeville comic who began his show biz career at age 14 before world war i and continued performing until the late '70s, has died. he was 92
mills, who had been mostly confined to his home since a 1977 stroke, died wednesday at his home in this suburb south of providence
mills began his career when he played amateur night with fred allen and benny rubin in his hometown of boston. he then formed the castle trio with friends and broke into vaudeville in the boston area shortly before the war
after serving as an army bugler at fort devens, mass., in 1918, mills joined the major vaudeville and burlesque circuits
in 1924, he performed in billy gilbert's ``whiz bang babies'' and was lead comedian for the first time in 1926 in ``miss tabasco.'' in 1928, mills was ``top banana'' for billy minsky at the national winter garden theatre in new york
after signing with the shubert organization in the early 1930s, mills appeared in ``three little girls,'' ``no, no nannette'' and ``prince of pilsen.''
after burlesque closed down in new york in 1937, mills played new england nightclubs until 1944, when he rejoined shubert to perform in the operettas ``wildflower'' and ``firefly.''
he played ``a lady says yes'' in new york, then returned to new england clubs before buying his warwick home in 1947
in the 1960s and early 1970s, mills appeared on tv talk shows and performed with mildred natwick and hans conried in ``70 girls 70'' in new york, the ``best of burlesque'' show in las vegas, nev., and the ``minsky show'' in miami
he last appeared on stage in 1977 in the show ``this was burlesque,''
mills is survived by his wife, abagail, a daughter and four grandchildren
i got a fair hearing and the people decided.'' _ former colorado sen. gary hart, announcing his second withdrawal from the race for the democratic presidential nomination
if mike dukakis has 41 percent, get everybody together in a room and say, `jesse, gore, gephardt, you came close, but mike's the candidate. let's pick the guy who's ahead after california.'' _ new york gov. mario cuomo, urging the democratic presidential candidates to close ranks after the primaries
i have responded to this extraordinary social movement of deaf people, not to the demands of the students and protesters.'' _ elisabeth ann zinser, upon resigning as president of gallaudet university after a week of angry demands for a deaf president by students at the world's only liberal arts university for the deaf
a wildfire raged through west texas today after burning 200,000 acres of prarie, killing livestock, threatening homes and closing roads
no people were reported killed or seriously injured in the blaze, which an army of hundreds fought friday. officials said could take several days to extinguish the fire
it looked like we were in hell _ fire all around. pretty spooky,'' jimmy t. brooks, a 40-year-old cowboy, said here friday before going back to the battle
winds diminished from 30 mph to about 10 mph, helping firefighters bring parts of the blaze under control, said terry harlow of shackelford county's emergency management team
the fire destroyed a mobile home and several hunting sheds in the sparsely populated region about 150 miles west of dallas. the blaze also damaged oil field equipment and ranch fences
the fire covered an area about 60 miles long and 25 miles wide in portions of callahan, shackelford and throckmorton counties, officials said, and a 20-mile wide swath of the blaze burned out of control. a few families were evacuated from ranches, officials said
joe fox, the texas forest service official overseeing the firefighting effort, predicted it could take another four days to extinguish the blaze
albany, a town of about 2,500 people and the county seat of shackelford, was under siege friday. a change in wind direction brought the fire to within 100 yards of the town, said lawrence winkler, a spokesman for the shackelford county emergency division. but the wind died down
all four major highways through albany were closed by heavy smoke, officials said
smoke and haze also cast a light fog-like pall over the dallas-fort worth area late friday afternoon, and some fort worth residents said they smelled the smoke
gov. bill clements dispatched 100 national guard soldiers. they joined west texas fire departments, texas forest service firefighters, state highway department employees, units from abilene's dyess air force base and the fort worth fire department. winkler said volunteer oilfield workers also pitched in
some firefighters suffered minor burns and were temporarily overcome by smoke, officials said
at the 88-year-old nail ranch, an estimated 35,000 acres were scorched, an unknown number of cattle lost and 20-25 miles of fence destroyed, said ronnie nail, one of the ranch heirs
shifting winds made it difficult to determine where the fire would spread, and in some cases firefighters were nearly surrounded by the swiftly moving flames
one of the fires may have started when someone was burning tires near here, while two others appeared to have formed along farm road 604 and may have been caused by passing motorists
there was speculation that trash fires may have sparked the blazes thursday, when humidity dipped to 7 percent
spain told the united states it would give political asylum to panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega if it helps end that central american country's political crisis, a newspaper reported today
spain's leading daily, the independent el pais, quoted jose antonio yanez, as saying, ``spain, in a critical situation, would be prepared to receive noriega, if it can lead to a solution'' of the panamanian political situation
yanez is a top policy adviser to socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez. elena chi, consul at the panamanian embassy in madrid, told the associated press that noriega had no plans to seek asylum in spain
panamanian president eric arturo del valle was dismissed feb. 26, a day after he tried to fire noriega. as chief of the 15,000-strong defense forces, noriega is considered the real power behind the civilian government
despite delvalle's ouster by the noriega-dominated national assembly, the united states still considers delvalle panama's legitimate president
the united staets has frozen official panamanian government funds deposited in u.s. banks, creating a financial crisis in panama, whose currency is the u.s. dollar
el pais said yanez, who ended a three-day visit to washington friday, expressed spain's position in a one-hour meeting friday with elliot abrams, u.s. undersecretary of state for interamerican affairs
it said spain's offer was made on condition that the u.s. government not seek noriega's extradition from spain to face indictments in florida on charges of drug trafficking and money laundering. noriega has rejected the accusations
other conditions set by spain included that noriega himself request asylum in spain and that panama's political opposition agree to the move, the newspaper said
yanez, the paper said, also received a guarantee from the united states that it would respect the panama canal treaty of 1977 calling for the u.s. government to turn over control of the panama canal at the end of 1999
the paper also reported the united states delivered a message to noriega in which it promised the military leader the washington would not oppose his residence in a third country
gabriel lewis, a former panamanian ambassador to the united states now leading the opposition to noriega in washington, told el pais he appreciated spain's offer of asylum for noriega ``because his leaving would clear up the panamanian crisis.''
the newspaper also quoted panamanian defense forces spokesman maj. edgardo lopez as saying: ``once and for all: noriega is going to stay in panama and, if necessary, die in panama, but he will never accept a shameful exit.'' graf pvs ``waldheim attended...''; edits thereafter to tighten.</note>
protesters gathered outside the office of president kurt waldheim today to demand that he resign because of his world war ii past as an officer in the german army
a small group of demonstrators maintained an overnight vigil on the square in front of the president's office, and said they will remain until late sunday
the protesters fixed a 10-foot-long banner to a nearby fence that read, ``who will make waldheim resign.''
we know that this will not force him to resign,'' said one protester, who identified herself only as a 23-year-old student at vienna university
but hopefully it will help keep attention focused on him, and remind people what a problem he has become for our country,'' she added
the demonstrators were among 300 people protesting outside the imperial hofburg palace on friday, the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation by nazi germany
organizers said they expected thousands of people for an afternoon protest near the president's office in the center of the capital
waldheim attended several events marking the annexation, but the controversy forced him to drop plans to deliver a major address
austria's president normally is the keynote speaker for such events, but waldheim was the silent guest at several of the ceremonies and did not play a major role
waldheim concealed his role as a german army lieutenant in the balkans until it was disclosed in the media in march 1986, but he has said he will not leave office until his term expires in 1992
last year, the u.s. justice department placed the former u.n. secretary-general on a list of undesirable persons, effectively barring him from entering the country
a panel of historians concluded last month that waldheim was in close proximity to nazi war crimes, including the deportation to death camps of jews and the murders of partisans, but did nothing to prevent them
the report left open the question of waldheim's guilt or innocence in atrocities, fueling pressure that he resign
waldheim always has denied any wrongdoing
ceremonies friday marking anshluss drew few large crowds. shops, schools and businesses remained open, and many viennese ignored a nationwide moment of silence. some public transport stood still and the state-run radio fell silent during the observance
austria's largest-circulation daily, the tabloid neue kronen zeitung, gave the anniversary events scant coverage
chancellor franz vranitzky told a special cabinet session friday that the nazi invasion and annexation, or anschluss, mattered to austrian politics today
the events of 50 years ago pose relevant, fundamental questions about the essence of politics,'' vranitzky said. ``if one attempts to avoid them, they sooner or later return with greater emphasis.''
vranitzky, in a later address to 900 students in vienna's historic musikverein concert hall, urged young austrians not to ``make blanket accusations against an older generation or to reproach them'' for past mistakes
speaking friday at an evening service in vienna's landmark st. stephen's cathedral, roman catholic archbishop karl berg of salzburg called on austrians to recognize the mistakes of the past
austrians must ``recognize guilt, feel regret and ask for forgiveness,'' berg told the several thousand people gathered in the gothic cathedral
an inmate convicted of murdering two police officers claims he has satisfied his sentence of 20 years to life in prison because he ``died'' briefly during open-heart surgery
the heart and respiratory functions of jerry rosenberg, an inmate at the auburn correctional facility, stopped for about 90 seconds during surgery in syracuse's university hospital on dec. 5, 1986, said attorney richard baumgarten
rosenberg, a self-styled jailhouse lawyer, was denied parole wednesday for the fifth time since he became eligible for it in 1981. rosenberg claims the parole board has no jurisdiction over him because he had ``died,'' said baumgarten, a spokesman for rosenberg
baumgarten said he sent a letter to gov. mario m. cuomo requesting a pardon, and if it is denied, rosenberg will pursue the case in federal court
he cannot be forced to serve a second life sentence,'' he said
baumgarten said rosenberg has documentation to support his claim, but wouldn't say what it is
dan hurley, the syracuse hospital's communications director, said the state considers a person dead only after he is declared brain dead by two physicians, one of them a neurosurgeon or a neurologist
although he couldn't reveal rosenberg's files without his physician's approval, he said rosenberg's case ``certainly wasn't death as we know it.''
rosenberg was sentenced to death in february 1963 after he was convicted of killing two policemen during a robbery in brooklyn. the death sentence was reduced in 1965 to 20 years to life
rosenberg, who says he has earned three law degrees through correspondence courses, said he is not licensed as an attorney, but is recognized in state and federal courts as a legal representative in more than 250 cases. he said he has been accepting thousands of dollars in legal fees from inmates and others for 15 years
however, state department of correction officials last year found him guilty of illegally receiving $8,800 in fees from inmates and sentenced him to a four-year term in a special housing unit of the prison. they said he needed a license to collect fees
rosenberg may, however, represent inmates if he asks the permission of the prison superintendent and provides his services for free, according to state prison regulations
rosenberg could not be reached for comment because he is in solitary confinement. kaufman.</note>
a soviet public relations expert studying u.s. promotional strategies was left a little confused by american commercials
why is k mart america's favorite store?'' asked valentin v. kozitzyn, here for a soviet cultural exhibit
and another thing: why do americans have to drink different kinds of beer at different times of the day, he asked
kozitsyn had seen the commercial asserting ``the night belongs to michelob.''
he said the average soviet probably knows more about american culture than soviet culture, and that part of solving that shortcoming lies in modern p.r. techniques
there is much we need to teach our own people, and much to learn about accomplishing that,'' kozitsyn said
kozitsyn sought answers to his questions on beer, k mart and other topics from smith kaufman public relations here while arranging a media tour to publicize the cultural exhibit. to quetta in 2nd graf. pickup 3rd graf pvs ``the incident...</note>
a man aboard a pakistan international airlines jet fired two shots and wounded a security guard today before being overpowered minutes before the aircraft landed near the afghan border, officials said
karachi airport authorities said there were no other injuries among the 143 passengers and 13 crew members aboard the a-300 airbus. the jet, on a domestic flight from karachi to quetta, landed safely
the incident occurred as the jet prepared to land at quetta, a city near the afghanistan border in western pakistan 375 miles north of karachi
the man entered the cockpit with a revolver and two security guards tried to grab him, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity
a scuffle ensued in the first class cabin during which the man discharged his gun twice, wounding one of the guards, according to officials
they said the second guard managed to subdue the gunman
officials said the gunman has not been identified and his motive was unclear
pakistan's national news agency, app, reported that the gunman also was injured, but airport officials could not immediately confirm this
they could not explain either how the man was able to smuggle a firearm aboard the plane
airport security usually is extremely strict in pakistan. passengers pass through two metal detectors and have their carry-on luggage inspected at least three times before boarding a flight
a shotgun fired from a passing car blew out a window of the chinese consulate in southwestern japan, the latest in a series of anti-chinese incidents
consul general guo chu and 15 other people were inside the building when the shooting occurred friday night, but no one was hurt, officials said
chief cabinet secretary keizo obuchi told a news conference today the incident was ``extremely unfortunate'' and expressed hope it would not hurt sino-japanese relations
japan's foreign ministry called in zhao zhongxin, counselor at the chinese embassy in tokyo, and expressed regret over the incident in the name of foreign minister sosuke uno
an unidentified person in a car fired a shotgun at the chinese consulate in fukuoka, 560 miles southwest of tokyo, at about 10:50 p.m., police said
the blast broke a window and damaged the ceiling and walls on the first floor of the three-story building, said takanobu kashiwagi, a fukuoka police spokesman
two nearby policemen guarding the building heard the shot and saw a car speed away, kashiwagi said
investigators found an abandoned car about a mile from the consulate this morning. kashiwagi said the car had been stolen in fukuoka two days earlier
relations between china and japan have deteriorated in recent years, with china criticizing japan over its increased military spending and angry over a japanese court decision awarding a disputed student dormitory in kyoto to taiwan
china says ownership of the dormitory, purchased by taiwan in 1952, should be transferred to china because of japan's switch of diplomatic relations from taipei to beijing in 1972
some japanese rightists have lashed out against the chinese criticism. since last june, at least five monuments in different parts of japan dedicated to sino-japanese friendship have been splattered with red paint. in september, a smoke bomb was hurled at a wall at the chinese consulate in osaka
an elderly couple who crashed to the dance floor during a vigorous quickstep ended up in the high court in london, where a judge said their testimony had put him off dancing for life
ballroom dancing is not normally a dangerous pastime. i'm terrified now _ i shall never go near a ballroom again,'' said the judge, sir leslie boreham, 70, as he threw the case out thursday
dance teacher edith spry, 72, had sought damages from 70-year-old jack plowright. she testified during a five-hour hearing that she asked plowright for a dance during a 1981 vacation on the spanish island of majorca
mrs. spry said plowright ``whirled me round like i had never been whirled round before,'' leaving her breathless, bruised and flat on her back on the dance floor
he was dancing at a terrific speed. i was quite frightened. . .. but before i could say anything i was on the floor,'' mrs. spry testified
mrs. spry sued plowright for unspecified damages, claiming he kicked her left leg and caused an ulcer when he fell on her. she blamed his fast-paced dancing on incorrect footwear _ plastic sandals
plowright denied dancing boisterously and said he overbalanced when his feet stopped during a turn. he said the floor was uneven
the judge decided that plowright did not dance with reckless abandon and dismissed the case
prince charles said a roaring avalanche that missed him in the swiss alps took only seconds to bury two skiing partners, killing one. he said his skiing party was aware of the dangers when they left the main trails
the hon. audrey lindsay, mother of the dead skier, maj. hugh lindsay, was quoted today by the british domestic news agency press association as telling a relative: ``i don't blame anybody. it was an unfortunate accident.''
looking distraught and wearing black, charles, his wife, princess diana, and sister-in-law, sarah, the duchess of york, returned home friday from switzerland
their plane, which landed at northolt air base near london, carried the coffin containing the body of the 34-year-old lindsay, a former aide to charles' mother, queen elizabeth ii, and a close friend of charles and diana
they were met at the base by lindsay's widow, sarah lindsay, who is expecting a baby in may. mrs. lindsay, a buckingham palace press officer, had helped answer questions about the avalanche before discovering her husband was killed in it
in a handwritten statement read to reporters at zurich airport after the royal party left for england, charles, the heir to the british throne, said:
all members of my party were skiing off the piste (the regular ski runs) at own our risk and we all accepted ... that mountains have to be treated with the greatest respect and not treated lightly,'' he said
he said that when the avalanche thursday at klosters, switzerland, started ``with a tremendous roaring'' he and three others in the group skied out its path. the other two, lindsay and patricia palmer-tomkinson could not evade the snow slide
to my horror, maj. hugh lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson just failed to ski clear and were swept away in a whirling maelstrom as the whole mountainside seemed to hurtle past us to the valley below,'' the prince said. ``it was all over in a terrifying matter of seconds.''
charles described how he helped dig mrs. palmer-tomkinson out of the snow with a shovel and then with his hands. she broke both legs and is in a swiss hospital
the 39-year-old prince has been skiing for more than 15 years and knows the area well where the avalanche occurred. he was leading the ski party and press association quoted police at klosters as saying he personally asked thursday for the party to be allowed to ski on the perilous slopes where the avalanche later occurred
charles was praised for helping save the life of mrs. palmer-tomkinson. but some british newspapers called him foolhardy for taking on the dangerous haglamatte slopes of klosters
mrs. lindsay was at northolt to see six soldiers from her late husband's royal lancers regiment carry his flag-draped coffin from the red and white jet of the queen's flight
she left afterwards with her father while charles went to windsor castle 20 miles away to see the queen. diana and sarah left in another car for kensington palace in london
their movements for the weekend are private,'' buckingham palace said
lindsay's funeral is expected to take place at the royal military college at sandhurst on thursday, provided legal matters are settled in time, his regiment, the 9th@12th royal lancers said today. the service in the memorial chapel will be followed by a cremation
dennis day, a singer who served as comic foil for jack benny on television and radio shows, was hospitalized in critical condition today with a brain injury, an official said
he's showing signs of improvement day by day, and we're taking it day by day,'' publicist kitty davis said friday. ``he's showing signs of response.''
day, 71, a tenor known for his recordings of irish ballads such as ``danny boy,'' was diagnosed last july as having amyotropic lateral sclerosis, also known as lou gehrig's disease. the progressive nerve disorder causes a loss in muscle control
but day wasn't hospitalized until he fell and hit his head at his bel air-area home wednesday, said armen markarian, spokesman for st. john's hospital and health center
his condition was critical early today, and he remained under close observation, according to a nursing supervisor
day complained of a severe headache while he was being examined in the hospital emergency room early wednesday, markarian said. tests showed bleeding in the brain and he was taken to surgery, markarian said
he's been in critical condition since then,'' the spokesman added
day was born eugene denis mcnulty in new york city. his singing career began in 1939 as a naive kid with a golden voice on jack benny's radio show
one of his trademark lines was a sprightly ``gee, mr. benny!''
he recorded a number of songs, such as ``peg of my heart'' and ``clancy lowered the boom,'' and he also appeared in several films, including ``buck benny rides again,'' ``music in manhattan,'' ``one sunday afternoon'' and ``the girl next door.''
during a vacation in hawaii last year, day became aware of a muscle-control problem and returned to the scripps clinic in la jolla, where doctors diagnosed lou gehrig's disease
he was confined to a wheelchair during recent months, ms. davis said, but he made regular appearances at irish fairs and benefits for medical research
a train inspector who tampered with the breaks of a train because his relatives were refused seats has been sentenced to eight years in prison, china's official xinhua news agency said today
the report said a court in lanzhou, northwest china, found wang gang guilty of sabotage in dismantling six brake shoes on a passenger train traveling from urumqi to zhenzhou on jan. 18
it said wang, an inspector at yumen city in gansu province, became angered when he asked an attendant working on the train to find two berths for his relatives and was told there were no available seats
the faulty brakes were discovered after the train left the station. they were replaced at the next station, the report said
china has been plagued this year by disasters on its overcrowded railway system, with 34 people killed in a compartment fire, 19 killed in a head-on collision and 88 killed in a train derailment. all three accidents occurred in january
the head-on collision, in northeast china's heilongjiang province, was blamed on sabotage, although there have been no reported arrests
railways minister ding guangen resigned last week to take responsibility for the accidents
colossus, reputed to be the largest lowland gorilla in captivity, is moving from frosty new hampshire to a spacious new home in florida, where he'll get to enjoy the sunshine and perhaps a little romance
the 600-pound gorilla is to fly in a chartered dc-3 sunday from benson's animal park in hudson, n.h., to nearby pensacola. he'll then be trucked to the zoo, about 10 miles east of gulf breeze, said pat quinn, president and director of the park
colossus was captured as an infant 20 years ago in africa and has not seen another gorilla since then, but quinn said he hopes to introduce him to females of his species and breed him
we hope to socialize him so he will breed naturally with females,'' quinn said
the socialization process is to start by letting colossus see, smell and touch a male chimpanzee. then he would be introduced to another bachelor male gorilla or a infertile female, quinn said
an initial attempt at breeding may be through artificial insemination, and one potential recipient is koko, the signing, cat-loving gorilla owned by the gorilla foundation in woodside, calif
semen will be obtained from colossus before he is moved and then frozen
we are hoping to obtain some of that for use with koko because she is very anxious to become a mother,'' said penny patterson, director of the gorilla foundation
ms. patterson said 16-year-old koko's keepers know she wants to have a baby because she has told them so through sign language. that skill and her doting care of a pet kitten landed koko on the cover of national geographic magazine
all ball, so named by koko because it was a tailless manx, was hit by a truck and killed after the national geographic story, but koko was given a replacement kitten named smokey, now an adult cat still living with her
koko and a male gorilla, michael, communicate with sign language to express their feelings, ask for food and certain teachers and inquire about other animals
colossus' sperm may be used because captive gorillas sometimes develop incest taboos against cage mates, so michael would be unsuitable, ms. patterson said.another advantage is that colossus was captured in the wild as an infant and isn't inbred with zoo gorillas. comment. picks up 7th graf pvs, `the bodies...</note>
the bodies of three ira guerrillas killed by british troops in gibraltar will be flown to dublin monday on a chartered plane, the ira's political wing sinn fein said today
police said friday night they will move in to stop any ira paramilitary display at the funerals and asked the families for a public promise that there would be no such display. there was no immediate reaction from the families
last sunday's killing of the three unarmed irish republican army guerrillas sparked nighttime rioting in belfast much of the week. authorities have said the guerrillas were plotting a huge car bomb explosion in the british colony of gibraltar, on spain's southern tip
the irish government had complained that there was no attempt to arrest the guerrillas before they were shot
a sinn fein statement said spanish customs had refused ``to accommodate the return'' of the bodies of mairead farrell, 31, daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24, on the first available scheduled flight to dublin
as a result, it said, the bodies will be put aboard a chartered plane which will fly directly from gibraltar to dublin, from where they will be taken to belfast, in the british province
spanish customs spokesman julio verdu in la linea de la concepcion, which borders gibraltar, said today ``it is absolutely false'' that the spanish government had refused entry into spain of the three bodies
verdu said health ministry officials had stayed on the job overtime friday night in case the families decided to transport the bodies to malaga
the bodies have been kept at the gibraltar royal naval hospital while attempts have been made to find a way to return them to ireland
the mainly roman catholic ira has been fighting to unite the predominantly protestant northern ireland with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
no date has been set for the funerals, but sinn fein sources in belfast have been hinting they may be held next thursday, st. patrick's day
ira funerals in northern ireland have seen repeated violence as angry crowds clashed with police trying to stop paramilitary ira members from firing over the coffin
police say the ceremonial gunfire represents an illegal show of arms. but despite their presence in force, paramilitaries shielded by crowds of thousands often have managed to fire the traditional salute
more than 80 people were killed and hundreds were injured today when soccer fans were trampled in a stampede to get out of a hailstorm, eyewitnesses and hospital sources said
the storm pelted about 30,000 fans with hailstones during a match between a nepalese and bangladeshi team at the national stadium
fans rushed to stadium exits but found them locked, witnesses said
hospital sources confirmed 60 dead and more than 250 injured, many of them in critical condition. witnesses said there were more than 20 bodies left at the stadium that were not taken to hospitals
none of the athletes was involved in the stampede, they said
strong winds accompanied the storm, uprooting trees in katmandu valley, surrounding the capital
bill britt, the ``hermit of chestnut hill'' whose refusal to leave his makeshift home in the woods cost him his life, was remembered at his funeral as a colorful, articulate ``free spirit.''
fifty relatives and friends packed the funeral home friday to pay tribute to the garrulous, 52-year-old eccentric whose body was found monday in his lean-to at the chestnut hill cemetery. authorities said he had frozen to death about two weeks before
the funeral also attracted the media, and the room was lit up with television lights, a touch which britt's son said his father would have enjoyed
my father would have loved this. he's got all the cameras here,'' britton steven boughner, 30, said
but if his father loved attention, he also cherished independence. said his son: ``he was a free spirit and he (taught) me not to be afraid of anything or any individual.''
britt's daughter, ingrid boughner, 28, wept talking about the father who was reunited with two of his three children only a year ago
my father never really was a hermit,'' she said. ``he was a naturalist. ... he was the most colorful and articulate human being.''
britt's friend of two decades, birth control activist bill baird, recalled britt's ``passion for freedom, independence and the beauty of the woods.''
also at the service were britt's mother, marion, 86, his two brothers, and close friends like sophie ``bubbles'' haggett. ms. haggett spoke to britt daily by telephone from her home in malden and would bring him soup and clothing. britt died while the 70-year-old woman was laid up in the hospital
britt's body was cremated. his ashes were to be scattered today in the woods where he had lived
britt was once an ordinary married man with three children and a job in an office. all that changed after a painful divorce in 1969
soon he cast off his three-piece suits and his three-piece name, britton william boughner. he began to retreat to the woods at the state-owned chestnut hill reservoir, near the affluent suburb of the same name where he was born
but the ``hermit of chestnut hill'' was hardly a recluse. he was shrewd, witty and stubborn, given freely to tears. he would ride the trolleys and hunt for pay phones to call reporters, clad in cast-off clothing and dragging an armful of plastic buckets
bear-shaped and nearly toothless, britt had blind eyes swollen with infection. he refused welfare and lived on the nickels he got for empty bottles and cans
two years ago, officials began trying to force britt to leave the state land
britt fought back. he showed the world a misunderstood hermit who wanted only to be left among the trees. it landed him on ``late night with david letterman.'' actor mickey rooney suggested a tv movie about his life
a sympathetic judge respected britt's wish for a suburban eden and ordered the state to find a suitable alternative site
britt refused them all. but last july, he was finally ejected from state land and moved to the adjacent cemetery
the chicago sun-times editorial board says the newspaper will endorse vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis as the best choice for democrats
the board, in a statement released before formal editorial endorsements are published sunday, praised bush's ``variety and texture of public experience'' and said dukakis would give his party the best chance of regaining the white house
the rival chicago tribune on friday endorsed sen. robert dole for the gop nomination but has taken no stand on the democratic race in tuesday's primary. the tribune said dole has at times been ``the lone republican voice of reason and good sense on matters of budget and foreign affairs.''
we urge illinois republicans to give enthusiastic validation to the bush candidacy,'' the sun-times editorial board said in a statement issued friday
the editors cited bush's past experience as a congressman, cia director, united nations ambassador, national party chairman as well as his current position as vice president
rarely has a presidential candidate offered the variety and texture of public experience that mr. bush represents,'' the editorial board said
mr. bush has more inside knowledge of the workings of more aspects of government than all but a few candidates in two centuries,'' the newspaper's editors said
we have supreme confidence in mr. bush's understanding of international affairs and his capability for stewardship in guiding the united states through the mine fields of world politics,'' the editors said
in their democratic endorsement, the editors said, ``on balance, we consider governor dukakis the best democratic choice to grapple with and attempt to master the awesome powers of the presidency.''
there is no question _ no question at all _ of mr. dukakis' skills, talent, fiscal prudence and sound instincts administering a large bureaucracy,'' the newspaper's editorial board said
we also believe he represents the party's strongest contender to regain the white house.'' resignations. picks up 5th graf pvs,, `troops were ...'</note>
israeli soldiers shot and wounded a palestinian who threw a hand grenade, and prison officials opened fire on protesters who pelted their bus with stones, wounding one woman, the army command said today
bethlehem's mayor elias freij told the associated press about 300 palestinian policemen have handed in their resignations, including all 50 officers in bethlehem
an army spokesman said the hand grenade did not explode. soldiers chased the assailant and shot him in the back. he was taken to hadassah hospital in jerusalem, but a hospital official said he had no details about the man's condition
the incident took place friday evening in the village of bani naim, near hebron in the occupied west bank. it was the second time palestinians have thrown hand grenades at israeli troops since violence broke out three months ago
today, prison service employees opened fire on protesters who pelted their bus with stones and broke several windows in the west bank village of nur el-shams, the army spokesman said, speaking on condition of anonymity
a 50-year-old woman was wounded and taken to a hospital, the spokesman said
in bethlehem, soldiers dispersed two demonstrations and arrested several protesters who threw stones and empty bottles at the local police station
freij said the resignation of the local police ``would make things very difficult. there was a theft in town about a week ago. our policemen found the thieves and put them in jail within 12 hours. who will do this now?''
freij said all the police in ramallah and jericho resigned. the arab-run palestine press service said 68 policemen in hebron also quit. the resignations go into effect monday, freij said
on friday, the army barred palestinian worshipers from three mosques in gaza city on the moslem holy day in an attempt to maintain order. israeli soldiers wounded nine worshipers after services in the west bank and gaza strip
troops razed four palestinian homes to punish suspects in the attempted lynching of a collaborator and the knifing of a jewish settler
prime minister yitzhak shamir attacked the latest u.s. peace plan and said it was formulated to please the arabs. the plo has also rejected the plan because it did not provide for direct palestinian representation at negotiations
troops were posted friday around al amari mosque in gaza and barbed wire blocked the street to keep out worshipers. gaza's main mosque draws about 2,500 faithful, and local residents said it was the first time it was closed
two other mosques in gaza city also were shut by the army to prevent demonstrations, which have become routine on fridays since violence broke out dec. 8 in the territories seized by israel in the 1967 middle east war
israeli bullets or beatings have killed 87 palestinians in anti-occupation rioting
the army turned journalists away from nablus and hebron but the clampdown was not as widespread as the previous friday, when nearly all the west bank was closed to coverage
in beit ummar, 10 miles south of jerusalem, troops shot and wounded eight palestinians, two of them seriously, hospital officials at beit jallah and mukassed said
soldiers fired tear gas canisters to disperse protesters outside the beit ummar mosque. witnesses said at one point troops entered the building to broadcast a message over the loudspeaker ordering protesters to go home
the soldiers entered the mosque while we were still kneeling barefoot on our prayer rugs. people started shouting allahu akbar,'' or ``god is great,'' said youssef hassan khalil, 30, who lay on a cot in mukassed hospital with a wounded right ankle
in jabaliya refugee camp near gaza city, soldiers fired on demonstrators outside a mosque, wounding one palestinian in the leg, officials at shifa hospital said
israeli troops destroyed one palestinian home in hebron and three in biddya village, 30 miles west of jerusalem
the army command said the homes in biddya belonged to families of three residents who led a lynching attempt march 5 against a man suspected of collaborating with israel
shamir broke his silence two days before flying to washington and criticized the peace initiative proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz,'' shamir was quoted as saying in an interview with the daily haaretz
the plo has said that it would not agree to indirect representation through a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation as suggested in the shultz plan
an american farmer who was held prisoner 54 days in nicaragua has received a polite welcome back in that nation, but cannot return to his farm in costa rica, according to a published report
james denby, who was shot down over nicaragua on dec. 6, has returned to managua to retrieve his damaged private plane and review his legal status there, the st. louis post-dispatch reported
although he was accused of being a spy and cia informant while being held by the sandinistas, he has become something of a celebrity upon his return to managua, the newspaper said. nicaraguan soldiers reportedly have been seen asking for his autograph
i didn't know i'd done anything to become a public personality,'' denby told the newspaper thursday. ``i've been a little amazed. it seems unusual for a soldier to come up to me and ask for an autograph after being in prison for two months.''
denby, of carlinville, ill., was freed jan. 31 after bill press, a democrat running for the u.s. senate from california, persuaded the nicaraguan government to release denby before a congressional vote on aid to the contra rebels
after his release, denby delivered a message in washington d.c. against contra aid, although the lifelong republican later said he had supported the contras while farming in central america
denby said he returned to managua to get documentation that the nicaraguan government no longer has any charges against him, and expects to receive it
but he told the newspaper he still has some problems to solve, including settling a bill for $3,000 from the nicaraguan government for towing his cessna 172 from the costa rican border, where it was shot down
ironically, denby was refused entry to costa rica when he tried to return to his farm, and costa rican officials told him they had not been notified of any change in his legal status by nicaragua
in fact, i got deported to panama right when things got bad with (panamanian military strongman manuel antonio) noriega,'' denby told the newspaper. ``i didn't think that was the proper place to be.''
as a result, denby is staying on in nicaragua
the chicago sun-times editorial board says the newspaper will endorse vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis as the best choice for democrats
the board, in a statement released before formal editorial endorsements are published sunday, praised bush's ``variety and texture of public experience'' and said dukakis would give his party the best chance of regaining the white house
the rival chicago tribune on friday endorsed sen. robert dole for the gop nomination but has taken no stand on the democratic race in tuesday's primary. the tribune said dole has at times been ``the lone republican voice of reason and good sense on matters of budget and foreign affairs.''
we urge illinois republicans to give enthusiastic validation to the bush candidacy,'' the sun-times editorial board said in a statement issued friday
the editors cited bush's past experience as a congressman, cia director, united nations ambassador, national party chairman as well as his current position as vice president
rarely has a presidential candidate offered the variety and texture of public experience that mr. bush represents,'' the editorial board said
mr. bush has more inside knowledge of the workings of more aspects of government than all but a few candidates in two centuries,'' the newspaper's editors said
we have supreme confidence in mr. bush's understanding of international affairs and his capability for stewardship in guiding the united states through the mine fields of world politics,'' the editors said
in their democratic endorsement, the editors said, ``on balance, we consider governor dukakis the best democratic choice to grapple with and attempt to master the awesome powers of the presidency.''
there is no question _ no question at all _ of mr. dukakis' skills, talent, fiscal prudence and sound instincts administering a large bureaucracy,'' the newspaper's editorial board said
we also believe he represents the party's strongest contender to regain the white house.'' ^eds: retransmitting a0505 to restore slug line</head>
the chicago sun-times editorial board says the newspaper will endorse vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis as the best choice for democrats
the board, in a statement released before formal editorial endorsements are published sunday, praised bush's ``variety and texture of public experience'' and said dukakis would give his party the best chance of regaining the white house
the rival chicago tribune on friday endorsed sen. robert dole for the gop nomination but has taken no stand on the democratic race in tuesday's primary. the tribune said dole has at times been ``the lone republican voice of reason and good sense on matters of budget and foreign affairs.''
we urge illinois republicans to give enthusiastic validation to the bush candidacy,'' the sun-times editorial board said in a statement issued friday
the editors cited bush's past experience as a congressman, cia director, united nations ambassador, national party chairman as well as his current position as vice president
rarely has a presidential candidate offered the variety and texture of public experience that mr. bush represents,'' the editorial board said
mr. bush has more inside knowledge of the workings of more aspects of government than all but a few candidates in two centuries,'' the newspaper's editors said
we have supreme confidence in mr. bush's understanding of international affairs and his capability for stewardship in guiding the united states through the mine fields of world politics,'' the editors said
in their democratic endorsement, the editors said, ``on balance, we consider governor dukakis the best democratic choice to grapple with and attempt to master the awesome powers of the presidency.''
there is no question _ no question at all _ of mr. dukakis' skills, talent, fiscal prudence and sound instincts administering a large bureaucracy,'' the newspaper's editorial board said
we also believe he represents the party's strongest contender to regain the white house.''
the national association of evangelicals is concerned about the effect of financial and sexual wrongdoings by television preachers on young people, marriages and moral principles
we express ... deep disappointment and sorrow over some recent highly publicized moral lapses,'' the nae leadership said in a statement at its conference this week
all of those interviewed were quick to agree that the recent confession of sexual episodes by jimmy swaggart and the earlier allegations of sexual and financial wrongdoing by jim bakker were exceptional cases. but they worried about the aftereffects
jeffrey k. hadden, professor of sociology at the university of virginia, said the repercussions from the recent scandals that have plagued the industry are numerous
there will be more investigations,'' hadden said. ``there are a lot of people around who would like to get these guys. it's sort of open season.''
he noted that a house subcommittee was looking into possible violations of postal regulations governing direct-mail solicitations and said the internal revenue service and federal communications commission would probably uncover other wrongdoings
there was also concern among members of the national religious broadcasters, an affiliate of the nae, about reports of an increase in the number of television stations dropping religious programming as a result of the swaggart case
gerry leonard of orlando, central florida coordinator of a teaching ministry called evangelism explosion, said she gets many questions from people concerned about television evangelism
we don't throw stones or put anybody down because these are events caused by individuals, not the church,'' she said. ``but i tell them to carefully study what the bible teaches, not what somebody represents it to be.''
these tv preachers have to answer for their own sins,'' said milton russ, who runs an agency that aids churches in their fund-raising activities. ``we make sure that what we're doing is right. ... they should too.''
he said that those who avidly follow and give their financial support to tv ministries ``have no real strong ties to local churches. they just do not personally want to get involved. ... whenever one of them (tv preachers) gets in trouble, they just switch channels and go on to the other guy.'' endorsements.</note>
republican george bush and democrat michael dukakis are bidding to score political knockouts in illinois against dogged opponents who refuse to give up their presidential campaigns despite long odds
kansas sen. bob dole, acknowledging that ``we're hanging by our fingernails,'' announced friday he has purchased 30 minutes of television time tonight and he challenged bush to join him ``to discuss the issues.''
the vice president rejected a one-on-one debate with dole
that ploy has been used before,'' he said during an appearance before the illinois farm bureau. ``i may have used it before when things weren't going too well. but debates are cruel and unusual punishment. we've already had seven of them.''
during an appearance at the university of illinois, dukakis told reporters that if he can beat sen. paul simon on the senator's home ground ``it would be a turning point'' in the democratic presidential race
a smiling dukakis and his wife, kitty, took time out from heavy campaigning to feast on flaming saganaki, or fried cheese, and squid at the greek islands restaurant in chicago's ``greektown'' section. the candidate scheduled no speech there but stopped often to shake hands with others dining at the restaurant
dukakis, whose parents were natives of greece, said he is not trying to build an ethnic coalition
we want to put together a coalition of people all over this country, whether they're first-generation or second-generation americans,'' he said
the chicago sun-times editorial board announced it would endorse bush and dukakis in sunday's editions. the board praised bush's ``variety and texture of public experience'' and said dukakis is his party's strongest contender to regain th white house
the rival chicago tribune on friday endorsed dole, saying he has often been ``the lone republican voice of reason and good sense on matters of budget and foreign affairs.'' the tribune had made no endorsement in the democratic race
as expected, gary hart announced his departure from the democratic race on friday. ``i got a fair hearing and the people decided,'' said the former colorado senator
jesse jackson was the winner of a non-binding straw vote taken thursday night during alaska's democratic caucuses. jackson received 35 percent of the vote to 30 percent for dukakis, the state party announced friday
jackson campaigned friday in south carolina which holds democratic caucuses today and he was given a strong chance of winning a majority of the delegates in his native state. his principal competition in the state came from sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and rep. richard gephardt of missouri
simon insisted he would carry illinois in tuesday's presidential primary and that no candidate would have a first-ballot nomination at the democratic national convention next july
i think i have as good a chance as anyone,'' said simon, as he campaigned in the chicago area
simon said he believed that new york gov. mario cuomo's statement that he would endorse a democratic presidential candidate before his state's presidential primary on april 19 meant that cuomo is waiting for the results of the illinois primary
however, simon could take less encouragement from a cuomo statement on friday when the governor said he thought the democrats ought to unite behind whichever candidate has the most delegates at the end of the primary season
if mike dukakis has 41 percent, get everybody together in a room and say, `jesse, gore, gephardt, you came close, but mike's the candidate,''' said cuomo. ``let's pick the guy who's ahead after california.''
campaigning around the state, dole conceded that ``we're hanging by our fingernails. we shouldn't be but we are. we need to somehow capture the attention of the illinois voters.''
in an effort to accomplish that, the dole campaign has spent $100,000 to buy 30 minutes on chicago television station wgn for a live broadcast from knox college in galesburg which was the site of one of the debates between abraham lincoln and stephen douglas
dole refused to discuss the format for the broadcast except to say, ``i'll be there.''
i know he's ahead,'' dole said of bush. ``he knows he's ahead.''
he said, ``the voters of illinois can make history tuesday be demanding that we discuss the issues.''
bush also will be in galesburg and dole was asked if he might personally confront the vice president in an effort to engage him in debate
i doubt it,'' he said. ``no gimmicks, no games.'' cyclone. picks up 3rd, `the deaths...</note>
at least 57 people were killed when a cyclone hit the central coastal city of quelimane earlier this month, the national news agency aim reported today
cyclone filao struck march 1 and damaged large parts of quelimane and surrounding rural areas, aim reported. the word cyclone is used in the indian ocean area to describe a hurricane
the deaths have not been reported previously due to poor communications links, aim said. the news agency said the death toll may rise when information from surrounding areas becomes available
the cyclone destroyed 800 homes in quelimane and neighboring areas, leaving an estimated 4,000 people homeless, aim said. local rice fields were damagaed and a government warehouse containing food supplies was destroyed, aim said
large trees and telephone poles were ripped from the ground, and parts of the city of about 75,000 remain without electricity, the news agency said
eduardo joao, planning director for zambezia province, estimated the damage to buildings at just under $1 million. add detail; subs last two grafs with 2 grafs to update cause of fire.</note>
firefighters had to force about 100 patrons at a midtown manhattan nightspot to leave the building after a fire broke out in the back of the club oasis early today, a spokesman said
they didn't want to leave the disco,'' said fire lt. frank martinez
the fire, reported at 12:12 a.m. by residents in apartments above the basement club, was declared under control around 3 a.m., martinez said
thirteen firefighters reported minor injuries, including a fire captain who went to lenox hill hospital with a cut head after he fell in the basement of a nearby shop while battling the blaze, martinez said
two people believed to be apartment residents were also sent to hospitals, an elderly woman complaining of chest pains and another woman suffering smoke inhalation, he said
about 100 firefighters were at the scene. the club runs under three five-story buildings with about eight businesses and 30 apartments overhead, martinez said
some of the residents may not be allowed back into their apartments until the units can be checked for possible structural damage, martinez said, adding that the red cross had relocated the 75 people
the department said after a preliminary investigation that the fire had started in some rubbish in an alleyway behind the disco. been slugged 2nd ld-writethru.</note>
the administration has reluctantly ordered the closing of the plo observer mission at the united nations because of a law secretary of state george p. shultz called ``one of the dumber things that congress has done lately.''
attorney general edwin meese iii gave the palestine liberation organization mission in new york until march 21 to close, saying the department would then go to federal court to enforce the anti-terrorism act of 1987
the 1947 treaty under which new york became u.n. headquarters obliges the united states to let all accredited missions operate, u.n. officials and the state department have said
despite the headquarters treaty, congress passed the law ordering the mission closed and president reagan signed it into law last dec. 22 as part of a state department spending bill. rep. jack kemp, r-n.y., who played a leading role in the congressional debate, called the plo ``the world's most vicious terrorist organization.''
the state department earlier had closed the plo's information office in washington but opposed the law that would close its un office
for more than a century ... the supreme court has held that congress has the authority to abrogate treaties and international law for the purpose of domestic law,'' assistant attorney general charles cooper, head of the justice department's office of legal counsel, said friday at a news conference. he said the justice department is obliged to follow the congressional decision
calling the law ``one of the dumber things that the congress has done lately,'' shultz added:
the administration opposed that law. and my opinion remains that it is a very bad piece of legislation ... and the net result of it is, from the standpoint of those who don't like the plo _ and i don't like the plo _ but from the standpoint of those don't like the plo, what have they done?
they've glorified the plo and they've given legitimacy to the plo.''
united nations secretary-general javier perez de cuellar ``strongly protested this violation of the headquarters agreement'' during a friday morning meeting he had with herbert okun, deputy u.s. ambassador to the united nations, said u.n. spokesman francois giuliani
the secretary-general's legal staff is ``studying options,'' but giuliani refused to describe them or say if the united nations would join litigation on behalf of the plo
okun, in a letter to perez de cuellar, said the united states refuses binding arbitration of the dispute over the mission in the worst confrontation ever between the united nations and its host country
cooper said the statute ``has superseded the requirements of the u.n. headquarters agreement'' and that participation in an international tribunal ``would be to no useful end.''
the 159-nation general assembly, in a special meeting last month, asked the world court in the hague to rule on whether the united states must agree to arbitration. oral arguments are scheduled for april 11
the arab league's permanent observer at the united nations, clovis maksoud, said that if the united states presses to close the mission, ``naturally one of the options would be ... that the 43rd session of the (u.n.) general assembly would have to meet elsewhere.''
several arab diplomats have suggested that the general assembly move to geneva if the mission in new york is closed
the call by all members of the u.n., israel being the only obvious exception, for the u.s. to abide by its treaty obligations, was not heeded, and with the attorney general's decision the international consensus was brushed aside,'' maksoud said
the united states and israel consider the plo a terrorist organization. but the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate spokesman for palestinians. satellites</head>
to correct time back to 8:28 p.m. picks up 7th graf, `the third-stage..
the european space agency fired its first ariane 3 rocket into space this year in a flawless launch that carried two telecommunications satellites _ one american and one french _ into orbit
officials called the launch friday night of the west's only active commercial satellite launcher ``a complete success,'' with all operations perfect. it was ariane's 21st launching and the first of eight planned for this year
the ariane 3 placed into orbit france's telecom 1c and the american spacenet iiir-geostar, which includes facilities for the associated press
technicians said the two satellites, placed into orbit by ariane above the equator, obtained an altitude of 22,554 miles
the critical day for the spacenet satellite is wednesday, when its own motor ignites to place it into its definitive orbit 87 degrees west above the equator
liftoff from the space agency's jungle base on the northern coast of south america came at 8:28 p.m. local time (6:28 p.m. est)
the third-stage engine, at fault in three of ariane's four failed launchings, ignited normally four minutes after blastoff, officials said. twenty minutes after blastoff, the rocket separated from its payload, thrusting the two satellites into geostationary transfer orbits
frederic d'allest, president of arianespace, the european space agency's commercial arm, immediately announced plans for launches on may 11 and at the end of may. one would be a demonstration of the more powerful ariane 4 rocket, described by esa as ``the new generation of the european launcher.''
this success enables us to envision the ambitious program of eight launches a year,'' d'allest said after the launch. ``for that, vigilance and rigorousness are needed.''
some experts estimate the commercial space market will be worth more than $1 billion per year after 1991
including friday's payload, arianespace has 43 satellites on its order books worth $2.36 billion, according to the company
to keep up with the orders, the kourou space center has made two launch pads available
the launch friday was first scheduled for december but was delayed for extra tests after abnormalities were detected in the oxygen and liquid hydrogen third-stage engine
we preferred to take the time to understand the problem,'' said d'allest
third-stage engine failure was the cause of failed ariane launches in september 1982, september 1985 and may 1986. the last failure, the 18th launch, left the rocket grounded for more than a year
another failed launch occurred in may 1980 because of a problem with the first-stage engine
the 21st launch thrust into orbit the american gte spacenet corp.'s fifth satellite, spacenet iii r-geostar r01. the satellite is aimed at increasing the company's telecommunications services in the united states and helping set up a system of satellite communication with mobile units such as trucks, cars and trains
the satellite, with an expected lifetime of 10 years, weighed 2,674 pounds before liftoff and 1,562 pounds in orbit
gte spacenet lost a satellite in the 1985 failed launch
two transponders on spacenet iii purchased by the ap are to provide the new york-based news cooperative with domestic satellite delivery services over the next 10 years. a satellite being used is nearing the end of its operational service
the french telecom ic, the third in a series of satellites owned by france telecom, the state-owned telecommunications system. it is to replace telecom 1-b, which broke down jan. 15
with the u.s. space shuttle grounded and america's titan 4 and delta rockets not yet competitive, ariane remains the only active launcher for commercial satellites in the west. dakota reopened.</note>
a major blizzard continued its slow march east across the northern plains today, stranding travelers and schoolchildren, forcing authorities to close interstate highways and causing scores of minor accidents
snow combined with winds of 30 to 50 mph produced limited visibility and drifts up to 10 feet deep from northeast colorado and southeast wyoming into northern and western minnesota
there's zero visibility. we're just advising people not to travel right now,'' said polk county, minn., sheriff's dispatcher bob janorschke
conditions were so bad by 9 p.m. friday that even snow plows were pulled off roads in parts of minnesota, the state transportation department said
wyoming state offices were closed friday, although the legislature met. north dakota capitol workers were sent home about an hour after they arrived
blizzard warnings remained in effect today for much of the eastern dakotas and western minnesota, and winter storm warnings or winter storm watches were issued for sections of minnesota, wisconsin, iowa and michigan
in chadron, neb., 31 inches of snow fell, with snow drifts 5 feet deep. up to 40 inches of snow fell in two days in the mountains of utah at the alta ski resort, with 37 inches at snowbird. three to 4 feet fell around lead and deadwood on the edges of south dakota's black hills. visibility in many areas was down to zero
in western nebraska, school bus driver linda barret and her 13 riders took refuge thursday at a farm some 20 miles from harrisburg when the storm cut visibility, and bus driver sharon grubbs and her eight riders, ages 7 to 13, wound up at a farm 17 miles from the town
it looks as if the children will be snowed in at least until this morning,'' mrs. barrett said friday night
power has been out at the second farm, owned by jack and karen holt, since late thursday, cutting off the heat
you can see your breath in the house,'' said one of the stranded youngsters, 14-year-old jeff rundell
ms. grubbs said the house was holding the heat to about 40 degrees
in the nebraska panhandle, kimball civil defense director dan jenson estimated 600 stranded travelers spent friday night in the town of 3,800 residents. many stayed with townspeople, jenson said
outside scottsbluff, neb., jim and elizabeth davis of hot springs, wyo., spent about 15 hours stuck in their car before being rescued friday. davis, 68, said he and his 67-year-old wife had apples and candy, plenty of blankets and a full gas tank
winds gusting to 69 mph were reported friday at akron, colo., and to 67 mph at fort morgan, colo., while gusts over 50 mph were clocked at rapid city, s.d.; scottsbluff, neb.; and duluth, minn
the wind blew off a 20-by-30 foot section of roof at a rapid city hotel, and it landed on three cars. no one was hurt
the weather threatened thousands of newborn calves, and ranchers in the nebraska sandhills region worked around the clock to get animals to shelter
we had 300 calves born yesterday. we're dragging them in, separating them from their mothers,'' said marianne beel
the storm could cause severe losses to south dakota's cattle industry. dick kjerstad, chairman of the state beef checkoff campaign committee said friday
interstate 80 was closed for more than 300 miles, from walcott, wyo., to big springs, neb., because of snowdrifts and low visibility. almost 140 miles of interstate 25 were closed in wyoming, more than 200 miles of interstate 90 in south dakota, and parts of interstates 25 and 70 in colorado. a 200-mile section of i-94 in north dakota, closed friday afternoon, was reopened this morning. servitude</head>
border guards rescued 88 men, women and children from traffickers who were trying to smuggle them out for prostitution and indentured servitude abroad, officials and newspapers said saturday
young girls were lured away from school by women who told them their mothers were ill and offered to take them home, the government-owned dainik bangla and other newspapers reported
a senior police official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said hundreds of women had been smuggled across the border in recent years
most of these women land up in brothels, either in india or in pakistan,'' he said
in some cases, people have paid smugglers who promised them an escape from bangladesh's grinding poverty, according to newspapers. the smugglers, known as ``manpower agents,'' promise jobs as servants and manual laborers in prosperous middle eastern nations
often the victims end up as nothing more than slaves in households or on farms
maj. noor, a battalion commander of the bangladesh rifles border guards, said a new alert was declared monday at the border between bangladesh and the indian state of west bengal in an effort to stop the smuggling
we have recovered at least 80 women and children and some accompanying men since the latest crackdown started on march 7,'' noor said when contacted by telephone at border town of rajshahi
he said the group included 28 women, 31 children and 29 men
dhaka newspapers said 200 women and children had been rescued from the smugglers and 15 men had been charged with human trafficking since jan. 1
the latest reported interception occurred friday when six women, 16 men and one child were caught in the border towns of sahebnagar and bidirpur, the dainik bangla and daily itefaq newspapers said. two of the men were arrested on charges of trafficking in human lives
by piecing together sketchy reports in dhaka newspapers the past three days, a picture emerges of how the traffickers operate:
eleven-year-old najma akthar was playing with friends at their schoolyard last week in munshiganj, just outside dhaka, when a middle-aged woman approached her
the woman said najma's mother was seriously ill. puzzled and worried, the sixth-grader left the playground with the woman in a rickshaw
three days later, she and eight women who also had been lured away on false pretenses were in bidirpur, 90 miles northwest of dhaka. border police rescued them before they could be taken across the frontier
others paid for what they thought would be passports to better lives
bangladesh, with 105 million people, is one of the world's most densely populated nations. the per capital annual income is about $150
i sold my jewelry to pay the man who promised me a job in pakistan,'' dainik bangla quoted josna rani sarkar as saying
the 25-year-old woman, whose husband had deserted her, was one of those found by border guards this week
mrs. sarkar and other women were quoted as saying they paid between $100 and $200 for the journey
a foreign ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the government was investigating local press reports that at least 10,000 bangladeshis had been jailed abroad for using false passports and other papers
the dainik bangla, a bengali-language newspaper, said last october that police suspect some children have been smuggled out of bangladesh for more macabre purposes
the newspaper said there were unconfirmed reports that children had been taken across the indian border to west bengal and killed so their skeletons could be sold for medical studies
bangladeshi officials have declined to comment on this report
similar reports of indian children being killed in 1984 surfaced in the indian state of bihar. headless bodies were found in a river, and a box of children's skulls was later discovered at a railway station in patna, bihar's capital
platoon,'' the critically acclaimed film about america's moral anguish and loss of innocence on vietnam's battlefields, has been drawing tens of thousands of vietnamese viewers, according to the official vietnam news agency
people have been flocking to watch the film on video in ho chi minh city, formerly saigon, said a vna report seen in bangkok on saturday
the agency said ``platoon'' was the first u.s. film about the vietnam war to be screened in ho chi minh city since the communist victory over u.s.-backed south vietnam in april 1975
the brief report noted that the film was directed by oliver stone, who had fought in vietnam, and that it received academy awards in 1987
falling off horses, plummeting oceanward in a tangled parachute or fleeing an avalanche on a ski slope, prince charles maintains an old royal tradition of thrills and spills
the royal pratfall had become enshrined as a national joke until thursday, when charles narrowly escaped an avalanche that killed his close friend, maj. hugh lindsay, on a swiss ski slope
british hearts missed a beat realizing how close the avalanche had come to claiming the 39-year-old heir to the throne. ``it is only when you nearly lose someone that you become fully conscious of how much you value them,'' commented novelist a.n. wilson in the daily mail
inevitably, a cry went up for the royals to stop playing daredevil. but at the same time britons have come to expect it of them, judging by the derision charles's youngest brother edward has suffered in some quarters for shunning rugby and quitting the royal marines prematurely
zooming down the slopes with charles at the swiss resort of klosters were his wife, princess diana, and sister-in-law sarah, the duchess of york
on the morning of the avalanche, sarah, 28 and four months pregnant, tumbled into a river while skiing. that probably was the only reason she and diana stayed in their chalet and were not on the slopes when the avalanche broke loose
sarah's husband prince andrew, charles's other brother, was off the portuguese coast aboard the navy ship on which he serves as a helicopter warfare instructor. a few hours after the avalanche, the vessel lost a helicopter and two crewmen at sea
andrew flew combat missions in the 1982 falkland islands war, and few suggested he shouldn't. risking one's life for the public good is a tradition set in stone by king george vi, when he refused to flee london during hitler's blitz
charles's sister, anne, races horses and sometimes falls off them. his father, prince philip, was a polo player and took a well-photographed spill in a carriage-driving race. his mother, queen elizabeth ii, also is an accomplished, though more sedate, equestrian
anne's husband, capt. mark phillips, has suffered a few riding spills. he is also a repeat offender at the wheel, and recently was fined for clocking more than 100 mph on a 70-mph highway
on the outer fringes of royalty, risky sports and high-speed driving are routine. in 1972, prince william of gloucester, a cousin of the queen, was killed flying in an air race
charles has taken innumerable knocks on the sportsfields. he has a small facial scar from a fall playing polo, and in florida he collapsed dehydrated during a match
on his first ski run he pitched headfirst into snow. flying a light plane he came within seconds of a midair collision
his first parachute jump in 1971 came equally close to disaster. his foot snarled in the cords and he plunged thousands of feet upside down before righting himself and ending up in the ocean
charles's biographer, anthony holden, notes that the prince's grand-uncle, edward viii, was forced by his father to give up steeplechasing in the 1930s, but says it's unlikely the same will happen to charles
we cannot legislate about whether the prince of wales goes skiing or not,'' he told a bbc interviewer
it's in his character. he feels a need to prove himself physically.''
in charles, royalty-watchers see the dilemma of a vigorous man in the prime of life, well-aware of his privileged status and feeling forever compelled to justify it
forced to stay out of politics, the endearingly jug-eared prince is limited to speaking out on issues like modern architecture and the plight of britain's inner cities
he can only hint at his state of mind through remarks to friends that reach the media second-hand. the picture that emerges is of a man searching for a role, fearful of becoming a museum piece
his mother, at 61, shows no sign of giving up the throne, and chances are he won't be king before he is in his fifties
he is exasperated at being labeled an eccentric because he is interested in alternative medicine, communes in solitude with nature and once let on that he talks to his plants
his reverence for nature permeated the elegant, passionate statement he issued after the avalanche
he spoke of mountains needing to be ``treated with the greatest respect,'' and of the avalanche as ``a whirling maelstrom as the whole mountainside seemed to hurtle past us into the valley below.''
the times of london, weighing the calls for the prince to stop taking risks, concluded saturday that he should carry on regardless
should we become a nation whose competitive sporting instincts were restricted to the chess board or the ping-pong table, we would flourish neither in peace nor war,'' it said, ``and a great many brave spirits would be stifled.''
the death of vietnamese premier pham hung has given a natural prod to recent leadership changes that have brought western-style economic reforms to vietnam
hung, 75 and the no. 2 man in the communist party hierarchy, died of a heart attack in southern vietnam on thursday
hung was among the last of the ``old guard,'' a group that joined the revolution at its start but which saw its influence dwindle as the party left the battlefields to confront the challenge of economic development
over six decades, he played key roles in ousting the french, japanese and americans from vietnam. but he also helped forge the orthodox postwar policies the party now blames for vietnam's economic and social ruin
when hung became premier in june 1987, western diplomats saw him as a ``transitional figure'' selected to ease the break with the past and usher the way for technocrats more clearly identified with reforms
the choice of vo van kiet, a vice premier and chairman of the state planning commission, as acting premier should give impetus to the reform program
western analysts regard kiet and party general secretary nguyen van linh as the country's leading proponents of reforms based on material incentives, decentralized decision-making and limited free enterprise
the two championed such reforms years before they were declared the no. 1 priority at the sixth national party congress in december 1986
related reforms have included an easing of restrictions on the media, attempts to open vietnam to the west and reconciliation with former south vietnamese officials and other groups once considered enemies of the regime
other deaths have accelerated vietnam's recent changes
in july 1986, party leader le duan, a hardliner, passed away. several months later, at the december congress, the new party chief, truong chinh, relinquished his party post along with two other party co-founders, pham van dong and le duc tho
linh was chosen party general secretary and other pragmatists including kiet moved up the ranks of the politburo, the most powerful party group. in all, six of 13 politburo members were dropped at the congress
in june 1987, dong resigned the premiership he had held since 1955 and chinh resigned as vietnam's president. that removed from the top ranks the last of the party co-founders, an enduring clique comparable to russia's bolshevik or china's ``long march'' generations
in addition, a total of 17 ministers were sacked in major government reshuffles in june 1986 and february 1987, and the politburo has ordered a purge of corrupt and inefficient lower-level party and government officials to last until the end of this year
among western diplomats, hung had a reputation as a conservative hardliner, largely because from 1980 to february 1987, he held the powerful post of interior minister, which deals with internal security
he shared many common experiences with other top officials who emerged from the april 1975 communist victory bitter and defiant
hung joined the revolution at the age of 16. the french arrested him in 1931 and banished him to a decade and a half of hard labor at the notorious prison island of poulo condore. from 1945 until the french defeat at dien bien phu in 1954, hung held key party posts in southern vietnam
he assumed a high profile in defeating the south vietnam government and its american allies, who had replaced the french. hung was secretary of the south vietnam commission of the party's central committee and political commissar of the south vietnam liberation armed forces, or the viet cong
in 1975, he served as political commissar of the ho chi minh campaign, the final north vietnamese offensive which climaxed with the capture of saigon on april 30
a tatar leader scoffed saturday at a government overture to members of the disgruntled ethnic group and called a plan to allow some tatars to return to their crimean homeland a campaign to deceive the public
reshat dzhemilev, who was jailed for three years because he once asked saudi arabia to aid the cause of his people, said moscow's move would affect only a small number of his people _ and only those who toe the communist party line
it's a campaign to deceive the public, to create the appearance of action,'' dzhemilev said in a telephone interview
the tatars were deported in 1944 from crimea, a peninsula in the ukrainian republic that extends into the black sea
a government official told a commission in the central asian republic of uzbekistan on march 5 that crimean tatars who are ``the most virtuous and well-proven in work and social life'' would be allowed to return to crimea, the newspaper pravda vostoka reported
the newspaper, in its march 6 edition, said the state labor committee would decide which crimean tatars are eligible for resettlement on the basis of recommendations from labor collectives, and commissions of crimean tatars
dzhemilev said he did not believe the crimean tatars who attended the commission meeting in the uzbek capital of tashkent faithfully expressed the wishes of most of his people
pravda vostok said the commission was made up of republic-level representatives of crimean tatars and that the meeting also was attended by officials of regional commissions
two hundred families maybe will be allowed to move there, but that will not solve the problem,'' said dzhemilev, a leader in the crimean tatar effort who lives in tashkent but spoke during a visit to moscow. ``it's just supposed to distract attention.''
the newspaper indicated that the crimean tatars would be allowed to resettle ``as conditions are created'' primarily in steppe regions of the crimea. it hinted that resettlement will be limited in the areas on the black sea that have become popular resorts
the crimean tatars, who number from 250,000 to 350,000, are among the more than 100 national groups in the soviet union. soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said that ensuring national unity while granting ethnic groups cultural and linguistic rights is ``the most vital, fundamental issue of our society.''
the crimean tatars have been fighting for the right to return to their ancestral homeland ever since they were driven away. in may 1944, soon after soviet troops liberated the crimea from nazi germany, all the crimean tatars were charged with betraying their country and forcibly deported
they were shipped in sealed freight cars to the eastern regions of the soviet union, with most winding up in reservations in uzbekistan, kazakhstan, turkmenia and kirgizia. thousands died during deportation
the war crimes charges leveled against them were dropped in 1967 but the tatars were not allowed to return permanently to the crimea
the crimean tatars stage demonstrations regularly to press their cause, the most recent being a rally march 5 outside a moscow hotel. police broke up the protest and detained 15 of the 20 demonstrators, dissidents reported
the government set up a national commission headed by president andrei a. gromyko to consider the crimean tatars' demands, and on feb. 3 it endorsed steps to promote the group's culture. it also said new procedures had been adopted on resettlement, but did not release details
it was an unforgettable getaway car, unfortunately for a man accused of using the white cadillac limousine in two holdups and one attempted robbery
a man dressed in a black leather jacket entered a doughnut shop early friday and demanded money, police said. he got $20 and sped off in the white limousine, victims told officers. soon afterward, a man tried to hold up a convenience store but fled without any money, again in a white cadillac
at another convenience store, the man escaped with $6, and witnesses remembered the limousine and black leather jacket, too
officer gerald young cruised the neighborhood looking for the car, and spotted one in front of a house two blocks from one of the stores
alexander j. fulton jr., 36, came out of his house while police were checking the car and asked what was going on, police said
police found a black leather jacket, and witnesses identified both fulton and the car, they said. fulton was booked on two counts of armed robbery and one of attempted armed robbery
fulton, police said, is the owner of fulton limousine service. it has one car _ a white cadillac limousine
finding out what is happening in tibet has become almost as difficult in this age of high-tech telecommunications as it was for 19th-century adventurers who had to scale snow-swept mountains to reach the fabled land
chinese authorities, hypersensitive to criticism of their tibetan policies, have shut out all foreign reporters since pro-independence tibetans on march 5 staged their fourth protest in five months
they also have halted plane ticket sales to foreigners in chengdu, the main gateway to tibet
in the 19th century, westerners faced possible death from frigid temperatures and bandits when they set out to discover the mysteries of tibetan buddhist worship and the location of their gold and silver fields
foreign reporters in 1988 have no clear picture of what would happen if they somehow managed to evade the barriers and enter lhasa. expulsion from china is one possibility. no news agency has attempted it
concern remains high that authorities are using lhasa's isolation to crack down heavily on youthful militants among the city's fewer than 1,400 tibetan buddhist monks
one of the few official reports on the march 5 protest concluded ominously: ``local religious leaders ... demand justice against the rioters (and) are of the opinion that the people's government has exercised too much restraint and shown enough tolerance and patience towards these people.''
closing off lhasa was easy this time because most travel there already had been halted following three independence protests in september and october in which at least 14 people were killed and dozens others arrested
fourteen foreign journalists who went to lhasa to cover those protests were given 48 hours to leave tibet
an official report said one policeman was killed in daylong clashes march 5 between police and protesters, but unconfirmed reports put casualties at 21 tibetans and three police killed
a u.s. state department official told the associated press that at least 6,000 people took part in the riots and pro-independence rallies
only one reporter, from agence-france presse, was in lhasa on march 5 and he was ordered to leave the next day
the fewer than one dozen foreign travelers left in tibet's mile-high capital of lhasa have become the only link, albeit a weak one, to the outside world
backpackers staying in lhasa's grubby cold-water guesthouses have been interviewed several times each day by reporters telephoning from chengdu and beijing
most have acknowledged the limits of their information _ some don't speak tibetan or chinese, and those who do fear bringing police attention to their tibetan friends and so stay away from the protests
many sympathize with the tibetan cause and all are anxious to keep a low profile aware that chinese authorities have blamed foreigners for past protests
chengdu, a city of 2.6 million people in western china's lush sichuan province, about 760 miles east of lhasa, became a listening post last week for several western reporters
they met lhasa's only outgoing flight each morning and intercepted the few dozen passengers in hopes of obtaining updates on conditions in the city
the interviews produced unconfirmed reports of hundreds, perhaps as many as 1,000 arrests since march 5, several beating deaths of arrested protesters and shows of force by convoys of more than 100 trucks filled with armed police
authorities have refused to comment on the reports. officials in the tibetan autonomous region's foreign affairs office brusquely told reporters who telephoned to put their questions in writing
the result is that reporters are hard put to screen fact from fiction
most foreigners in lhasa or arriving in chengdu from tibet were amazingly patient in answering reporters' questions
a japanese traveler who spoke barely any english nonetheless spent an hour trying to convey what he saw to non-japanese-speaking reporters, by using gestures and imitating the sound of automatic rifle fire
reporters wondered whether their calls to lhasa might get the recipients in trouble. one tibetan woman who answered the telephone at a hotel willingly answered a few questions and then asserted, ``i'm not afraid because ...'' when the line suddenly went dead
president corazon aquino told military cadets saturday to leave policy-making to civilians and concentrate on defeating communist rebels on the battlefield
meanwhile, a classified military intelligence report said the rebels were losing support among the filipino people and predicted that the new people's army would lose about half its fighters by the end of mrs. aquino's term in 1992
the report appeared to contradict public statements by the armed forces leadership that the rebellion is growing and poses a major threat to philippine democracy
mrs. aquino made her remarks during graduation exercises at the philippine military academy, on a mountaintop 130 miles north of the capital of manila
the insurgency war cannot be won by programs and speeches, nor by commissions and committees,'' mrs. aquino told the crowd of 3,000. ``it will be fought, and it will be won, only by you and the men you lead.''
mrs. aquino reminded the 135 graduating cadets that ``policy is the business of the civilian authorities.''
she urged the graduates to place allegiance to the constitution ``above your deference to superiors or friendship for your peers.''
last year, cadets staged a brief sit-down strike in sympathy with leaders of the august coup attempt in which at least 53 people were killed and hundreds wounded, including mrs. aquino's only son, benigno aquino iii
former col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan, leader of the august coup attempt and a graduate of the academy, was arrested last december in manila
mrs. aquino said the academy curriculum would be revised to emphasize small unit leadership and combat skills. she also promised that officers who display skill in combat will be favored for promotion
honasan complained that corruption and favoritism had sapped the fighting spirit of the 160,000-member armed forces of the philippines
about 2,000 troops stood guard during the commencement ceremony. soldiers armed with m-16 rifles and grenade launchers searched vehicles entering the grounds and helicopter gunships hovered overhead during mrs. aquino's speech
on march 18, 1987, four people were killed when a bomb exploded during rehearsals for the annual graduation exercise. officials blamed right-wing extremists but no one was ever charged in the blast
the academy, modeled after the u.s. military academy at west point, was established in 1904 to train officers for the philippine constabulary while the country was an american colony. it now trains all branches of the military
a classified military intelligence report on the communist insurgency, made in a national intelligence estimate at the end of 1987, predicted the communist party will ``suffer increasing political isolation by 1992.''
the report, distributed to defense secretary fidel ramos in january, says the party will have to step up military operations to recover political support
the report predicted the rebels would escalate their campaign of assassinations of police and soldiers ``to continuously project a position of strength.'' the rebels claimed responsibility for killing scores of police, soldiers and officials in manila last year
but the report estimated that the new people's army, the party's armed wing, had already decreased from 24,430 fighters in 1986 to 21,520 by the end of last year. it predicted the rebel army would decline in strength to 12,170 by 1992, when mrs. aquino's term ends
rebel supporters, or ``mass base,'' had declined from 3.6 million people to 3.1 million people since mrs. aquino took office and was expected to decline to about 1 million by 1992, the report added
the associated press obtained excerpts of the report from sources who insisted on anonymity
the report attributed the decline in rebel strength to improvements in the combat capability of the armed forces and mrs. aquino's economic and political reforms
the forecast contradicts the military's public assessment of the rebel threat. last week, the army said the new people's army numbered 25,000 fighters and that the guerrillas had drawn up plans to take power by 1992
when a major international trade fair opened here last week, the welcoming speech to hundreds of foreign buyers and sellers came from a man the government considers a traitor
aurelio barria, the young, energetic owner of an import-export business, took time off from trying to overthrow his country's military regime to tell the exposition delegates of panama's advantages as a marketplace
if that had a certain strangeness to it, it only served to underscore the complexity of the crisis in panama, where politics, power and money are almost inseparable
panama is undergoing what you might call a `neutron bomb' revolution,'' said one western diplomat. ``the government's opponents are trying to destroy it without destroying the country, and it's a tricky task.''
the diplomat was referring not only to the internal opposition but to the united states, where the reagan administration has been reluctant to impose tougher economic sanctions against panama despite strong public support for such action
with only two opposing votes, the u.s. house on thursday called for a prompt, get-tough policy to rid panama of its military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega. in floor debate, he was described by one representative after another as a thug, a thief, a tyrant and a drug trafficker
but in announcing new sanctions on friday, president reagan heeded the advice of his chief of staff, howard baker, and his national security adviser, colin l. powell, who had been urging a more moderate course
the president ordered the withholding of panama canal fees due the country that amount to about $6.5 million a month, eliminated preferential tariffs on its exports and told customs officials to keep a closer eye out for ``drug smugglers and money launderers'' from panama
but reagan stopped short of a total trade embargo, which many in congress had urged, and didn't exercise other punitive economic measures at his disposal. he did say he was prepared to take further steps if noriega doesn't resign
barria and other anti-noreiga panamanians are concerned that any drastic measures designed to remove him could wreak havoc on the country, like a harsh chemotherapy treatment that debilitates the patient while attacking his cancer
what we want is not to destroy the country, and not even just to get rid of general noriega, but to end military domination of the civilian government,'' barria said recently
barria is the president of panama's chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture. he was re-elected to a second term late last year while in exile, having fled the country after being charged by the government with sedition
the treason charge came as a result of his principal occupation since last june, that of a leader of an anti-noriega coalition of business, professional, labor and political groups known as the national civic crusade
i haven't really attended to my business in months,'' said barria, who returned to panama in january after being freed on bail. then he added with a laugh: ``hell, i don't even know if i have one left.''
whatever the status of barria's business, one of the major props of panama's economy appears to have suffered irreparable losses in the past nine months of civil turmoil
the banking system as it existed ... is destroyed,'' said a source close to panama's financial community. he, like the diplomat, spoke only on condition of anonymity
the source said as much as $12 billion has been transferred out of panama by wary depositors since the civic crusade began its effort to oust noriega last summer with a series of demonstrations. the 118 banks that make this country one of the world's largest offshore banking centers began 1987 with more than $40 billion in deposits
the amount of money that has fled panama's banking center cannot be confirmed. the government only will admit a crisis exists _ one it blames largely on the united states
most of the money deposited in offshore banks in panama never contributed directly to the nation's economy. it neither was taxed nor used to finance home mortgages, car loans, new businesses or industry or capital improvements
it was just there on paper,'' said the banking industry source. but shuffling that paper did provide employment for about 9,000 people and led to a building boom. in that way, the banking industry contributed, along with real estate, 14.5 percent of the nation's gross national income
the offshore institutions are branches of major banks from more than 30 countries engaged primarily in the sheltering of funds from latin american depositors who are weary of political instability in their own countries
among the hardest hit banks, when the money began fleeing the country last year, were the 12 institutions owned by panamanians. much of the money on deposit in them was transferred either to panama's international banks or to other countries
then, on feb. 25, the country's civilian, figurehead president, eric arturo delvalle, called for the dismissal of noriega, who had been indicted by two federal grand juries in florida almost three weeks earlier on drug trafficking and money laundering charges
within hours, noriega proved who the real boss of panama is by engineering delvalle's ouster
that triggered a new, greater run on the panamanian banks and they closed four days later, on march 1. two days after that, the government ordered them to remain closed, admitting that it could not provide enough money to cover anticipated withdrawals. it also closed temporarily the 106 foreign banks
the banks remain closed, with no sign they will reopen this week. the situation has created chaos for individuals and businesses as well. all are strapped for cash
the noriega government says it is a victim of ``economic aggression'' by the united states, where federal courts have tied up some $50 million in official panamanian funds on deposit in u.s. banks. at question is whether the money rightfully should be controlled by noriega or delvalle
delvalle has been in hiding for two weeks, but the united states still considers him the legitimate president. the civic crusade leaders, who used to refer to delvalle as a puppet, also have reluctantly endorsed him as the true constitutional authority
some opposition leaders complained privately that state department officials forced them to support delvalle and join him in a call last week for a new transitional government pending elections scheduled for next year
said a diplomatic source: ``it's important at this point that they appear united, that they not be fighting among themselves. i think washington made that point to them. what happens to delvalle later is something they can work out at the appropriate time.'' charges</head>
a prosecutor charged saturday that anwar sadat's brother and other relatives used the slain president's name ``to ruin the country'' and should lose $8.2 million in property as punishment
esmat sadat, already convicted of using his brother's position to enrich himself during anwar sadat's 11 years in office, responded that the prosecution was sullying the late president's name by making the accusations
the exchange came during a hearing of the ethics court to decide whether the assets of esmat sadat, three sons and seven other family members should be confiscated
the property, estimated at $8.2 million, was sequestered in 1983 after the defendants' convictions on influence peddling, black marketeering, bribery and other charges. esmat sadat and three sons were sentenced to one-year prison terms
the court adjourned saturday after both sides presented their arguments. a decision is expected on april 9
as the prosecution presented its case saturday, blaming sadat's relatives for ``using the late leader's name to ruin the country,'' esmat stood and objected vigorously
the prosecution insists on using the name of the late leader,'' esmat said loudly from the third row of benches
his name should not be used as a (prosecution) tool,'' he said, looking shaken
sayed abdel-baky, president of the seven-man tribunal hearing the case, admonished esmat not to interrupt the proceedings and said such comments would be heard at the end of the hearing
we are only glorifying the name of the late president,'' said assistant prosecutor mohsen mahmoud. ``at the center of this case is the exploitation of the late president's name.''
he cited examples of the defendants' use of the family name to win government contracts outside bureaucratic channels required of most private citizens
the late president, killed by moslem extremists on oct. 6, 1981, was absolved of any wrongdoing in esmat's earlier trial
the ethics court is empowered to sequester property and order defendants detained for up to five years. after that, the prosecutor may ask the court to confiscate a defendant's property in the name of the state
the court can decide whether to permanently seize the property, keep it sequestered and allow the prosecutor's office to control the assets, or return the property to the defendants
about 150 people rode a convoy of 47 trucks and vans through taipei on saturday to demand direct elections for taiwan's provincial governor and the mayors of the island's two largest cities
leaders of the opposition democratic progressive party, standing on top of the vans, chanted slogans during the two-hour demonstration. banners hung from the cars, including one that read: ``governmental appointment is a symbol of authoritarian rule.''
under existing law, the provincial governor and the mayors of taipei and kaohsiung, a southern port, are appointed by the nationalist government
opposition lawmaker kang ning-hsiang, who organized the demonstration, said the appointed officials ``lack support of the people.''
the demonstration was approved by the police and ended without any violence
the south korean government plans to lift restrictions on overseas travel this year as its pursues democratic development and liberalization, foreign ministry officials said saturday
currently, only koreans over 40 are given passports for overseas tourism, and various conditions are attached
ministry officials said president roh tae-woo has urged foreign minister choi kwang-soo to ease restrictions on overseas travel and allow more young people to venture abroad
the age limit in overseas travel would be lifted gradually this year,'' said a ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity
roh was elected president last december in the country's first democratic elections in 16 years
president reagan's decision to withhold a $6.5 million payment owed to panama next tuesday was aimed at impairing military strongman manuel noriega's ability to pay government workers this coming week, according to u.s. officials
the timing was no coincidence,'' one official said, expressing hope that the departure of noriega could be hastened if government workers, faced with economic hardship, join the ranks of the opposition
the remaining sanctions reagan imposed on friday will not have an immediate consequence, and the officials believe noriega could be out of office by the time they have an impact
the sanctions were the latest in a series of steps the united states has taken over the past eight months to undercut noriega, who is under u.s. indictment on drug smuggling charges
according to reports from panama, the government is so strapped for cash that it has been considering several austerity measures to deal with payroll budget shortfalls
they included delaying paychecks to the nation's 150,000 government workers, reducing their pay temporarily or giving them partial payment in food instead of cash, the reports said
outside the 15,000-member defense force, the regime's main source of support has been government workers. if civil servants begin turning against noriega, that would narrow his already small base of support even further, said the u.s. officials, insisting on anonymity
the soldiers were paid last thursday but monday is payday for the nation's 20,000 school teachers, and thousands of other government workers are due their paychecks on tuesday
ambassador juan b. sosa, who opposes noriega, said the cash shortage forced panama to default on a $39 million loan repayment due last week to the government of japan
sosa has remained loyal to ousted president eric arturo delvalle and has refused to relinquish his post to a successor named by noriega. sosa shares the reagan administration view that delvalle's ouster by noriega two weeks ago was unconstitutional
before last friday, the administration had suspended all economic and military aid to panama and ordered u.s. representatives in international lending institutions to oppose loan requests from panama
beyond that, it has lent its support to legal efforts by delvalle's representatives here to freeze panamanian assets in the united states
as a result, panama does not have access to the revenues it normally receives from american use of a trans-isthmian pipeline that sends alaskan oil on its way to east coast u.s. ports. those revenues have been variously estimated at between $80 and $120 million a year
in addition, panamanian assets in u.s. banks, estimated at $50 million, also have been frozen
noriega has been attempting to rally support from his countrymen by blaming the united states for panama's financial problems. but secretary of state george p. shultz said noriega's campaign has not worked and that the united states and the panamanian people are ``on the same side.''
reagan tightened the screws on friday when he ordered the $6.5 million fee due to panama for canal-related services placed in escrow. it will be released once civilian government is restored, he said
reagan also acted to strip panama of the right to sell its products in u.s. markets either duty-free or at the lowest tariffs rates possible. these benefits are given to panama under a system of tariff preferences accorded to third world countries and under the caribbean basin initiative, designed to help 21 countries in that region
but most of panama's income from u.s. exports would not be affected by the sanction because they carry no duties to begin with. examples are bananas, shellfish, fish and coffee, which account for well over half of panama's annual u.s. exports
two items which will be affected by reagan's action are sweaters, a $23.5 million business for panama last year, and petroleum products, $14.6 million. u.s. government estimates of panama's total exports to the united states range between $342 million and $388 million
hugh wolfe frank, chief interpreter at the nuremberg war crimes trials, has died. he was 75
frank's body was found thursday in a fume-filled car on a farm track near the wiltshire village of mere in southwest england on thursday
frank had been suffering from parkinson's disease and was known to be depressed about his worsening health
wiltshire police said saturday they did not suspect any crime in connection with his death and had reported the facts to assistant wiltshire coroner peter stoddart
frank, who was separated from his fifth wife, was a skillful linguist who led the team of interpreters at the trials in nuremberg, west germany, of top nazis, including hermann goering and rudolf hess
the wiltshire coroner's office has ordered an inquest into his death
a former national police chief, convicted of involvement in the torture death of a student dissident, was released saturday after his eight-month prison sentence was suspended
the seoul district criminal court found kang min-chang guilty of misfeasance and dereliction of duty, but immediately suspended his sentence in consideration of his contribution to the nation
kang was arrested in january, nearly a year after a dissident college student died while being questioned in police custody. police at first said it was an accident but later admitted the student was killed by torture
the case triggered widespread anti-government protests, leading to the arrest of eight police officers
a fresh controversy flared in january when the opposition urged the government to punish high-ranking police officiers who allegedly covered up the cause of the student's death
filipino doctors performed a simultaneous kidney and pancreas transplant in the first such procedure ever performed in asia, the national kidney institute said saturday
institute director filoteo alano said the surgery was performed march 3 on a 58-year-old filipino businessman who had suffered kidney failure
the doctors replaced the patient's organs with those of an 18-year-old man who was pronounced brain dead after a fall, alano said
dr. enrique ona, chief of the surgical team, said the procedure took about 14 hours, including the time spent removing the organs from the donor
alano said the patient, tan koc lee, had nearly normal kidney functions and was recovering
the drug indictment of a top haitian military officer has spotlighted that nation's emergence as a way station for cocaine traffickers seeking safer routes and reinforces charges that corrupt officials aid smugglers
col. jean-claude paul, along with his brother and ex-wife, were charged in a federal indictment unsealed thursday with using a landing strip on the colonel's farm to fly a 100-kilogram, or 220-pound, cocaine shipment to the bahamas for delivery to miami
haitian president leslie manigat has turned paul's case over to his country's military courts for investigation. there is no extradition treaty between haiti and the united states
one of the principal witnesses in the case, osvaldo quintana, told reporters in january that he saw 9,000 kilograms, or 19,800 pounds, of cocaine in duffel bags in the haitian presidential palace during the administration of ousted leader jean-claude duvalier
quintana also told the associated press that other haitian officials besides paul had a role in the smuggling, but he would not disclose their names
the alleged trafficking by high-level haitians has angered sen. bob graham, d-fla., who said he will introduce legislation this week to lift u.s. trade preferences with haiti
this indictment is further indication that we can't tolerate a regime in haiti that seized power from the haitian people so it could continue the oppression of the past,'' said graham
drug enforcement administration spokesman jack hook said better technology such as improved radar and more cooperation from bahamian authorities have sharply limited the traditional drug routes into south florida
that has forced colombian cocaine traffickers to go through other caribbean islands
we have seen an increase in haiti being used as a transshipment point since we stepped up enforcement,'' said hook
asked about quintana's allegations that other haitian officials are involved, hook would say only that the investigation is continuing
the message that this case sends is the corrupting effects on public officials everywhere becuse of drug trafficking,'' said hook
rep. larry smith, d-fla., was blunter about the haitian connection
more than two years ago i questioned the dea about increased drug trafficking through haiti, and about government involvement in the traffic,'' smith said recently
he said the dea told him then they had no information on haitian officials' involvement in drug smuggling
this is the kind of head-in-the-sand attitude that has allowed government after government to fall prey to the colombian cartels,'' said smith
whether it is a few corrupt officials, a policy of the new military-supported government, or just coincidence, haiti's role has changed since duvalier fled
there has been some increase in drug interceptions since the haitian government changed two years ago,'' acknowledged coast guard lt. cmdr. jim simpson
he said drug officials are spotting more planes flying over the haitian half of the island of hispaniola, which haiti shares with the dominican republic. the dominican republic recently shot down a suspected trafficker, but simpson said haiti does not have the resources to chase drug planes
hook said that since november the dea has had an office in port-au-prince, the haitian capital, and is optimistic that haitian officials will cooperate
in the 90 days before the dea's arrival, haitian customs officials seized 1,500 pounds of cocaine hidden on planes at port-au-prince's airport, he said
and the paul case should make it even more difficult for traffickers, he said
the publicity is going to put a little heat on haiti,'' said hook
but he said no one should expect trafficking to cease if haiti clamps down, since smugglers are already using cuba, the turks and caicos islands and other routes
there is no caribbean island close to the united states that has gone unscathed,'' said hook. ``it just shows the magnitude of the problem.''
a speeding freight train derailed near the baltic port of klaipeda in lithuania, breaking open 23 tank cars that spilled fuel over a 1,300-foot stretch of railway, the tass news agency reported saturday
tass said workers had blocked the flow of oil into the nearby baltic sea, but did not make clear whether the spill was contained before some of the oil reached the water
there was no indication whether there was any permanent environmental damage or whether the accident caused casualties
the accident occurred near klaipeda, but tass did not say how far away from the soviet's major fuel-shipping port on the baltic
twenty three tanks, which were deformed and derailed, leaked oil products to both sides of the railway embankment,'' tass said
according to tentative information, the accident occurred because safe speed at the turn of the railway was exceeded,'' the news agency said, quoting a baltic railway official identified as dmitri blyaskin
rail traffic resumed midday saturday after a halt of several hours, tass said
authorities released two men they had described as prime suspects in a two-state killing spree after the men passed lie detector tests, their prints didn't match those on a weapon and a witness failed to identify them
authorities had planned to hold a hearing friday night to determine if they had probable cause to hold the men in connection with four brutal slayings on monday in gainesville, texas; farmersville, texas; and in saratoga, ark. but when the two passed lie detector tests, authorities canceled the hearing and agreed unanimously to let the men go
the men were given tickets for a bus bound for terre haute, ind., hometown of one of the men, officials said
it was a misidentification is what it was,'' one of the men said. ``we fit the description, so what else can you say? it's not my fault somebody else out there looks like me.''
the other man told the dallas morning news he was terrified to learn ``i was facing death row.''
i thought i was going to die for something i didn't do,'' he said
prosecuting attorney jim hudson jr. said a man who reported having a run-in with the apparent killers the night of the arkansas murder was unable friday to identify the two men in custody
their release leaves officials without a suspect in the slaying of deana andrews woodard, 23, who was found in her gainesville, texas, mobile home monday with her throat slashed, police said
authorities believe ms. woodard's slaying is connected to the fatal shootings of cecil floyd morrison, 85, and cecil leonard morrison, 62. the two were killed in their farmersville, texas, home. the men's pickup truck was found later in southwestern arkansas, and officers said a prescription of ms. woodard's was found in the vehicle
a description of two men who hitched a ride monday night with kenneth olden, 34, of saratoga, whose body was found tuesday, led authorities to the men who were arrested and released. olden's body was dumped along a road after he had been shot three times
they fit the description. but when all the evidence came back in, the fingerprints didn't match (those lifted from a murder weapon) and they passed a polygraph,'' said hempstead county sheriff don worthey said
assistant secretary of state chester a. crocker will hold his first talks in two years with south africa's foreign minister in an effort to advance a u.s. peace initiative for southern africa, the state department said saturday
crocker's meeting with roelof ``pik'' botha next week at an unspecified european location also will give the united states an opportunity to ``register concern'' about recent developments in south africa, spokeswoman anita stockman said. the united states has complained about anti-dissent measures proposed in south africa in the past few weeks
a state department working group arrived in angola on wednesday to explore the possibility of further talks on getting the estimated 40,000 cuban troops out of the country as part of an overall settlement, stockman said
since he took office in 1981, crocker has been seeking to negotiate a withdrawal of cuban troops from angola in return for south african withdrawal from neighboring namibia
the cuban troops have been battling a powerful guerrilla force, unita, which is backed by south african and u.s. assistance
in what appeared to be a major breakthrough when crocker was in angola in january, cuba declared its willingness in principle to pull the troops out of the country, but the overall settlement that would bring that about is still to be arranged
angola has said south african willingness to participate in the negotiations _ and abide by a united nations resolution giving independence to namibia _ is a necessary ingredient of a settlement
stockman said crocker's meeting with botha will ``afford an opportunity to reassess south africa's willingness to proceed toward a settlement involving total cuban troop withdrawal from angola and namibian independence based on u.n. security council resolution 435.''
crocker also is expected to restate u.s. demands for a cessation of cross border forays by south african troops and concern about a new crackdown on groups seeking more rights for the country's black majority
last month, the government outlawed the political activities of 17 anti-apartheid organizations. the government has also introduced legislation to bar a wide range of organizations from receiving foreign funds
foreign governments and private agencies send millions of dollars in assistance to these groups as a way of aiding south africans without sending funds to their government
a three-week festival featuring soviet music opened with envoys for president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev praising the organizers of the cultural exchange for bringing the two countries closer together
making music together,'' with its 285 soviet musicians, dancers, composers and other artists, is the first part of an exchange that will bring a celebration focusing on american contemporary music to moscow in the fall of 1989
reagan's praise came in a letter to sarah caldwell, a key organizer of the exchange and artistic director of the opera company of boston. it was read friday night by greg guroff of the government-run u.s. information agency
the letter described the event as ``one of the most ambitious cultural projects ever undertaken between the united states and the soviet union ... a testament to the potential of u.s.-soviet cooperation in artistic and cultural endeavors.''
soviet ambassador yuri dubinin, who flew from washington to attend opening ceremonies, read gorbachev's ``best wishes for success for the benefit of peace, friendship and cooperation between our two nations.''
also present at the ornate, turn-of-the century boston opera house was yuri melentiev, the minister of culture of russia, the soviet union's largest republic
melentiev told reporters the festival stood as a symbol of improved superpower relationships in the wake of the meeting between reagan and gorbachev in washington late last year
the festival is in the red because of unexpected costs that drove the price tag above the estimated budget of $2.4 million to $3.3 million, and organizers last month seriously considered the idea of declaring bankruptcy and canceling the event
but organizers said they decided not to call if off after being told by the state department that cancellation could mar relations with the soviet union
harold hestes, president of the greater boston chamber of commerce and a key fund-raiser, said shortly before the opening ceremonies that the original shortfall of $900,000 had been reduced to about $200,000
last september, the fbi asked 20 new york-area libraries to watch for and report on library users who might be gathering information for hostile powers. library officials refused, calling the move an effort to turn librarians into informers
that incident is one of 60 that were added last year by the reporters committee for freedom of the press to a summary of actions ``taken by the reagan administration since 1981 to restrict public and media access to government information.''
the committee's list now has more than 200 items, which ``underscores that contempt for the public's right to know permeates virtually all facets of the current administration's information policy,'' said jane e. kirtley, executive director of the committee
the fbi said its attempt to recruit librarians was part of a national counterintelligence initiative. when the attempt was disclosed by the new york times, james fox, deputy assistant director of the new york fbi office said, ``all we are interested in is the fact that a hostile diplomat is there. we don't want librarians to become amateur sleuths.''
some of the new items on the committee list are:
_``revelations by lt. gen. william e. odom, head of the national security agency, that he regularly refers cases of news leaks to the justice department, asking that the journalists reporting the information be prosecuted under espionage laws.''
_refusal by the justice department to disclose its financial settlement with the families of the challenger astronauts. news media, including the associated press, went to court and last week were granted access to the records
_in november, reporters for the atlanta journal and constitution asked the bureau of prisons for names of prisoners inside the federal penitentiary in atlanta when 1,100 cuban prisoners held that prison for 11 days. the bureau refused, citing a policy of protecting prisoners' privacy by not giving out their names
_last month, president reagan asked congress for a new exemption to the freedom of information act that would require federal agencies to withhold government-generated and government-owned scientific and technical information. it would be the 10th exemption to the foi act and the first since 1974, the committee said
_in march last year, sen. alan k. simpson, r-wyo., ``lambasted'' reporters for questioning reagan during a photo session. ``simpson said reporters did `a sadistic little disservice' by questioning the president while he was off balance.''
the american diet is lousy and people are dying because of it
that's the conclusion of a long-term study by the national cancer institute of what americans eat and don't eat during a typical day
we really need to change the way we eat,'' said gladys block, an nci scientist and coauthor of a study published this month in the american journal of public health. ``i really believe that could make a difference in the amount of cancer we have.''
americans are not eating enough fruits, vegetables, whole-grain breads and high-fiber cereals. they are eating more fat and more salt-cured, nitrite-cured, smoked and pickled meat, all dietary elements that can affect health
in effect, said blossom patterson, a coauthor of the study, americans are forgetting the lessons they should have learned as children at the family dining table
it's not really a new message,'' said patterson. ``this is the same theme that mothers have been playing for a long, long time. eat your vegetables and fruits.''
and, says the nci, if you eat like your mommies told you to, you may live a longer time
the study said that diet is estimated to contribute to about 35 percent of all cancer deaths
block said that the right foods have been shown to help prevent cancers of the stomach, colon, rectum, breast, oral cavity and esophagus. statistics released earlier this year show that all of these types of cancer have increased in frequency. block said the message is that to eat well may mean to live longer. and she said americans simply aren't doing that
in interviews with more than 11,000 people, researchers from the nci and department of agriculture found that:
_ on a typical day, 40 percent of americans do not eat a single fruit, and 20 percent have no vegetable
_ only about 49 percent of americans include ``garden vegetables'' (vegetables other than potatoes or salad) in their daily diet
_ more than 80 percent of those surveyed ate no high-fiber cereals or whole-grain breads
_ daily fiber intake, from whole grains or from vegetables such as corn or dried peas and beans, averaged about 11 grams. the recommended amount is 20 to 30 grams daily
_ more than 40 percent of those surveyed ate at least one serving of lunch meat or bacon daily. these are foods high in fat and salt, and may be smoked or cured with nitrites
women, generally, had a better diet than men, and people over age 55 usually had better diets than young adults, said block
even so, all groups showed a dramatic need for improvement, with consumption of fruits, vegetables and whole-grains falling far short of desirable levels,'' she said
patterson said that even though fruits and vegetables high in vitamins a and c are thought to be of special importance in lowering cancer risk, 75 percent of those interviewed failed to include these items in their daily diets
in a racial breakdown of the data, patterson said the survey showed that black people ate more vegetables than did whites, largely due to a higher consumption of greens, such as collards. whites, however, ate more whole-grain breads and high-fiber cereals
income also plays a role, she said. those with higher incomes tended to eat more fruits and vegetables, along with more red meat
by region, more people ate poultry and fish in the south and northeast than in the west and midwest, and red meat consumption was lowest in the south. high-fiber cereal consumption was highest in the northeast and west, and lowest in the south
the survey data was collected between 1976 and 1980, but block said that preliminary studies of more recent surveys show there has been little change. and the consumption patterns from the 1976-80 survey, in turn, show almost no change from data collected from 1971 to 1974
block said researchers are becoming increasingly convinced that simple changes in diet, such as just adding an apple or orange or some cole slaw to a typical fast food meal, could make a difference
if everybody just had fruit and vegetables every day, that could lead to a drop in the number of cancers,'' she said. 0787</first> `richard gephardt ...</note>
vice president george bush's apparent lock on the republican presidential nomination is beginning to cool democratic excitement over the prospect of a brokered national convention
barring a collapse of unimaginable proportions, bush will spend the final months of the primary season seeking support for the fall campaign from independent voters and potential democratic converts
the longer the democratic nominating war goes on, the better bush likes it. a democratic national convention this summer featuring bloodletting on prime-time tv would suit him just fine
democrats know this well, and that may give them an impetus to rally around a candidate sooner rather than later, particularly given bush's evident vulnerability on the iran-contra affair
no one understands this better than jimmy carter. the former president told an audience in connecticut last week that he emerged from the 1976 and 1980 conventions ``weaker than i went in.''
he said the democrats should find a ``winning ticket'' and unite behind it in atlanta
why is 51 percent the magic number?'' asks new york gov. mario cuomo. ``let's pick the guy who's ahead after california,'' the last state to vote in the primary season
if mike dukakis has 41 percent (of the delegates), get everybody together in a room and say, `jesse (jackson) gore, gephardt, you came close, but mike's the candidate.''
that would avoid what carter calls the ``circus'' type of convention that twice nominated him
carter's lead over republican gerald ford declined steadily during the 1976 fall campaign, although he won a close call. in 1980, weakened politically, he triumped over sen. edward m. kennedy in an emotional convention struggle before losing a landslide to ronald reagan
carter says that this time, he and the 645 so-called democatic superdelegates, ``will have a burning desire to put together a winning ticket'' when they convene in atlanta
that makes the senate democratic caucus, which picks 43 delegates on april 19, and the house democratic caucus, which picks 210 delegates a day later, as critical as any democratic primary waged with television advertising, phone banks and direct mail
the same is true for the 362 members of the democratic national committee who are superdelegates, and the 25 governors
the key now to this thing ending early is superdelegates,'' says robert beckel, a democratic campaign consultant not aligned with any of this year's contenders. ``they're also the key to not ending it early.''
any candidate who succeeds in picking up a large amount of support from the people selected in those two congressional meetings will be able to send a clear signal to the party that he is the presumptive nominee, even before the primary season ends
to earn that support, a contender would presumably have to score well in the industrial state contests leading up to the congressional caucuses _ illinois, michigan, connecticut, wisconsin and new york
richard gephardt, the missouri congressman, already has the support of several dozen house members. he probably could consolidate his strength if he mounted a comeback after his poor super tuesday showing. but he if fails to win in michigan's caucuses march 26, he is a likely dropout, and his supporters are free to go elsewhere
sen. albert gore of tennessee must show quickly that he can win in the industrial states or he will have littel claim on the allegience of congress members
jesse jackson is in the process of obtaining a large bloc of perhaps 800 delegates, and figures prominently in the brokered convention scenarios that occupy democratic political insiders. he will get his share of support in congress, as elsewhere, but most house and senate members aren't likely to go over to his side
the democrat who now looks in the strongest position in the race, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, would have to run well in the industrial states, and probably signal his willingness to name a southerner as his running mate in the fall
carter said he and the party leaders want a winning ticket, and dukakis, for all the boasting over his primary wins in texas and florida, ran poorly among disaffected democrats that the party needs to win the presidency
gore whipped him among democrats who voted for president reagan in 1984, 39 percent to 23 percent, according to abc interviews on super tuesday with primary voters in 12 southern states
dukakis defeated gore among liberals and the two split the moderate vote. but gore won among self-described conservatives, 38 percent to 21 percent, according to the abc polls
a father whose two teen-age sons joined the racist skinheads group turned them in to police after one of them confessed to fatally stabbing a homeless black man
i can't elaborate on it. but i will say that i did turn them in,'' lowell ``bud'' mckee told the st. petersburg times. ``there are more things involved than i can make public.''
scott mckee, 18, and dean mckee, 16, members of the skinheads, a group known for its hatred of blacks, jews and homosexuals, were arrested march 4 and charged with first-degree murder in the december slaying of isiah walker, 41
mckee, who adopted the boys in 1977 after marrying their mother, also told the tampa tribune he tried to commit his younger son to a crisis unit last month but gave up after he was referred from agency to agency
he sought treatment for dean after the boy ran away several times and threatened to kill his mother and himself if he were placed in a program for disturbed children, mckee said. he did not know about the slaying at the time, he said
mckee said he wanted to get his son committed under the state's mental health act, which lets judges order the temporary detention of anyone deemed by mental health experts to be a danger to themselves or others. but mental health officials said threats don't always constitute proof of mental illness
dean was hospitalized for two months at age 15 after attempting suicide and had private counseling for six months after he was released, mckee said
elisabeth ann zinser, who resigned as president of gallaudet university amid protests from students who want a deaf leader, enraged students and faculty at the school for the hearing impaired by suggesting she would quickly learn sign language
in truth, say professors at gallaudet, learning sign language _ widely considered the nation's third most frequently used ``foreign'' language _ is as difficult as mastering russian or chinese
she (zinser) thought she would come in here and pick up sign language in three months,'' said robert johnson, an audiology professor at the nation's only liberal arts college for the hearing impaired. ``unfortunately, you don't catch sign like you catch a cold.''
there are three different varieties of sign language, the purest of which has no connection with the english language, while the crudest version relies heavily on english vocabulary and sentence structure, johnson said
johnson and scott lidell, both professors in gallaudet's department of linguistics, say around 2 million americans are considered deaf by audiometric standards, while 18 million others suffer from some hearing loss
those who use sign language are usually in the smaller group, while persons with less severe hearing loss do not usually learn sign language. the majority of gallaudet's students are profoundly deaf, and use sign language, according to school officials
american sign language, the purest form of signing, is commonly used between people who are either profoundly deaf, or have been deaf since birth, johnson said. comparing asl to the use of a foreign language, asl users are roughly equivalent to those fluent in a foreign tongue
but similarities with written or spoken language end there, johnson emphasized
english relies on a linear structure, with one word following the last, but in asl, the message is conveyed through simultaneous use of facial expressions, finger signs, and motions,'' johnson said
asl has a base vocabulary on which general themes, not individual words, are built. images, rather than words expressed in sign, convey the signer's message
it's extremely time-efficient,'' lidell said. ``you have two hands, a face, and a body participating in delivering the message. in spoken or written english, you have just words. signing gives you more channels.''
deaf people comunicating with hearing people mix sign language with some components of formal english, the result being a type of sign language called contact variety signing, or pidgin sign english
in the contact variety method, the message expressed may use numerous images associated with asl, but the message is based on the syntax of an english sentence
it is this form of communication through which gallaudet student protest leaders, with the assistance of interpreters, conveyed their message to the media and campus onlookers
sign supported english is the third type of sign. it does not rely on facial expressions, and involves sending messages primarily with spoken english. signing symbols are used to reinforce the spoken message, in what johnson describes as ``coding speech on the hands.''
sign supported english, johnson said, is slow and awkward, and is the only type of sign language zinser could have learned in less than six months. there are sign language symbols for each of the 26 characters in the english alphabet, and, when signers cannot find a symbol for an english word, they may spell out the english word, then return to sign. fingerspelling is used in all three types of sign
gallaudet professors, 30 percent of whom are deaf, are required to know sign language, and must pass sign examinations for promotions or raises, according to roger beach, a counseling professor who designed gallaudet's exam program
actress audrey hepburn will trek to famine-ravaged regions of ethiopia to survey conditions there as she carries out her duties as a newly appointed unicef special ambassador
the united nations said miss hepburn will leave monday on the four-day visit, which will include stops at relief and rehabilitation centers in the hardest-hit provinces of tigray and eritrea. the trip ends thursday at development projects in central shoa province, according to unicef
total and near-total crop failures last year threaten an estimated 7 million people with famine in northern ethiopia, where fighting between rebels and the nation's marxist government has hampered relief efforts
a country music buff is hoping readers will go gaga over his new book featuring baby pictures of more than 150 country music stars, including glen campbell, willie nelson, naomi and wynonna judd, dolly parton, ronnie milsap and the oak ridge boys
paul randall, a radio personality, gathered the photos for his book, ``baby photos of the country stars,'' which also includes current pictures of the performers and trivia questions about their careers
randall is a former publicist for rca records in nashville and has written two previous books, ``facts, fallacies and folklore'' and ``country music quizzes.''
former president jimmy carter is joining health officials in a campaign to eradicate guinea worm disease, a crippling parasitic affliction that plagues millions of africans and asians
carter will travel to africa this week on a six-day, three-nation visit to bolster efforts to wipe out the guinea worm, which strikes 10 million people a year in developing countries
the world health organization voted in 1986 to make guinea worm disease the next target for global eradication, following the successful eradication of smallpox 11 years ago
traveling with carter and his wife, rosalynn, will be carter presidential center executive director william foege, who led the smallpox effort while at the centers for disease control. also in the party will be several staff members from the center and global 2000, a policy institute under the auspices of the carter center
guinea worms can grow to lengths of nearly 3 feet inside the body. they do not themselves cause a fatal disease, but the painful sores created when they break through skin can be crippling. their larvae are spread through contaminated drinking water
fighting the disease involves improvements in water supply, which can be costly for developing countries
the image of country music singer loretta lynn, ``the coal miner's daughter,'' now has been immortalized in oil as well as celluloid
artist wayne hart has finished the first two of six oil paintings of the singer. one, entitled ``the beginning of the legend,'' depicts the singer holding a rose. the second, called ``memories of a coal miner's daughter,'' shows a coal car and its track
the remaining four will be completed during the next two years, said miss lynn, who was born and raised in kentucky mining area
her autobiography was made into a 1980 movie, ``coal miner's daughter,'' starring sissy spacek, who won an academy award as best actress. miss lynn's hits include ``when the tingle becomes a chill'' and ``you're looking at country.''
chinese companies that want to sell their products abroad are being given greater freedom to do so, the government announced saturday
the state council, china's cabinet, said the nation will introduce a contract system under which the power to handle most import and export commodities will be transferred to local foreign trade companies and certain well-managed industrial enterprises
details of the new system were provided by the official xinhua news agency
it said areas and cities enjoying special status as foreign trade centers will be able to sign contracts with the state guaranteeing the state a certain amount of hard currency
after that they will be free to pursue international contracts as they wish
following introduction of the system, china will reduce mandatory state quotas for exports and the number of state-handled export commodities
national export and import corporations will handle only a small amount of commodities. instead, their branches will become independent managerial entitites run by local governments
xinhua said the new foreign trade structure encourages local authorities and export-oriented enterprises to participate in foreign trade
the report said china this year will also reform its foreign exchange managerial structure. local governments, enterprises and institutions and foreign-funded businesses will be allowed to exchange hard currency through government-run exchange centers
it said china's coastal areas will be encouraged to develop export-oriented industries by expanding labor- and expertise-intensive industries
communist party chief zhao ziyang has proposed significant increases in the number of regions given preferential treatment in developing foreign trade as a means of helping china make greater inroads in world markets
the state council urged local governments to accelerate the introduction of the responsibility system _ making companies responsible for profits and losses _ in foreign trade companies
china's foreign trade climbed 13 percent last year to about $80 billion. the reformist leaders in beijing see foreign trade as a critical factor in introducing technology and earning hard currency for the nation's modernization drive
a condemned man who insists he's innocent and whose case has become a rallying cry for death penalty opponents is seeking his seventh reprieve from the electric chair, with just two days left before his scheduled execution
willie jasper darden faces execution early tuesday at florida state prison near starke for the september 1973 killing of furniture store owner carl turman during a $15 robbery
let me tell you something. willie darden is not a murderer!'' darden, 54, told the associated press in a 1985 interview, a claim that he has made to dozens of reporters who have interviewed him
darden has received six stays of execution, more than any other florida inmate, and his case has attracted international attention, with supporters saying he was a victim of racial prejudice at his trial because he is black
two witnesses say they have information to back up his story, but their accounts were dismissed as mistaken and not new by the lawyer who prosecuted darden
there is no question he is guilty,'' ray mcdaniel, now a bartow attorney, said friday in a telephone interview
mcdaniel said he believed darden will die tuesday. ``i don't think you will find a judge with the guts to issue a stay,'' he said
i think it's time. i think it's about 12 years too late,'' mcdaniel said, who added that darden was linked, but never charged, with other murders
attorneys for the office of capital collateral review filed an appeal friday with the florida supreme court
darden's is one of the most-litigated cases involving a death row inmate, with nearly 100 judges involved in decisions. it has been before the u.s. supreme court four times already
mcdaniel discounted the assertions of two people who repeated claims friday at an amnesty international news conference in tallahassee that they believe darden is innocent
the rev. sam sparks, a baptist minister, and christine bass, a lakeland secretary, said they had information they say might clear darden of the crime
i know willie darden is innocent. it is not a belief, it is a knowledge,'' said ms. bass
sparks said turman's wife had told him that all blacks looked alike to her and that her identification of darden was unimportant because lawyers had told her that darden committed the crime. helen baum, formerly helen turman, recently denied having made that statement to sparks and reaffirmed her identification of darden as the man who shot her husband
ms. bass said darden's car was broken down near her home until a tow truck arrived about 25 minutes before the robbery, eight miles away
mcdaniel said the two are mistaken about the times and that the defense knew their claims at the time of the trial
amnesty international officials have claimed gov. bob martinez is rushing to execute darden for political reasons
the governor signed a seventh death warrant for darden on march 8, just a day after the u.s. supreme court refused to intervene, and set his execution for tuesday, giving darden's attorneys less than a week to prepare his case
i think what the governor is looking for some kind of ritualistic sacrifice that he can go through to prove he's tough on crime,'' said magdaleno rose-avila, national director of amnesty international's campaign to abolish the death penalty. he noted that the governor's popularity rating has been low in recent polls
when martinez signed the sixth death warrant in darden's case earlier this year, soviet dissident andrei sakharov, american actress margot kidder and british rock star peter gabriel urged clemency for darden. sakharov won the 1975 nobel peace prize for his defense of human rights in the soviet union
the governor's spokesman said politics had nothing to do with the decision
international attention has no real bearing on whether a legally imposed sentence that has been upheld by the courts should be carried out,'' said press secretary jon peck
thousands of protesters outside the offices of president kurt waldheim on saturday urged him to resign and remembered the victims of nazism 50 years after adolf hitler's troops marched into austria
police estimated about 5,000 people attended despite pouring rain and strong winds. the organizers estimated 10,000
the demonstration, called by more than a dozen well known austrian intellectuals, marked the march 1938 annexation of austria to nazi germany
one of several banners displayed said, ``memorial year without waldheim.''
debate has surrounded the former u.n. secretary-general since 1986, when the first revelations surfaced about his service in the german army in the balkans during world war ii
a panel of historians appointed by the austrian government issued a report last month that said he was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them
it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it
demonstrators arrived saturday by bus and train from across austria. loudspeakers played a recording of hitler's speech to cheering masses on the adjoining square on march 15, 1938
hundreds of thousand of austrians welcomed the annexation, known as the anschluss, but others actively resisted it
author peter turrini, one of several artists and intellectuals who addressed the crowd, said austrians had not yet done enough to confront their wartime past
there has not yet been one minute of confession,'' he declared
chancellor franz vranitzky, speaking at the site of a former prison camp for gypsies, said austrians ``may not behave as (they did) after 1945 ... when no one asked what hapened to the austrians who left the country in 1938.''
at the demonstration before waldheim's offices, rosa jochmann, a former concentration camp inmate and resistance fighter, gave an emotional speech that left many spectators weeping
she recalled that even people who were not directly responsible for nazi atrocities ``simply walked by'' acts of violence
it is not true that one should not mourn, one must,'' she said. ``all those who lived through it (the nazi period) must speak. i will never be silent.''
the organizers appealed for a minute of silence after the speech. in contrast to friday, when a nationwide minute of silence was only sparsely observed, the entire square fell still
israeli warplanes blasted palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of sidon on saturday in apparent retaliation for the killing of three israelis aboard a hijacked bus five days ago
police said at least one guerrilla was killed and eight wounded in the 10-minute raid
a police spokesman said four israeli jets dive-bombed the bases in four runs that began at 2:30 p.m
black smoke billowed from the stricken targets at the villages of ashrafiyeh, minyeh, qraiyeh and ein el-dilb on the southern and southeastern edges of sidon, said the spokesman who spoke on condition of anonymity
he said guerrilla defenders opened up with twin-barreled anti-aircraft guns, but no hits were reported
the stricken bases were manned by fighters from fatah, the mainline guerrilla group headed by palestine liberation organization chairman yasser arafat, the spokesman said
an israeli military communique said the planes struck in the early afternoon at installations used by guerrillas to plan attacks against targets inside israel
it said the targets were demolished and all the planes returned safely to base. it gave no other details
ambulances, their sirens wailing, raced to the bombed villages and evacuated casualties to hospitals in sidon, 25 miles south of beirut
on monday, in the latest attack inside israel, arab guerrillas hijacked a commuter bus carrying workers from the israeli dimona nuclear plant in southern israel
three israeli civilians were killed and eight wounded in the hijacking, which ended when israeli troops stormed the vehicle. three arab gunmen were killed in the shootout
fatah, the largest plo guerrilla faction, had claimed responsibility for the hijacking
saturday's air raid was the second such attack on palestinian targets in lebanon this year
twelve israeli warplanes carried out a rare nighttime attack jan. 2 against bases manned by fatah guerrillas and fighters of the syrian-backed popular front for the liberation of palestine-general command
twenty-one people were killed and 30 wounded in that attack, six weeks after a popular front guerrilla, flying a motorized hang-glider, infiltrated from lebanon and attacked an army base in northern israel
six israeli soldiers were killed and eight wounded before the guerrilla was killed on nov. 25
the syria-backed group leads an anti-arafat camp within the plo. it is headed by former syrian army captain, ahmad jibril, and is based in damascus
a soccer player who witnessed a deadly stadium collapse in the libyan capital last week said he thought tripoli had been hit by an earthquake
suddenly there was a rumble ... and then the bodies fell down,'' maltese player john buttigieg told the rome daily il messaggero in an interview published saturday
part of the grandstand collapsed thursday after some of the 60,000 spectators at the 75,000-seat june 11 stadium panicked because of a knife fight, according to reports
news reports from malta and yugoslavia said 20 people were killed and that scores of people were injured. radio malta in a report from tripoli said at least 17 people died and that two people were arrested
the reports conflicted with those from the libyan news agency jana, which said two people were killed and 16 others were hospitalized
buttigieg said at first he ``screamed like a madman'' at his team captain that it was an earthquake
the grandstand in front of me was coming down like a sand castle and the fans ... fell by the tens, by the hundreds,'' buttigieg was quoted as saying
three years ago i saw on television the scene at heysel, but in tripoli it was worse, much worse,'' he added, referring to the may 1985 riot by english fans at brussels' heysel stadium that killed 39 people
after a part of the third tier of seats, the highest, fell on the second tier, it was hell. there was a continuous scream ... i saw people run toward the dead,'' he said
the referee told us to go into the dressing rooms. but we couldn't. the entrance was blocked by bodies and pieces of cement,'' he said
the belgrade daily politika ekspres said the incident began when several fans pulled out knives during a quarrel
seeking shelter nearby, spectators toppled an iron fence. at the same time, a 6-foot-thick, 15-foot-high wall crashed down, the newspaper said
the paper said many people were injured when fans stampeded toward the exits
people began to enter the field,'' said buttigieg. ``they ran toward the collapsed grandstand. perhaps they wanted to help the injured, but no, they wanted to fight. with whom, i do not know.''
politika exspres said about 5,000 fans chased those who had brandished weapons. one of them was caught, but police managed to drag him free from the enraged crowd, it said
the maltese paper l'orizzont reported that libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi had planned to attend the match, which opened a sports festival in tripoli. however, at the last moment he changed his mind and was represented at the match by a city official
the exhibition game was stopped in the 43rd minute and did not resume
mats and margareta johansson won a car worth $10,000 on a tv game show, but the couple found out they may have to pay $8,300 in taxes on the prize, a newspaper said saturday
the newspaper aftonbladet said the johanssons took it for granted that ford fiesta was a tax-free prize. they won it last fall on the popular quiz game, ``the card is played,'' on sweden's publicly-owned television
the report said the couple was seeking exemption from tax on the prize with the national swedish tax board
sweden's taxes are among the highest in the world and can take a bite of 70 percent to 80 percent of earnings on an average salary
president reagan warned house and senate negotiators saturday he will veto a trade bill they are preparing unless ``protectionist and defeatist'' provisions are eliminated
the conference committee working on the final draft of the bill has already eliminated a number of troublesome provisions, including illegal quotas, budget-busting giveaways and protectionist measures,'' reagan said from camp david, md., in his weekly radio address
he added, however, that he opposes many remaining provisions, and ``i'm hopeful within the next phase these will be jettisoned. only wholesale elimination of many of the existing items will produce a bill i can sign.''
the trade bill, a 1,000-page set of provisions that have been worked on for three years, is currently the subject of negotiations involving no fewer than 17 congressional committees
one of the casualties of the process has been a controversial, house-passed amendment that would have required 10 percent annual rollbacks in ``excess and unwarranted'' japanese surpluses in trade with this country
reagan expressed a willingness to work with congress to produce a bill he could sign
a protectionist trade bill is a serious threat to our export boom,'' reagan said. ``it's a serious threat to the millions of american jobs that depend upon international trade. it is filled with scores of provisions that are protectionist and defeatist.''
my veto pen is ready if the final bill remains anti-trade, anti-consumer, anti-jobs and anti-growth,'' he said
with an improvement in trade in recent months, he said, a protectionist trade bill ``would be like closing the barn door just when the horse is trying to get back in.''
much of the recent narrowing of the u.s. trade deficit has been credited to a decline in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, making american goods less expensive overseas
reagan said, however, that since the third quarter of 1986, the merchandise trade deficit in real terms has declined 18 percent and the volume of exports has grown four times as fast as the volume of imports in the past 15 months
adopting protectionist measures and starting trade wars now would be like closing the barn door just as the horses tried to get back in,'' he said
lawmakers have said they want to have the bill ready by easter. in recent weeks, quotas on lamb imports and payments to sugar refiners hurt by imports have been stripped from the legislation by the senate conferees
sen. jeff bingaman, d-n.m., in his party's weekly radio speech, said reagan's upbeat comments about exports ``hides our trade deficit problem _ staggering figures which are monthly reminders that america is not the economic power that it was.''
the 1987 trade deficit was about $170 billion
here is the text of president reagan's radio address, delivered saturday from camp david, md
my fellow americans, i'd like to talk to you today about our nation's trade policy. i can't think of a recent economic issue that has generated more heat and less light, yet has more importance to our long-term national interest than trade
throughout the seven years i've been in office, professional doom sayers have latched onto one issue after another as evidence of an american decline. they can't seem to acknowledge the obvious good news that surrounds us _ the low inflation, the over 15 million new jobs since november 1982, and the longest peacetime economic expansion of the century
trade is only the most recent subject of lamentation by our critics. for them our trade deficit is an excuse for getting the government more involved in in private business. they say that americans can't compete with foreign workers, so we should slow imports by erecting protectionist trade barriers
as usual the doom merchants are wrong. the u.s. economy remains the most dynamic and exciting one on the globe. our entrepreneurs, our can-do spirit and our economic freedom are the envy of the world. the pessimism used to justify protectionism is totally unfounded. let's clear up a few myths
first, the trade situation is improving far more quickly than people realize. economists may disagree on the impact of the trade imbalance, but there is no disagreement that there has been a remarkable turnaround in the real trade deficit
since the third quarter of 1986, the merchandise trade deficit in real terms has declined 18 percent, and over the past 15 months, the volume of exports has grown over four-times as fast as the volume of imports. clearly we are in an export boom. american industries, particularly manufacturers are setting records
unfortunately there's a threat to all this good news. i'm talking about the trade bill pending in congress. adopting protectionist measures and starting trade wars now would be like closing the barn door just as the horses tried to get back in. the best way to keep our exports growing is to keep international trade expanding, and that brings me to another myth _ that congress can pass a law that will reduce the trade deficit without destroying our prosperity. legislation can reduce a trade deficit only if it reduces economic activity. if people are not working, they're not trading. we had a trade surplus and 25 percent unemployment in the great depression
a protectionist trade bill is a serious threat to our export boom. it's a serious threat to the millions of american jobs that depend upon international trade. it is filled with scores of provisions that are protectionist and defeatist. my veto pen is ready if the final bill remains anti-trade, anti-consumer, anti-jobs and anti-growth. however, the administration is willing to work diligently with congress to produce a bill that would increase our international competitiveness and complement our efforts to promote trade, exports, jobs and productivity, not stymie them
all those working on the bill should take a deep breath, take another look at the trade outlet and work together in a constructive spirit. it is still possible to write a bill that i can sign
indeed, i am encouraged by reports on the status of the trade bill negotiations. the conference committee working on the final draft of the bill has already eliminated a number of troublesome provisions, including illegal quotas, budget-busting giveaways and protectionist measures. many objectionable provisions remain, including procedural changes in the law. but i'm hopeful within the next phase these will be jettisoned. only wholesale elimination of many of the existing items will produce a bill i can sign
regardless of whether i sign trade legislation this year, we will continue our free and fair approach to trade policy. we will challenge unfair trade practices of other countries in order to achieve a level playing field for american industries. we will negotiate to knock down trade barriers on a bilateral or multilateral basis. in that regard, we will seek early enactment of the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and push for concrete progress in the upcoming uruguay round of trade negotiations
finally, we will continue to coordinate economic policies with our major trading partners, thereby helping to maintain a favorable international climate for trade expansion. america's open market is its great strength, not its weakness. international trade has helped bring unparalleled prosperity to the american people. it would be a tragic mistake to surrender to doubt and defeatism, just when our prospects are looking so bright. i have confidence in america, and i'm sure you do, too
until next week, thanks for listening, and god bless you
in an atmosphere of deepening crisis, panama's leaders met again saturday to figure out how to pay the 130,000 public employees whose salaries come due early this week
with its treasury virtually empty, the government reportedly was considering delaying or reducing the semi-monthly paychecks of the workers who have been among its staunchest supporters
panama's new chief of state, manuel solis palma, and his cabinet have been meeting almost constantly since thursday evening in an effort to solve the problem, which could have strong political repercussions
it became even more critical friday when the reagan administration in washington announced new economic sanctions against panama, including the withholding of $6.5 million in monthly panama canal fees
the sanctions were meant to force the ouster of gen. manuel antonio noriega, who has ruled panama since 1983 as head of its defense forces. he is under indictment in the united states on drug smuggling and money laundering charges
with solis palma and the foreign minister, jorge abadia, tied up in the emergency economic meetings, the government saturday still had not responded formally to the punitive measures taken in washington
but boris moreno, head of the government's national information office, referred to the sanctions as ``economic aggression'' and an ``outrage'' and said they had created a virtual ``state of war.''
this means that if the united states government does not like the government of another country, it can withhold any funds deposited in the united states,'' he said
panama uses the u.s. dollar as its currency and even before the latest sanctions were announced washington had halted normal transfers of funds from the u.s. federal reserve. other monies on deposit by panama in private u.s. banks also have been tied up by legal actions
panama's 118 local and foreign banks were ordered closed until further notice on march 3 because the government could not provide enough money to cover withdrawals. most had already shut down or were operating on a limited basis because of a run on deposits that began late last month
the bank closure left thousands of people and businesses holding checks they could not cash. in the absence of cash, most people were hoarding the dollars they had and many businessmen said they were working out barter deals with suppliers and customers
eric arturo delvalle, the deposed president whose ouster last month sparked the current crisis, predicted earlier this week that the government's inability to pay its employees would ``add a new political dimension'' to the problem
delvalle made the statement from hiding. he has not been seen in public since shortly after noriega engineered his ouster in a thinly disguised coup that came only hours after he tried to dismiss the general. the united states still recognizes delvalle as panama's legitimate president
an avalanche on mount crevacol in northern italy killed two swiss skiers saturday afternoon, authorities said
the italian news agency ansa said authorities had not released the names of the victims, who were skiing with two other friends when they were buried by the snowslide
here is the text of the democratic party's response, by sen. jeff bingaman of new mexico, to president reagan's radio address on saturday:
in one respect, the president has done our country a great service. in 1981, when he took office, we were not feeling good about ourselves. there was the iran-hostage crisis, there was runaway inflation
by 1984, the president's rhetoric had helped us to feel proud of america once again. and that good feeling hit its height in the summer of 1984 at the summer olympic games in los angeles. the president had reminded all americans that we are a proud people
but now that ``feel-good'' rhetoric is becoming a problem in itself. the president insists that the economy is in great shape, and that america has never been better off. but the truth is, that we have seen feel-good rhetoric used to paper over the very real problems that challenge our country. and that's not the way americans work
as americans, we pride ourselves in solving our problems, not in papering them over. the real issue that the president's feel-good rhetoric ignores is what kind of america are we leaving for our children. what standard of living will our children have? will they realize the american dream the way that we've been able to? will our children ever be as well off as we have been?
the president's rhetoric hides the fact that wage rates today are below what they were 15 years ago. it hides the fact that the new service sector jobs that have been created pay about half as much as the manufacturing jobs they replace. it hides the fact that both parents in most of america's young families have to work, and they have to work whether there are young children to take care of or not
it hides the fact that fewer and fewer young american families can afford to buy their own house today. and it hides the fact that the wages of our young families make it virtually impossible for them to save _ save for hard times, save for a down payment on a house, or save for their children's education
the president's rhetoric also hides our trade deficit problem _ staggering figures, which are monthly reminders that america is not the economic power that we once were. it hides the fact that during this administration, as a country we have added $1.5 trillion to the national debt. that means that in 1989, we will spend more on interest payments in the national debt than on the total combined budgets of the departments of agriculture, commerce, education, energy, interior, labor and justice
these interest payments consume precious funds which will not be spent on rebuilding america's economic power, and will not be spent on educating our children
mr. president, you have reminded us that we are a great country and that we are proud to be americans. but we are now ready to get to work solving some of those very real problems that exist. it does not help to pretend that the problems don't exist
it does not help to stay the course when the course has taken us into the ditch. we're ready to invest the time, money and energy in revitalizing the american economy. we're ready to fight unfair trade practices
we're ready to create new jobs which pay more than the ones that they replace. we're ready to make specific investments in education and retraining of our workers, in new research and development, and in the commercialization of new technologies. and we're also ready to reverse our growing dependence on foreign sources of energy. also we're ready to invest the time, money and energy in the education of our children
instead of lecturing our children's teachers, we're ready to do our part to help make our educational system work, work better and work harder. we're ready to do what has to be done to prepare our children to take the good jobs that this country can create in an economic revitalization program. mr. president, feeling good and staying the course just are not doing the job
a proud america means an america that can recognize its challenges and meet those challenges head-on. only if we do so will our children be as proud to be americans 20 years from now as we are today. this is u.s. sen. jeff bingaman. thank you for listening
some hunters develop stuffy noses, wheezing and hives around deer in what one researcher calls a case of ``bambi strikes back,'' and some people are literally allergic to exercise, scientists have found
research also shows that cockroaches often prompt asthmatics to wheeze, while fleas make others sneeze, the scientists say
their studies of unusual, often unrecognized and potentially deadly allergies are being presented during the american academy of allergy and immunology's annual meeting, which opened friday and ends wednesday
the prevalence of such allergies is unknown, but the studies suggest they probably are more common than once thought, especially among people with common allergies, such as sensitivity to pollens, household dust and foods such as peanuts and shellfish
there's all kind of weird triggers to allergies,'' said dr. robert k. bush, a university of wisconsin allergist and chief of allergy at the veterans administration hospital in madison. bush co-authored the study of 12 deer-sensitive wisconsin hunters with dr. david schroeckenstein
this may not be real common,'' bush said of the hunters' deer dilemma. ``but there are certainly a lot of people who get exposed to these animals, and the potential is there for them to become allergic.''
most of the hunters suffered congestion, hives, asthma, sneezing, runny noses, itchy eyes, and swollen eyelids and lips after inhaling deer hair or touching the animals' hair, saliva, blood or urine. one was a state ``deer checker'' who went into allergic shock after cutting his hand on a tag he placed on a deer. the man recovered
poor bambi gets shot. then bambi strikes back. that's a good headline,'' bush said
the allergy academy's president, dr. albert sheffer of harvard university medical school, co-authored the largest study to date of exercise-induced allergic shock, which was first recognized in 1969 and is ``characterized by hives, choking and-or a life-threatening drop in blood pressure and loss of consciousness.''
sheffer concluded that while the condition is rare, ``it's the most common physical allergy,'' even more common than hives induced by heat or cold
the study, outlined saturday by harvard's dr. john wade, analyzed a group of 199 people who develop allergic shock, called anaphylaxis, when they exercise
jogging prompted shock in 71 percent of the patients, aerobics in 38 percent, dancing in 26 percent and swimming in 17 percent. many were allergic to certain foods, pollen, cat dander, aspirin and other painkillers
the cause of exercise allergy is unknown. while exercise-induced shock is life-threatening, ``we don't have any evidence anybody died from it,'' sheffer said
dr. bann kang, head of the allergy section at the university of kentucky medical center in lexington, said her study of 680 asthmatics in chicago found 283 of them were allergic to body parts, eggs and feces of cockroaches in house dust, an allergy first identified in new york in 1967
they usually have very severe, intractable asthma,'' she said. ``they have attacks all the time.''
because many doctors don't recognize cockroach asthma, they only treat symptoms, then ``send the patient back home, where the home is filled with material that may induce asthma attacks again,'' kang said
while flea bites are known to cause hives, a new study revealed fleas' body parts inhaled from house dust also trigger allergic reactions, said the study's author, research associate walter trudeau of the university of south florida school of medicine and the veterans administration hospital in tampa
trudeau's study found 18 of 100 consecutive patients treated at an allergy clinic for other allergies also were allergic to fleas that invaded their homes aboard their cats or dogs
desensitization injections can eliminate allergies to pollens, house dust and cockroaches, but there is no effective serum to desensitize people allergic to deer, fleas or exercise, the researchers said
people allergic to fleas should get rid of their pets, or at least exterminate the fleas, trudeau said. hunters allergic to deer should stop hunting if necessary, bush said
people prone to develop exercise-induced allergic shock ``should not exercise for at least four to six hours after eating,'' since exercise allergy often causes symptoms only if allergenic foods were consumed, sheffer said
a federal judge has grounded air panama's u.s. operations, freezing the company's assets while he decides which leader of panama should control the government-owned airline
basically the airline is out of service,'' said mark cohen, the miami attorney who sued to seize air panama's assets on behalf of eric delvalle, panama's president-in-hiding
u.s. district judge william hoeveler on friday issued a 10-day restraining order freezing the airline's assets while he considers which panamanian government should control the company _ delvalle or ruling military stongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
noriega was indicted last month on drug trafficking charges by federal grand juries in tampa and miami. soon afterward, delvalle ordered noriega to resign, but the panamanian assembly backed noriega and ousted delvalle
each man contends he is panama's legitimate ruler; the united states recognizes only delvalle's claim
attorneys for air panama did not attend the hearing but responded to hoeveler's questions by telephone
an air panama reservations clerk in miami said saturday that no air panama officials would be available until monday
air panama's assets in the united states include two boeing 727 jets, ground equipment and facilities, tickets that can be exchanged for cash and an undetermined amount of money in u.s. banks, cohen said
peter reaveley, head of the aviation development department at miami international airport, said curtailment of air panama service should not have much of an impact on travel to the central american nation
business and tourist travel to panama has already been drying up,'' he said
air panama has been flying once daily from miami to panama city. eastern airlines and pan american airways also have daily service there
florence ann felton doesn't monkey around when there is a baby beast in need at her husband's zoo _ she takes the critters home
felton, whose husband george felton is the director of the greater baton rouge zoo, can't bear it when the animals become orphaned or rejected by their natural mothers. ``i love them,'' she said of her furry patients
the babies, though, are exotic _ wild. they do not make good pets,'' mrs. felton said
i've raised them on bottles, but i know they have to go back,'' she said
the main problem is getting them on a bottle,'' she added. ``once they're on a bottle, it's no problem.''
the feltons live near the zoo in a home that has been modified for easy care of baby animals
they have raised chimps, bears, cougars, otters, leopards, jaguars, small deer, antelope and other hoofed stock, baboons, monkeys, lions, and tigers
baby beasts must be fed every two hours, with feedings spread out gradually. mrs. felton said animal babies got her up more often during the night than did her own children, all of whom are now on their own
do the animals ever remember her?
some do, she said. two young cougars she once helped raise would stand up at the zoo with their paws on the wire, trying to get her to scratch their noses
ashland women deny they are ladies of leisure, despite a recent report saying there are fewer of them in work force than anywhere else in the country
the 1988 congressional district fact book said only 31.6 percent of the northeastern kentucky women are employed, while the national average for working women was 54.7 percent in 1986
but some members of the american business women's association in ashland dispute the finding
i've got three daughters and two daughters-in-law and they all work,'' said margaret moore. ``i've worked all my life. all the women i know work.''
helen hunt, vice president of the association, said she doesn't think ashland is much different than any other area
usually women can find work here quicker than men,'' she said
on the other hand, prince georges county, md. topped the list of working women with 62.6 percent; arlington, va., was second with 62.2 percent, and bloomington, minn., ranked third at 62.2 percent, the book said
ranking slightly above ashland are huntington, w.va., 31.9 percent; washington, pa., 36.2 percent, and the economically depressed south bronx section of new york city, 36.5 percent, the book said
the book was published by the joint center for political studies, a washington, d.c., think tank, which used u.s. census data to determine its rankings
one explanation for the small percentage of working women in ashland might be that males traditionally have held the high-paying jobs at large local employers such as ashland oil and armco inc
perhaps it wasn't necessary for women to work in some situations,'' said mike sturm, employment and training program supervisor with the kentucky department of employment services in ashland
the chicago tribune endorsed tennessee sen. albert gore in tuesday's illinois presidential primary, passing over homestate candidates sen. paul simon and jesse jackson
the tribune endorsement in sunday editions called gore ``an underdog with sound judgment and an important message.''
the chicago sun-times, the state's second largest newspaper after the tribune, has endorsed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the democratic race and vice president george bush in the republican primary
the endorsement is offered in the same spirit as our earlier endorsement of sen. robert dole in the republican primary _ in hopes that an underdog with sound judgment and an important message can pick up momentum in illinois and contest his party's nomination all the way to its convention,'' said the tribune editorial
the tribune conducted a poll for sunday's editions that showed simon was favored by 35 percent of those surveyed, jackson 30 percent and dukakis 18 percent. gore and gephardt had a combined total of about 10 percent
among the likely republican voters, bush was supported by 62 percent and dole by 28 percent. robertson was the first choice of only 6 percent
the survey, conducted by peter d. hart research associates, contacted 504 republicans and 501 democrats on wednesday and thursday and had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
the tribune endorsement said gore was the only candidate who could ``prevent the democatic debate from winding down into the staid pronouncements of ... dukakis .... and the jazzier echo of the class-conscious mr. jackson.''
the tribune gave gore high marks on his knowledge of domestic and foreign affairs and also warned the democratic party it needed ``a strong gore candidacy just to avoid a repeat in november of its 1980 and 1984 humiliations.''
dukakis leads in the race for delegates to the party's national nominating convention, followed by jackson and gore. missouri rep. richard gephardt is fourth and simon is last, although there are more uncommitted delegates than simon and gephardt have together. job-related illness</head>
some 65,000 americans a year develop lung diseases from on-the-job causes, making lung disease the most common preventable cause of job-related illness and death in the country, the american lung association said saturday
long-term exposure to cancer-causing substances in the workplace, for example, is blamed for about 16,000 lung cancer deaths a year, the association said in its 1987 annual report
that is about 12 percent of the nation's total lung cancer deaths last year, the association said
among the workplace substances that cause lung cancer are arsenic, a hazard in the oil refining, smelting and mining industries; asbestos, in asbestos milling and manufacture, insulation and shipyard work; chromium, used in glassmaking, potting and battery making; nickel, in nickel refining, and petroleum products and oils, the association said
not everyone in those industries is exposed to those substances, however, the association noted
other job-related lung diseases include chronic bronchitis, a stiffening of lung tissue called pulmonary fibrosis and industrial asthma, the association said
on other topics, the annual report said smokers who kick the habit have to wait 10 years or more before their risk of lung cancer falls to about that of people who have never smoked
but that should not discourage smokers from quitting, because quitting causes an immediate and dramatic plunge in the risk of other diseases, especially emphysema and chronic bronchitis, the report says
the report also calls lung cancer statistics on blacks ``horrendous,'' resulting from higher percentages of smokers among black men and women than among whites
in 1985, about 41 percent of black men aged 20 and older smoked, compared to about 32 percent for white men, while about 32 percent of black women smoked, compared to 28 percent of white women, the association said
from 1973 to 1984, the lung cancer death rate among black men rose 25 percent, from 64.3 deaths per 100,000 population to 80.3, three times faster than the rate among white men, the association said in a separate statement
for black women the death rate nearly doubled, from 11.9 per 100,000 population to 20.4, the association said. wounded</head> pvs: `an airport...'</note>
a man waving a pistol rushed the cockpit of a passenger jet saturday and demanded the pilot fly him to india or afghanistan, then shot a guard three times before passengers pummeled and subdued him
the pakistan international airlines jet was carrying 143 passengers and 13 crew members on a domestic flight from karachi to quetta when the attempted hijacking took place about seven minutes before landing, said app, the pakistani national news agency
the hijacker also reportedly suffered a gunshot wound during the scuffle with the guard and passengers. there were no other injuries and the aircraft landed safely, the news agency said
the news agency said a man identified as mannan achakzai, 28, from the baluchistan province was arrested. it said two other passengers also were detained as suspected accomplices, but had no details
the plane, an a-300 airbus, was preparing to land at quetta in baluchistan, near the afghan border in western pakistan
app said a man from the first-class section apparently went to the bathroom, then returned shortly afterward with a revolver and rushed toward the the cockpit
the gunmen shouted at the pilot to divert the aircraft to either the afghan capital of kabul or to new delhi, app said. it gave no information on the gunman's motive
a guard on the aircraft, liaquat ali, tried to overpower the gunman but was shot three times in the back
two passengers ``jumped on the hijacker and unleashed a volley of blows and punches,'' app said. officials identified the two passengers as provincial government ministers masir mengal and mohammad rind
an airport official who spoke on condition of anonymity said that achakzai was wounded by a bullet fired from his own revolver during the scuffle
two doctors, one pakistani and one dutch, were on board the plane and administered aid to the guard and gunmen, app said
it was a miracle that the air guard survived although he was hit thrice,'' dr. louis koster, a dutch physician who was on board the flight, was quoted as saying. ``fortunately, none of the bullets could pierce through any vital organ.''
airport security is extremely heavy in pakistan and airport officials could not explain how the gun was brought on board. passengers must pass through two metal detectors and have their carry-on luggage inspected at least three times before boarding
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from south carolina to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: caucus
date: saturday, march 12
candidates filed: bruce babbitt, michael dukakis, richard gephardt, albert gore, gary hart, jesse jackson, paul simon
pledged delegates: 44 super elegates: 4 total: 48
delegates allocated: saturday, march 12
selection of delegates: saturday, april 16

south carolina uses a three-step process of caucuses and conventions for picking its delegates to the democratic national convention
precinct caucuses on march 12 pick delegates to the county conventions later in the month, which name delegates to the state convention on april 16. partricipants at each step of the process will be divided according to presidential preferences and are pledged from one level to the next
twenty-nine pledged national convention delegates from congressional districts will be chosen and allocated in congressional district caucuses at the state convention. the rest of the state's 15 pledged national convention delegates will be chosen at the state convention and will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to presidential preference expressed by state convention delegates
method: primary
date: saturday, march 5
delegates: 37
delegates allocated: saturday, march 5
selection of delegates: saturday, april 9

south carolina republicans awarded all of their national convention delegates to vice president george bush in a winner-take-all primary on march 5
the delegates from congressional districts will be picked at district conventions in the next few weeks
the at-large delegates will named at the state convention in april. 3rd graf pvs: about 150...</note>
tibetan women set fire to a chinese flag and demanded freedom for their homeland on saturday, vowing to return to the region they fled nearly three decades ago
in london, about 50 tibetan demonstrators protested outside the chinese embassy. there was no response from the embassy and police maintained a discreet watch on the demonstrators, who ended their vigil without incident
in switzerland, about 400 tibetans carried banners that said ``china out of tibet,'' and ``long live the dalai lama'' on a peaceful march through zurich's inner city
about 150 tibetan refugees participated in the new delhi demonstration, one of the latest last week to mark the 29th anniversary of an unsuccessful uprising against chinese rule in the tibetan capital of lhasa
the pride and might of communist china will not crush the spirit of tibetan nationalism,'' the tibetan women's organization, which organized the new delhi protest, said in statement
indian policewomen stood by and watched the tibetan women burn the red flag of china near parliament
tsewang topgyal, a spokesman for the demonstrators, fled his country at the age of 5 in the wake of the violent revolt in 1959. he said ``this anniversary is like christmas for tibetans. it is a time when we remember family and friends at home
there are few tibetans who have not lost members of their immediate family due to the chinese presence there,'' he said
on march 10, 1959, tibetans revolted against their chinese rulers, who responded with a brutal crackdown. india is the home of at least 100,000 tibetan refugees who fled tibet along with their leader, the dalai lama
the anniversary of the tibetan revolt coincides with an upsurge in anti-chinese rioting in lhasa
an official report said one policeman was killed in daylong clashes march 5 between police and protesters in lhasa, but unconfirmed reports put casualties at 21 tibetans and three police killed
during three independence protests in september and october, at least 14 people were killed and dozens arrested
the world's birthrate will begin declining within the next 12 years for the first time in recorded history, a group of development experts said saturday
this will be a momentous occasion in the history of the world,'' said dr. william foege, director of the task force for child survival and former head of the centers for disease control in atlanta
scientists attending the task force's three-day international symposium here agreed that new projections from developing countries show that the birthrate should stop growing nearly a half century earlier than demographers previously thought possible
that would be followed by the stabilization of the entire population, said foege, an epidemiologist who conducted the birthrate study. the birthrate is the number of births per 1,000 population
dr. kenneth warren, a vaccines expert and head of the health unit of the rockefeller foundation, said: ``people have considered that world population growth would continue indefinitely. the question has been, is man going to overrun and destroy the whole planet? it's something people have been despairing about.''
the task force for child survival is a coalition that includes unicef, the u.n. children's fund, the world health organization, more than a dozen international aid agencies and doctors and health ministers from 11 developing countries
the organizations have been working on an international campaign to immunize children against polio, diphtheria, tuberculosis and other diseases in a project aimed primarily at developing nations
the common perception that low infant mortality causes population increases is apparently incorrect, said warren
actually, a low death rate for infants actually causes populations to stabilize. industrialized countries such as the united states have relatively low birthrates
experts at the conference said asian and latin american countries now are following this trend. an increasing number of countries are weighing in with lower birth rates
the experts said women in poor countries are likely to have larger families to offset the loss of children to disease
foege, using data from the world bank, examined trends in infant mortality and birthrates from 1960 to the present and projected infant mortality by nation through 2000
if we're wrong, we're only wrong by a few years, the concept isn't wrong,'' foege said, adding that his predictions of the anticipated drop int he birthrate could have an error margin of five years
previous predictions have indicated that the birthrate would stabilize midway through the next century, when the population reaches about 13 billion
if foege's projections are correct, the population would stop growing at about the year 2150
because of increased life expectancy and other factors, the population level will take at least several decades to level off after the birthrate stops growing
there's full agreement on the prediction,'' said james p. grant, executive director of unicef. ``with the kinds of improvements in survival we've been talking about at this meeting, the decline could come even sooner.''
the birthrate prediction made at on the last day of the symposium was part of an optimistic appraisal of the progress made in improving health care and the potential to extend life for children worldwide
the drug enforcement administration, at the invitation of bolivia, peru and ecuador, has been assisting an offensive aimed at south american cocaine-processing facilities and growing areas that was first tried with u.s. military troops amid much controversy in 1986
under the initiative, dea officials say, specially trained u.s. drug agents with the assistance of aircraft from the agency are accompanying bolivian military forces into the jungles of that country and locating cocaine processing laboratories, which are then dismantled by the troops
the effort, begun last year, is a continuation and broadening of operation blast furnace in 1986, dea spokesman cornelius dougherty said. in blast furnace, 170 u.s. army personnel raided about 20 drug lab sites in bolivia. the injection of u.s. troops drew criticism from civil liberties groups concerned about the use of the military to enforce civilian laws
the new operation doesn't involve u.s. military personnel
we're working with the governments in the primary coca-growing countries of peru and bolivia, where they are using their troops and we are sending along dea advisers as intelligence experts,'' dougherty said
the agents have undergone extensive training in weapons, language and jungle survival, in addition to the regular 14 weeks of field training dea agents take. the jungle survival training is given by the u.s. army special forces, the green berets
as part of the effort, dea planes outfitted with sophisticated electronic gear are being used for aerial reconnaissance to identify drug labs
in peru, dea agents began in mid-1987 to help immobilize and disrupt the flow of cocaine products from the principal area of that country where illicit coca is cultivated, the upper huallaga valley. extensive production of coca paste and cocaine base also takes place there, david l. westrate, assistant dea administrator for operations, said in congressional testimony earlier this month
partly as a result of the effort, there have been substantial seizures of coca leaves, cocaine base and chemicals used in producing coca paste and base, westrate said
under an agreement made in 1987 with bolivia, dea agents helped the government there locate and destroy numerous coca processing facilities. a total of 26 labs for producing coca base or refining it were seized last year in bolivia, westrate said
dea agents also are taking a more active role in ecuador, a transit country for large amounts of chemicals used in processing cocaine in other south american countries, dea officials said. most of the coca paste produced in ecuador is transported to colombia for conversion to cocaine hydrochloride. words. pick up 7th pvs, `al-amaya has...'</note>
iraq said saturday its jets hit a tanker in the persian gulf and an oil pumping station on the iranian mainland, indicating a return of hostilities to economic targets during a truce in the ``war of the cities.''
but iran later accused iraq of violating the truce by sending a warplane to bomb the town of gachsaran in southwestern iran
tehran television, monitored in cyprus, quoted a spokesman for the war information headquarters as saying the plane was ``forced to flee under heavy anti-aircraft fire.''
he said the aircraft was seen ``dropping it bombs out of frustration in a desert area.''
the unidentified spokesman said the incident ``indicates iraq wants to continue its acts of mischief, and the islamic combatants will not remain silent if civilian targets are attacked again.'' iraq did not comment on the report
iran's islamic republic news agency, monitored in cyprus, earlier reported that revolutionary guards attacked and set ablaze the offshore al-amaya radar facility in the northern tip of the gulf friday night
al-amaya had been transformed by the iraqis from an oil platform to monitor activity in the gulf. irna said surface-to-air and shore-to-sea missile pads on the facility were destroyed in the attack
the official iraqi news agency, also monitored in cyprus, reported that iraqi warplanes blasted the imam hassan oil pumping station in southwestern iran saturday afternoon
the agency quoted an unidentified iraqi military spokesman as saying the facility was ``totally destroyed.''
in an earlier dispatch, iraq reported to have struck a ``very large maritime target'' off the iranian coast friday night. the attack was not independently verified by gulf-based shipping executives
ina quoted a military spokesman as saying the iraqi warplanes scored ``an accurate and effective hit'' on the vessel, and returned safely
it quoted a spokesman as saying the raids reflected iraq's ``determination to destroy iran's economic lifeline and deprive the enemy of revenues employed to finance aggression.''
the cease-fire in the ``war of the cities'' passed the 24-hour mark, with no attacks on each other's capitals or major population centers
hundreds of civilian casualties were reported in the unprecedented 12-day duel. iraq claimed to have hurled 71 long-range missiles into tehran and two other cities and iran said it fired 29 missiles at iraqi cities
the barrage ended friday afternoon after iraq fired eight rockets at tehran and three at the holy city of qom, the last one just 16 minutes before the 4 p.m. truce deadline
iraq had made its right to fire the last shot a precondition for the truce, on grounds that iran, the ``aggressive party,'' had triggered the exchange
iraq's terms for the cease-fire also stipulated that tehran not attempt to launch a ground offensive against any iraqi population centers
it did not bar either side from continuing to attack military or economically strategic targets
ali ahani, director general of european and american affairs of iran's foreign ministry, speaking in the hague, netherlands, said iran will unleash a new battlefront offensive against iraq in response to the missile attacks
we are going to give a decisive response in the war of the fronts because of this bloodshed,'' he said, refusing to provide specifics on the offensive
baghdad's officially controlled press called the cease-fire a triumph and warned iran against resuming the bombardment, ina said
al-thawra, voice of iraq's ruling arab baath socialist party, said the missile war taught the ``charlatans of iran'' a ``painful, bitter lesson.'' it said any iranian ``violation'' of the cease-fire ``would, for sure, generate a devastating iraqi reply.''
iraq had vowed to disrupt oil exports by which iran finances its share of the 7{-year-old war. the attacks concentrate on iran's government-owned or chartered tankers that shuttle oil from kharg island in the northern gulf to centers in safer waters near the strait of hormuz
iraq broke a three-week lull in the ``tanker war'' on wednesday, when its warplanes struck the 41,195-ton maltese-flag tanker tenacity
baghdad reported another attack on friday, which like the one it claimed on saturday, could not be confirmed
the iranians retaliate for iraqi raids with attacks on neutral commercial shipping. although gulf radio monitors say iranian gunboats were actively challenging ships in the southern gulf in recent days, there have been no attacks since feb. 11
indications arose of a new potential threat to shipping in the southern gulf, where iran was reported by u.s. military sources to be building launch pads for its chinese-made silkworm anti-ship missiles on abu musa, a tiny island used as a base by iran's revolutionary guards
the washington-based sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said american intelligence had detected no sign of actual missiles being installed
positioning the weapons, which have a range of 50 miles on abu musa would extend the so-called ``silkworm envelope'' by about 100 miles into the gulf, embracing the busy united arab emirates cities of dubai, sharjah and ras al-khaimah. quotes throughout. picks up 9th graf, `on thursday ...' adds byline.</note>
thousands of soccer fans saturday stampeded into locked stadium exits to escape a sudden hailstorm, killing at least 93 in the crush, witnesses and hospital sources said
gumball-sized ice pellets rained down on the 30,000 fans watching a match between nepalese and bangladeshi teams at the national stadium. eyewitnesses said screaming spectators rushed to the stadium's eight exits but found only one open
police and hospital sources in the city confirmed more than 70 people, including two police officers, were trampled to death or suffocated. government television reported 73 people were killed, and witnesses said another 20 bodies left at the stadium were later retrieved by relatives
more than 100 people were hospitalized with injuries. hospital sources said 12 were in serious condition. many more were were treated and released
at the government-run bir hospital near the stadium, maya laxmi vaidya, a white-haired woman clad in a sari, said her 12-year-old grandson was killed in the stampede
i've told my family not go out on saturday. older people understand this and don't go out,'' she said
the day is considered unlucky among nepal's hindus. it is named for the planet saturn, which in hindu mythology possesses strong negative powers
the government ordered a judicial commission to investigate the disaster and announced payments of $450 to relatives of the dead and $90 to the injured
crowds angered by authorities' failure to open the gates attacked three cars with government license plates outside the stadium with rocks, smashing windshields
reporters who arrived at the stadium moments later found it largely deserted. sandals and shoes littered the ground near the one open gate
witnesses said most of the deaths occurred there, as spectators who found other exits locked rushed toward the only outlet
ram bista, a teletype operator who took part in rescue efforts, said spectators who got outside commandeered vehicles to rush victims to hospitals
we stopped all buses, all taxis, all rickshaws,'' he said
one spectator who demanded anonymity accused police of being ``selfish. they took care of themselves and nobody came to help the crowd,'' he said
it was nepal's worst sports-related disaster on record
the downtown stadium was filled almost to capacity for the final game of a major tournament in nepal's most popular sport. the tribhuvan challenge shield cup, named for a former nepalese king, pitted a team from the national cigarette factory against the mukti joddha, meaning ``freedom fighters,'' from nearby bangladesh
stadium officials said none of the athletes was involved in the stampede or was injured
despite sunshine for most of the day, the storm howled through this himalayan capital at midafternoon, packing winds of more than 50 mph. it uprooted trees throughout katmandu valley and temporarily disrupted telex lines
on thursday evening, panicked soccer fans in tripoli, libya fled knife-wielding ruffians and triggered the collapse of a sports stadium, killing at least 20 people, news reports from malta and yugoslavia said
the reports conflicted with those from the libyan news agency jana, which said two people were killed and 16 were hospitalized
the worst soccer disaster on record took place on may 24, 1964, when rioting left nearly 300 dead and 500 injured after argentina beat peru on a last-minute goal in lima
on may 29, 1985, 39 people died at heysel stadium in brussels, belgium, when british soccer fans went on a rampage against italian fans
fifty-three fans died on may 11, 1985, when a fire engulfed the main stand during a match at bradford city's soccer stadium in northern england
on jan. 2, 1971, 66 people died when an overcrowded stairway collapsed during a local soccer match between glasgow rangers and celtic in glasgow, scotland
in 1969, el salvador and honduras suffered thousands of casualties in the so-called ``soccer war,'' which began after a disputed soccer match between the two countries. the brief war was provoked by honduras' decision to expel many salvadorans who had settled in honduras. up 15th pvs, `sharaa said...'</note>
syria on saturday rejected an american proposal for an arab-israeli peace settlement, submitted last week to arab and israeli leaders by secretary of state george p. shultz
syrian foreign minister farouk al-sharaa also said he did not believe any other arab leader would support the plan
we have studied the american proposal and we think the plan, as presented to us, is not acceptable. we also believe that it is not acceptable to any other arab side,'' sharaa told reporters
the palestine liberation organization and israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir also have rejected the plan. shamir's rival in the coalition government, foreign minister shimon peres, supports the plan
sharaa spoke at damascus airport after seeing off his swedish counterpart, sten andersson. andersson left for home after a 24-hour visit and talks with president hafez assad and sharaa on the arab-israeli conflict
sharaa's statement was the first outright syrian rejection of the plan, which shultz submitted to assad during a visit to damascus march 4
shultz handed copies of the proposal to king hussein of jordan, shamir, peres and egyptian president hosni mubarak
the proposal, aimed primarily at halting violence that has raged in the occupied west bank and gaza strip since dec. 8, called for limited self-rule for 1.5 million palestinians living under israeli occupation
it also called for the formation of a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation to negotiate a permanent settlement in the west bank and gaza under an international peace conference to convene by may 1
at a later parley, other arab-israeli conflicts, including the future of the syrian golan heights, occcupied by israel in the 1967 war, would be discussed
shultz had asked that the leaders concerned respond to his proposal within 10 days
the syrian president, speaking at a rally on tuesday, had indicated he rejected the plan, saying israel did not want peace and that the arabs have no alternative but to keep up the fight against the jewish state
but he did not openly reject the plan
earlier last week, assad discussed the proposal with hussein, the jordanian monarch, during a meeting in damascus
sharaa said ``we hope the american adminstration would come up with a much clearer proposal,'' leaving the door open for additional u.s.-syrian consultations
sharaa said syria would not accept any settlement that is not based on ``the termination of israel's occupation and recognition of palestinian rights'' to self-determination and the establishment of a state. religion</head>
conservative judaism on saturday offered its first comprehensive definition of principles, declaring its faith is linked to israel, but not bound to it
both israel and the diaspora, the countries to which the jews have been dispersed, are partners to ``aid and enrich the other in every possible way,'' the 23,000-word statement said. ``each needs the other.''
however, jewish identity was termed essentially a matter of religion rather than geography
our religion has been land-centered but never land-bound,'' the document said. ``it has been a portable religion so that despite our long exile from our spiritual homeland, we have been able to survive creatively and spiritually.'' ``we do not believe that jewish identity can be replaced by israeli identity, or the ability to speak hebrew. we are convinced that jewish religion is essential as a source of ethical and moral values,'' the authors said
some jews have viewed the jewish state as the ``religious center of world jewry,'' the statement said, adding that various jewish communities have ``complementary roles'' in maintaining judaism
the statement, ``emet ve-emunah,'' hebrew for ``truth and faith,'' was drawn up over 2{ years by a 35-member commission of scholars, rabbis and laity set up in 1985
never before in its history has the century-old conservative movement in this country produced such an overall summation of convictions
officials of the rabbinical assembly, the rabbinical arm of conservative judaism, and its jewish theological seminary hailed the document as ``monumental and historic.''
it provides a consensus view of the movement's ``positions on personal and general questions'' affecting jewish life, said the commission chairman, seminary professor robert gordis
he termed it ``a way of life for the jew today to live in loyalty to the tradition without resigning from the 20th century.''
conservative judaism is the middle ground between the other two major branches, reform, which freely adapts jewish practices to changing times, and orthodoxy, which sees ritual as commanded by god and thus unchangeable
conservatism's statement deals with god, revelation, evil, the messianic hope, jewish law, personal practices, the role of women, israel, social justice, relations with other faiths and meaning of ``chosen people.''
the widely misunderstood ``chosen people'' concept often ``has been distorted into an expression of moral arrogance,'' despite counterefforts, the statement said
instead of implying any innate jewish superiority, god's choosing of the jews to reveal his purposes laid on them special obligations and duties as a result of their accepting that role
far from being a license for special privilege, it entailed additional responsibilities not only toward god but to their fellow human beings,'' the statement said
often, however, they had to pay a bloody price for insisting on this role, enabling them to identify with (the prophet) isaiah's `suffering servant' who accepted the blows and contempt of others in order to bring the truth of god to the world.''
the statement deplored the rifts that have developed among different branches of judaism and urged work to overcome them, declaring:
in the face of unflagging enemies and widespread anti-semitism, jewish unity is more vital than ever. ... only when jews live in harmony and peace with each other ... will we be worthy of messianic redemption.''
regarding israel, the statement voiced deep attachment to the land and pride in the achievement of the modern state in gathering jews from dispersion and ``rebuilding a nation.''
however, the state's discrimination against the conservative and reform movements is ``morally intolerable,'' the statement said
the writers said israel should recognize religious authority of all rabbis, not just the orthodox, adding, ``we have often suffered from discriminatory policies, but we remain firm and loving supporters of the state of israel.''
israel's jews and their fellows living in the diaspora ``have sustained the creative survival of am yisrael (the jewish people),'' interacting ``in a continual symbiotic process of mutual enrichment, the statement said
and conservative judaism offered this self-description:
the conservative movement affirms that the jewish religion as reflected in the jewish way of life constitutes the most significant factor that identifies, distinguishes, unites and preserves the jewish people.'' graf, `redington, who ...,' to update with redington sliding into second place. ^laserphoto ny22</note>
joe redington couldn't run in the first iditarod trail sled dog race in 1973 because he was too busy organizing the 1,100-mile marathon from anchorage to nome
he missed out again in 1983 when a run-in with an angry moose during training left him with a few cracked ribs
but redington, now 70, has run in every other iditarod, a torturous test of people and dogs billed as ``the last great race.'' and as this year's race approached the midpoint near the frozen yukon river, redington was savoring the lead in a contest he has never won
redington, who has finished as high as fifth three times, grabbed the lead tuesday at rohn, 271 miles from the start, and held it until saturday when he slipped into second place at the yukon river town of galena, 452 miles from the finish
i feel like an old fox being chased by 50 young hounds,'' he said
redington earned the title ``father of the iditarod'' 16 years ago when he spearheaded a movement to get alaskans off snowmobiles and back behind the dog teams that traditionally had provided winter transportation across the vast state
to galvanize the mushing revival, he promoted an idea that many thought impossible _ a race along the old iditarod trail, a supply route used earlier this century to reach interior alaska gold mining districts
in 1925, dog teams relayed diphtheria serum along the trail to the epidemic-stricken community of nome on norton sound
using that historic relay for inspiration, 36 wary mushers set out from anchorage in march 1973. for the next month, the dog teams struggled up into the glacier-ribbed alaska range, dropped into the timbered interior, mushed down the frozen yukon, then crossed over to the wind-blown bering sea coast for a final limp into nome
it was a macho event full of the alaska mystique, and the men who finished _ no women raced until 1975 _ were instant heroes in alaska
today, the race still bursts with a frontier aura. rugged mushers and their teams of 12 to 20 eager dogs brave blizzards, wild animals, frostbite and 1,000 miles of sled-busting trail
but it's not quite so macho anymore
since 1985, when libby riddles ventured into a howling gale and left the men behind, women have dominated the race
riddles won that race, and susan butcher has won the last two, setting a course record each time. last march, she finished in 11 days, 2 hours, about half the time it took in 1973
the fastest competitors have become mushing machines. backed by corporate sponsors and driving high-tech plastic sleds, they shave hours from their race times by going without sleep for days. the winner this year will get $30,000; the next 19 finishers will share the rest of the $150,000 purse
but even some of the leaders refuse to take things too seriously
duane ``dewey'' halverson, a perennial contender, remembers the days when many mushers regarded the iditarod as an extended camping trip
i think the competition is a little stiffer than it used to be,'' he said in mcgrath while his dogs rested on straw laid down in the snow
we'll make it and have fun and see where we finish, and i'll get one of those little teeny trophies this year.''
then he grinned and pronounced his own philosophy of racing dogs across the alaska wilds:
i'm going to have fun if it kills me.'' graf pvs: tutu's group...</note>
the government on saturday banned a church-led opposition group headed by archbishop desmond tutu and said it was a threat to public safety
minister of law and order adriaan vlok said the recently created committee for the defense of democracy was barred from ``performing any activities or acts whatsoever.''
police, meanwhile, issued a separate order banning a sunday rally in cape town that was to mark national detainees day
tutu, who heads the committee for the defense of democracy and who planned to attend the rally, said clergymen instead would hold a church service at st. george's cathedral in cape town. similar church services are scheduled in four other cities
we are dealing with a vicious government that will not tolerate any opposition to its evil and immoral policies,'' tutu told a news conference. ``they have banned a committee even before it has started operating.''
tutu's group was set up following the government's feb. 24 crackdown on black-led opposition groups. in that crackdown, the government banned 18 anti-apartheid organizations from participating in politics
the committee for the defense of democracy is led by several church leaders, including tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize, and allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches. the clergymen said the group would attempt to take over some the activities previously carried out by the restricted organizations
however, vlok's latest order places the same restrictions on tutu's group as the other anti-apartheid groups
certain clergy are becoming more and more involved in preaching revolution instead of the true christian message,'' vlok said in a statement
vlok accused church leaders of promoting the aims of the outlawed african national congress, which wages a bombing and sabotage campaign in a bid to overthrow the white-led government
he cited a march 1 broadcast by anc's radio freedom which called for the church in south africa to take a more active role in opposing the government
the anc is currently waging a desperate attempt to extend the revolutionary onslaught and is aiming this attack more and more at the churches and the whites,'' vlok said
the church (should) direct itself to the spiritual area and the government can rely on its prayers to solve the difficult political problems in the country,'' vlok added
tutu's group helped arrange sunday rallies at five sites across the country to mark national detainees day. however, police saturday banned the cape town ceremony, where tutu and boesak were to appear
police spokesman l.j. haasbroek said he had no information on the status of the four remaining rallies
clergymen indicated earlier this week they may defy any attempt by authorities to stop them
saturday's clampdown is the latest in a series of tough government actions aimed at political opponents in recent weeks. in addition to banning political activity by 18 groups, the government has imposed restrictions on individual activists and introduced legislation to prohibit foreign funding of political activity
in a related development, the black sash, an anti-apartheid group made up of white women, estimated saturday that 1,500 activists remain in detention without charge
black sash, which has not been directly affected by the recent crackdowns, said it would continue ``to defend those who are voiceless and incarcerated.''
an estimated 30,000 people have been detained without charge for varying lengths of time during the 21-month-old state of emergency
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
survivors of gov. evan mecham's administration have come forward at his impeachment trial with tales of the chaotic final days when ``mistrust bred mistrust'' and mecham believed his enemies were spying on him with laser beams
a reluctant defense witness, electronics technician antonio corio, told how he was sent to the governor's offices in november to check the security system and do a ``sweep'' to detect electronic bugs and laser beam listening devices
they had feelings there were leaks,'' corio said. ``information was getting out of the ninth floor somehow.''
he said he was reminded that mecham was publicly embarrassed by reports that he thought laser beam listening devices were being used to spy on him. the governor's office was seeking proof
what did you detect?'' asked mecham defense attorney fred craft
not a whole lot,'' corio said to the lawyer's surprise
the technician, who had been called to bolster the claim of bugging, refused to cooperate once he was on the stand. he said he knew about laser beam listening devices, but they have to be used at close range
could you detect sounds in the governor's office if you were on the capitol grounds?'' asked craft
i don't think so,'' said corio
as to who might be using such a device, the governor had a prime suspect _ attorney general robert corbin. corbin said the only laser he ever had was a toy he got for christmas
mecham, 63, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, is charged with obstructing an investigation by corbin into an alleged death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson by another mecham associate, lee watkins
in other impeachment charges, the first-term republican governor is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 in a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. the arizona senate is considering the obstruction charge first
mecham faces a criminal trial april 21 on the loan charge and a recall election may 17
the antagonism between mecham and corbin surfaced as witnesses from mecham's inner circle tried to explain why mecham, faced with a probe by corbin into the alleged death threat, would have told the state's top lawman, col. ralph milstead: ``the attorney general is out to hang me. ... don't tell the attorney general anything.''
former mecham aide sam steiger described a feud between corbin and mecham that began in the first days of mecham's term when corbin advised the governor to eliminate the state's martin luther king holiday for state employees. he said it had been illegally declared by gov. bruce babbitt, mecham's predecessor
the governor abided by that decision and took an inordinate public beating over it,'' steiger recalled. ``i thought the beating should have been shared.'' but he said corbin never announced it was his idea
steiger acknowledged under cross-examination that, ``i would be less than candid if i were to say the governor was a supporter of the (martin luther king) holiday.''
mecham's other perceived enemy was the news media, and steiger suggested this led to his downfall
he was a man who won election essentially without the press and the (republican) party,'' he said. ``he learned he could be elected without them. what he forgot was he couldn't survive without them.''
in the final months before mecham was impeached by the house of representatives on feb. 5, close aides such as ms. carlson resigned in protest of mecham's policies. peggy griffith, mecham's chief of women's services, said she and ms. carlson, friends for many years, stopped speaking
mistrust bred mistrust,'' said steiger
you would agree that the mecham inner circle was paranoid?'' prosecutor paul eckstein asked steiger
no, i would not agree with that,'' said steiger who suggested that concern about electronic bugs and traitors on the staff were realistic
the final staff split with mecham was over watkins, in charge of prison construction, said several witnesses. staffers almost unanimously favored dismissal of the unpopular watkins even before he was accused of making a death threat on ms. carlson, then a grand jury witness against mecham
with people telling him mr. watkins should go, he is the kind of person that would dig in his heels and, absent a compelling reason, would defend mr. watkins,'' steiger said of mecham
ms. carlson also said she was told by mecham's chief of staff, jim colter: `we have to take care of lee. he raised a lot of money for the campaign.'' charges'</note>
by allowing robert c. mcfarlane to plead guilty to four misdemeanor counts, independent counsel lawrence e. walsh virtually secured a major prosecution witness if other players in the iran-contra affair go to trial
mcfarlane's promise of full cooperation as part of the plea agreement is a prize for walsh. the former national security adviser was among the inner circle of reagan administration aides who masterminded the iran-contra scheme
walsh said mcfarlane's cooperation would solve the technical problem of ``joinder.'' legal experts said this means walsh could have live testimony from a crucial player instead of having to build his case around documents
mcfarlane, who was national security adviser from october 1983 through november 1985, initiated the review of u.s. arms policy toward iran. after leaving the white house he remained a key policymaker, leading an unsuccessful arms-for-hostages mission to tehran in may 1986
his guilty plea focused on his role in secret u.s. assistance to the nicaraguan contras at a time congress had banned such aid
he admitted that he withheld information about the activities of lt. col. oliver l. north and other members of the national security council staff in three 1985 letters to house committees
he also admitted withholding information from the house foreign affairs committee when he told the panel on dec. 8, 1986, that he was unaware of any efforts to solicit donations for the contras from a third country
although walsh and mcfarlane agreed that the cooperation was voluntary, the independent counsel acknowledged mcfarlane could have faced much more serious perjury charges if he was uncooperative
each of the misdemeanor counts of withholding information carries a maximum one year prison term. by contrast, felony perjury charges carry a maximum of five years in prison, and larger fines also could be levied
walsh said mcfarlane's cooperation wasn't the only reason he went the misdemeanor route
he cited mcfarlane's ``undisguised demonstration of remorse after the false testimony was given in which he tried to correct his testimony; and actually imposed injury upon himself in a fit of depression,'' a reference to mcfarlane's attempted suicide via an overdose of valium last year
while admitting his guilt, mcfarlane told reporters he acted at a time that relations between congress and the white house ``broke down so tragically.''
my actions were motivated by what i believed to be in the foreign policy interest of the united states,'' he said
mcfarlane's comments were reminiscent of remarks by former cia director richard helms on oct. 31, 1977, when he pleaded no contest to two misdemeanor charges under the same law used by walsh
the charges against helms arose from his testimony to the senate foreign relations committee that the cia had made no attempt to prevent the election of marxist salvador allende as president of chile in 1970
i found myself in a position of conflict,'' said helms. ``i had sworn by my oath to preserve certain secrets ... i didn't want to lie. i didn't want to mislead the senate. i was simply trying to find my way through a very difficult situation in which i found myself.''
a monthly magazine has published the first half of an unfinished memoir by late poet konstantin m. simonov in which he explores the shame felt by soviets like himself who aided the repressions of dictator josef v. stalin
simonov began the memoir in 1979 but died in 1980 before he could finish it
he wrote the book ``for the archives'' and told his secretary that he did not expect to see the memoir published in his lifetime, explained an accompanying publisher's note in the march issue of znamya, a literary journal
articles and books re-examining the legacy of stalin have been appearing regularly over the past year as soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign for glasnost, or openness, encourages broader discussion of social and historical problems
the memoir, ``through the eyes of a person of my generation,'' attempts to explain, without excusing, the behavior of those who grew to regard stalin's excesses as a normal state of affairs
referring to his acceptance of the arrest and exile of three aunts in the 1930s, simonov wrote four decades later that such events ``which seem monstrous and impossible today, were then a norm and gradually became habitual.''
he wrote that the rationale he adopted at the time was ``you can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.''
simonov, who was twice honored with the stalin prize for literature and earned numerous other accolades during his writing career, was one of the many literary figures who followed the government's lead in denouncing poet anna akhmatova, writer mikhail zoshchenko and others in a 1946 purge of the intelligentsia
he referred to the role he played in ruining the careers of contemporaries only as ``the events of 1946,'' acknowledging that his readers would know what he meant
simonov had confessed to sinning against his conscience in denouncing respected writers and artists. in the way of atonement, he championed the suppressed works of writer mikhail bulgakov and eventually succeeded in getting published his masterpiece, ``the master and margarita.''
the weekly newspaper moscow news published a commentary on the simonov memoir, observing that simonov was trying to explain why it is possible for many russians to feel both awe for stalin's accomplishments and revulsion over his purges
the second half of the unfinished memoir is to be published in april edition of znamya, the journal said
chrysler corp.'s failed attempt to quietly sell off a fifth of the company before its united auto workers contract expired has created a fracture in labor relations that the two sides hope can be healed at the bargaining table
the no. 3 automaker once planned to use the months before its three-year uaw contract expires sept. 14 to rid itself of most parts operations by selling its 28,000-worker acustar inc. subsidiary
under that plan, chrysler could have evaded restrictions on closing plants or shifting inside work to outside suppliers that already are in place at ford motor co. and general motors corp. under the established uaw pattern contracts for the auto industry
instead, chrysler found itself with a work force whose anger exploded over the possible sale and remains largely unappeased by chrysler's retreat in the face of a threat of crippling plant-by-plant strikes
there's still a lot of hard feelings and the central issue is still not settled,'' said uaw local 412 president jim jensen, whose local represents engineers and other salaried chrysler workers in the detroit area
rather than allow the anger to simmer and build during the three or four crucial months before contract talks open, hurting chances of a settlement and continued quality production, chrysler asked for early negotiations
it's always important to resolve issues that are outstanding,'' said chrysler's chief negotiator, human resources vice president anthony st. john. ``we've had some convergence of issues that have been very difficult for the union and for chrysler.''
the uaw agreed last week, marking the third time in the last 10 years that the two will bargain early. once before, in 1982, the early talks failed. but this time, neither side can easily afford a failure at the table
chrysler and the union are betting that in the talks, which could begin as early as next month and will cover 59,500 workers, they'll be able to fix the problem rather than make it worse
but difficult issues remain, beginning with acustar. in announcing its retreat from the sale, chrysler said it would instead close four acustar plants, affecting 2,000 workers, if it can't sell them in 18 months
we as a union are not prepared to just give up and say there goes 2,000 jobs,'' said jensen, who will be one of 10 elected members of the union's bargaining team
st. john, however, said last week that the fate of the plants is not up for negotiation
jensen and other workers also say they expect chrysler to seek a two-tier wage system _ paying parts workers lower wages and benefits than assembly workers _ because it has shown it considers the parts operation too expensive
the uaw sidelined similar attempts by ford and general motors last fall when it negotiated new three-year contracts with chrysler's larger rivals
given the enormous reaction to acustar, chrysler's ability to institute two-tier wages in this round of negotiations would be very low,'' said harley shaiken, labor and technology expert at the university of california at san diego
uaw president owen bieber said the union will demand a two-year contract so that in 1990, the gm, ford and chrysler contracts will expire together for the first time since 1979
bargaining with the big three together makes it easier for the union to impose one contract on all and gives it a third choice when it is choosing a strike target, the company whose contract serves as the pattern for the others
st. john said chrysler finds advantages in remaining out of synch with gm and ford. chrysler sought a separate relationship with the union beginning in 1979, when workers made the first of many concessions to help the automaker survive
for the first time in 21 years, former black panther johnny spain is out of jail, but the man convicted of slaying two prison guards in the bloody 1971 ``san quentin six'' escape attempt is not yet a free man
release of the one-time prison revolutionary has been opposed consistently by the state. but his parole has been urged by enthusiastic supporters, including dennis riordan, his attorney for the past 12 years, two congressmen and two prison guards, one the best friend of one of the slain san quentin officers
while in prison, spain, 38, earned a high school diploma, became an electrician and has been a model prisoner in recent years. he has had no disciplinary action against him since 1979, when he was caught with marijuana
he left the california medical facility in vacaville last week after a series of court actions allowed friends and relatives to post $350,000 bail for his freedom
i won't let anyone down who has supported me, and there have been many who supported me,'' he promised upon his release, adding that he expected life outside prison to be difficult. ``i'll deal with it. i'm prepared. i've thought about it a lot.''
however, spain still faces a new trial on the prison murders and a monday hearing at which the state will argue against the order calling for that trial. a 2-1 state board of prison terms decision to parole spain next year also will be reviewed by the entire nine-member board march 11
spain had been behind bars continuously since his arrest at the age of 17 in december 1966 for the first-degree murder and robbery of a los angeles man
while on bail, authorities said spain will live in san francisco and work as an electrician. he also will be allowed to travel around the state and visit his wife and childhood sweetheart, pinkey, whom he married in 1977 while in prison. they have two sons
it was a twisting courtroom trail that finally opened spain's cell door
u.s. district judge thelton henderson overturned the san quentin murder conviction in 1986, saying spain had been deprived of his right to a fair trial by being shackled in 25 pounds of chains in every court appearance in the case
but spain still had to remain behind bars because of the 1966 murder conviction
but tuesday, los angeles superior court judge kathleen parker ordered spain paroled immediately for the 1966 murder-robbery. parker said he was eligible for release because the state board of prison terms improperly extended his sentence six years by applying regulations passed in 1976 to disciplinary violations committed in 1970 and 1971
that action cleared the way for bail to be set in the san quentin retrial
during a trial that took almost five years, spain was convicted of murdering two san quentin guards in a bloodbath that left one other guard, prison militant george jackson and two prisoners dead
prison authorities said spain was seen bolting from the maximum-security unit with jackson and helped plot the unsuccessful escape attempt
although no one said spain actually killed guards jere graham and frank deleon, he was found culpable under state law because he had conspired to escape with jackson
bullets hidden in hollow bars of soap and a map reportedly showing escape routes were found afterward in his cell in a section reserved for death row and problem inmates
spain and jackson, a black panther leader and author of the book, ``soledad brothers,'' had become friends while incarcerated together at soledad state prison before both were transfered to san quentin
spain had a troubled childhood in jackson, miss. his mother was a white woman married to a white man, but as spain grew up, it became increasingly clear that his biological father was a black man, not his mother's husband. segregated black schools refused to accept him, as did white schools
his mother sent him at the age of 6 to live with a black couple in east los angeles. he became a high school athlete, but also joined a street gang and committed minor crimes that netted him a stint in a juvenile facility before the 1966 robbery-murder
a vatican official said saturday that permission from cuba's communist government to send 20 foreign priests to cuba was a sign of improving relations between the roman catholic church and that caribbean nation
however, monsignor carlos manuel de cespedes, director of the vaticans' secretariat of the episcopal conference, told vatican radio that the church hopes for still more improvement in the area of individual rights
he said the church would like to see more religious freedom in cuba and the construction of new churches
he said there has not been ``sensational changes in the rapport between the church and state, between catholics and marxists. but, nevertheless, things are moving and i would like to say they are moving in the right way.''
de cespedes said examples of change were the government allowing the cuban church to import 30,000 bibles last year and permission last week for the church to send 20 foreign priests to cuba
vatican radio said there are 406 cuban priests to serve the predominantly catholic population of about 10 million
it said most of the 20 foreign priests that will go to cuba are spanish or italian, but there also will be one mexican and one canadian
rebels led by fidel castro ousted the fulgencio batista dictatorsyip in 1959 and in december 1961 castro declared cuba would be a marxist-leninist state. tenn gov, lamar sted doyle</note>
as the presidential campaign moved from the south to illinois, associated press bureaus in the super tuesday states surveyed officials' reactions to their innovative regional primary. here is a report
if the goal was to beat iowa, the wednesday morning quarterbacks agreed, the south had a winner in its ``super tuesday'' regional presidential primary election experiment
many officials in the 20 voting states were elated to have real, live presidential candidates trooping through, but some felt they could have attracted more attention with a less crowded primary
super tuesday did what i thought it would do,'' said georgia secretary of state max cleland. ``it has meant sudden death to most candidates and sudden life to a few.''
jim hunt, former governor of north carolina, thought super tuesday proved its worth. his candidate, sen. albert gore of tennessee, gained the stature he needed after ignoring earlier contests in both iowa and new hampshire
but although gore did well, he had to share the victory with two liberals, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson. each won about a third of the states and delegates
alabama republican party chairman emory folmar called that a defeat for southern leaders who had hoped super tuesday would give the edge to a moderate or conservative
it blew up in their faces,'' folmar said
but the democratic finish, combined with vice president george bush's 16-1 sweep of tuesday's primaries and caucuses, turned the iowa caucus results on their head. there rep. richard gephardt was the democratic winner, while sen. robert dole and pat robertson both beat bush
presidential candidates may approach the race differently as the result of super tuesday. it could be they will no longer consider iowa a must stop,'' said u.s. rep. tom tauke, r-iowa
gore's strategy has revealed that the new hampshire primary doesn't control how the democratic nominee will be selected,'' said oklahoma attorney general robert henry
however, joe grandmaison, new hampshire's democratic party chief, said super tuesday proved the ``value and singularity'' of his state's first-in-the-nation primary. ``new hampshire's brand of retail politics forces the candidates to face the voters and debate the issues,'' he said
many democrats in the south and some republicans were pleased with the outcome
we wanted to nationalize our message, and we accomplished that. compare the rhetoric between 1984 and 1988. it was far less damaging this year than four years ago,'' said former gov. charles robb of virginia, a democrat who endorsed gore and promoted the super tuesday idea
before this year, all the presidential candidates did in the south was change planes in the atlanta airport,'' said former tennessee gov. lamar alexander, a republican
we just felt for years like the candidates were ignoring us to go to iowa and new hampshire. we've had more presidential candidates in texas already this time than we've had in the whole past 10 years,'' said former texas state sen. john traeger
u.s. sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said super tuesday forced candidates to address locally important issues such as low oil prices, but he thought the calendar was too crowded with 14 southern and border states, plus six other states and american samoa, holding primaries or caucuses
i'd rather texas be out by itself. i wish we could figure out some way to get it ahead of iowa,'' bentsen said
wallace hyde, a democratic fund-raiser from asheville, n.c., and co-chairman of gore's state campaign, was happier
it worked _ almost on the money,'' he said. ``you definitely came out of it with a moderately conservative candidate.''
however, texas state sen. chet edwards said super tuesday was not conceived as a way ``to elect some neanderthal anglo southerner.''
it was designed to give 16 million texans and citizens throughout the south a voice in the selection of our president and a voice in the setting of our national agenda,'' he said
john weaver, executive director of the texas gop, thought democrats hoping for a conservative must be disappointed
i'm sure the people who hoped the democrats would nominate (sen.) sam nunn or chuck robb would rather put this primary in a burlap bag and drop it in the colorado river,'' weaver said
judge-executive jerry taylor of whitley county, ky., called super tuesday ``the biggest farce there ever was.''
unless you have something locally as a drawing card, it's just difficult to get people involved,'' said taylor, a democrat
turnout in kentucky was 24.4 percent for democrats and 22.1 percent for republicans
most states did better. georgia had a 40 percent turnout overall, a record for a presidential primary in that state, and a gop turnout which doubled the previous mark
mississippi's republicans had a record turnout, 31 percent of the total vote in a traditionally democratic state. ``in fact, it was double what we've had before in a republican primary,'' said evelyn mcphail, executive director of the mississippi gop
in texas, a presidential primary record 2.77 million voters participated, or 35 percent
in tennessee and north carolina, officials said the turnout was about the same as in previous, non-super primaries
in maryland, the democratic turnout of 38 percent compared to 34 percent four years ago, when walter mondale was all but unopposed, and 48 percent in 1976 when jimmy carter ran against former calfiornia gov. jerry brown
maryland gov. william donald schaefer, a democrat, called the march 8 primary a waste of time that drew only token appearances by the candidates
mr. bush made a telephone call to one of the baltimore radio stations,'' schaefer said. ``i would hope we would go back to may when the candidate would have to come through and talk to the people.''
maryland also held its congressional primaries march 8, and gop chairman dan fleming said the early primary made it impossible to find a candidate to oppose rep. tom mcmillen, even though the first-term democrat won by only 428 votes in 1986 in a historically republican district
people aren't used to thinking about the election until the first of the year. here we had a filing deadline that was in december for a march primary,'' said schaefer
in massachusetts, republican and democratic leaders agreed they would not want to compete with a southern primary again
joe malone, executive director of the republican state committee in massachusetts, also complained that a big, one-day contest gives an advantage to candidates with money and organization
once you get into what is the closest thing to a national primary, then you better have a lot of ammunition,'' malone said. sign language, to raise first reference to gallaudet and to insert 1 graf with additional quotes; picks up 5th graf pvs, there was</note>
with excitement in his hands rather than voice, alfred sonnenstrahl expressed in candid, joyful words the sense of triumph shared by fellow protesters who made themselves heard on the quietest college campus in america
i've been on this campus for 30 years now,'' he said in sign language. ``and for the first time in my whole life i feel good about being here. for the first time i feel like a complete person.''
the 52-year-old mechanical engineer, a doctoral candidate at gallaudet university, pointed to the students, staff and faculty who had shut down the school for the deaf last week to protest the appointment of a hearing president
look around,'' sonnenstrahl signed. ``you see people smiling. they look alive.''
the transformation of gallaudet occurred even before elisabeth ann zinser, who is not deaf and does not know sign language, gave in to mounting pressure for a deaf president and stepped down only days after she was chosen
there was no mistaking the exhilaration in the brisk air. more than a generation after the civil rights movement began, the time for the deaf was _ finally _ now
even zinser acknowledged the strength of the movement in a news conference the day she resigned
the protest, she said, was ``a very special moment in time for the deaf community ... (that) we could not anticipate.''
twenty years ago, blacks devastated by martin luther king jr.'s murder looted and burned a major commercial strip that is only now being rebuilt. four blocks away, behind its tall fence, gallaudet lay isolated and hidden under a thick blanket of silence
only in the last few years, with civil rights laws, communications technology and a wave of professional interpreters, has that silence begun to lift. deaf people say they are more aware of their rights, more self-confident and more assertive. thus the stage was set for last week's eruption
the campus crusade drew headlines and ``nightline,'' the attention of congressmen and presidential candidates, the support of commuters and taxi drivers and contributors across the country, the largess of local corporations who donated food, paint and 50 sheets with which to make banners
the protesters liken themselves to prisoners or slaves and the blacks of south africa. nothing, they say, will ever be the same
we have been accepting bowing down for 124 years, maybe longer,'' said student leader jerry covell. ``we want to take control of our lives and our futures.''
president lincoln chartered the school 124 years ago. it later was named after thomas hopkins gallaudet, a pioneer in deaf education. the nation's only liberal arts school for the deaf, it is described again and again as an intellectual mecca; its presidency, the loftiest post to which a deaf person could aspire
so, it's not hard to understand the resentment created by the appointment of a hearing, non-signing president _ particularly when there were two deaf finalists for the job, including the university's own dean of arts and sciences
deaf people own businesses. we have deaf lawyers and deaf dentists. we have deaf stockbrokers and deaf millionaires. the only thing we've never had is a deaf president of this college,'' said angel ramos, 38, a math professor and doctoral candidate at gallaudet. ``we'll never be telephone operators. but there's no reason we cannot have a deaf president here.''
the gallaudet presidency was last open in 1983, and the board of trustees chose jerry lee _ another hearing person, but one who knew sign language and who had been part of the campus community for several years
there was no uprising then, nor in 1969 when edward merrill began his 14-year tenure as president. students did complain that he didn't know sign language and they asked him to learn. now they want far more
we were never given opportunities to manage schools before 1980,'' said john kubis, 62, a math professor at gallaudet since 1957. ``in 1983, there were a few qualified deaf candidates but they only had a few years of administrative experience. now we have deaf people who are as much if not more experienced as dr. zinser.''
deaf people have been slowly emerging from their isolation since the rehabilitation act of 1973, which barred discrimination against the handicapped in federally funded programs or activities
the process has been speeded by a proliferation of professional, impartial interpreters. ``during the early days, interpreters were very few and far between,'' kubis said. ``they talked down to the deaf. instead of being our tools to communicate, they would tell us what they thought we should say and censor the dialogue.''
the deaf community was ripe for rebellion for other reasons as well _ the advent of closed captioning on television, telephone access through telecommunications devices for the deaf and computers through which deaf people can communicate with anyone
protesters claimed only a partial victory when zinser withdrew friday. they say a deaf president has yet to be named. they also want a majority of deaf people on the 20-member board of trustees that runs the university. now, only four members are deaf
but the demonstrators said events at gallaudet had already brought irrevocable changes
there's no way things will ever be the same again,'' said ramos, a protest leader. ``deaf people throughout the world have finally learned what other minority groups have learned _ that if you stick together and walk together, you will succeed. finally, after 124 years, the deaf community has taken charge of their own destiny, and we're mighty proud of it.''
american and french telecommunications satellites sent into space by europe's ariane 3 rocket were prepared saturday to move into permanent orbits on their own power
the european space agency also announced plans for two more launches in may
technicians said france's telecom 1c and the american spacenet iiir-geostar, which includes facilities for the associated press, were thrust into a geographically stationary orbit friday night about 20 minutes after liftoff from this south american jungle base
officials called the launch perfect
arianespace, the space agency's commercial arm, said saturday two more launches were planned for may, one a demonstration flight of the more powerful ariane 4 rocket. arianespace is now the west's only active commercial satellite launcher with america's space-shuttle program grounded
the ariane 3 rocket ignited normally four minutes after blastoff, officials said. ignition was the cause of failed ariane launches in september 1982, september 1985 and may 1986
the last failure, the 18th launch, left the rocket grounded for more than a year
technicians said friday's satellites obtained an altitute of 22,554 miles
the french satellite is to begin moving into its definitive geostationary orbit sunday, 37 hours after the launch, after igniting its own engine, arianespace said
spacenet iiir-geostar is to start moving into a permanent orbit about 90 hours after the liftoff, the company said
gte spacenet, the european firm's first american client, has used the ariane to launch five satellites, losing one in a september 1985 failure
jerry waylan, gte spacenet chief, said this was the first american telecommunications satellite to be launched in two years
the satellite, with an expected lifetime of 10 years, weighed 2,674 pounds before liftoff and 1,562 pounds in orbit
two transponders on spacenet iii purchased by ap are to provide the new york-based news cooperative with domestic satellite delivery services
the french telecom ic, replacing one that broke down jan. 15, is to be used for telephones, radio and television transmissions and military communications
arianespace said it has orders for 41 more satellite launchings, valued at $2.29 billion
two months into the trial of lyndon larouche comes evidence supporting the political extremist's claim that he was the target of plots by the fbi, the cia and even lt. col. oliver north
now, even some defense lawyers who had dismissed larouche's allegations of a conspiracy theory as one of his many bizarre claims are taking notice. larouche has also said britain's queen elizabeth condones drug trafficking and that one way to help the u.s. economy is to populate mars
the trial of larouche, six aides, and five of his political organizations on fraud and conspiracy charges was halted friday so that defense attorneys could search government files, including those of the white house and vice president george bush, for any evidence suggesting infiltration of larouche groups
prosecutors have insisted that talk of fbi, cia and other government infiltration in recently declassified documents is just that _ talk _ and that the subject is irrelevant to charges that larouche and followers conspired to stymie a grand jury investigation into alleged fraud by fund-raisers during his 1984 presidential campaign
but, at least for now, larouche has turned the tables on the government, which has been ordered to search thousands of files belonging to the fbi, cia, the national security council and bush
assistant u.s. attorney john markham on monday is to update u.s. district judge robert e. keeton on the status of the search. the judge will decide whether to resume testimony tuesday or wait until the search is completed
larouche lawyers last week received a copy of a memo from retired air force maj. gen. richard secord to north, two principals in the iran-contra affair, in which secord says retired army sgt. major fred lewis had met with the fbi and ``other agency reps'' and has ``collected info against larouche.''
the defense then demanded fbi files mentioning lewis. after first refusing to do so, the fbi declassified parts of a document in which lewis and two texas lawmen who had worked as government informants say the fbi and cia asked them to infiltrate larouche groups
lewis and the lawmen were involved in two texas companies reportedly used by the pentagon and cia for covert activities. markham insists they are lying about infiltrating larouche groups
but the mere existence of the fbi document and the secord-north memo, discovered months after markham had said searches of government records were complete, was enough to persuade the judge to halt testimony and order new searches
it also was enough to convert michael reilly, attorney for larouche's central political organization, the national caucus of labor committees. reilly had told the jury in his opening statement that larouche's infiltration claim was misguided paranoia
this is a fundamental change in my defense strategy,'' reilly said. ``i should have had this 18 months ago and i have a right to have it before i pursue this case.''
another defense attorney, william moffitt, says his legal strategy may be affected by the document searches
in his opening statement, markham referred to an entry in a notebook seized from moffitt's client, larouche aide jeffrey steinberg, as evidence larouche and aides conspired to obstruct the grand jury investigation
the aug. 23, 1986, entry is attributed to ryan quade emerson, who at the time had recently returned to the larouche organization. five days earlier, according to documents recently surrendered to defense lawyers, an fbi agent interviewed emerson and asked him to rejoin the larouche organization
the prosecutor's task will be to convince keeton that references to fbi and cia infiltration of larouche groups are unsubstantiated and irrelevant to the case
the defense lawyers, who concede the material may not be directly relevant, say it nevertheless supports their argument that larouche and his followers are longtime government targets and victims of entrapment
ironically, larouche missed the week of his trial he would have enjoyed the most. with court permission, he went to west germany for cataract surgery last week and is not expected back for several weeks. up 16th graf pvs, people with</note>
several lawmakers have criticized a group of congressional aides for meeting secretly with palestinian leader yasser arafat in january, only weeks after congress voted to close palestine liberation organization offices in the united states
the secret, two-hour meeting, which took place in baghdad, iraq, became publicly known last week. it was arranged by the national council on u.s.-arab relations, the group that paid for the congressional aides' eight-day trip to iraq on jan. 11-19
the meeting, described as an open exchange between arafat and the aides, was held shortly after congress passed controversial legislation shutting down two plo offices in the united states on the grounds they represent a terrorist organization. arafat is head of the plo
it was very foolish, very wrong,'' rep. larry smith, d-fla., said of the aides' meeting. ``he (arafat) is not going to change his positions because a capitol hill staffer meets with him.''
rep. robert g. torricelli, d-n.j., said he was upset when he learned an aide attended the baghdad meeting with arafat
she acted independently, and i had no knowledge of this meeting nor would i have approved it, and i remain very disturbed about it.'' the staffer no longer works for torricelli, but left for personal reasons unrelated to the meeting
but another lawmaker was unfazed by his aide's attendance at the meeting
rep. edward feighan, d-ohio, said his assistant ``was not on any official trip and he was traveling in a personal capacity.''
michael van dusen, staff director of the house foreign affairs subcommittee on europe and the middle east, said seeing arafat was ``extremely unwise when as a matter of law american officials are not supposed to negotiate with the plo. ... i wouldn't do it.''
u.s. policy _ set by congress _ prohibits officials in the executive branch from negotiating with arafat or members of the plo until the group recognizes israel's right to exist
the policy does not apply to congress, and a few lawmakers as well as members of their staff have met openly with arafat in the past
while the congressional group did not violate the law, members of congress and key staff people on capitol hill said that, in view of u.s. policy, it was unwise to hold discussions with arafat, particularly if a lawmaker had not authorized the talks
ronald w. cathell, the executive director of u.s.-arab council, said he would not release the names of the staffers who attended the arafat meeting or traveled to iraq for fear they would be subjected to reprisals for going to the meeting
the council, which seeks to promote understanding between americans and arabs, receives its money from grants and private and corporate contributions
several staffers contacted about the meeting refused to talk about it and would not provide the names of their companions
people with knowledge of the free trip confirmed that those who went to iraq worked for sens. mark hatfield, r-ore.; john heinz, r-pa.; j. bennett johnston, d-la., david karnes, r-neb; and reps. feighan; torricelli; helen bentley, r-md.; douglas bereuter, r-neb.; william clay, d-mo.; james inhofe, r-okla., and robert lagomarsino, r-calif
bereuter's spokeswoman, carol lawrence, said the congressman's aide resigned before the trip, but now works at the pentagon
a state department official, speaking on condition on anonymity, said all but one of the staffers on the iraq trip went to the meeting with arafat
cathell said the original agenda did not include seeing arafat. once the group arrived in baghdad, the council learned the plo leader was in town and broached the possibility of a meeting with the congressional aides
the staffers were never pressured to attend the meeting, which cathell said was designed to give them ``information they could relate to their bosses.'' the staffers were told, ``it's totally up to you,'' he said
one aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the group was given less than an hour's notice that a face-to-face meeting with arafat had been fixed
torricelli complained the u.s. embassy in baghdad failed to advise his aide about u.s. policy prohibiting official negotiations with the plo. cathell said the embassy simply told the group its own people couldn't attend the meeting because of u.s. policy
but a state department official, refusing to be identified by name, said the u.s. ambassador had tried to dissuade the americans from meeting with arafat
cathell said the meeting was constructive, and gave the staffers ``a unique chance to find out firsthand where the palestinian stood.'' the aides, he said, were ``candid and forthright'' with arafat
the baghdad meeting came a few months after congress voted to close both the plo's office at the united nations in new york, and a palestine information office in washington
lawmakers took the action, which has provoked widespread criticism from civil libertarians and u.n. members, on the grounds that the plo supports terrorism
rep. george w. crockett jr., d-mich., has introduced legislation to repeal the closings
federal investigators have concluded their four-day hearing into the cause of a continental jet crash that killed 28 people, but their findings probably won't be released until sometime around the accident's first anniversary in november
we have not eliminated any issue'' in the suspected cause of the nov. 15 crash of flight 1713, board of inquiry chairman joseph t. nall said friday after investigators heard the final testimony in the national transportation safety board hearings
flight 1713, bound for boise, idaho, began rocking violently moments after taking off from stapleton international airport during a snowstorm. it flipped over on its back and crashed on the runway, breaking into three pieces
fifty-four of the 82 people on board survived. some of those survivors were among the 33 witnesses who testified at the hearing
the ntsb investigators were looking into flight characteristics of the dc-9-10 aircraft, especially in snow and ice conditions; air traffic control; cold weather operations by continental; turbulence; and continental's pilot training, pilot selection and crew pairing
i anticipate our board will determine a probable cause and contributing causes to the crash'' by november, nall said
the pilot and co-pilot, capt. frank zvonek, 43, and first officer lee bruecher, 26, both were killed in the crash. bruecher was at the controls
the brief flying time in the dc-9 by both pilots has been one area of study by the investigation
zvonek had 12,135 total hours flying time, with 33 hours as a dc-9 captain. bruecher had a total of 3,186 hours, with 12 hours as a dc-9 first officer
at friday's hearings, richard hillman, continental vice president for flight operations, said that since the crash, the carrier had adopted a federal aviation administration bulletin recommendation that the co-pilot not be allowed to make takeoffs or landings until he or she had 100 hours in that type of aircraft
the hearings also delved into continental's use of a flight simulator in pilot training that is based on the dc-9-30 _ a different model of dc-9 from the ``dash 10'' flown by zvonek and bruecher
the main difference between the two dc-9 models is the ``dash 30'' has wing slats to improve the wing's lift. the dash 10 is an older model with a wing design considered more susceptiable to loss of lift from ice buildup
james e. madsen, continental's assistant chief dc-9 pilot at denver, minimized handling difference between the dash 10 and dash 30s in his testimony
a dc-9 is a dc-9. there are some differences they (pilots) should be aware of,'' madsen said
early theories of what caused flight 1713 to roll violently and crash seconds after liftoff included ice buildup on the wings, turbulence from a jumbo jet that had just landed on a parallel runway 1,600 feet away, and pilot error
continental's de-icing procedures at stapleton also came under scrutiny. flight 1713 waited between 24 and 27 minutes for takeoff after it had been de-iced
survivors offered conflicting testimony on the amount of snow and ice buildup on the wings
i wondered at one point, `is that ice?' but i decided it was just wet,'' said dr. fred helpenstall of nampa, idaho, who suffered broken ribs in the crash
airman greg wadsworth of mountain home air force base in idaho said he had a clear view of the wing before takeoff
it was like the snow was starting to pile up (on the wings). i was very concerned but i said it under my breath,'' he testified
other testimony attributed flight 1713's delay between de-icing and takeoff on miscommunciation in the control tower and between the tower and aircraft
ntsb investigators refused to speculate on any of the suspected causes
our minds are still open. we will make no final conclusion until the time we make our final report,'' nall said
the snowstorm that battered the plains spread snow across central minnesota into northern wisconsin and upper michigan on saturday, but it was weakening with wind not blowing as strongly as the day before
snowfall amounts across central and northeastern minnesota ranged from 6 to 12 inches and northern wisconsin got from 3 to 8 inches
up to 6 inches of snow was expected over michigan's upper peninsula while freezing rain and sleet moved across northern lower michigan
during the morning, wind in minnesota gusted from 25 to more than 50 mph but by afternoon the peak gusts were down to about 40 mph
wind gusts in wisconsin were clocked at from 20 to 30 mph at times
gusty wind also blew around the west side of the storm system, with gusts of 55 mph at mitchell, s.d., during the morning. gusts to 35 to 45 mph were reported across the eastern dakotas into eastern and central nebraska, western and northern kansas into northwestern missouri and western iowa
temperatures were in the single digits across the northern plains, combining with the wind to produce wind chill factors as low as 30 below zero during the afternoon
showers and a few thunderstorms were scattered ahead of a cold front that extended from southeastern wisconsin into the lower mississippi valley, accompanied by brief heavy rain, small hail and gusty wind across northeastern louisiana into west-central mississippi
the heaviest rainfall reported during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est was 0.53 of an inch at texarkana, ark
the heaviest snow during the same period was 6 inches at marquette, mich
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 6 degrees at yellowstone national park in wyoming to 85 at mcallen, texas. the low for the day was 20 degres below zero at west yellowstone, mont
for sunday, snow showers were forecast across the great lakes region with rain changing to snow over the eastern great lakes and northern new england. showers were forecast from the upper ohio valley into central and southern new england. scattered showers also were forecast over the middle and southern atlantic coast region
highs in the teens and 20s were predicted across the northern plains, the upper mississippi valley and upper great lakes region; in the 60s from the central pacific coast over western and central texas and the central gulf coast to the middle atlantic coast; in the 70s over the southern california coast, desert southwest, the southern tip of texas and northern florida and the southern atlantic coast; in the low 80s over the southern half of florida; and in the 30s, 40s or 50s across most of the rest of the nation. update with lebanese report of casualties from raid, organizers saying 100,000 sted 200,000 at peace now demonstration, details.</note>
hundreds of palestinian policemen in the occupied territories resigned saturday to protest israeli treatment of palestinians, prompting fears that other arab employees of the government also would quit
israel radio said close to 450 of the roughly 1,000 arab police officers in the occupied west bank and gaza strip have quit their jobs in the past two days and more resignations are expected
israeli and palestinian officials said at least 330 had resigned and the resignations would take effect monday
israeli bullets and beatings have killed 87 palestinians in anti-occupation unrest since dec. 8
the resignations began friday, one day after underground leaders of the disturbances in the occupied territories called on the arab policemen to resign immediately. some officers reported that their lives had been threatened
israeli warplanes, meanwhile, struck at guerrilla targets east of the port town of sidon in southern lebanon, the army command said
israel television reported that at least eight people were killed in the air raid, israel's second this year against palestinian targets in south lebanon. sidon police said at least one guerrilla was killed and eight were wounded
in the west bank, israeli soldiers shot and seriously wounded a palestinian from the village of bani naim, near hebron, after he threw a hand grenade at them, the army command said. the grenade did not explode
at nur el-shams, near tulkarem, a 50-year-old woman was wounded when prison service employees opened fire after their bus was stoned
thousands of israeli peace now demonstrators gathered in tel aviv to urge prime minister yitzhak shamir to support a u.s. peace initiative that would allow limited self-rule for the arabs in the occupied lands
peace now organizers estimated the crowd at 100,000. a reporter for the daily yediot ahronot put the figure at 70,000. police refused to give an estimate
israel's right-wing factions have called for a counter-demonstration in the same place on sunday evening, a few hours before shamir leaves for a visit to washington to discuss the plan
the continuing unrest in the occupied territories appears to be putting a severe strain on israel's defense forces
the weekend edition of yediot ahronot, the country's largest newspaper, carried at least four ads offering security-related jobs
one ad sought recruits for a new police anti-terror unit. another asked for arab-speaking officers holding the rank of captain or major for ``special work involving contact with the local population.''
other ads offered jobs to arabic language translators along israel's northern border and civilian guards to protect the israeli-egyptian border
the mass resignation of palestinian police officers will add a new strain and could be the harbinger of larger and more serious defections to come
bethlehem mayor elias freij said the mass resignations ``will vastly affect the process of the courts in the west bank, and it is a precedent for many more civil servants to resign.''
about 18,000 palestinians work for the military government in the west bank and gaza strip
national police spokesman adi gonen warned that the resignations would hurt the palestinians themselves
the (arab) police were not used for intelligence purposes, to put down protests or for anything political,'' said gonen. ``if they quit, we will have to reduce police activities and that will affect the quality of palestinian life.''
last week, 40 arab tax collectors in the gaza strip left their jobs after palestinian protesters threatened their lives
the resignations indicated the growing loss of control by israel over the occupied territories and deprived it of a potent symbol of cooperation and coexistence with the palestinians
a survey by the associated press indicated that most of the 250 policemen in the southern part of the west bank have handed in their resignations
arab police at the ramallah station said all 50 policemen were quitting. freij said that all 50 policemen in his district had resigned. the arab-run palestine press service put the figure in hebron at at least 68
mordechai bareket, police spokesman for the southern section of the occupied west bank, said ``over 100 policemen'' handed in their resignations over the past two days
israel radio reported that 100 policemen in gaza and 30 in the northern district of the west bank also said they were leaving the force
police spokesmen said they were trying to persuade the palestinian police officers to change their minds
we are talking to each one of them individually and looking into each of their problems,'' said chaim alter, commander of the northern west bank police district
the order to resign was issued thursday by the national united command of the uprising
mustafa adani, who resigned friday, said his life had been threatened twice
earlier this week, a policeman from the aqbat jaber refugee camp near jericho was killed
the company that operates the federally owned fernald uranium-processing plant violates its own regulations and puts its workers' health at risk, a new government report concludes
the report says the u.s. department of energy, which owns the plant, and westinghouse materials co. of ohio, the private contractor that runs it, should work harder to eliminate potential worker health hazards at the facility's feed materials production center
the 37-year-old plant, 18 miles northwest of cincinnati, processes uranium for use in the government's nuclear weapons
the national institute for occupational safety and health, part of the u.s. department of health and human services, issued the preliminary report last week on the basis of a december inspection conducted at the request of labor unions at the plant
its final report is not due out for three more months, but westinghouse says it has already responded to the institute's findings by making some rule changes at the plant
the report said plant employees sometimes leave portable air-breathing equipment lying out in areas containing loose and radioactively contaminated dust, which could get into the respirators and ultimately into workers' lungs
given the fact that many surfaces in the plants where we made measurements are radiologically contaminated, it is imperative that workers store their respirators in a clean location when not in use. this practice should prevent inadvertent ingestion of radiation-contaminated materials,'' wrote the industrial hygienists who prepared the report
many surfaces in the plant are contaminated with radioactive substances from the plant's years of service and require cleanup, the federal hygienists said
they said they found westinghouse technicians who violated company regulations and created a potential health hazard by smoking, eating and drinking while handling and counting radiological samples
surely, such a practice needs to stop immediately,'' the investigators wrote
they also urged improving workplace ventilation in some areas of the plant. and they recommended that the department of energy improve its supervision of worker health and safety by assigning a health physicist to the plant
the investigators lauded westinghouse, however, for improving worker health and safety since taking over operation of the plant in january 1986 from the previous contractor, national lead of ohio
westinghouse spokesman pete kelley said the report made no major criticisms of his company
westinghouse has responded to the federal report by banning smoking, eating and drinking in the radiological sampling area, kelley said. leaving respirators in potentially contaminated areas is a violation of westinghouse policies, he added
the spokesman also noted that westinghouse has increased the staff of health physicists since it took over the plant's operation
a confident george bush predicted saturday that victory in the illinois primary election tuesday would ``cinch the republican nomination'' for him
campaigning in the heavily republican northwest chicago suburbs, the vice president preached gop unity and all but ignored his rival candidates, kansas sen. bob dole and former tv evangelist pat robertson
i want to be your president,'' bush said to a cheering crowd at st. viator high school. ``i do not want to do it by tearing some other republican, by weakening the party that needs to be together.''
bush so far has won 705 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the gop nomination
dole and robertson also campaigned in illinois saturday, with dole conceding, ``we're hanging by our fingernails.''
bush, appearing with his wife, barbara, illinois gov. james r. thompson and pilot chuck yeager, began his day with a breakfast appearance before the barrington area chamber of commerce, before speaking to a partisan audience of about 600 at mchenry county college
you give me this vote on tuesday and it seems to me i will cinch the republican nomination,'' bush said
the vice president was buoyed by results of a chicago tribune poll published its sunday editions. the poll of 504 republicans showed bush ahead of dole 62 percent to 28 percent among those likely to vote tuesday
robertson was a distant third with 6 percent
the survey, conducted in the past week, had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points
bush has rejected dole's bid for a face-to-face debate in illinois
on saturday, he talked mostly about what he would do if he captures the white house
on the deficit, we've got to whip it,'' he said, promising not to raise taxes to do it
it is public enemy no. 1. the answer to the deficit is simple, hold the line on taxes. you're not paying too little in taxes, we're spending too much in congress,'' he said
libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi stood before a cheering crowd saturday and tore up a list of names of libyans banned from travel abroad and ordered their passports returned, the libyan news agency jana reported
gadhafi was quoted as telling a mass gathering in front of the passport office in the capital, tripoli, that ``there must be no citizen jailed or banned from traveling abroad ... in the society of freedom.''
the jana report, monitored in rome, did not say how many names were on the list gadhafi destoyred. it said destruction of the list and the return of the passports were another step in the ``festival of freedom'' that began when gadhafi ``stormed the prison, demolishing it and liberating the prisoners.''
earlier this month, gadhafi used a bulldozer to knock down the wall at a prison in tripoli to release prisoners as part of an amnesty he declared. jana said 400 prisoners were freed
it also said 130 foreigners of various nationalities were released from prison last monday
in london, the foreign office said james abra, a 59-year-old british engineer employed by the british electronics firm plessey company, would be freed sunday. abra has been serving a life sentence for alleged spying
he was arrested june 20, 1985, at the tripoli airport
murray m. ``buddy'' weiss, a former editor of the international herald tribune, died of cardiac arrest saturday at arlington hospital in this washington suburb, his wife said. he was 64
weiss, who was working for the u.s. information agency at the time of his death, had suffered a stroke friday while playing tennis, said fred farris, the u.s. editor for the herald tribune
the new york native served as the editor of the paris-based newspaper from its creation in 1966 until february 1979, said his wife, margaret sunde weiss of falls church, va
weiss had received his undergraduate degree from new york university and a graduate degree from new york university, and during world war ii, he served with the 8th and 9th army air force from 1942-45, she said
in 1946, he joined the new york herald tribune as a copy boy and moved up the ranks during the next 20 years, eventually becoming managing editor, the job he held when the paper folded in 1966, she said
at one point during his tenure there, he took off six months to work for the new york times, where he helped plan that newspaper's west coast edition, mrs. weiss said
after the new york herald tribune closed and before becoming editor of the international herald tribune, he spent six months as assistant publisher for the boston herald and the boston traveler
when he left the international herald tribune, he returned to the united states and became editor of the advocate in stamford, conn., until 1981, when he became managing editor of parade magazine. he left parade in december 1983 and joined usia the next month, she said
at usia, he was in charge of the news file that is distributed to all u.s. embassies and diplomatic missions around the world, farris said
in addition to his wife, weiss is survived by a daughter, brenna weiss of new york city, son dieter weiss of marietta, ga., two grandsons and two sisters, phyllis weiss golden of east orange, n.j. and natalie weiss davis of remsenburg, n.y
a car with a device stored in the trunk containing mildly radioactive material was stolen, and the thieves could be harmed if they tampered with the devide, federal officials said saturday
the car, which was stolen thursday night, had a measuring device containing cesium-137 and americium-241, said karl abraham, a spokesman for the nuclear regulatory commission in philadelphia
abraham said the material was inside a 30-inch-high yellow plastic case bearing a ``radioactive'' label and a federal department of transportation sticker
it's perfectly safe to pick up and carry the case around,'' abraham said. ``the radioactive sources are not all that powerful.''
the substances were part of a moisture density gauge that measures the compaction and moisture content of materials used in constructing roads, abraham said. the car is owned by an employee of soils engineering services co. in whippany
a person ``would have to tamper with it and take the radioactive sources out of a safe container and carry them in one's hands for several hours before there would be the possibility of radioactive injuries,'' said abraham. endorsement</head>
sen. paul simon, facing the pivotal battle of his presidential campaign, accused democratic rival michael dukakis on saturday of trying to buy the illinois primary with tv commericials
the simon campaign, already cash-poor, also was buffeted by the results of a new poll showing the illinois senator's support slipping in his home state just three days before the election
he also lost key newspaper endorsements _ to dukakis in the chicago sun-times and to tennessee sen. albert gore jr. in the chicago tribune
still, simon pressed on, enlisting three congressional allies from industrial states with pending primaries to push his theme that the post-super tuesday campaign marked the start of a second phase in the nominating process
simon attacked the massachusetts governor for a new television advertising assault that simon's campaign views as a swipe at their candidate
you ought to win an election _ not buy an election,'' simon said at a news conference at de paul university
the dukakis ads do not name simon but criticize his strategy of remaining in the race until the democratic convention in july in hopes of being the consensus candidate in a brokered nomination
simon said he will not respond with his own television commercials
whatever decision the people of illinois make, i urge that you not sell your heritage for a 30-second commercial,'' simon said. ``the question illinois voters must ask themselves is not who has the slick commercials, but who can best represent us in the presidency.''
u.s. rep. stephen solarz, campaigning for simon in chicago, said the illinois primary would be either ``the political equivalent of custer's last stand or the battle of gettysburg'' for simon
i trust and hope that for paul simon the illinois primary on tuesday will be the political equivalent of the battle of gettysburg, marking the turning point in the campaign leading to his ultimate nomination at the (democratic) convention,'' solarz, d-n.y., said
but the sunday editions of the chicago tribune brought bad news for the simon campaign. simon shrugged off the paper's endorsement of gore, but the poll results showed further erosion in his support among registered democratic voters
in the poll of 501 democrats, 35 percent supported simon, 30 percent favored illinois' other favorite son, jesse jackson, and 18 percent liked dukakis
the results made the race essentially a dead heat between simon and jackson because the poll, conducted march 9 and 10, has an error margin of plus or minus 5 percentage points
otto von habsburg, ex-pretender to the austrian throne, made a triumphant return saturday to the former imperial hofburg palace, from which his ancestors ruled a vast empire for centuries
the son of the last austrian emperor, karl i, von habsburg was greeted with cheers and a standing ovation by about 1,600 people crowded into a main hall
uniformed students threw their caps into the air and a brass band played as von habsburg entered the hall
von habsburg, 75, made the appearance to mark the 50th anniversary of the annexation of austria by nazi germany and addressed the crowd as president of the international pan-european union
the habsburg family ruled much of central europe for more than 600 years. the monarchy was abolished in 1918 at the end of world war i. otto von habsburg was barred from austria until 1961 when he renounced his claim to the non-existent throne
most members of the pan-european union in austria and parts of west germany are elderly monarchists. one of their declared goals is the unification of western and eastern europe without the soviet union
von habsburg's eldest son, karl, is head of the union's austrian branch and welcomed guests to the palace gathering
speakers condemned the nazi rule of austria and referred to van habsburg as ``royal highness.''
none of the speakers mentioned president kurt waldheim, who has come under increasing pressure to resign because of allegations about his past while serving in the german army in the balkans during world war ii
in his speech, von habsburg said, ``the past shows that diversity can only be preserved in unity. a good example for that was the old austria, that community of danube peoples, in which many nations were united economically and politically.''
von habsburg holds a west german passport. he is still a subject of controversy between austrian conservatives and socialistts
a u.s. military team flew to vietnam saturday to discuss the southeast asian nation's accounting of americans listed as missing in action from the vietnam war, a u.s. official said
the regularly scheduled talks in hanoi follow vietnam's repatriation on march 2 of what it believed were the remains of 17 american mias
it was the largest turnover in two years and the fourth largest since the war ended in april 1975 with a communist victory over u.s.-backed south vietnam. the united states lists nearly 1,800 americans as missing in vietnam during the war
ross petzing, a spokesman at the u.s. embassy in bangkok, said the team is composed of six experts from the joint casualty resolution center and the army central identification laboratory, both based in hawaii
the team is presenting cases on americans missing from the war in indochina for vietnamese investigation,'' petzing said
he said the talks with foreign ministry officials, scheduled to extend through tuesday, would be the fourth round of technical discussions since vietnam agreed last august to resume cooperation on the issue
as part of the agreement, a u.s. medical team visited vietnam earlier this month to study how private american assistance could help war-disabled vietnamese
a 73-year-old woman was found alive and apparently unharmed saturday after spending as many as four nights locked in her car trunk by an alleged kidnapper, state police said
martha bushnell of arkville was rescued from the trunk of her compact car shortly before 9:30 a.m., about three hours after a 33-year-old woman was arrested on a charge of kidnapping her
police believe bushnell had been in the trunk since tuesday night, with no food or water and with overnight temperatures dipping below freezing, said state police sgt. al dorer in middletown
she was lucid and coherent when she was found and did not appear to be injured, but she was admitted to st. luke's hospital in newburgh, police said. ``she was in pretty good condition, considering her ordeal,'' said dorer. the hospital would not release details on her status saturday evening
investigators were questioning her to determine what had happened, according to state police sgt. bob parlett in ithaca. details of the incident were still sketchy saturday, and police would not speculate on a motive
police had initiated a statewide search for bushnell after her car was seen parked on a newburgh street wednesday morning, said dorer. two girls had heard cries for help from the car and had flagged down a taxi driver to help. the driver called police, but when they arrived the car was gone, dorer said
parlett said bushnell, who lives alone, had last been seen around noon tuesday at the valkyrian motel in fleischmanns, where she works part-time
at 6:30 a.m. saturday, authorities arrested jamesetta marie strong, 33, of otego, after acquaintances reported seeing her driving the bushnell car in the newburgh area, parlett said
police found the car later saturday morning in the parking lot of a knitting mill, dorer said
when they popped the trunk, there she was,'' dorer said. ``the first words out of her mouth were `thank you.'''
strong was sent to otsego county jail without bail after being arraigned on a charge of first-degree kidnapping, parlett said
yunis khalis, the chief of the seven-party afghan opposition alliance, resigned saturday for health reasons, an alliance statement said
it gave no further details and did not announce a replacement
the statment said the hezbi islami party, which khalis heads, will remain in the alliance and did not say if khalis also resigned as party leader
his resignation came less than a week after another rebel leader quit the alliance over plans to form an interim afghan government when soviet troops withdraw from the country
but sibghatullah mojaddedi, head of the national liberation front, rejoined the alliance three days after resigning
khalis, a moslem clergyman, was born in 1919 in the village of gandumak in the afghan province of nangarhar. he was elected to head the alliance in october 1987. most of the alliance members have headquarters in pakistan
recent developments within the alliance coincide with united nations-sponsored talks in geneva between pakistan and afghanistan's marxist government to end the afghan war and and pave the way for the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet military personnel
the soviets intervened in december 1979 to help the government battle the anti-communist guerrillas
the rebels are suported by the united states, china and pakistan
vice president george bush would defeat massachusetts gov. michael dukakis if the presidential election were held today, according to a newsweek poll released saturday
but a growing number of people think bush should disclose more about the iran-contra affair, the poll showed
seventy-four percent of the respondents said they are pleased with the field of candidates now running and would not like to see an undeclared candidate enter the race, the survey showed
republican bush would get 49 percent of the vote to democrat dukakis' 43 percent if the general election were held today, the survey indicated
for the poll, the gallup organization interviewed 755 voters by telephone thursday and friday. the margin of error was plus or minus four percentage points
bush would win 55 percent to 37 percent if matched against democratic sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, while the vice president would win 58 percent to 35 percent if jesse jackson were the democratic nominee, the poll said
in a race between dukakis and republican sen. bob dole of kansas, dukakis got 45 percent and dole 44 percent, within the poll's margin of error. dole would defeat gore, 53 percent to 34 percent; and defeat jackson 58 percent to 32 percent, the poll showed
according to the survey, 50 percent of the respondents said bush should tell the public more about the role he played in the sales of arms to iran and the diversion of profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels, and 42 percent said he had done enough explaining
a newsweek poll taken in january showed respondents split evenly at 44 percent on the issue
bush got higher marks for being ``strong and forceful'' in this survey than he did in polls taken by the magazine two months ago and in october 1987. in the post-super tuesday poll, 46 percent of the respondents agreed with that description of the vice president, compared with 36 percent in the two previous polls
five buses used to transport workers at a nuclear power plant were set afire saturday night, two days after the government said construction could resume there, the ansa news agency said
the italian agency said the buses were burned inside the compound of the montalto di castro nuclear plant and were owned by the central nuclear consortium, which is building the facility 50 miles north of rome
strong socialist party opposition to resuming construction at the plant was one factor that led to the resignation of christian democrat premier giovanni goria friday night
goria, leader of the coalition government since august, resigned twice before, the last time in february, but agreed to stay on to help pass the national budget. the budget was passed thursday and goria had been expected to resign next week. politicial leaders said he decided to quit immediately because of the controversy over construction at the plant here
the government announced a moratorium on construction at the plant last november after voters in a non-binding referendum expressed their disapproval of nuclear power facilities
on thursday the government said construction could resume at the plant, which already has cost italy $5 billion
a huge chemical fire emitting potentially dangerous fumes forced the evacuation of about 500 residents for a time saturday as it destroyed a huge warehouse and set fire to two homes
ten people including seven firefighters were injured in the fire at the werco chemical warehouse complex, authorities said
the evacuees were allowed to return home later in the day but were instructed to boil drinking water into sunday, said lynn behringer, spokeswoman for the will county emergency services and disaster agency
strong winds blew smoke and sparks directly into the downtown area of rockdale, a town of about 2,000 residents southwest of chicago, and exploding chemicals punctuated the flames
it looked like the fourth of july,'' said mrs. behringer. ``considering the magnitude of this fire and the number of homes so close, we are very lucky.'' of the two homes set ablaze, one was heavily damaged
the warehouse complex, which covered several square blocks, stored some 60 kinds of chemicals for various businesses
village president donald b. gould said police began evacuating residents about 5 a.m. because of the potential danger from the fumes, although the identity of the full range of chemicals was not known. the evacuation area eventually covered two square miles, officials said
after the evacuation order was lifted, residents were told to boil drinking water because of low water pressure from the firefighting
the cause of the fire and the dollar loss were not immediately determined
seven firefighters and three other people were treated and released at hospitals in joliet and morris, spokesmen said
the sandinista government announced saturday it has formally agreed to hold the first cease-fire talks inside nicaragua with rebel leaders
it said the talks will be held march 21-23 in the southern frontier post of sapoa, 90 miles south of managua
president daniel ortega ordered local civilian and military authorities in the area ``to lend all facilities to the delegation of the counterrevolution'' to enter and leave the country freely at the pena blanca border crossing, according to a statement issued by his office
the statement said the government would assume all responsibility for the security of the rebel delegation during the negotiations and cross-border traffic would not be affected
adolfo calero, the top political leader of the nicaraguan resistance, is expected to head the delegation from the rebels, known as contras. nicaraguan resistance is an umbrella organization of rebel group
ortega previously announced that his brother, defense minister humberto ortega, would lead the government delegation
the sapoa meeting also will be the first between the two sides without a mediator
calero told the associated press recently that the sapoa talks would take place with ``an open agenda.'' he said joao baena soares, secretary general of the organization of american states, and roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo would attend as witnesses
obando y bravo, the archbishop of managua, mediated previous talks held in the dominican republic and guatemala
calero said a representative of nicaragua's internal opposition also would be invited to attend. a contra representative in miami, who spoke with the condition he not be identified, told ap saturday the nicaraguan resistance still was insisting that a domestic opponent of the sandinistas be present at the talks as an observer
ortega's statement did not mention that demand
both sides had tentatively agreed to meet in sapoa for three days of direct negotiations beginning march 9. ortega canceled that schedule after the rebels said they would not attend without preliminary discussions
ortega dismissed obando y bravo as mediator on march 2 after the cardinal proposed an agenda that included discussion of internal politics
the contras previously had insisted on the presence of obando y bravo, a frequent critic of the left-wing government
contra spokesmen also insisted ortega's government agree to discuss the political points outlined by obando y bravo during the last cease-fire talks held feb. 18 in guatemala
the cardinal's plan would have required the sandinistas to grant amnesty to political prisoners, restore full press freedom, open talks with internal opposition political parties and review the military draft law
the sandinistas have refused to discuss internal political issues with the contras, saying the only purpose of the talks is to work out a cease-fire in accordance with the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by the presidents of the five central american countries
roger guevara, secretary of the nicaraguan democratic coordinate, a coalition of opposition political parties and business and labor groups, said his organization would send a representative to the talks but as a participant, not as an observer
in a broadcast over the rebels' radio liberacion, guevara said ``in spite of the fact there does not exist an official invitation, the coordinate is ready to assist in this reunion.''
obando y bravo told local reporters saturday he was willing to attend as a witness. ``i would like these talks to advance so that they redound to the benefit of the nicaraguan people,'' he said
jesse jackson won the democratic precinct caucuses saturday in his native south carolina, giving his campaign a push just before a pivotal primary in illinois, the state he has adopted as his home
jackson jumped to an early lead and held it, receiving his only competition from a bloc of uncommitted party members, whose numbers lagged far behind those of his supporters. protest</head> robert blake among celebrities, corrects spelling of kasem, sted casem; note that detainees bused to tonopah before being released. pickup 9th graf pvs, `authorities took...</note>
more than 1,100 anti-nuclear protesters, including actress teri garr, actor robert blake, disc jockey casey kasem and activist daniel ellsberg were arrested saturday at the nation's nuclear testing grounds
nye county authorities estimated the crowd of protesters at 3,000, well below the 5,000 to 10,000 organizers predicted would come to the remote site 65 miles northwest of las vegas
saturday's demonstration, dubbed ``reclaim the test site,'' was part of a 10-day protest at the site through march 20. by late afternoon the number of arrests had reached 1,136 and continued to grow, said department of energy spokesman chris west
protesters climbed barbed wire fences surrounding the 1,350-square-mile site, began walking across the desolate desert and were arrested by waiting authorities. some 300 officers from the nevada highway patrol, nye county sheriff's office and department of energy security were on hand
miss garr, blake, ellsberg and kasem were arrested when they stepped across a cattle guard on the road leading to the main entrance of the desert site
the crowd cheered as each group of protesters stepped across the guard
miss garr was asked if she thought joining the protest would hurt her movie career. ``i hope not,'' she said. ``i don't think you have to be a fanatic to think nuclear weapons are going to annihilate the earth.''
those arrested were placed in two large enclosures, then bused to tonopah and released, west said. all were cited for misdemeanor trespass. authorities no longer prosecute misdemeanor arrests for trespassing
authorities took extra precautions for the rally, building an 8-foot chain-link enclosure topped with barbed wire to hold detainees
americans for nuclear testing held a counterdemonstration saturday, but organizer peggy konold said she expected her group to be far outnumbered by the anti-nuclear protesters
protests at the site have been common in recent years. jesse cocks, an organizer with the american peace test, said her organization counted 2,547 trespassing arrests in 1987
with 38 percent of the state's 1,788 precincts reporting, jackson won 3,455 county convention delegates for 48 percent, followed by uncommitted with 1,643 delegates for 23 percent
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. was in third place with 1,434 delegates for 20 percent
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, missouri rep. richard gephardt and illinois sen. paul simon all trailed with support measured in single digits
the outcome of the precinct caucuses will affect how 44 of the state's delegates to the democratic national convention will be allocated
before saturday's caucuses jackson already had won 400.55 national convention delegates, second only to dukakis, who had 460.5
divine, the outlandish 375-pound cult film star, was eulogized for his talent, gentle manner and individuality during funeral services saturday that attracted hundreds of fans, friends and colleagues
he was a friend, business partner, co-conspirator and actor who could say the words i wrote better than anybody,'' said john waters, who directed divine in such cult classics as ``pink flamingoes,'' ``polyester,'' ``lust in the dust,'' and the just-released ``hairspray.''
how many people at age 42 love their job as much as he did? he was happy, talented, successful, and a true original,'' water told mourners, some with rainbow-hued hair and others in suits and ties, at a funeral home in this baltimore suburb
divine, a lutherville, md., native whose real name was harris glenn milstead, died monday in his bed at the hollywood regency plaza hotel in los angeles. the los angeles county coroner's officer determined he died of an enlarged heart due to obesity. the friday before his death a doctor had said divine was in perfect health except for his weight, which had been a problem for the actor all his life
divine was known mostly for his outrageous roles as loud and foul-mouthed women in waters' films, although he also played a male sidney greenstreet-type character in the 1985 film ``trouble in mind.''
the rev. leland higginbotham, pastor of the calvary baptist church to which the milstead family belonged, described divine's youth as an ``agonizing period'' during which the budding actor ``took a painful and circuitous road to find himself and his talents.''
divine's popularity had grown with ``hairspray,'' a relatively mainstream film that was attracting more traditional movie audiences. waters said divine was thrilled with the success, noting that ``people who had hassled him in high school were asking for his autograph.''
flowers were sent by such entertainers as whoopi goldberg, elton john, and the cast of fox television's ``married ... with children,'' the program on which he was scheduled to appear the day after his death. update with 2-3 minute glitch on tv program; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `a poll'</note>
kansas sen. bob dole, saying ``the issues are more important than the odds,'' went on television for 30 minutes saturday in an effort to reverse the decline in his presidential prospects
standing in front of a portrait of abraham lincoln, dole said, ``i know i'm the underdog in this race. the issues are more important than the odds. ... i didn't expect this job to be handed to me in the first place.''
dole spoke from alumni hall at knox college which was the site of the fifth of the seven debates in 1858 between lincoln and stephen douglas during their campaign for the senate. dole's address was televised in illinois
vice president george bush, who has refused to respond to a dole challenge for a one-on-one debate before the illinois primary on tuesday, was the featured speaker at a dinner on the campus shortly after the dole program aired
dole spoke as a new survey said bush was the choice of 62 percent of likely republican primary voters. only 28 percent named dole as their choice
it just seems to me we should have had a debate,'' said dole. ``my opponent is less than 100 yards away as i speak.''
actually, bush was not scheduled to arrive until after dole left
nothing has ever come easy for bob,'' said his wife, elizabeth. ``his only inheritance was the love of his parents.''
ladies and gentlemen, you're going to be voting tuesday and we want you to know more about bob dole's life,'' she said, introducing a 14-minute segment from a biographical sketch filmed for showing to dole campaign meetings
but her remarks were never seen by wgn viewers because of a technical problem that cut off the live picture for about two to three minutes, said raymond kirk, the master controller for the tv station
the station froze the last live shot of dole and kept it on the screen while viewers also heard his voice
then the station switched to the biographical sketch, bypassing mrs. dole's introduction. the program concluded without further problems
a poll published in the sunday edition of the chicago tribune said the vice president was the choice of 62 percent of republicans likely to vote in tuesday's primary. dole was named by 28 percent and pat robertson by 6 percent
the survey of 504 likely gop voters was conducted wednesday and thursday
during campaign appearances on friday, dole conceded he was ``hanging by our fingernails.''
the senator, who took a drubbing on super tuesday this past week, losing 16 of 16 primaries to bush, needed a victory in illinois to maintain any faint hope that he can stage a comeback in the presidential race
bush, campaigning in northwest chicago suburbs, predicted saturday that victory in the illinois primary election tuesday would ``cinch the republican nomination'' for him
the vice president preached gop unity and all but ignored dole and robertson
i want to be your president,'' bush said to a cheering crowd at st. viator high school. ``i do not want to do it by tearing some other republican, by weakening the party that needs to be together.''
the latest associated press delegate count gave bush 705 and dole 163. a total of 1,139 delegate votes would be needed at the gop convention in new orleans next august to win the presidential nomination
larry mccarthy, communications director for the dole campaign, said $100,000 was spent to purchase one half-hour on chicago television station wgn and additional time slots sunday and monday on other stations around the state. he said the amount also covered the production costs
campaign manager william e. brock said the broadcast would be repeated sunday on other stations around the state
brock also said that contrary to earlier statements from campaign officials, other dole commercials were running in illinois
earlier in the week, the campaign had said that all commercials in a total buy of $500,000 had been pulled off the air
brock said some were pulled off, but others _ biographical spots portraying dole as a strong leader _ were continuing to run. he said some commercials were dropped when it was decided to use part of the media budget for the half hour program
we need to somehow capture the attention of the illinois voters,'' said dole, who has repeatedly challenged bush to a one-on-one debate. the vice president brushed off the challenge, saying he already has participated in seven debates and called them ``cruel and unusual punishment.''
the only encouragement dole could get from the tribune poll was the response when republicans were asked if they agreed with the statement that it was ``important for the republicans that bob dole does well in illinois so that the republican presidential campaign continues.'' a total of 56 percent said they agreed, while 30 percent said they disagreed
other findings strongly favored bush
when people were asked which candidate they considered ``tough, a strong leader,'' 45 percent named bush and 32 percent dole
jim and tammy bakker's ptl-owned five-level house will be put on the auction block on april 12, with the minimum price set at $995,000
the money will go to help the ptl ministry based in nearby fort mill pay its debts
dave huneycutt of lake wylie realtors said he's had about 55 inquiries about the house since the auction notice appeared tuesday. they include ``doctors, lawyers, well-known sports promoters and very successful independent business people,'' he said
the 10,226-square-foot house was built in 1976 and enlarged four times after ptl bought it in 1981 as a parsonage for the bakkers and their two children
the master bedroom has his and hers bathroom suites, connected by a sunken whirlpool tub. the tub is flanked by a glass-enclosed rock garden. faucet handles are in the shape of long-neck swans
the bakkers apparently shared a 600-square-foot carpeted clothes closet that adjoined her dressing room. large mirrors abound _ in the music room, the exercise room, the bathrooms and other areas
the house has a commercial kitchen with heavy-duty appliances, two additional kitchens and at least 25 closets. electronically controlled draperies and curtains are in most major rooms, including his study and the master bedroom
the massive house sits at the bottom of a steep hill and fronts lake wylie in one of tega cay's most exclusive sections
the grounds include a two-story playhouse that is heated and air-conditioned, a guardhouse, boardwalks to a white sandy beach at the water's edge, and a large dock where the bakkers once kept their 58-foot houseboat and small power cruiser
the bakkers left the home last june, three months after bakker admitted to a 1980 sexual encounter with church secretary jessica hahn and resigned
the bakker home is one of 10 ptl properties that will be sold april 12 at the tega cay country club, according to auctioneer rodney robinson. councils</head>
the government placed colombia's 150,000-member armed forces on alert as voters prepare to vote sunday to elect mayors for the first time since independence from spain 169 years ago
the campaign to elect mayors in 1,008 municipalities has drawn violence from leftist guerrillas, drug traffickers and right-wing death squads. the election is the first real challenge to upper-class control of local government
until now colombia's mayors, with the exception of bogota, have been named by governors, who are appointed by the president. the president chose the mayor of bogota
in the election, colombians also will choose 10,543 councilmen, 421 state assembly representatives and 89 assemblymen from remote territories
national police were included in the military alert. all leaves and days off were canceled
broadcast reports said soldiers were patrolling cities and towns from the amazon jungle area in the south to the guajira desert region in the north
in the capital of bogota, a city of 6 million people, jeeps mounted with machine guns cruised streets and police stopped cars and searched them for guns and explosives
leftist guerrillas and right-wing death squads have killed scores of political activists in the last year
two months ago drug traffickers kidnapped bogota's leading mayoral candidate, andres pastrana, because he had spoken out for stronger action against the traffickers. police later freed pastrana, the son of former president misael pastrana
polls have indicated that pastrana, the only conservative party candidate, will win
the liberal party mayoral candidates in bogota are bernardo ossa, who was president virgilio barco's emissary for talks with leftist guerrillas; juan caicedo, former president of colombia's federation of businessmen, and jorge eastman, a former cabinet minister
newspaper polls indicate that the leading contenders among lower-class voters are two women
one, maria eugenia rojas, running as an independent, is the daughter of a 1950s military dictator, gustavo rojas pinilla
the other woman is clara lopez, an independent supported by the patriotic union party, which was formed three years ago by leftist guerrillas
the patriotic union's president, bernardo jaramillo ossa, predicted his party will win 25 mayoral posts
in a broadcast interview saturday with the colombian radio chain rcn, he called upon his leftist coalition party ``to overcome fear and threats'' and go to the polls
right-wing death squads have killed 520 members of the party since it was formed in 1985 with the help of colombia's estimated 10,000 leftist guerrillas
the government of former president belisario betancur, in an effort to negotiate peace, allowed the rebels to form the party. betancur's government also agreed to election of mayors, a goal of colombia's leftists
leftist guerrillas claimed responsibility saturday for detonating two car bombs in a trendy shopping and restaurant area
the peace of the rich has ended, the war of the poor has begun,'' said a communique issued by the farabundo marti national liberation front, an alliance of five leftist guerrilla groups that has been fighting to overthrow el salvador's u.s.-backed government for the past eight years
two car bombs went off friday night in the pink zone, a fashionable neighborhood of sidewalk cafes and restaurants. two people were injured
the statement said the blasts targeted ``those who daily plan the repressive campaign against campesinos, those who fly the helicopters and planes, the diplomats, marines of the u.s. embassy, and the demagogues who design electoral campaigns.''
the campaigns mentioned referred to legislative and municipal elections scheduled for march 20
these individuals have never felt the consequences of misery and exploitation and, being parasites, much less have felt the ravages of the dirty war they impose on the humble people. with this action we intend to make them feel, if only a little, this war they direct comfortably from afar,'' said the communique
an anonymous caller told the radio station ysu where to find the communique, and a reporter for the station picked it up
one of the bombs exploded just a few feet from where leftist guerrillas killed 13 people, among them six americans, in a machine gun attack in june 1985
a 12-year-old boy and a middle-aged man were slightly wounded in the first explosion friday. the other bomb exploded about five minutes later in a parking lot behind a pizza hut restaurant, causing no injuries
an armed forces spokesman consulted by the associated press said explosives experts were studying the vehicles' remains
the conservative daily la prensa grafica on saturday had attributed the blasts to the farabundo marti national liberation front
the object of these actions ... is to demonstrate that the terrorists continue attacking the citizenry in an effort to disrupt the elections,'' said the paper
one blast destroyed three vehicles and shattered windows
it occurred in front of a restaurant that adjoined the cafe where four off-duty u.s. marines and two american businessmen were killed along with seven salvadorans in 1985. leftist guerrillas claimed responsibility for that attack
gallaudet university's embattled board of trustees planned to meet sunday to discuss picking a new president for the school for the deaf just days after massive student protests prompted the hearing person chosen for that post to resign
students at the nation's only liberal arts school for the deaf said saturday they hoped the meeting will bring about their demand for the nation's first deaf university president
the university was shut down for five days last week by student protests after elisabeth a. zinser _ who can hear and does not know sign language _ was appointed by the board last sunday over two deaf candidates
faced with student outrage, zinser stepped down early friday. ``my decision to resign was reached with great difficulty as i came to understand how deeply some see the social stature of deaf persons reflected in the presidency of this university,'' she said in a statement
the two deaf candidates who were bypassed last week are being reconsidered for the position. they are harvey j. corson, 44, superintendent of the louisiana school for the deaf in baton rouge and a gallaudet board member; and i. king jordan, 45, dean of gallaudet's college of arts and sciences. both are gallaudet graduates
students in the deaf president now committee last night asked for mediation with the board to resolve the students demands:
that a deaf president be appointed from the two finalists; that board chairwoman jane bassett spilman resign from the board of trustees effective immediately; that the bylaws of the board of trustees be amended to reflect a majority of deaf voting members, to be achieved within a specific period of time; and that no reprisals be taken at any time against any student, faculty or staff member of gallaudet university.''
gallaudet has never had a deaf president in its 124-year history. the college was founded by congress in 1864, and became a university by an act of congress in 1986
the federally supported institution receives 75 percent of its budget from congress
romare bearden, a pre-eminent american artist whose collages fashioned stories about the dignity of black people and southern living, died saturday. he was 75
bearden died about 1 a.m. at new york hospital of complications from bone cancer, diagnosed two years ago, and a stroke suffered last month, said his manager of 13 years, june kelly
works by bearden, who was awarded the national medal of arts by president reagan last june, fetched prices at sotheby's up to $56,000, among the highest prices paid for works by black artists in the united states
bearden's work ranged from political cartoons published in 1934 to water colors and eventually the collages. he had one-man shows at the museum of modern art and several top galleries
he was a lover of jazz who did sets and costumes for the alvin ailey dance theater, and murals for the baltimore and pittsburgh transit systems
i think certainly that he's one of the great masters of the 20th century, especially over the last 40 years,'' said lowery sims, associate curator of 20th century art at the metropolitan museum of art
sims said bearden's work in collages ``raised it to such a fine art it's hard to think of any other artist who is so closely associated with that medium.''
sims, who compared his use of form and color to that of henri matisse, said bearden's work had an unparalleled ability ``to provide us with a heroic depiction of even the most mundane aspects of american black life.''
i think that he was trying to make us conscious of the richness of part of the black heritage we wouldn't think ordinarily of,'' sims said. ``i think he made us aware that we are a very important part of american culture.''
in the book, ``the art of romare bearden,'' by john a. williams, bearden said, ``i work out of a response and need to redefine the image of man in the terms of the negro experience i know best.''
ralph ellison, author of ``invisible man'' and a friend from the 1930s, said that in the artist's work, ``restlessness was not frivolous, it was the discovery of the self, of the paintings, of the design.''
bearden, who was born in charlotte, n.c., grew up in harlem and in pittsburgh. he attended boston university and new york university, majoring in mathematics and planning to become a doctor. he started drawing in college and cartoons published in the afro american, a weekly, led to his career in art
he gained prominence in the 1940s after his work was included in a show by black artists in washington in 1943
he is survived by his wife, nanette. a memorial service was being planned for later in the month. both busloads of nebraska children now home, sted one, adds new wisconsin snowfall figures, other detail. no pickup.</note>
a major snowstorm that dumped up to 7 feet of snow shut down travel in the upper midwest saturday and whipped up 15-foot waves on lake superior, while crews worked to reopen highways across the plains where hundreds of people had been snowbound for two days
it's a little better than yesterday but not much,'' said roberta welsh, nebraska state patrol dispatcher at scottsbluff
a south dakota woman was killed saturday when her car skidded and rolled over on an icy interstate, the state highway patrol said
high school basketball fans spent the night stuck in a minnesota arena after a regional playoff, and two busloads of nebraska schoolchildren snowbound at isolated farms got to go home
up to 7 feet of snow stranded skiers on terry peak in south dakota's black hills and 15-foot drifts were reported near badlands national park. in the hard-hit nebraska panhandle, 31 inches of snow was reported at chadron, with 10-foot drifts at crawford
the cheyenne county, neb., sheriff's department worked through the night and all day saturday to reach people believed stranded in vehicles in the sidney area, said dispatcher harlan sage
we'll be lucky if we don't find someone out in the country ... dead possibly,'' said kimball ambulance director jim o'brien and kimball county sheriff john thacker jr. they said the storm was the worst to hit western nebraska in at least 18 years
an elderly couple from springview, neb., were rescued saturday by a relative on a snowmobile after spending the night stuck in their pickup, said keya paha county sheriff gary sell
blowing snow kept visibility down to about one-quarter of a mile around o'neill, neb., forcing the town to cancel its annual st. patrick's day celebration, said holt county sheriff's dispatcher arlene fox
more than a foot of snow fell saturday in sections of northern and central minnesota, and it was whipped up by 50 mph wind that closed the duluth airport for six hours. waves estimated at 15 feet topped some seawalls along lake superior, the national weather service said
hundreds of hutchinson high school girls' basketball fans, including the school band, were stranded overnight in mankato, minn., by snow and zero visibility after a victory in regional playoffs. the seven busloads of fans stayed in mankato state university's arena while the team got motel rooms. the motel said they checked out saturday morning
up to 10 inches of wet snow was dumped on northern wisconsin, miring countless vehicles on highways near lake superior
it looks like everybody's on an ego trip, wanting to see how far they can go'' before their cars get stuck, said police capt. jerry moe at superior, wis., just across the lake from duluth
snow also fell across northern michigan. ``we're getting a blizzard,'' said state police sgt. larry brown at st. ignace at the southeastern tip of the upper peninsula
on terry peak in the black hills, skiers had been snowbound since thursday, and terry peak lodge manager bob ekeren said 7 feet of snow had fallen by saturday. ``we're out of bread and meat and potatoes. we're making soup.''
there's three, four feet of snow on top of cars. we can't even find them,'' ekeren said at the lodge, at an elevation of 6,700 feet
crews in wyoming, nebraska and south dakota worked saturday to reopen roads that had been closed by drifting snow and zero visibility, some since thursday
more than 200 miles of interstate 80 across wyoming and into western nebraska reopened saturday and north-south i-25 was reopened in wyoming. but many other roads in eastern wyoming remained closed, the highway patrol said
the reopening of i-80 allowed travel for the first time since thursday out of kimball, neb., where some 700 people had been holed up by saturday in motels, private homes and the kimball county courthouse. ``we're getting some people down the road,'' said carl farmer of the sheriff's office
conditions in kimball were ``a tad better. we can see across the street but we've got a long ways to go,'' said a woman who answered the phone at the kimball civil defense office saturday morning
a 200-mile section of i-94 in north dakota, closed friday afternoon, was reopened saturday. parts of a 265-mile section of i-90 in south dakota were reopened but a 75-mile section between kadoka and ellsworth air force base remained closed, with 15-foot drifts in the kadoka area, said highway patrol lt. ed assman
residents of rapid city, s.d., began digging out under bright sunshine but some people were stranded in their homes with drifts up to the second floor
the storm caused the south dakota democratic party to postpone a statewide caucus called for saturday, when the party was to decide how to apportion 15 of the state's national convention delegates. the caucus was rescheduled for the following saturday
two busloads of children who had been stranded in isolated farmhouses in western nebraska since thursday got home safely saturday afternoon. the 21 children were being driven home from school when the sudden blizzard caught the drivers by surprise
road crews reached driver sharon grubbs and her riders, ages 7 to 13, saturday at the farm of jack and karen holt, about 17 miles from harrisburg. all the children left the farmhouse and ms. grubbs said she probably would try to drive the school bus home saturday night
mrs. holt and her visitors were without electricity from thursday night to saturday morning
driver linda barrett and her 13 passengers were able to leave agnes wynne's farm when roads were cleared saturday
a neighbor on a snowmobile took buffalo meat, eggs and bread to the wynne farm saturday morning because food was running short, mrs. barrett said
the de beers diamond firm has announced the discovery of an egg-sized, 599-carat diamond and said it is currently the world's largest uncut diamond with an estimated cut value of $30 million
officials of the south african company said the white diamond, dubbed ``the big rock,'' was found at a mine near pretoria in july 1986, but its discovery was kept secret to all but a handful of de beers executives
de beers' chairman julian thompson announced the find at the firm's 100th anniversary banquet in kimberly friday night
it's a perfect blue-white color,'' said south african gem expert gaby tolkowski, who will cut and polish the stone
there have been larger raw diamonds uncovered previously, but they were cut into smaller gems
the 1988 guinness book of world records recorded the cullinan diamond as the world's largest uncut diamond ever found. it was discovered in 1905 near pretoria and weighed 3,106 carats, or more than 1.25 pounds
the cullinan was cut into 105 stones, including the 530.2-carat star of africa, the world's largest known cut diamond, according to guinness. the star of africa is the centerpiece of the british royal scepter
in its cut form, the ``big rock'' is expected to be about 350 carats and sell for an estimated $30 million, the company said
debeers is the world's largest diamond company and controls an estimated 80 percent of the world's diamond production through its central selling organization in london. holt farm, driver expected to leave. picks up 7th graf, `power at...'.</note>
two busloads of children who had been snowbound at farms for two nights finally made it home saturday when snowplows cleared the roads
the 21 children and two bus drivers had taken refuge at the two homes during a raging snowstorm thursday afternoon, and had passed the time playing games and listening to a battery-operated radio. at one farm, electrical power was off for more than a day and meals were cooked on a campstove
drivers linda barrett and sharon grubbs were taking children home from the banner county school in harrisburg when the heavy snow and winds gusting to 55 mph enveloped their buses, reducing visibility to zero
the storm hit a little faster than we thought,'' said ms. grubbs, who was in radio contact with mrs. barrett when they decided to find shelter rather than continue
ms. grubbs and her eight children wound up at the farm of jack and karen holt, about 17 miles west of harrisburg. one of the maintenance workers who cleared the roads saturday was the father of two of the stranded children, mrs. holt said
all the children left saturday, including one who had to wait until her parents, stranded elsewhere by the storm, made it home. ms. grubbs said she would probably drive the school bus home saturday night
power at the holt farm was out from thursday night until about 7:30 a.m. saturday. it was about 38 degrees in the house before the heat came back on
we're all so thankful for the heat,'' said mrs. holt. ``we're fed and warm and wonderful.'' power was lost again about 2 p.m., but the house was staying warm, she said
the two women used a camping stove to cook meals as the children, ages 7 to 13, huddled under blankets. the three boys and five girls played games and listened to a battery-operated radio, mrs. holt said
they've been super for us,'' said ms. grubbs, a 10-year veteran bus driver. ``they've cooperated so well.''
mrs. barrett and her 13 passengers waited out the storm at agnes wynne's farm, about 20 miles from harrisburg. a snowplow cleared the road about 3 p.m. saturday, mrs. wynne said
mrs. wynne, who lives alone, said having so many children on hand ``was a little trying. but they were a good bunch of kids.'' worries that she wouldn't have enough food were eased when a a neighbor brought over buffalo meat, eggs and bread on his snowmobile. fire chief quote, detail on mop-up, fire breaks being built. picks up 8th graf pvs, `about 265,000. subs last 3 grafs, bgng, `elsewhere, a...', with 3 grafs to update with val verde county fire also brought under control. no pickup.</note>
a major brush fire that destroyed tens of thousands of acres of west texas prairie land appeared under control late saturday afternoon, officials said
for parts of friday and saturday, the fire seriously threatened the towns of albany and moran in shackelford county and baird in northern callahan county, but three tanker airplanes helped contain it by dropping fire-retardant chemicals
at least 265,000 acres were burned, and officials said the dry, windy weather continued to pose a danger that the fire could rekindle
sam logan, public information officer for the texas forest service, said the grass fires that ravaged much of shackelford county and parts of callahan and throckmorton counties since thursday were under control and the forest service was beginning its mop-up operation
that'll take about two days,'' logan said. but he added, ``we'll continue to keep an eye on it, because with the strong winds and low humidity, just a spark could start it up all over again.''
most of the fires appeared to be interior ones that appear likely to burn themselves out where they were, officials said
we've pretty well got fire guards around the complete fire. tonight, we're going to just more or less be running a patrol and mop-up operation,'' said baird fire chief pat mckennon. ``we will have forest service crews out and some local fire units out, just more or less patrolling.''
national guardsmen and other military personnel used heavy equipment such as bulldozer and scrapers to build fire breaks
the idea is to get the grass down real short so that if a fire jumps a street it doesn't ignite,'' said airman 1st class william cross from dyess air force base in abilene
the fire killed livestock, burned trailer homes and oilfield equipment and closed roads across parts of an area 60 miles long and 25 miles wide, officials said
about 265,000 acres of rangeland had burned in shackelford county alone, or roughly half the county, said joe fox of the texas forest service. albany, a town of about 2,500, is the county seat. smaller acreages were burned in the other two affected counties, officials said
at a 3,000-acre ranch south of albany, workers moved about 100 head of cattle away from the blaze while a u.s. forest service crew, with three bulldozers, fought flames earlier saturday that had rekindled in a pasture
it looks worse at night because that's when you can see the flames. during the day, the smoke covers everything,'' said wanda sims, a part-owner of the dyer-sims ranch. ``the night before last, it looked like hot lava moving down the hills.''
volunteer firefighter phillip rodriguez said he and hundreds of other workers stopped the flames just inside the city limits of baird, a town of about 1,700 people, about 7 a.m. saturday
when it was dark, all you could see was orange rolling down the hills,'' said rodriguez
smoke is drifting across baird. it is like we are having a big wienie roast out here,'' said callahan county sheriff's officer jan davis
some homes were evacuated friday night in the hannersville section of baird and authorities set up a command post, but no dwellings were lost in the community 21 miles east of abilene, said ms. davis. residents returned to their homes saturday
but in albany, 25 miles north, the fire consumed trailers and oilfield equipment, and its relentless march eastward earlier in the day saturday, fanned by strong winds, had worried authorities
there's plenty of damage to rangeland, oilfield equipment _ including storage tanks _ and some trailer houses,'' said albany mayor wayne hogan. ``we are still trying to get it under wraps after three days. but it seems to be under better control than this time yesterday
but if the wind changes, which it can do real sudden, we're in trouble again,'' he said
in moran, a town of about 340 people 16 miles southeast of albany, morris snyder jr. gazed with neighbors through a smoky haze at a long bluff a few miles away, pointing toward a line of flames
this is the worst anyone living here has seen,'' he had said, before the situation was reported under control. ``it's the worst anyone can remember.''
federal officials, at the request of texas emergency management officials, approved aid to help reimburse the state for expenses in fighting the blaze, which began thursday from a trash fire
murry fly, a spokesman for the texas forest service in lufkin, said crews arriving from around the state gave tired forest service crews, volunteers and national guardsmen the chance to rest
numerous firefighters, among hundreds battling the blaze, have suffered injuries from smoke inhalation and minor burns, said tom millwee of the division of emergncy management
an aircraft tanker containing 2,000 gallons of fire retardant chemical arrived saturday from the u.s. forest service in fort smith, ark., said millwee
`we are trying to survey the burned area from the air because you still can't drive through most of it,'' said hogan, the albany mayor. ``we lit backfires last night to protect rural houses just west of the city limits to stop the flames, advancing from the west and northwest.''
elsewhere, another range fire in val verde county, about 300 miles to the southwest, consumed about 60,000 acres before it was brought under control
mike scott, a spokesman with the governor's office of emergency management, said saturday night that national guard troops sent to the area had been released
there is still apparently some fires down there, but it's minor,'' scott said. inserts 1 graf after 25th graf, bgng: the ad xxx to include washington post-abc poll; picks up 26th graf pvs, bgng: after campaigning...</note>
jesse jackson easily won the democratic precinct caucuses saturday in his native south carolina, while sen. bob dole went on illinois television for a half-hour plea for republican votes in a state where he said he is the underdog
jackson took a commanding lead in the caucuses and maintained a better than 2-1 margin over the uncommitted, who represented the second-largest bloc of delegates being elected to county conventions in south carolina
with 78 percent of the precincts reporting, jackson was winning 53 percent of the delegates to the county conventions, while the uncommitted trailed with 20 percent. tennessee sen. albert gore was in third place with 19 percent and other candidates were far behind
dole, who spoke while standing before a portrait of abraham lincoln on the site where lincoln and stephen douglas held one of their famous debates, told illinois voters, ``i know i'm the underdog in this race
the issues are more important than the odds,'' dole said. ``i didn't expect this job to be handed to me in the first place.''
the kansas senator, who earlier acknowledged that his presidential campaign is ``hanging by our fingernails,'' invested $100,000 in the broadcast in an attempt to stop the momentum of gop front-runner, vice president george bush
a chicago tribune poll published in sunday editions said bush was far ahead of dole while homestate sen. paul simon was leading the democratic field, followed closely by jackson
the newspaper also endorsed gore in the democratic contest, passing over native simon and jackson, who has made illinois his adoptive home state
i dare george bush to debate bob dole,'' dole told a news conference. in originating his broadcast from knox college in galesburg, he had picked the time and site to conform to bush's appearance at the same location, he said
gore, whose success in southern primaries on march 8 catapulted him into contention in the democratic race, was counting on another boost from south carolina
we have worked very hard in this state and i think we have an opportunity to extremely well here,'' gore said during an appearance in columbia, s.c
but favored to get a majority of the 44 delegates at stake in south carolina was jackson, a native of greenville
jackson trailed massachusetts gov. dukakis by 58 in the latest associated press delegate count. strong showings in south carolina, where he was born, and illinois, which he now calls home, could propel jackson into the delegate lead in the democratic race
appearing at a meeting of the south carolina education association, jackson said, ``i'm delighted to be home again. you taught me. you can have somebody in the white house that you taught.''
rival rep. richard gephardt of missouri has the support of former govs. robert mcnair and richard riley, and is a strong backer of legislation to limit textile imports, an important issue in south carolina
gore said he too supported the legislation
bush crushed his republican opponents in the south carolina gop primary last saturday
simon was banking on illinois voters in tuesday's primary to give their home state senator enough support to keep him in the race
dukakis, jackson and gephardt made forays saturday into michigan, where democrats hold caucuses march 26
jackson addressed the graduation at michigan state unversity, recalling the tumult of the civil rights movement and calling on graduates to work for more than material wants
a generation of young americans died, sacrificed to keep america better and make america strong,'' he said. ``your generation must resist the dangerous trend of surrendering to the war of the opiate and the war of selfishness and the war of conceit and use your strength to take the torch another lap in this great struggle.''
dukakis visited the 250-worker olofsson corp. plant, which makes exotic, computer-controlled machines, and said the united states needs to re-invest in its industrial base
dukakis, seeking michigan union support against stiff competition from gephardt and jackson, said he plans to target his message to working people, teachers, homemakers and professionals
in illinois dukakis began airing a new commercial that appeared to be a veiled attack on simon who has been saying he thought the democratic nominee would be chosen at a brokered convention
the ad did not name simon, but said some people want to return to ``the days when you didn't really pick the presidential nominee. they say you must turn over the power to them to use at a brokered convention ... on tuesday you can pick the next president. mike dukakis is running for president in every state in america.''
a washington post-abc news poll published sunday showed simon supported by 39 percent of the 540 likely democratic voters interviewed on thursday and friday. jackson had 32 percent in the poll, followed by dukakis with 15 percent, gephardt with 5 percent and gore with 3 percent. the poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 7 percentage points
after campaigning in the city's ``greektown'' region on friday night, dukakis stopped saturday at an italian bakery on the city's west side to help bake bread. he offered a modest goal for illinois
if we can get some share of the delegates, i think it would be great,'' he said
bush has repeatedly rejected dole's debate challenges
that ploy has been used before,'' he said. ``debates are cruel and unusual punishment. we've already had seven of them.''
republican candidate pat robertson also was in illinois and insisted he did not need a victory in the state to remain the race
it looks strong for me in the west,'' he said. if he loses the fight for the gop nomination, said robertson ``i'll dust myself off and be right back in it in 1992.''
in the gop race, bush has 705 delegates, while dole was a distant second with 163. robertson has 17
meanwhile, a newsweek poll released saturday showed that bush would beat dukakis, gore or jackson if the presidential election were held today. the telephone survey of 755 voters thursday and friday had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. the poll also indicated that dukakis would beat dole, but only by 1 percentage point _ within the survey's margin of error. dole would beat either gore or jackson, according to the survey
a bomb exploded saturday near a polling booth in dhaka, killing one person and wounding three as bangladeshis cast ballots in nine districts where voting had been postponed because of earlier violence
police said borhanuddin ahmed, 25, was killed in the explosion in downtown dhaka
at least 13 people were killed and more than 300 were wounded in violence during the parliamentary elections held on march 3, and the government stopped and rescheduled the voting in 125 districts. elections were held in nine districts saturday, but no results were reported
the major opposition parties boycotted the elections
president hussain muhammad ershad's jatiya party won 245 seats in the 300-member parliament in the march 3 balloting, according to results announced by the government. it said a coalition of 73 smaller groups and parties won 15 seats and independent candidates won 15
ershad's party plans to celebrate its victory with prayer meetings on march 16. opposition parties have called for protest rallies on march 24, the sixth anniversary of the bloodless coup that brought gen. ershad to power
leading the opposition campaign are sheik hasina and khaleda zia who have demanded that ershad resign. buser still ahead of redington, third team dropping out saturday. pickup 4th graf, bgng, `redington, who...' subs last five grafs, bgng, `nayokpuk, who...', with mushers reaching galena, updated positions of foreign and non-alaskan teams in last 2 grafs pvs.</note>
the 70-year-old founder of the iditarod trail sled dog race surrendered the lead saturday after setting the pace for more than 400 miles, and the leaders raced down the frozen yukon river
joe redington lost the lead to martin buser, who left galena with his dogs about an hour ahead of redington. they were still about an hour apart when they reached nulato, 52 miles downstream and 400 miles from the finish in nome
the race started in anchorage on march 5. the first musher to nome will collect $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers will split the rest. three of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out, including one saturday
redington, who founded the race in 1973, has never won, although he has competed in all but two iditarods
redington had a 4{-hour lead when he left ruby on friday evening but buser, who moved to alaska from switzerland in 1979, made up time during the night. redington dropped one dog in galena, leaving him with just nine. buser also dropped one, but still had 14 in harness
i tried to travel with joe redington from cripple, but he disappeared in a hurry,'' said veteran herbie nayokpuk. ``i never saw him again. he has the dogs. if he gets those dogs running to nome, he's going to be a hard one to beat.''
rick swenson of two rivers and susan butcher of manley, the only mushers ever to win the marathon race more than once, arrived in galena about an hour before buser left. swenson, a four-time winner, and butcher, who won the last two races in record time, each had 13 dogs
nayokpuk, who had been near the lead throughout, checked in at galena at midmorning, and by afternoon, 10 mushers had reached there
don't write off anybody that's three or six hours off the pace right now,'' said one of them, jerry austin of st. michael. ``we're just inching our way up. we're steadily gaining on them.''
jacques philip, of thomery, france, led the foreign mushers in 15th place. horst maas, of lenz, austria, was in 25th; peter thomann of tagish in canada's yukon territory, was 31st; ian mackenzie of bruce mines, ontario, 41st; brian carver of melbourne, australia, 46th; and lesley anne monk of worsthorne, england, 48th
american mushers from outside alaska were paced by robin jacobson of minnetonka, minn., in 19th place. john patten of grand marais, minn., was 27th; frank teasley, jackson, wyo., 28th; terry adkins, mikado, mich., 29th; dan mceachen, snowmass village, colo., 32nd; and stan ferguson, philadelphia, 47th
the reagan administration created a new, permanent pentagon division to carry out covert paramilitary operations after the failure of the 1980 attempt to rescue american hostages in iran, according to a book to be released in april
the lack of coordination that led to the failure in desert one during the carter administration prompted the new administration to establish snow bird, to be run by a group of men in the army's new special operations division, says u.s. news &amp; world report senior editor steven emerson
the division was created following a decision by the new reagan administration to make permanent the counterterrorism, aviation and special-operations units assembled for the iran rescue mission,'' emerson says in excerpts of his book, ``secret warriors: inside the covert military operations of the reagan era,'' which were printed in this week's magazine
among other findings in the book, which emerson wrote based what he says was a year-long investigation and hundreds of interviews and thousands of documents obtained under the freedom of information act:
_in 1985, u.s. intelligence identified the precise location of the house where five of the six american hostages were being held in lebanon. identified as ``building 18,'' the site was reconstructed by u.s. intelligence agents as part of a portable mini-model used by u.s. officials to prepare a rescue operation. a detailed military rescue mission was planned by the pentagon's counterterrorist units in 1986, but it was scrapped when the iran-contra affair began to unfold
_u.s. officials negotiated with the palestine liberation organization and libyan intermediaries to obtain the hostages' release, according to classified portions of private notebooks of marine lt. col. oliver north, a national security council aide who was a central figure in the iran-contra affair. one plan, which later collapsed, called for covert payments of a total of $10 million to sheik fadlallah, the leader of the hezbollah organization holding the hostages and hussein massawi, the leader of the islamic amal militia. at u.s. request, the plo actually transferred some money to fadlallah to get the hostages out, but nothing happened, according to the book
_nsc sources said the man behind the kidnapping of the hostages was a shiite named immad mughniye. however, north said that mughniye's wife, whose relative was being held in a kuwaiti prison for terrorism, was running the show. ``ollie said mughniye wasn't going to get any sex until his (wife's relative) was released,'' says emerson
_intra-pentagon rivalry between counterterrorist organizations prevented the pentagon from participating in the search for kidnapped cia beirut station chief william buckley, who was later killed
_over several years, emerson says, the cia _ despite laws to the contrary _ exploited the secret pentagon units to carry out covert operations in central america to further the cause of the contra rebels fighting the sandinista government in nicaragua
burma's top rebel leaders called saturday for a political settlement of the 40-year-old insurgency and greater autonomy for the country's ethnic minorities
although the rebel's national democratic front operates in a region awash in opium and heroin production, the leaders denied involvement in drug trafficking. they have been accused of dealing in drugs to finance their war
democratic front leaders, in a meeting with journalists in this thai-burmese border town, called on the united states and other countries to cut support for the regime of president ne win
chiefs of the coalition of 10 guerrilla organizations claimed aircraft provided to ne win by the united states to fight the narcotics trade were being used in military operations against the insurgents
coalition chairman saw mah reh said the group wanted to ``present its case to the outside world'' and counter government claims that the insurgency would be crushed within two years
he called for peace negotiations to be conducted on neutral ground with an impartial mediator. three countries have expressed interest in the mediation role, he said, but he did not identify them or elaborate
the ndp does not want war and desires to end the civil conflict as soon as feasible,'' he said, calling for a democratic, multi-party system to replace ne win who has presided over one-party rule since 1962
the insurgency began shortly after burma became independent from britain in 1948. ethnic minorities said the original british concept of a federal union was changed by central government leaders
ethnic minority groups represented saturday were the mon, kachin, wa, palaung, pa-o, karenni, arakanese, lahu and shan
the leaders claimed a rigorous anti-narcotics policy had been laid down and opium eradication is being pursued
they said u.s.-provided helicopters were being used to ferry troops and ammunition to the battlefield and for medical evacuation. they also said chemical herbicides provided by the united states were causing illness among humans and killing livestock
washington has provided aircraft and herbicides to allow the burmese government to spray border areas where opium is grown
knowledgeable western narcotics sources say that some of the rebel groups probably are not involved in narcotics trafficking, but others are instrumental in the flow of opium that is used to produce heroin
the burmese communist party, which also is battling the government, is regarded by western diplomats as a major drug trafficker. the democratic front leaders said their ooperations with the communists were limited to ``military matters.''
the front claims it has 35,000 guerrillas and they control about half of the country. western military analysts say burma has more than 250,000 personnel in its military services, police forces and militias. tour</head>
hollywood's fabled ``rat pack,'' frank sinatra, dean martin and sammy davis jr., arrived here by private jetliner saturday night on the eve of a nostalgic north american tour
their sold-out show sunday at the oakland coliseum arena is the first of 40 performances that the stars will perform through oct. 1. promoters are billing it perhaps the last chance to see them together in concert
it's all about music, three good friends genuinely enjoying themselves on stage together,'' said mort viner, martin's manager and coproducer of the tour, last week. ``they'll probably be having more fun than the audience.''
sinatra, 72, martin, 70, and davis, 62, first performed together in las vegas in 1960. they went on to make three movies: ``ocean's 11,'' ``sergeants three,'' and ``robin and the seven hoods.''
among the other cities slated to be visited during the tour are chicago, minneapolis, pittsburgh, cleveland, washington, new york, los angeles, houston, atlanta, miami, philadelphia and boston
a drug enforcement agency officer was arrested saturday as the city's police department waged its war against drugs, dubbed operation clean sweep, police said
ray murray, 34, of atlanta, identified as a special agent for the dea, was charged with possession of marijuana after police, who were watching an area of known drug transactions, saw a man purchase two packets of a substance shortly before 1 p.m., police said
murray, who was arrested about a block away, was one of 30 people arrested saturday afternoon on narcotics distribution or possession charges, police said. he was scheduled for arraignment monday
prince edward, the youngest son of queen elizabeth ii, plans to marry the 22-year-old daughter of a belgian baroness, a weekly newspaper reported sunday
the people, a london tabloid, said the 24-year-old prince has proposed to georgia may, whose mother catherine was born a baroness in belgium's van den branden de reeth family
edward would have to give up his rights as fifth in line to the british throne if he married miss may, a roman catholic, the newspaper said
britain's 1701 act of settlement rules that only protestants may become british monarchs
the newspaper said the prince is awaiting the queen's permission to be formally engaged
it quoted miss may's former boyfriend, new zealand yachtsman ed danby, as saying she told him of the engagement plan in a telephone call last week
the people said the prince met miss may at a yachting regatta in cowes in southern england last august. republic</head>
thousands of armenians marched to city hall on saturday, carrying flags and chanting in a show of solidarity with a soviet republic involved in a territorial dispute on the other side of the globe
mounted police kept watch as the demonstrators gathered in pershing square before winding through downtown, singing and chanting and carrying signs and banners. police estimated the crowd at 5,000 people
saturday's protests in california were triggered by rioting that began late last month in the soviet union. armenians in the port town of sumgait, in the republic of azerbaijan, demanded that the region of nagorno-karabakh be united with the republic of armenia. nagorno-karabakh, populated largely by armenians, is currently a part of azerbaijan
soviet police and militia have moved into the region to calm tensions in the adjacent republics in the soviet union's southwest corner. some reports claim 32 people have died while others put the death toll much higher
we want to show our solidarity with our people and the protests taking place in soviet armenia,'' said lorig titizian, executive director of the armenian national committee western region, which organized the demonstration
the procession to city hall was led by about 15 black-robed armenian priests walking beneath a sign that read, ``no brotherhood without justice.''
we are marching to express our unity with armenians living both in karabakh and in armenia and in america,'' said the rev. arsag chatchadourian
harold ezell, western regional commissioner of the immigration and naturalization service, was one of the few speakers to address the crowd in english
i believe that in the state of california, where we have a first-generation armenian as governor ... we should do everything we can to support our friends,'' ezell said, referring to gov. george deukmejian
attorney general edwin meese iii and his friend, e. bob wallach, jointly briefed then-israeli prime minister shimon peres in october 1985 about the status of plans for a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project, the washington post said in sunday's editions
the newspaper said memos written by wallach and reviewed by the post described peres as enthusiastic and ``intensely'' interested in the project when briefed on it at an israeli embassy reception
wallach, in the memos, said he had given up hope of getting enough time to brief peres, when meese walked up to them and came to his rescue, according to the post
wallach said he had been expecting to meet with peres on the afternoon of his oct. 16, 1985 arrival here to discuss the pipeline project. peres' plane, however, arrived 90 minutes late and peres went directly to the reception
almost 1,000 guests were waiting, ``a mob scene,'' wrote wallach, but he waited for a break and managed to get to peres and introduce himself, the post said
he (peres) literally dragged me off into a corner at that moment and began discussing the project intensely,'' wallach said. but then a crush of people built up, led by then-israeli ambassador meir rosenne, who wanted peres to meet various members of congress. at that point, wallach said he gave up and peres asked him to wait around until after the reception
fortunately, as that time approached, my friend (wallach's usual phrase for meese) arrived and there was a three-way discussion which took approximately 10 minutes,'' the post quoted wallach as saying. ``he (peres) is very quick and we went right to the point and he was agreeable in all respects. it wasn't the kind of briefing i would have preferred, but it seemed to have been effective.''
wallach said peres later invited him to meet again in new york a few days later, and wallach said he did so, accompanied by a staffer from the national security council who had been assigned to expedite the pipeline plans and its construction by the bechtel group of san francisco
according to a memo composed by wallach on oct. 20, 1985, the meeting at the israeli embassy here was more of a ``briefing'' than a chat
independent counsel james c. mckay is investigating meese's role in the pipeline maneuvering to determine whether meese might have violated any laws in concert with wallach, swiss financier bruce rappaport, or anyone else
the pipeline was never built. boosters</head>
nasa plans to recommend to congress that a $1.2 billion, government-owned plant be built to make new booster rockets for the space shuttle, an idea blasted by a senator from utah where the boosters are now constructed by morton thiokol inc., according to a published report sunday
i suspect that this is one of those crazy ideas that was dreamed up by some empire-building bureaucrat,'' sen. jake garn, r-utah, was quoted by the washington post as saying. ``in this current budgetary climate, we shouldn't even be considering this kind of nonsense.''
the plan, which calls for a contractor to operate the booster-building plant, would end morton thiokol's monopoly on the booster manufacturing. the boosters are now built at a plant in wasatch, utah
the newspaper cited an unidentified industry source as saying that garn has been threatening to hold up space station funding if the plan isn't blocked
thiokol has dominated the solid rocket industry since 1973, when it first won the shuttle rocket contract, but the plan by the national aeronautics and space administration would give other firms an opportunity to get into the business
after the space station, this is the biggest initiative we've got going,'' said russ bardos, director of nasa solid propulsion systems. ``whoever wins this will be the biggest (rocket) propellant producer in the country.''
the proposal already has aroused the interest of four rival companies, the post said, identifying them as united technologies corp., aerojet general corp.; atlantic research corp. and hercules inc
a florida air national guard f-16 fighter crashed friday in woods, causing its cannon shells to explode, but the pilot parachuted 2,000 feet to safety, officials said
lt. col. levis deweese of jacksonville told officials the engine of the $14 million fighting falcon stopped. when he couldn't restart it, deweese said, he steered the plane to an unpopulated area and bailed out
deweese, 50, suffered minor injuries
the crash occurred about 10 a.m. two miles south of callahan, said lt. col. durham searcy, with the air national guard at jacksonville international airport
the crash touched off a small brush fire. the plane, with the 125th fighter group, was armed with 20mm cannon rounds, and the fire and crash caused them to explode, said lt. col. reubin owens, on-scene commander
deweese was returning from a training mission over the atlantic ocean
democrat brian moss on friday declared his candidacy for the u.s. senate against incumbent sen. orrin hatch _ the man who defeated moss' father for the seat in 1976
the 43-year-old son of former three-term sen. frank moss made his announcement during a spirited student assembly at granite high school, where his grandfather was the first principal
moss, who holds a degree in economics, is a travel agent and part-owner and manager of several sandwich shops. although his republican opponent is leading 2-1 in recent polls on his bid for a third term, moss said utah senatorial races are sometimes unpredictable, citing his father's surprise defeat 12 years ago by hatch
moss said if elected he would use the office of senator to attract more industry to the state and to eliminate foreign trade barriers now preventing local farmers and industries from selling products abroad. he also would like foreign economic competitors to pay for more of their own military defense
moss denounced president reagan's ``trickle-down economics,'' saying, ``you do not start building from the roof, you start from the foundation.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis predicted friday he will ``get my share of delegates'' in the illinois primary next week against favorite sons paul simon and jesse jackson
if mike dukakis won, it would be a turning point,'' dukakis told a news conference
he said he expects to ``get my share of delegates'' and to prove ``that i can appeal to people all over the country.''
polls indicate dukakis trails far behind simon and jackson among illinois democrats
the dukakis campaign began airing a new advertisement that addressed the prospect of a brokered convention, a theory put forth in part by simon's fading campaign
some people would like to turn back the clock, to go back to the days when the voters didn't really pick their presidential nominee,'' the narrator says on the ad
they say you must turn over that power to them, to use at a brokered convention. but you don't have to do that. on tuesday you can pick the next president. mike dukakis is running for president in every state in america, for a better economic future for every american. you decide. does illinois pick the next president?'' the ad says
at a speech at the university of illinois at chicago, dukakis drew parallels between his campaign and that of john f. kennedy 28 years ago
today, as in 1960, we are fighting for the future of america. here in the midwest, the battle has been joined. here in the midwest, the battle must be won and the old ways, as john kennedy said 28 years ago, the old ways simply will not do.''
the president of the alabama naacp and 13 other black lawmakers asked a judge friday to dismiss trespassing charges stemming from their bid to remove the confederate battle flag from the capitol dome
defense attorneys invoked claims of legislative immunity from such misdemeanor charges and said state historians, not republican gov. guy hunt, had jurisdiction to order any arrests while the capitol is being renovated
prosecutors did not comment on the defense claims at the brief hearing before district judge craig miller, who withheld a ruling pending the filing of further briefs
thomas reed, a lawmaker and state president of the national association for the advancement of colored people, vowed for weeks to remove the flag on feb. 2 after the legislature opened. the feat would require climbing an 8-foot chain-link fence, entering the locked building, climbing an inner stairwell to the white dome and taking the banner off a staff
hunt had said anyone who made such an attempt would be arrested
minutes after the legislature's opening gavel, state police pulled down reed and others as they made at least symbolic efforts to scale the fence. they nevergot near the building and the flag still flies atop the capitol dome
each lawmaker was charged with second-degree criminal trespassing and released from the county jail on $300 bond. conviction on the misdemeanor count carries a maximum penalty of three months in jail and a $500 fine
defense attorney fred gray said the legislators cannot be prosecuted for their attempt to climb the fence because the alabama constitution provides immunity from arrest to lawmakers while the legislature is in session
the trespassing charges should be dropped because no entry was made and the capitol is public property, he said
gray also told miller that hunt did not have the power to order the arrests because the capitol is under the control of the alabama historical commission while it is being renovated
the naacp says the flag is a racist symbol of oppression and slavery. hunt, who has said the legislature must decide whether to remove the flag, has said many view the banner as a historical symbol of the old south
despite gray's arguments, hunt is standing by his decision to have the lawmakers arrested, said his press secretary, terry abbott
our legal research showed that the governor is actually in charge of very distinct parts of the capitol,'' abbott said. ``most parts of the capitol, excluding the floor controlled by the legislature ... did fall to the governor.''
in another case friday involving the confederate flag, three bus drivers in durham, n.c., said they were fired and at least a dozen students were sent home after they arrived at school wearing the flags
when some of the chewing juniuor high school students and drivers later gathered at a store near the school, police set up a roadblock, but they would not say why
alesia keith, 22, who has driven a school bus for the durham county schools for three years, said she had the confederate flag tucked into her back pocket friday as a show of pride, not of racism. one of the drivers fired was black
this is southern pride day,'' ms. keith said. ``they can take my job and my money, but they can't take my pride.''
schools spokeswoman alisa terry said the students were dismissed for the day because their clothing was considered disruptive
administrators are meeting and will discuss with parents what kind of long-term action will be taken,'' she said
she also said no final decision had been made on the status of the three bus drivers, although they, too, were sent home for the day
a group of dissidents announced friday the formation of a small, independent ``university'' with western teaching methods to give students an alternative to state-supported soviet higher education
lev timofeyev, a former political prisoner who heads the unofficial group press club glasnost, said establishment of the school has not been approved by officials, but he said formal permission was unnecessary
the enrollment will be limited to 70 students. they will begin english-language training april 1, and an academic year that will begin in october, timofeyev said
the organizers plan to hold classes in apartments and will not charge tuition, timofeyev said. organizers hope to compensate the faculty with donations from the west
he said the roughly 50 students registered in moscow and 19 in leningrad will be taught by dissidents who have advanced degrees in physics, mathematics, language, literature and theology
but the school, called moscow independent university, also hopes to use western books and have instruction by western professors, either on videotape or in person, he said
a member of the group, valery soifer, said it already had agreements for assistance from long island university in new york, hebrew university in jerusalem and several french universities
timofeyev is to act as the school's president
glasnost is soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of greater openness on selected subjects
former prime minister pierre elliott trudeau may not have had grounds for imposing the war measures act in october 1970 to deal with quebec separatists, according to the diary of a late cabinet minister
the sweeping powers given police by the act led to the arrests and detention of more than 460 civilians in quebec. only 62 were ever charged and 18 were convicted
trudeau justified his action by saying an insurrection was taking place in quebec, a predominantly french-speaking province, and police lacked the power to suppress it
a diary left by former transport minister don jamieson, who died in 1986, said two days after trudeau acted, the cabinet was told police had no evidence of an insurrection _ no firearms, ammunition or explosives
portions of the diary were published friday by the toronto magazine saturday night
jamieson's notations marked the first time in 18 years the official version of events was questioned by a person who was in the government at the time
trudeau, stopped on a street by a reporter and asked about jamieson's conclusions, said, ``look, i don't want to talk to the media for god's sake. read your history.''
the october crisis began when guerrillas of the quebec liberation front kidnapped british trade commissioner james cross and quebec labor minister pierre laporte. cross was freed after two months but laporte was killed
jamieson wrote that in his view, trudeau used the war measures act to assert federal power, not halt an insurrection
i am satisfied that from the very moment when cross was abducted the prime minister saw the incident as an issue on which we (the liberal party government) would stand or fall and through which he might very well be able to assert the federal position in a dramatic manner,'' jamieson wrote
truedeau retired in 1984 and an election returned the conservative party to take over the federal government
the separatist movement subsided in quebec after voters rejected a 1980 referendum on the issue
at least half of the 600 jobless miners who crossed the andes on foot last week to grow coca will be relocated by the save the children organization, it was announced friday
the miners, many with their families, arrived in the tropical town of chulumani 50 miles east of la paz over the weekend and said they would grow coca leaves unless the government provided them with jobs
bruce harris, director in bolivia of the westport, conn.-based save the children aid program, said arrangements have been made for at least 300 of the miners and their families to relocate in the town of circuata, 30 miles east of chulumani, where they will be encouraged to cultivate coffee, citrus plants and bananas
he said circuata residents have agreed to make land available, the government will assist with building houses and save the children will provide seeds, technical assistence and credits
the humid area around chululmani has been an important coca-leaf producing zone for generations. a paste is made from the leaves and then refined into cocaine
since 1985, more than 21,000 employees in the mining work force of 27,000 have lost their jobs as the government closed 14 of 21 government-owned mines because of the collapse of the tin market and deficits by the state mining company
the government has provided temporary jobs for 6,000 unemployed miners with funds provided by the united nations and some european governments
other jobless miners are living in tent cities on the outskirts of la paz or have gone to tropical zones to farm. coca leaves are a major cash product in this impoverished country with a population of 6.4 million
the reason for our presence in chulumani is very simple: we are demanding from the government a solution to our problem,'' augusto leon, the leader of a group of miners, said last week. ``all options for finding jobs are closed to us. we have nowhere to live ... so we have adopted this political decision.''
angola is seeking direct talks with south africa on peace in southern africa because the united states has lost credibility as a mediator, angola's industry minister, pedro de castro van-dunem, said friday
he told a news conference in lisbon that his marxist government has received signals that some south african officials were considering the possibility of direct negotiations
the minister said angola wanted to talk directly to south africa because the united states lost impartiality as mediator in the conflict by supplying the angolan rebel movement unita with arms and by welcoming guerrilla leader jonas savimbi in washington ``like a head of state.''
angola says 9,000 south african soldiers are in southern angola to support unita _ the national union for the total independence of angola
unita has fought since 1975 to force angola's government to share power
the soviet union and cuba support the angolan government
defense minister magnus malan of south africa has said his government would consider making a direct deal with moscow on ending the war in angola if a non-aligned government was established in luanda
swedish tv said friday that non-jews expelled from the soviet union were issued visas to israel as a way of inflating official jewish emigration statistics while getting rid of dissidents
it interviewed baltic dissidents friday who said soviet authorities gave them visas to israel when they were expelled even though they were not jewish
swedish television said it knew of 47 cases in past months where non-jews were registered as jews in emigration documents and given visas to israel
janis barkans, a lithuanian nationalist who served six years in a soviet prison and was an activist before being expelled, told a tv reporter soviet authorities gave him an ultimatum after a demonstration in riga last summer
they told me that either i leave the country or i would go to prison again ... a jewish visa arrived automatically shortly afterward,'' he said
barkans said he was not jewish and had not asked for such a visa
i met many jews in jail. they had been put there only because they wanted to emigrate to their historical home country,'' barkans said
the television said at least 32 lithuanians and 15 estonians, all of them non-jews, were expelled on visas to israel. several came to sweden
according to statistics from the geneva-based intergovernmental committe for migration, 8,011 soviet jews left the communist country last year for permanent resettlement abroad, about eight times the annual rate of the previous five years. in 1986, only 943 jews were allowed to leave
it was not clear whether non-jews carrying visas for israel were included in those statistics
president blaise compaore of burkina faso outlined his government's new program friday and made it clear that he will give business and foreign interests a warmer welcome than his predecessor did
in a radio broadcast monitored in abidjan, compaore said that with burkina faso's ``limited resources, the state alone cannot pretend to do anything.''
compaore led the oct. 15 coup in which president thomas sankara was killed. it was the fifth coup in the poor west african nation of 7.5 million since burkina faso _ formerly upper volta _ won independence from france in 1960. both men were army captains and compaore was a close aide of sankara's
sankara had antagonized business people and western governments and creditors with his policies and statements attacking western imperialism
compaore said friday his government will work with national, foreign and private sectors, an apparent reference to his efforts to improve government relations with national trade unions, commercial interests and foreign neigbors
the new program, published later friday in the official daily sidwaya newspaper, pledged to continue some economic reforms begun under sankara
the program called for a ``reinforcement of industrial production and the rehabilitation of factories that are underused or currently dormant.''
the plan pledged to ``enlarge and reinforce democracy.'' its most striking change was abolition of sankara's feared revolutionary defense committees in favor of smaller organizations with a social and cultural focus. the organizations would be separate groups of rural peasants, blue collar workers, youth, civil servants, women and the elderly
compaore avoided offending elements sympathetic to sankara. without directly naming sankara, he noted his speech borrowed ideas from the political program sankara laid out in a 1983 speech made shortly after taking power
compaore's foreign relations program was more moderate than the radical policies of sankara, which criticized france's africa policy and its involvement in chad. the sankara program troubled many of burkina faso's neighbors, whose relations with libyan leader moammar gadhafi have been strained
compaore said his program was drawn up after a review of the four years of sankara's government. he offered no direct criticism of sankara and only briefly referred to his seizure of power as a ``rectification process.''
compaore also pledged to continue the government crackdown on corruption and laziness begun when sankara took power in 1983
the united states has begun testing two types of single-use syringes to help stop the spread of aids and hepatitis transmitted by contaminated needles, an american official said friday
alan woods, administrator of the u.s. agency for international development, announced the disposible syringe tests at an international conference of doctors and health experts
woods declined to say how much money the united states was spending on developing the syringes, but he said they could be on the market by the end of the year
unlike other disposible syringes already in use, neither of the two new types can be reused, woods said
he said they are being tested by the program for appropriate technology in health, a seattle-based company, under contract to the government. woods did not provide details on the tests at the conference on immunization and children's health
woods said several other countries also are testing pre-filled, single-use syringes, including france and switzerland
when they are ready, we will have to flood the market with these devices,'' said dr. william foege, director of the task force for child survival, the conference sponsor
we will have to find some way of subsidizing the cost to get them to developing countries because they'll be too expensive at first. and we'll have to find some way to get the old syringes off the market,'' said foege, former director of the centers for disease control in atlanta, ga
contaminated needles are responsible for the spread of a number of diseases in developing countries and are a particular threat to young children receiving vaccine injections
needles contaminated with the hiv virus are believed to be a major method of transmitting aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, the fatal disease that attacks the body's immune system leaving it vulnerable to cancers and other diseases
aids can be transmitted by sex, intravenous drug use, blood transfusion and from infected pregnant mothers to fetuses
three-quarters of those carrying the aids virus will develop either the fatal disease or an aids-related condition within six years of infection, university of california scientists reported friday
researchers from uc-san francisco said their three-year study made important advances in tracking the progression of the virus but found little to encourage hope for long-term survival among those infected with it
what we saw was that the number of those showing no effects from hiv (aids virus) infection is very small,'' said andrew moss, ucsf associate professor of epidemiology and international health.``this means that if you are infected with the aids virus, you will almost certainly go on to get aids.''
the findings were published in saturday's british medical journal
the study was the first to base the prediction of progression to aids or aids-related complex, called arc, on microscopic changes in patients' blood, the researchers said
the author of an earlier study on the topic said the new report apparently provides important information for infected people trying to decide whether to take immediate risks with anti-viral drugs or wait for advances in treatment
the big question still is, `will everybody at some point progress (from the virus to aids) ... or is there a chance that some people will be able to ride it out for 15 years?''' said paul o'malley, director of the city public health department's aids research project
as each year progresses we know more, but we still can't fully answer it,'' said o'malley
o'malley's study, released in february 1987, found that of 104 men infected with the aids virus, 15 percent developed aids within five years, 22 percent developed the disease within six years and 33 percent had it within seven years. in addition, many of the patients who did not have full-blown aids after six years suffered from arc
the national centers for disease control has estimated that 20 percent to 30 percent of the 1 million to 1.5 million americans infected with the aids virus will develop the disease by the end of 1991
the cdc reported this week that 55,167 cases of aids in the united states have been reported since june 1981; 30,932 of those people have died
researchers at ucsf followed 288 men with the virus for three years and used five ``markers'' in the blood to estimate how many would contract aids or arc after another three years. the markers included measurements of proteins and cells
twenty-two percent of study participants developed aids during the three-year period and 19 percent developed arc, a milder form of the disease that can develop into aids
an additional 24 percent had laboratory abnormalities that the researchers found to be highly predictive of aids or arc
extrapolating from the evidence, the scientists said an additional 10 percent would develop aids or arc within six years, for a total of 75 percent
even the men who had not developed aids or arc after three years showed clear signs of progression toward a worsened condition in their blood markers, the study found
the researchers described their six-year estimates as conservative, saying the actual rate of progression may be much higher
hiv infection is much more serious than we thought in the early days,'' moss said. ``it may take eight or nine years, but eventually the infected person will probably get aids.''
a man who escaped from a michigan prison in 1984 and started a secret new life in ontario pleaded guilty friday to 58 armed robberies across canada
los angeles-born gilbert galvan, 30, was accused of obtaining cash and jewelry worth more than $1.8 million (u.s.) in the robberies
he was sentenced to 20 years in prison by an ontario provincial court judge in pembroke
galvan robbed banks in 14 canadian cities from halifax to vancouver, police said. the peterborough examiner said galvan became known as the ``flying bandit'' because he traveled to holdups on air canada, the national airline
he robbed one bank in peterborough on three separate occasions and once looted two banks in regina, saskatchewan, in less than an hour, according to police
they said he carried a loaded gun but never committed physical violence
police said galvan fled prison in st. joseph county, mich., on may 18, 1984, with eight years still to serve for embezzlement
he entered canada using the alias of robert lee whiteman and later was married, according to statements to the court
police said galvan's wife believed he was a computer salesman and was shocked _ and pregnant _ when they arrested him in pembroke last june in connection with a holdup in london, ontario
he was sentenced to 11 years for that robbery, and police then put together a case linking him with 58 additional bank and jewelry store robberies
his 20-year sentence will be served concurrently with the 11-year term
some loot was recovered, but police said galvan may have stashed money in banks in europe or the caribbean, where he often vacationed with his wife
police said galvan always had a gun, always wore a disguise, and usually passed a note to a teller
when he was arrested, police said galvan told officers he was only going to ``do a few more and then quit.''
the u.n. human rights commission ended its annual session friday after accepting an invitation from cuban president fidel castro to visit cuba to determine if abuses were taking place
u.n. spokesman jean-paul riviere said that 78 resolutions on human rights situations throughout the world were adopted during the six-week session. last year, the 43-nation panel adopted 61 measures
the resolutions denounced a wide range of violations, with emphasis on the situations in the israeli-occupied territories, southern africa, chile, iran and afghanistan. the mandates of special u.n. investigators were extended
the commission also took about 20 other decisions, including one late thursday accepting the castro government's invitation to send a delegation for an inquiry into allegations of rights abuses
that decision, drafted by four latin american countries, was approved without vote. it was the first time cuba agreed to admit foreign investigators. the delegation will visit cuba this summer and report its findings to the 1989 session of the commission
the united states subsequently withdrew a draft resolution calling for u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar to examine the rights situation in cuba and report to the commission
u.s. chief delegate armando valladares, a former cuban political prisoner, said the plan ``goes far beyond what we had originally asked. it is very important.''
an apparent stowaway was found dead friday in the cargo hold of a banana boat on which seven other men had hidden in hopes of getting into the country, authorities said
four of the stowaways were caught thursday, and three more came out of hiding and were caught trying to run away friday when a workman unloading colombian bananas from the freighter discovered the body, authorities said
a carton of bananas, apparently fallen from a stack, lay across the body
james wright, a spokesman for the metro-dade police, would not speculate on the cause of death and said an autopsy scheduled for saturday
joe livingston, who found the body, said it appeared the man had been hiding in a small floor space cleared by moving cartons aside
the seven stowaways were in immigration and naturalization service custody. george waldroup, an ins spokesman, said seven are believed to be colombian. the nationality of the dead man was not immediately known
the british-registered castaneda calls at the port of miami every 11 days, officials said. it arrived after a five-day voyage from santa maria, colombia
loma linda medical center said friday has accepted a fourth baby born with most of his brain missing and will keep it alive for up to a week in hopes that its organs can be used for transplant
the boy, identified only as baby d, was born at an unidentified southern california hospital thursday and transferred to loma linda university medical center, said anita rockwell, a spokeswoman for the center
baby d suffers from anencephaly, in which most of the brain is missing. the condition almost always leads to death within days or weeks. ``his parents want to donate their baby's organs when brain death occurs,'' rockwell said
dr. joyce peabody, loma linda chief of neonatology, said baby d was resting comfortably friday and receiving nutrition and water as needed. rockwell said the newborn will be cared for for a seven-day period that began thursday night
under loma linda policy, baby d will be placed on life support if needed to prevent damage to organs
if baby d is declared brain-dead within seven days, the hospital will give notice that his organs are available for transplant. if he isn't brain dead within seven days, he will be allowed to die
the time limit was developed to alleviate ethical concerns that doomed anencephalics not be kept alive indefinitely merely so their organs can be donated
rockwell said anonymity was requested by baby d's parents and officials of the hospital where he was born
baby d is the fourth anencephalic newborn accepted as a possible organ donor at the hospital
the first was stillborn dec. 23, thwarting her parents' desire to have her major organs donated. her corneas and heart valves were given to infants needing them
the second anencephalic was declared brain-dead feb. 18. attempts to donate his liver failed because potential recipients either weren't suitable matches or couldn't be operated on in time. he was disconnected from life-support feb. 20
most recently, a girl was transferred to loma linda after birth feb. 20. because she never met brain-death criteria within the seven-day limit, she was disconnected from a respirator and allowed to die on feb. 28. however, her eyes, corneas and heart valves were later donated to infants needing organs
loma linda gained worldwide attention in 1984 when dr. leonard bailey, frustrated at the lack of heart donors for babies, transplanted a baboon's heart into a girl known as baby fae. she died 20{ days later
bailey, whose baboon transplant was sharply criticized by many doctors, subsequently urged the use of anencephalics as donors of hearts and other organs
guests in three floors of london's grosvenor house hotel were evacuated friday night when fire broke out in an air conditioning unit, the management reported
hotel manager francis green said the unit was in the top floor of the 10-story hotel and the guests in the three floors below were evacuated
there was no panic and no one was injured,'' green said
the evacuated guests went to the hotel restaurant and bar on a lower floor until the fire was extinguished an hour after it started, he said
green said there was minimal damage to the rooms
andreas whittam smith, editor of the independent newspaper, appeared at a hearing in the old bailey central criminal court on friday over alleged possession of a secret document on the fight against terrorism
the hearing before judge aron owen was closed but whittam smith told reporters his newspaper was accused of having a document obtained in violation of the official secrets act
we shall argue against that most strongly,'' he said after the case was adjourned to next week
a story in his paper thursday described proposals in a ``draft confidential report'' on how information would be built up by the 12 european governments in a data base to keep track of extremists across frontiers
it said the british were unenthusiastic about the idea because of reluctance to endanger informants and surveillance methods
the interior ministers of the 12 governments involved are known as the trevi group, after the italian town where their first meeting was held in 1976
the story did not say how the document was obtained. a police order served on the independent to surrender the document said it concerned a meeting of the trevi group in brussels last january
press and public were excluded from the old bailey hearing at the request of government law officers
whittam smith said his daily's attorney, desmond brown, had argued that the 1911 official secrets act could not apply to a document obtained outside britain and one that was held by all 12 members in the trevi agreement
under the act, unauthorized release of government information is illegal
the independent story by its domestic affairs correspondent, sarah helm, said the killing of three irish republican army members by british security agents in gibraltar last monday ``is seen as firm proof that intercountry cooperation promoted by trevi is working.''
the leader of northern ireland's largest protestant paramilitary group resigned friday, four days after a foiled attempt on his life
the ulster defense association announced that it was ``mutually agreed'' that andy tyrie, 48, would step down as chairman, a post he has held since 1973. no successor was immediately named
on monday, a clandestine protestant group calling itself the loyalist people's reaction force claimed responsiblity for planting the bomb that tyrie found attached to his car
tyrie, considered a moderate in the british province's sectarian feuding, advocates independence for northern ireland under a power-sharing protestant-roman catholic administration
the ulster defense association, with an estimated 10,000 members, was established in 1971 as an umbrella group for protestant vigilante groups. it defines its main aim as preventing the unification of predominantly protestant northern ireland and the catholic-dominated irish republic to the south
although the organization is widely assumed to be armed, the british government has resisted calls by the catholic minority to outlaw it
tyrie became prominent in 1974 when he led hooded paramilitaries in support of worker strikes that destroyed a joint catholic-protestant administration set up by the british government
but later he came to embrace power-sharing as a way to end the province's two decades of conflict between protestants and catholics
tyrie was credited with unifying and imposing discipline on the ulster defense association and with ending random killings of catholics attributed to the organization
but he lost some influence because of his reluctance to throw the group's weight behind large street protests against the 1985 anglo-irish agreement. that pact gives the irish republic a consultative role in running northern ireland
his organization also was wracked by allegations that it was involved in extortion and racketeering, sometimes in league with its archenemy, the irish republican army. dissidents accused tyrie of failing to clamp down on the alleged abuses
under tyrie, the ulster defense association produced a blueprint for power-sharing that was hailed as a farsighted attempt to break the deadlock between catholics and protestants. john mcmichael, the group member largely responsible for the blueprint, was assassinated by the ira last december. ^eds: name salah salah is cq.</head>
salah salah, a leader of one of the factions in the palestine liberation organization, was detained by syrian troops stationed along the lebanese-syrian border, police sources said friday
the sources, speaking with the condition they not be identified, said salah was seized monday as his chauffeur-driven car arrived at the masnaa border post
they said salah's palestinian driver was released but salah was taken away and they had no information about his whereabouts
salah, 48, is a politburo member of george habash's marxist popular front for the liberation of palestine _ pflp. neither pflp nor plo officials would comment on the police report
salah had played an active role in gaining the release march 1 of two united nations relief officials, a swede and a norwegian, who had been kidnapped and held captive by moslem militants for 25 days
the police sources said they did not know if salah's detention was linked to his mediation to free the scandinavians
they said salah was en route to the pflp headquarters in damascus, the syrian capital, when he was seized by the soldiers
syria has 25,000 military personnel in northern and eastern lebanon under a 1976 peacekeeping mandate issued by the arab league because of the civil war between lebanese moslem and christian militias
damascus has supported rebels opposed to plo chief yasser arafat since 1983. the pflp has maintained good relations with the syrian government even after a reconciliation last year with arafat
argentina asked friday for a u.n. security council meeting on british military maneuvers under way near the disputed falkland islands, a spokesman for the argentine mission to the united nations said
ambassador marcelo e.r. delpech made the request at a meeting with the president of the council, yugoslav ambassador dragoslav pejic, according to the spokesman
the falklands are a british colony, but argentina maintains its claim to the islands 500 miles off the argentine coast based on settlers dating from the early 1880s
in 1982, argentine forces invaded and captured the islands, but they were defeated by a british task force in a 74-day war
argentina has denounced the british military exercises as a provocation and put its armed forces on alert
the organization of american states expressed concern and called on both countries to resume negotiations over the the islands, known in argentina as the malvinas
ricardo ernesto lagorio, a spokesman for argentina's u.n. mission, said the security council was expected to hold consultations next week to decide how to approach the issue. news digest: los angeles _ weird allergies, a0442</note>
panamanians who have been unable to cash their checks for 10 days faced cuts in public services today as washington increased economic pressure on the government to force panama's strongman to resign
president reagan on friday froze millions of dollars in panamanian assets in the united states and again called on gen. manuel antonio noriega to step down as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces
reagan said he is prepared to take additional steps against panama's government if the economic sanctions do not force noriega from power
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh says the guilty plea and promise of cooperation from former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane will help advance his investigation of the iran-contra affair
mcfarlane's plea ``furthers the work of the office of independent counsel because he has agreed to cooperate fully'' in the investigation, walsh said friday following the former national security adviser's arraignment in u.s. district court
mcfarlane pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor charges of withholding information from congress by falsely assuring lawmakers that members of his staff, specifically lt. col. oliver l. north, were not involved in private efforts to arm the nicaraguan rebels during a statutory ban on direct u.s. aid to the contras
republican george bush and democrat michael dukakis are bidding to score political knockouts in illinois against dogged opponents who refuse to give up their presidential campaigns despite long odds
kansas sen. bob dole, acknowledging that ``we're hanging by our fingernails,'' announced friday he has purchased 30 minutes of television time tonight and he challenged bush to join him ``to discuss the issues.''
the vice president rejected a one-on-one debate with dole
the administration has reluctantly ordered the closing of the plo observer mission at the united nations because of a law secretary of state george p. shultz called ``one of the dumber things that congress has done lately.''
attorney general edwin meese iii gave the palestine liberation organization mission in new york until march 21 to close, saying the department would then go to federal court to enforce the anti-terrorism act of 1987
the 1947 treaty under which new york became u.n. headquarters obliges the united states to let all accredited missions operate, u.n. officials and the state department have said
the woman who resigned as head of gallaudet university after angry student protests says officials didn't foresee that having a deaf president would become ``a national civil rights matter.''
elisabeth ann zinser, who can hear and does not know sign language, said a week of outcry over her appointment at the school for the deaf made her see that deaf people as a group must ``take their place in society and this had become the time.''
i have responded to this extraordinary social movement of deaf people, not to the demands of the students and protesters,'' she said
the army barred worshipers from three mosques in gaza city on the moslem holy day in an attempt to keep order, but israeli soldiers wounded nine arabs in protests after prayer services in the occupied lands
troops razed four palestinian homes to punish suspects in the attempted lynching of a collaborator and the knifing of a jewish settler
on orders from the palestine liberation organization, 250 palestinian policemen resigned, half of the police force in the west bank
dozens of protesters vowed to maintain a three-day vigil outside president kurt waldheim's office, demanding that he resign over his questionable world war ii service in the german army
they were among 300 demonstrators outside the imperial hofburg palace on friday, the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation by nazi germany. they carried a banner reading, ``who will make waldheim resign?''
organizers planned another protest this afternoon against waldheim, who had concealed his role as a german army lieutenant in the balkans until it was disclosed in the media in march 1986
a former top aide to gov. evan mecham acknowledged that he told the governor an alleged death threat by a state official was a ``frivolous matter'' mecham should forget about
max hawkins, former head of the department of administration, testified friday at the republican governor's impeachment trial that he thought the alleged threat was ``a matter that would probably go away by itself.''
mecham is accused of trying to thwart the attorney general's investigation of the threat, allegedly made against a witness testifying before a state grand jury that was investigating the governor's campaign finances
u.s. rep. mario biaggi could have helped wedtech corp. for free, but chose to help plunder millions of dollars from the bronx defense contractor, a prosecutor told jurors in the congressman's racketeering trial
the crime is not what the congressman did. the crime is that he was paid for what he did, the extortion and bribes,'' howard wilson, an assistant u.s. attorney, said friday in u.s. district court
wilson's opening statement to jurors hearing the case of biaggi and six co-defendants outlined how ``a little company in the bronx'' was turned into ``an enterprise that was to be plundered, to be used by the people on trial here.'' ^for release thu ams, march 17 and thereafter ^the government is changing the numbers it collects</note>
residents of mid-sized cities in the west will no longer get detailed figures on monthly price changes in their communities
in new york and los angeles, monthly household surveys of employment and unemployment are being cut back sharply. tracking of trends among blacks, hispanics, teen-agers and women in the two cities will be less current
the government is changing the numbers it collects and crunches to measure whether times are good or bad
as a result, a congressional mandate to find out what happens to laid off workers in all 50 states when their local factories close is being scaled back to cover just 32 states
wage surveys in some of the fastest growing occupations _ architects, engineers and health technicians _ have been abandoned. postponed indefinitely are efforts to learn more about the growing numbers of people who hold down two or more jobs
in their place, the government is going to provide more and better trade figures _ beginning with monthly rather than quarterly changes in the prices of imported and exported goods
the changes are being made by the labor and commerce departments partly in response to the globalization of the economy and changing perceptions of what is important
with unemployment at a decade low 5.7 percent and inflation running below 4.5 percent, the monthly jobless and consumer price figures command less attention than when either or both were in double digits
just as big a factor _ if not bigger _ is the deficit-reducing budget cuts negotiated by congress and president reagan last year. statistics gatherers were ordered to take the same across-the-board spending cuts as the pentagon
march and april will be the last months the labor department's bureau of labor statistics surveys consumer price changes in salt lake city; sacremento, calif.; phoenix, ariz.; columbus, ohio; raeford, n.c., and five primarily rural counties in central kentucky
beginning next month, the bureau will reduce the size of its monthly employment surveys from 2,200 to 1,300 households in new york city and from 2,100 to 825 households in los angeles for an annual savings of $750,000
detailed reports on changes among racial and other demographic subgroups in the two cities will be issued every six months instead of every three months
another $427,000 in some $9.7 million that congress cut from the bureau's budget will be saved by delaying a special report on dual job holders _ a growing phenomenon that could help explain how americans maintain their living standards despite hourly wage increases that don't keep pace with inflation
spared in the cuts are data collection and analyses that would diminish the accuracy of the bureau's most widely used reports: the monthly nationwide surveys of employment and unemployment and consumer and wholesale prices
the bureau of labor statistics doesn't produce any useless products, but we have to prioritize them,'' says its deputy commissioner, william j. barron. ``our budget was cut 4.6 percent across the board and, to preserve the integrity of the national figures, some of the regional, local and special programs became vulnerable. we did the best we could.''
not everyone agrees
new york mayor edward i. koch, foreseeing a rise in unemployment, complained in a letter to labor secretary ann mclaughlin that collecting less data for his city amounts to ``turning off the lights in the operating room when the operation is still in progress.''
undersecretary of commerce robert ortner _ who oversees the government's data on retail sales, trade, economic growth and housing _ said complaints are inevitable whenever any data is reduced or eliminated
new york city complains it's no longer getting special treatment, but that's the nature of new york,'' ortner said. ``they think they are entitled to special treatment.''
also falling victim to the budget ax are bls surveys in six cities on wages in auto repair shops and hotels and motels. future reductions are planned in surveys of wages in hospitals, nursing homes, banking and computer services
all of these things are important,'' said the bureau's barron. ``but the over-all issue facing everybody is the budget deficit. we're just adhering to what congress ordered.''
there is an exception. the reagan administration is asking for specific increases to improve the government's trade data _ a monthly fixture that has become crucial in view of the record $171.2 billion u.s. trade deficit last year
in his proposed fiscal 1989 budget, president reagan asked for a $3.2 million increase in the bureau's current budget resources of $5.4 million for collecting international price comparisons
that program was started in the early 1970s and no one foresaw the tremendous incease in trade,'' barron said. ``from 1976 to 1986, the value of imports has increased 286 percent. our samples are not representative of what's taking place.''
the administration has contended that the dollar's devaluation against foreign currencies has masked an improving trade picture in terms of volumes of goods and services exported and imported. but the numbers to back up that claim have been sketchy estimates
with monthly rather than quarterly trade changes measured, ortner says the commerce department will soon be able to get a better handle on how much is moving across borders
the problem with the data seemed to grow with the trade imbalance,'' he said. ``given the important policy decisions to be made, it's important to have meaningful as well as accurate data.''
ortner believes there always will be a clamor for improving one economic statistic or another, depending on whether it is inflation, unemployment, recession or a trade deficit that is dominating newspaper headlines
interest in the accuracy of the numbers just like the economy moves in cycles,'' he said. ``at the moment, it's the trade figures that have the limelight. as they tend to improve, the disproportionate interest in them will fade and something else will take their place.''
even with all its sectarian strife and economic chaos, lebanon is preparing for a presidential election in july and the signs now point to more disruption and division
by tradition, the presidency has been set aside for lebanon's christians while the posts of prime minister and parliament speaker have gone to moslems. this year, however, some leading moslems have begun laying claim to the presidency as well
an array of christian politicians, ambassadors, exiles, former security and intelligence chiefs, the army commander and militia chieftains are possible candidates to succeed president amin gemayel, a 45-year-old maronite catholic, when his six-year term expires sept. 22
no moslems have yet to step forward as candidates, but some influential moslem factions are making it plain they believe the presidential post should be theirs
with lebanon dismembered by the 13-year-old civil war, gemayel has become politically powerless; his authority is confined to a shrunken christian enclave. he is constitutionally barred from running for a second term
finding a successor acceptable to all sides promises to be a monumental task. to a large extent, that includes being acceptable to syria and israel, the two key outside players in lebanon
gemayel torpedoed a syrian-arranged peace treaty between rival moslem and christian militia leaders in december 1985 and syria now is expected to want someone more to its liking. syria, which has troops in lebanon, is heavily influential among sunni and shiite moslems
but hardline christians, such as samir geagea, leader of the lebanese forces, the christians' main militia, are not expected to go along with anyone syria wants
a lebanese forces spokesman, georges abdel massih, told the associated press the militia ``will block the election of a president imposed by syria ... with political pressure and even military pressure.''
we want a president who can liberate lebanon, then unite it,'' geagea has said. ``we're tired of intervention that has no limits and we will not let foreigners play a role in presidential elections.''
gemayel was hastily elected president after his younger brother, bashir, was killed in a september 1982 bombing nine days before he was due to be sworn in as president
under an unwritten convention dating from lebanon's independence from france in 1943, the president is traditionally a maronite catholic, the prime minister a sunni moslem and the parliament speaker a shiite moslem
when that pact was made, the christians were deemed to be the majority sect by a pre-independence census. but now the 1.2 million shiites are the biggest single group. christians, whose ranks have been depleted by those who have fled the country, now number about 900,000
with syria's backing, the shiites are now demanding political equality, and some even want one of their own as president
christians like geagea refuse to surrender the presidency, however
pro-iranian shiite fundamentalists are even another matter, since they seek to establish an iranian-style islamic republic in lebanon
so far, only one candidate has announced officially for the presidential race. he is dany chamoun, a former christian militia leader, leader of the national liberal party and son of the late camille chamoun, a former president
chamoun has said he opposes partition of lebanon and favors a secular state, free of all foreign forces, like the 25,000 syrian troops in north and east lebanon and moslem west beirut, and the israelis who remain in a southern border strip
iran has about 3,000 of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's revolutionary guards in east lebanon and thousands of palestinian fighters are in lebanese refugee camps
unannounced but likely christian candidates are raimond edde, a veteran politician in self-exile in france since 1976 following two assassination attempts, and suleiman franjieh, a maronite who was president when the civil war erupted
still other possible christian candidates are lebanon's ambassador to france, farouk abi lamaa, a former security chief; and the envoy to switzerland, johnny abdo, a former military intelligence chief
other christians mentioned are gen. michel aoun, the army commander who once was a gemayel loyalist; the millionaire businessmen manuel younes, and henri sfeir
elie hobeika, the ousted pro-syrian leader of the lebanese forces, and former gemayel aide jean obeid, who was kidnapped in beirut for several days last year, are considered outside possibilities. both also are christians
on the moslem side, the maneuvering is much less in the open
nonetheless, justice minister nabih berri, leader of the syrian-backed shiite amal militia, has declared lebanon should have a shiite president, although he has not put himself forward
leaflets distributed in west beirut call for the installation of sheik mohammed hussein fadlallah, spiritual leader of the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god, to head an islamic republic
the new neighbors are quiet. they generally keep to themselves, eat out a lot, and commune with nature
the new neighbors also have hooves
squeezed out of their traditional woodland habitat by encroaching development, deer are adapting to kids on skateboards, barking dogs, slamming car doors _ in short, the suburbs
they seem to be quite comfortable and taking life in stride,'' said thomas litwon, director of field research at the 200-acre seatuck national wildlife refuge in islip, on long island's south shore
litwon directed a three-year cornell university study of whitetail deer living in a neighborhood adjacent to the refuge. about 20 deer live between the houses, not far from a busy intersection and a mcdonald's
the bucks, some with antler racks, weigh as much as 200 pounds; the does weigh up to 100 pounds
it is really amazing but they seem to be very healthy,'' said litwon. the cornell researchers found that the deer ``were clearly meeting their needs _ food, water and cover.''
nor is this a phenomenon limited to the suburbs of new york city. deer have also moved into suburban neighborhoods in large numbers in minnesota, ohio, wisconsin and colorado, according to wildlife authorities
long island is just a microcosm of what is happening all over the country,'' said litwon. ``the landscape of our planet is changing into an urban world and this is one example of what is happening because of it.''
james witham of the illinois natural history survey said there has been a substantial increase of deer in chicago's suburbs. he recalled that last year, a deer was hit by a car when it crossed a busy street in addison, ill
stunned, the deer wandered over to a grocery store. it stood on the rubber mat at the entry way, opened the automatic door, and commenced to graze on the lettuce and radishes in the produce section
he evidently thought he found a new place to feed,'' witham said
authorities say the buck that crashed through the window of captain's pizza in bridgeport, conn., last summer was not foraging for italian food
jim spignesi, biologist with the connecticut department of environmental protection, theorizes the deer's usual habitat was a 90-acre park about five miles away, but development in the area forced the beast onto main street
spignesi said the deer believed it was hurdling a three-foot stone wall, and did not see the glass. he set off a burglar alarm; officers found the deer cowering in the dining room, according to owner gregory kapeteneas. it was treated for minor cuts, and released in woods 25 miles away
most encounters with the deer are less spectacular. mary moore of islip says the deer will eat corn out of a plastic cup held by her husband
they come right to our back door. especially the babies, the ones with the white spots,'' she says. ``they don't bother anyone.''
others are less appreciative. ``they've eaten my bushes right down to the stem,'' said one resident who asked that her name not be used
she used to think the deer were adorable. no more
it cost me thousands of dollars to replace my azaleas and rhododendrons. now i have chicken wire around them,'' she said
also of concern to residents is lyme disease, a malady that is carried by ticks found on deer and other animals. a bite by an infected tick leaves a red, doughnut-shaped rash which, if untreated, can lead to a high fever, paralysis and swelling of the joints
state health officials say 450 cases of the disease were reported on long island last year, an increase of 50 from 1986
edward bosler, research scientist for the new york state health department, said there has been an increase of ticks in the areas where the deer live but he believes the deer are ``getting a bad rap.''
shooting all the deer would not eliminate lyme disease,'' said bosler. ``the tick would only look for another carrier.''
but shooting some of the deer could help the long island herd, says harry knock, state department of environmental conservation wildlife manager
most of long island's herd of 3,000 deer inhabit the eastern end of the island. knock says deer began wandering off long island refuges and parks in noticeable numbers about six years ago. over-population is to blame, he says
people have refused to have a deer hunting season on some of the refuges because they are afraid they are killing bambi,'' said knock
about 150 deer died from starvation last year despite a mild winter, according to knock. others face death from disease or accidents
knock advocates a hunting season on lands where it is now prohibited in order to bring the number of deer into balance with the food available. he disagrees sharply with those who rebel at bambicide
these well-meaning people are doing a disservice to the deer by looking at them as a personality.'' he said
the u.s. fish and wildlife service, which overseas the preserves, is exploring alternatives to reducing the deer herds
but ray whittemore, in charge of the eight u.s. wildlife preserves on long island, said a hunt is unlikely. the public opposes it, and most of the land was donated with the stipulation that it remain ``forever wild'' and closed to hunters, he said
witham, the illinois expert, said there is no simple answer
deer and man are just going to have to learn to live with each other,'' he said. ``there has to be a balance and compromise.''
since he came to power three years ago, mikhail s. gorbachev has imposed his image upon the world. his visits to the west and meetings with president reagan have brought him intimately into tens of millions of u.s. living rooms. he has made glasnost and perestroika part of a worldwide vocabulary. but what has it meant to the ordinary soviet citizen? here is a scorecard of his kremlin stewardship
three years have been enough for mikhail s. gorbachev to shake his nation, break away from economic dogmas a half-century old and strike a new kind of arms deal with the united states
yet many of gorbachev's 284 million compatriots have so far seen few concrete results from his robust style of leadership
the reform-minded communist party chief, who turned 57 this month, says he has just begun to reshape his country and acknowledges the toughest years lie ahead
we have revived throughout the world hope for the future,'' gorbachev said in a feb. 18 speech. ``we ought to treasure that, and to justify the trust that we feel everywhere.''
within a week of being named soviet leader on march 11, 1985, following the death of konstantin u. chernenko, gorbachev called for speeding up the country's economic and social development
there have been stirrings of change, as well as resistance, as bureaucrats are laid off, workers face more demanding standards and the specter of price hikes looms
yet as gorbachev enters his fourth year in power, the soviet union still must import grain to feed itself. poor housing, a monotonous diet and hours spent waiting in line to buy low-quality goods remain the lot of millions
gorbachev has set himself an ambitious agenda, one he increasingly says will take years to enact. here, in gorbachev's words, are the goals he has fixed, and his successes and setbacks to date

glasnost _ ``we must not evade the problems that have arisen .. . so let us say it, loud and clear!'' (1986)
glasnost for soviets has meant being able to read in their press about prostitution, homelessness and other social ills whose existence was once denied
in january, they were told for the first time of a domestic air crash the same day it occurred
glasnost has breathed life into theater, films and art. boris pasternak's masterpiece ``doctor zhivago'' appeared in print this year for the first time, and there is franker discussion of the legacy of dictator josef stalin and some of his victims, including nikolai i. bukharin, were posthumously rehabilitated
but, as russians would say, ``blank spots'' in glasnost persist. a reflex seems to make the kremlin leadership hesitate before issuing bad news, as during the chernobyl disaster or the ethnic bloodshed in azerbaijan last month
glasnost is not a soviet-style first amendment. unsanctioned public gatherings are prohibited. independent groups are barred from having printing presses. newspapers toe the party line on foreign policy and defense

living standards _ ``plans for the country's social and economic development envisage raising the people's well-being to a qualitatively new level.'' (1986)
for the soviet worker, it means people who work well are entitled to earn more. those who don't can be fired
moreover, 16 million people are expected to be laid off by the year 2000 because of rising labor efficiency and cuts made in the government bureaucracy
many soviets worry the reforms may hurt their buying power. authorities are studying a price hike to slash the $97 billion spent yearly to subsidize milk, bread and other staples
meat and butter are still rationed in some areas, and well-made shoes and clothing are rare. in winter, onions and potatoes are the only vegetables in many moscow food stores
one family in five lives in communal housing
the soviet living standard is still markedly low when compared to the developed west, and a criticism once made by nikita s. khrushchev still seems apt: ``what sort of a communist society is it that has no sausage?''

perestroika _ ``the economy is a mess ... we have forgotten how to work.'' (1987)
perestroika, the restructuring and modernization of the state-run economy, is the linchpin of gorbachev's program. it runs counter to more than 50 years of central control, when bureaucrats set production levels of everything from safety pins to trucks
factory managers are now free to contract freely with other firms. citizens can drive taxis or organize in cooperatives to run a restaurant
the bottom line, so far, has been inconclusive
last year, for the first time in recent memory, the entire rise in production was due to greater efficiency, rather than the building of new factories. the gross national product rose by 3.3 percent
however, more than one enterprise in eight lost money. many factories signed contracts, then failed to deliver
others delivered, but no one was interested in $2.3 billion worth of goods too shoddy or outmoded to attract buyers

agriculture _ ``comrades, a problem that we will have to solve in the shortest time possible is that of fully supplying our country with food.'' (1986)
a peasant's son and the party's former chief for agriculture, gorbachev well knows the woes of the soviet state-run farming sector, and after eight months in power, he created a ``superministry'' to tackle them
but in 1987, partly because of bad weather, farm output was up by only 1.8 percent over 1986, and harvests of some crops like potatoes actually declined
foreign farmers continue to feed a part of the soviet population. the 1987 grain crop was the third largest in history, but a drop in the output of good wheat has forced the soviets to import large quantities of grain for bread

superpower and foreign relations _ ``the soviet union is proposing a step-by-step and consistent process of ridding the earth of nuclear weapons ... before the end of this century.'' (1986)
relations with washington had begun to warm slightly before gorbachev took over as soviet leader. but his tenure has seen a rebirth of optimism that reminds some of the detente days of the 1970s
gorbachev and president reagan are preparing a fourth summit. in december, they signed a treaty banning intermediate-range nuclear missiles, the first superpower pact outlawing a class of weaponry. negotiators are working on a treaty that would halve superpower strategic arsenals
gorbachev has proclaimed his readiness to pull out of afghanistan, ending an eight-year soviet military occupation that has damaged kremlin prestige, cost billions of rubles and claimed the lives of an estimated 10,000 soviet soldiers
he has given east bloc nations more latitude to set their own domestic courses, and courted asian countries and america's allies in europe. but irritants like concerns over soviet human rights violations remain
in february, he told a visitor: ``western europe is not ready so far to understand us the way we really are. people there continue to be afraid of the soviet union. this is deep-rooted.''
one of sweden's largest lumber companies, mo-och domsjo ab, offered $1.03 billion friday for two pulp and paper concerns, the second major takeover attempt in sweden's forestry business this week
modo's offer for holmens bruk ab and iggesunds ab came two days after stora ab, sweden's largest forestry products group, offered $1 billion for swedish match ab
bernt lof, modo's chief executive, said the offer consisted of $101 million in cash and the rest in securities. a successful takeover would create one of the world's largest makers of newsprint and writing paper
with the economy still growing and the trade deficit shrinking, presidential candidates who hoped to capitalize on economic pain are getting no mileage from pocketbook issues
recent upbeat economic statistics are making it hard for democrats to use the economy to their advantage as a campaign issue
and super tuesday voting appears to have eliminated from the race more than just a few candidates. it also may have buried trade, or at least protectionism, as a vote-getting theme
the candidate who sought to capitalize on the issue the most, rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., was a big loser in tuesday's contests. he captured only his home state of missouri
gephardt didn't win a single state in the south, where his advocacy of a ``get-tough'' trade policy to protect import-battered u.s. industries had been expected to play well
an amendment that bears his name, centerpiece of a house-passed trade bill, is expected to be stripped from compromise trade legislation now before a house-senate conference committee
the measure calls for mandatory reduction of trade surpluses maintained by countries who restrict their own markets to u.s. goods. the measure has been widely viewed as slap against japan, taiwan and other asian allies
gephardt was not the only candidate who failed to get any political mileage from the trade issue. sen. bob dole found his support for a textile-quota bill of little help in republican caucuses in south carolina, a key textile-producing state
when we have basic prosperity and basic optimism in the country, that 800-pound gorilla _ the economic issue _ doesn't sit down,'' said norman ornstein, an analyst at the american enterprise institute, a conservative research organization
rep. jack kemp's supply-side economic theories most closely matched president reagan's, but the connection did not benefit him as he received only a fraction of the vote and was forced to withdraw
meanwhile, vice president george bush, who once derided supply-side policies as ``voodoo economics,'' is now enjoying enormous gop support, partly due to his identification with reagan. ``bush is trying to surgically attach himself to ronald reagan,'' ornstein suggested
lawrence chimerine, chairman of the wefa group, a private economic forecasting service, said as long as the economy is fairly healthy, matters of personality and organization will have more impact on votes than economic philosophies
to the extent the economy stays where it is right now, obviously it will be difficult to use it as an issue,'' except in a positive sense, chimerine said
gephardt has always disputed that his views are protectionist, even though critics suggest his amendment defines the term. in any event, support for the gephardt measure has eroded since it was narrowly approved a year ago on a 218-214 house vote
congressional leaders kept the legislation alive this long, both as a courtesy to gephardt and out of curiosity over how it and he would fare at the polls
much has happened on the trade and economic fronts in the past few months, changing the political landscape
just last fall, the trade deficit hit a one-month record of $17.6 billion in october, the stock market collapse sent tremors through the economy, the dollar plunged in foreign-exchange markets and a recession seemed imminent
since then, the trade shortfall has shown two dramatic months of export-led improvement, manufaucturing industries are enjoying a resurgence and the dollar has stabilized
interest rates and inflation remain restrained and the civilian unemployment rate fell in feburary to 5.7 percent, its lowest rate since may 1979
on the political side, everything is coming up roses. this is another lucky reagan year,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston company economic advisors inc. ``who could ask for anything more than continuing growth, reasonably low inflation and a reviving manufacturing sector?''
exit polls taken by abc-tv on super tuesday showed 18 percent of those surveyed considered a candidate's stand on trade as ``very important'' in making up their minds _ but only 14 percent of them said they voted for gephardt
the primaries have brought trade to the forefront of public discussion. but the trade issue is not the exclusive domain of any one candidate, nor was super tuesday a referendum on the issue,'' said rex hardesty, a spokesman for the afl-cio. the labor federation has been one of the most outspoken backers of the gephardt amendment
gephardt himself said afterward that he still believed ``a huge majority of people agree with my trade position.''
but they didn't know it was my policy. it was just our inability to be able to get that message out there,'' he said
in other business and economic news this past week:
_mobil corp. said it would sell its montgomery ward division for $3.8 billion to an investor group led by bernard brennan, the man credited with restoring the 115-year-old department store chain to profitability
_italian tire manufacturer pirelli launched a $1.86 billion offer for firestone tire &amp; rubber co., urging firestone to scrap a plan to sell 75 percent of its tire-making business to bridgestone of japan
_general electric co. announced a $423 million offer for roper corp., which only last month signed a merger agreement with whirlpool corp
_investor marvin davis made an unsolicited $780.3 million offer for loss-plagued lorimar telepictures corp., which had said it was discussing the possibility of being acquired by warner communications inc
_united artists communications inc. and united cable television corp. announced a merger agreement that would produce a concern ranking among the nation's biggest cable companies
_r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. began its $6.1 billion tender offer for federated department stores inc. and went to court in hopes of torpedoing the competing $6.18 billion offer by campeau corp
_dart group corp. abandoned its $1.03 billion takeover bid for stop &amp; shop cos. the chain is to be taken private in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout
_usg corp., a leading producer of building materials, urged stockholders to reject a $1.9 billion hostile acquisition offer from a partnership led by two texas oilmen
_canadian liquor giant seagram co. ltd. proposed buying orange juice producer tropicana products inc. for $1.2 billion to expand seagram's share of the beverage market
_farmers group inc., a leading insurer, said its board unanimously rejected a $4.4 billion tender offer from the u.s. subsidiary of britain's bat industries plc
_colt industries inc., a large defense contractor, accepted a $660 million cash buyout offer from a group led by senior management and a unit of morgan stanley group inc
_investor burt sugarman said two companies he controls had boosted their stake in media general inc. to 10 percent from 9.8 percent and would seek a shareholder vote on his $1.75 billion takeover offer
_texaco inc. asked a federal bankruptcy judge to authorize a credit agreement allowing the company to borrow up to $3 billion to finance its chapter 11 reorganization plan, and carl c. icahn threw his support behind the plan
_the supreme court handed investors a victory, placing a heavy burden of proof on companies sued for denying they are holding merger negotiations after informal talks have begun
_a federal judge cleared the way for the regional bell telephone companies to offer certain new computerized information services, including voice storage and electronic mail
_the u.s. postal service governors postponed a final decision on the effective date of new postage rates, including an increase in first class to 25 cents
_a federal appellate panel upheld a lower court's finding that there was no evidence general motors corp. knowingly sold 1.1 million 1980 x-cars with alleged brake defects
_ford motor co. handed thousands of profit-sharing checks to u.s. workers as their share of the company's industry record profit of $4.6 billion for 1987
_the united auto workers union agreed to early contract negotiations with chrysler corp. and the two sides soon will set a date for the start of talks
_cheating on federal income taxes has declined by as much as 20 percent, internal revenue service commissioner lawrence b. gibbs said
_treasury secretary james a. baker iii said the federal reserve should be independent, but the central bank does not have to be ``totally sheltered from outside advice or criticism.''
_the government said retail sales, boosted by strength in autos, rose 0.6 percent in february, following a january decline
_wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, pushed downward by drops in both food and energy costs
_a business research company said more than 2.4 million jobs are expected to be created in the united states this year, fewer than the 3 million created in 1987 but ``still a very healthy number.''
_the federal reserve said americans took out $5.42 billion more in installment debt than they paid off in january, the biggest monthly increase in four months and the second strong month in a row
fishermen in new bedford hauled in $143.7 million worth of scallops and fish last year, which virtually locks the city's title as the most lucrative u.s. fishing port, officials said friday
the catch of 76.3 million pounds is expected to be the most valuable in the nation for the fifth straight year, said jay tebeau of the national marine fisheries service. the value of the 1987 catch was a 26 percent increase over 1986
the service annually ranks about 60 u.s. ports according to dollar value and pounds of seafood. figures for other ports will not be available for weeks, but tebeau said, ``it's a sure bet that new bedford will come in tops as far as value is concerned.''
it probably won't go down as the year of the ``muni,'' but experts say 1988 also isn't expected to mirror last year's disastrous performance for the municipal bond market
the volume of issues from state and local governments totaled $14.4 billion during the first two months of this year, down from $16.5 billion a year ago, but still one of the best starts on record, according to securities data co.-bond buyer, which tracks the municipal market
although 1987 started out on a positive note, rising interest rates put a damper on activity later in the year, sharply curtailing volume and bringing about a severe decline in the value of many municipal bond funds
analysts say a drop in interest rates after the stock market crash in october helped lure some borrowers back to the muni market
neal attermann, municipal research director of kidder peabody, called the early data on the muni market was both ``helpful and misleading.''
it's a helpful indicator in that ... bonds are coming to market despite restrictions'' resulting from the 1986 tax bill, he said. tax reform generally reduced the attractiveness of municipal bond returns and also restricted use of the bonds
but he cautioned that ``1988 won't be a large year of issuance.''
george friedlander, a municipal bond analyst for smith barney, upham &amp; co., agreed. ``the data (for january and february) isn't so great. on an annualized basis it comes out to $92 bilion a year. that's a moderate supply.''
still, atterman noted an early drop in the percentage of refundings, or bond issues sold in order to retire older securities usually to take advantage of lower rates
that's a very encouraging sign. that means that rather than being tied to interest rates we have a lot of volume independent of interest rates,'' he said
while market experts aren't predicting a banner year for the municipal market, most aren't forecasting a replay of 1987 even though the outlook for interest rates remains cloudy
atterman notes that many changes could occur in the municipal market following the presidential election, especially as demand for a reduction in the budget deficit persists
that could result in a further restriction in tax-exempt bonds,'' he said, adding that bond prices could rise on that anticipation
so far this year, most of the munis sold were general purpose, followed by education, utilities, health, transportation, water, sewer and gas, housing, airports, student loans and solid waste recovery, according to securities data
the largest issue in january, it said, came from the municipal electric authority of georgia, which sold $488.7 million of special obligation refunding bonds. in february, the largest was $450 million of new york city general obligation bonds; and in march, $404.75 million of power system revenue refunding bonds, securities data said
an overwhelming number of the bonds were tax exempt, it said
a clash of titans looms on wall street in the next few days when the trade deficit meets head-on with the triple witching hour
though both of these ogres have been bedeviling wall street for some time, they have rarely put in simultaneous appearances
but all that will change on thursday, when the commerce department issues its report on the nation's trade balance for january just as the markets head into the final stages of trading in a group of stock-index futures and options that are approaching expiration
the combination looks highly explosive. the effect, however, may be not to create a fireworks display, but rather a period of extreme caution and safety-consciousness
whenever something like this causes expectations to get high and heartbeats to get rapid, it often turns out to be a non-event,'' said hugh johnson, an analyst at first albany corp. in albany, n.y
small investors, and a lot of large investors too, are likely to sit it out.''
the triple witching hour, which occurs on the third friday of march, june, september and december, apparently was tamed to some extent last year when procedures were adopted to spread it out
some futures contracts on stock-market indexes, which are used by professional traders in computer strategies known as index arbitrage, are now settled as of the opening on friday, while others are settled at the close that day
this time around, program traders will be operating under a further restraint _ the so-called ``collar'' adopted by the new york stock exchange on feb. 4
this procedure closes off the exchange's main computerized trading facilities to index arbitrage any time the dow jones industrial average rises or falls 50 points from the previous day's close
that poses a threat of problems to any program trader who might need to close out a position just before expiration
for all the controversy surrounding them, index-arbitrage transactions are designed as low-risk propositions. if one were to go awry, it could quite conceivably cause a brokerage firm to lose valued clients and traders themselves to lose their jobs
so the people who play this game are presumed to be proceeding very carefully as this triple witching hour approaches
market participants of all persuasions seemed to be playing it cautious in the past week. the dow jones average of 30 industrials hit a new early-1988 high on tuesday but then backed off, closing friday at 2,034.98, down 22.88 from the week before
the new york stock exchange composite index fell .98 to 149.45, while the american stock exchange market value index rose 2.35 to 296.09 and the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 2.12 to 375.48
big board volume averaged 199.77 million shares a day, against 208.08 million the week before
since the collar was set up, it has never gone into effect, although the dow has risen or fallen about 48 points on three separate occasions
thus, it appears that it has become a de facto boundary, an informal equivalent to the limits on daily price swings used in the commodities markets
wall street analysts say it would be going too far to assume that there can't be days in the future when the dow goes past the 50-point limit. the collar's potential impact in such circumstances is the subject of much conjecture
whatever the collar's merits and potential perils, many observers say it would be helpful for the market if it serves to reduce the perceived volatility of stock prices in the investing public's minds
as johnson observed, ``retail (individual) investors have been deeply alienated by volatility in the market.''
a government report showing lower inflation has soothed anxiety in the bond market and helped ease interest rates, but some economists say other figures suggesting weak retail sales raise the possibility of a recession
the labor department said friday its index that measures wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, reflecting a decline in food and energy costs. this partly erased a 0.4 percent rise in january and provided evidence that inflation remains under control
for the first two months of 1988, wholesale prices have been increasing at an annual rate of 1.1 percent _ half of last year's 2.2 percent rise
the news cheered the bond market, which is highly sensitive to evidence of inflation because rising prices erode the value of fixed-income investments
the treasury's key 30-year issue rose about $6.50 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price and is a signal of interest rate trends, fell to 8.50 percent from 8.55 percent late thursday
stocks also benefited. on wall street, the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which took its sharpest drop in nearly two months thursday with a 48.24 point loss, closed friday with a gain of 8.95 at 2,034.98
broader market indices also rose, and the wilshire 5,000 equities index measuring the value of all u.s. stocks rose by nearly $6 billion
a separate report by the commerce department showed retail sales rose 0.6 percent in february, largely because of strong demand for autos, but economists were more concerned with a sharp downward revision in january sales
instead of a 0.5 percent rise in january sales reported earlier, the government said sales fell 0.2 percent, evidence that consumer buying is much weaker than previously believed
this change was considered significant because consumer buying is a crucial element in economic growth, and a significant slowdown could slide the country into recession
many economists fear that consumers have been reluctant to spend money since the october stock market collapse and have been saving instead
oil prices closed out the week on the upswing, but analysts are not sure how substantial the rally really is
after two days of slight gains, oil prices jumped strongly higher thursday, as traders anticipated production-cutting moves by world producers. the advance continued friday but was hampered by continuous profit-taking, analysts said
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed 29 cents higher at $16.29 per 42-gallon barrel. on thursday, the contract leaped 51 cents _ topping combined gains tuesday and wednesday of 12 cents
refined products also built on thursday's strong advance. wholesale heating oil settled at 44.69 cents a gallon, up 0.76 cent after thursday's 0.90 cent gain. wholesale unleaded gasoline closed at 45.59 cents a gallon, up 0.45 cent after leaping 1.14 cents the day before
bob baker, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc., said friday's move reflected ``a growing confidence that, by whatever means it might take, our oil-exporting friends will contain the discounting and get prices moving up.''
at the dean witter reynolds inc. securities firm, however, analyst jayne ball was less certain
at this point, it's unclear whether this is just a technical correction ... or whether it's a serious recovery,'' she said
analysts generally attributed thursday's advance to market sentiment that worried opec and non-member countries were attempting to find ways to boost oil prices that had severely eroded since late last year
by early this week, sluggish demand and growing surpluses, together with discounting by members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, had driven prices to levels between $13 and $14 a barrel in the persian gulf _ far short of opec's $18 target _ and to $15.37 per barrel on the new york merc, $2 to $3 cheaper than january levels
no hard news moved friday's market. but baker said traders were turning bullish, ``looking for behind-the-scenes action we don't know about'' on the part of the producers
ms. ball, however, was less enthusiastic
noting that crude prices continued to gain ground in friday's session, she said product prices did not ``put in all that good a showing.''
this reflected uncertainty within the market about the strength of the latest advance, she suggested
