ch 18 under a new york dateline, are asked to use the following story.</note>
the associated press reported erroneously march 18 that a book written by former white house chief of staff donald t. regan would be published nine months later than originally planned
the book, being published by harcourt brace jovanovich, will be issued this may, four months earlier than first planned, not nine months later, the publishing house reported
police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' grabbed first place in weekend box office receipts, dislodging ``good morning, vietnam'' after nine weeks at the top and preventing it from setting a record
police academy 5'' from warner bros. earned $6.1 million in its debut weekend, while disney-touchstone's ``good morning, vietnam,'' earned more than $4 million, falling to second. the robin williams comedy's nine-straight weekends as the most nation's popular movie equaled the longest consecutive hold on no. 1 set in 1986 by the comedy ``crocodile dundee.''
the latest ``police academy'' sequel features the whole wacky crew in miami for a police convention
another debut movie, ``d.o.a.'' was third with $3.7 million in ticket sales. the disney-touchstone film stars dennis quaid and meg ryan in a remake of the 1949 thriller of the same name. quaid plays a poisoned college professor who has 24 hours to find his killer before he dies
disney-touchstone has four of the 10-top, while mgm-ua and warner bros. each have two
in fourth place was the father-son role switch movie ``vice versa,'' which sold $3 million in tickets, while ``masquerade,'' about the romance between an heiress and a scheming yachtsman earned $2.7 million, good for fifth place
cher's ``moonstruck'' earned $2.3 million for sixth place. its writer, john patrick shanley, won the writers guild of america's honor for best original screenplay last week. the movie has been nominated for six academy awards
three men and a baby'' was in seventh place with $2.1 million, and reached a $150.6 million cumulative gross
off limits,'' a story about two military undercover officers trying to solve a series of prostitute murders in saigon during the vietnam war, earned $1.58 million for eighth place
in ninth was roman polanski's ``frantic'' with $1.50 million, followed by ``shoot to kill,'' with $1.4 million
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release, and estimated production costs when available
1. ``police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' warner bros., $6.1 million, 1,700 screens, $3,592 per screen, $6.1 million, one week, n-a
2. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $4 million, 1,523 screens, $2,647 per screen, $96.6 million, 12 weeks, $21 million
3. ``d.o.a.,'' disney-touchstone, $3.7 million, 875 screens, $4,287 per screen, $3.7 million, one week, n-a
4. ``vice versa,'' columbia, $3 million, 1,225 theaters, $2,503 per screen, $7.9 million, two weeks, n-a
5. ``masquerade,'' mgm-ua, $2.7 million, 1,031 theaters, $2,663 per screen, $7.6 million, two weeks, n-a
6. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $2.3 million, 1,124 theaters, $2,068 per screen, $52.6 million, 13 weeks, $17 million
7. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $2.1 million, 1,162 theaters, $1,866 per screen, $150.6 million, 16 weeks, $18 million
8. ``off limits,'' 20th century fox, $1.58 million, 1,371 theaters, $1,155 per screen, $5.4 million, two weeks, n-a
9. ``frantic,'' warner bros., $1.5 million, 842 theaters, $1,788 per screen, $15.4 million, three weeks, n-a
10. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $1.4 million, 893 theaters, $1,610 per screen, $26.3 million, five weeks, $18 million
fourteen-year-old tiffany salzer got an ``a'' on her book report without opening the book. she watched the movie instead
it only took me three hours to watch the movie and it would have taken me 12 hours to read the book,'' said the ninth-grader from ventura, calif
her father, jim, owner of salzer's video store and a board member of the video softwares dealers association, is familiar with the situation
it's a problem,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``a kid essentially can rent a classic movie and do a book report from it. kids are taking shortcuts.''
videotape retailers across the nation say many teen-agers, children of the television generation, are taking study guides that summarize literature one step further and turning to videotapes for help with homework, renting rather than reading
tiffany said her teachers sometimes show movies in class, but only after students presumably have read the corresponding literature. she said she watched ``clan of the cave bear'' the night before a report on the book was due
the teachers say the movie is different. sometimes it is, but students don't really care,'' she said. ``it's better to get a `c' than an `f.'''
at parents' requests, art marra pulled ``to kill a mockingbird'' from the shelves at his hto video store in suburban pittsburgh after students were assigned to read the book
since then, marra periodically has refused to rent certain videotapes to youths because he learned the corresponding books were homework assignments
we're a community-oriented shop. we try to give the community any cooperation we can,'' marra said
mike petraglia noticed young people make sporadic runs on certain films at his video-o-video store in pittsburgh. he said a popular videotape among teens is ``dirty dancing,'' but when assignments dictate, he can't find enough copies of ``death of a salesman,'' ``treasure island,'' ``grapes of wrath'' and ``billy budd.''
`gone with the wind' has been picking up a little bit. i think it's book-related,'' he said
students always have searched for the easier way, and the video scholar is just a variation of the cliff notes customer, said scott treibitz, spokesman for the american federation of teachers, based in washington, d.c
for 29 years, students have used cliff notes to provide summaries and analysis of books, and sales of the study guides still are growing, said doug lincoln, spokesman for cliff notes inc. of lincoln, neb
the problem now is with the access of video cassette recorders and with the access of video stores,'' treibitz said
lincoln said cliff notes may produce its own videotapes, but he declined to discuss details
the generation that is in elementary school now, they're certainly in the video age,'' lincoln said. ``i would have to say the (use) of video will probably only increase.''
teachers are increasingly using videotapes in the classroom, and as a supplement the tapes are helpful, said judi boren, spokeswoman for the north allegheny county school district in suburban pittsburgh
you can't use the video as a cliff note kind of crutch,'' ms. boren said. ``there's a saying, `i read the book. i don't need to see the movie.' if you make some comparisons, maybe you need to do both.''
a teacher can give a lecture on the grand canyon, niagara falls, space exploration,'' treibitz said. ``a video not only gives that same material, but shows the visuals to reinforce that material
it can't replace reading, it can't replace writing and there are times it can't replace the lecture,'' he said. first place for nine sted 11 weeks; subs 6-7th grafs, bgng `in fourth..', to correct that `moonstruck' in sixth, sted fifth place, add that `masquerade' in fifth place. picks up 8th graf, `the tom...'.</note>
police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' signaled the first success of the spring break movies by kicking ``good morning, vietnam'' out of its long-held no. 1 position in the weekend national box office
police academy 5'' from warner bros. earned $6.1 million at 1,700 screens over the weekend, while disney-touchstone's ``good morning, vietnam,'' earned more than $4 million and fell to second. it held first place for nine weeks
the latest ``police academy'' movie features the whole wacky crew in miami for a police convention
another debut movie, ``d.o.a.,'' earned third place with $3.7 million in ticket sales. the debut disney-touchstone film stars dennis quaid and meg ryan in a remake of the 1949 thriller of the same name. quaid plays a fatally poisoned college professor who has 24 hours to find his killer before he dies
the arrival of ``d.o.a.'' in the top 10 list gives disney-touchstone four of the films on the list, while mgm-ua and warner bros. each have two
in fourth place was the father-son role switch movie ``vice versa,'' which sold $3 million in tickets, while ``masquerade,'' about the romance between an heiress and a scheming yachtsman, earned $2.7 million for fifth place
cher's romantic comedy ``moonstruck'' earned $2.7 million for sixth place. its writer, john patrick shanley, won the writers guild of america's honor for best original screenplay last week. the movie has been nominated for six academy awards
the tom selleck-ted danson comedy ``three men and a baby'' was in seventh place with $2.1 million, and reached a $150.6 million cumulative gross that outdistanced the michael douglas-glenn close thriller ``fatal attraction,'' which has earned more than $149 million in six months of release. ``three men'' earned its gross in just 16 weeks
off limits,'' a story about two military undercover officers trying to solve a series of prostitute murders in saigon during the vietnam war, earned $1.58 million
in ninth place was director roman polanski's missing-person thriller ``frantic'' with $1.50 million, followed by sidney poitier's crime story ``shoot to kill,'' with $1.4 million
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release and estimated production costs
1. ``police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' warner bros., $6.1 million, 1,700 screens, $3,592 per screen, $6.1 million, one week, not available
2. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $4 million, 1,523 screens, $2,647 per screen, $96.6 million, 12 weeks, $21 million
3. ``d.o.a.,'' disney-touchstone, $3.7 million, 875 screens, $4,287 per screen, $3.7 million, one week, n-a
4. ``vice versa,'' columbia, $3 million, 1,225 theaters, $2,503 per screen, $7.9 million, two weeks, n-a
5. ``masquerade,'' mgm-ua, $2.7 million, 1,031 theaters, $2,663 per screen, $7.6 million, two weeks, n-a
6. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $2.3 million, 1,124 theaters, $2,068 per screen, $52.6 million, 13 weeks, $17 million
7. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $2.1 million, 1,162 theaters, $1,866 per screen, $150.6 million, 16 weeks, $18 million
8. ``off limits,'' 20th century fox, $1.58 million, 1,371 theaters, $1,155 per screen, $5.4 million, two weeks, n-a
9. ``frantic,'' warner bros., $1.50 million, 842 theaters, $1,788 per screen, $15.4 million, three weeks, n-a
10. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $1.4 million, 893 theaters, $1,610 per screen, $26.3 million, five weeks, $18 million. city</head> figure. picks up 4th pvs, `on feb. 28 ...' subs grafs 17-20 pvs, `it was ...' with 4 grafs to update with names of armenians chastised, other detail.</note>
more than 400 people have been arrested or charged in murders, rapes, looting and acts of rioting in a southern soviet city divided by ethnic tensions, the prosecutor's office reported monday
the communist party daily pravda said the territorial dispute between the soviet republics of armenia and azerbaijan that sparked the unrest in sumgait was caused by the ``clear anti-socialist spirit'' of a campaign waged by militant armenian leaders
in signs of continuing tension in the region, 7,000 people reportedly staged a protest march in the armenian capital, yerevan, and the official tass news agency and soviet television condemned two of the armenians by name
the armenians are demanding the union of the predominantly armenian region of nagorno-karabakh, part of azerbaijan since 1923, with armenia
on feb. 28, after repeated demonstrations calling for union with armenia in nagorno-karabakh and yerevan, rioting broke out in sumgait, an industrial city in azerbaijan
official soviet accounts have said the victims were of various nationalities, but armenian sources said armenians living in sumgait were sought out and killed by azeris, members of the predominantly ethnic group in azerbaijan
moscow-based journalists have been barred from traveling to the caucasus since unrest there began, and have been unable to verify reports
the soviet prosecutor's office, in a report distributed by tass monday night, said 32 people ``of various nationalities'' were killed in sumgait, and 197, including about 100 policemen, were injured
in addition, there were reports of 12 cases of rape, thefts at more than 100 apartments, and damage to 26 stores and more than 20 motor vehicles, the prosecutor's office said
the report, which tass said was complied by investigators from the prosecutor's office, was the most complete official account of the unrest to date
most of those who took part in the murders, rape, assaults and theft have been identified by now,'' the report said. ``some of the 42 people who have been arrested have a criminal record.''
in addition, 400 people have been brought to administrative account for violations of public order, the report said. soviet police have the right to mete out fines and short jail terms for minor offensives without recourse to the courts
the prosecutors' office made no mention of ethnic hatred as a reason for the violence, blaming it on ``a group of hooligans.''
in february, clashes took place in nagorno-karabakh in which two people were killed and about 50 injured, the prosecutor's report said
it said investigations were continuing to find the instigators
pravda, in a report on the dispute over nagorno-karabakh, used tough language to criticize armenian militants who have formed the ``karabakh commission'' to demand reunification
they claim they fight for socio-economic development of the region, but they consciously or unconsciously use methods which western sovietologists recommend for fighting against socialism. thus we see that a noble idea of a reunion has a clear anti-socialist spirit,'' pravda said
tass, in a commentary read on state-run tv's evening news, criticized commission members i. muradyan and k. nagepetyan, saying they refused to listen to people calling for reason and calm at a march 19 meeting of the group
it said commission organizers ``cynically and perfidiously'' are willing to exploit difficulties experienced by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's reform program
the disputed area, smaller than the state of delaware, has been part of mostly moslem azerbaijan for 50 years, even though three-fourths of its 157,000 residents are armenians, most of whom are christian
gorbachev has promised that another meeting of the policy-making central committee will be held to consider the nagorno-karabakh question and relations among the country's more than 100 ethnic groups. in february, the committee refused an earlier request for restitution of the area
pravda did not say outright that the region should remain in azerbaijan, but denounced using demonstrations, strikes and mass meetings to pressure officials for a decision in favor of reunion
paruyr ayrikyan, an armenian nationalist now in moscow, said he was told by telephone from yerevan that 7,000 people marched monday to the press house, headquarters of armenia's official media, to protest the pravda story
the article was signed by a pravda correspondent in armenia, y. arakelyan, and two other correspondents. however, an armenian official said monday night arakelyan denied seeing or signing the article
they forged his name because they needed an armenian name on the article,'' gamlet kocharyan, an industrial worker and member of the governing council of the armenian city of kafar, said in a telephone interview
in recent weeks, some officials blamed for the problems linked to nagorno-karabakh and sumgait have been ousted
this is our last forest,'' said ranger veerawat dheeraprasart, pointing down a deep river valley. ``if the dam is built here, all this will vanish, and nobody will ever be able to replace it.''
veerawat, the chief ranger of this rich wildlife sanctuary astride the border with burma, is among thousands who have joined what unquestionably has become the greatest environmental battle in thailand's history _ a fight to persuade the government not to build a dam in thailand's last virgin forest
in a country that once was jungle-carpeted and teeming with wildlife, it is rare today to see a tract of undisturbed forest, an unpolluted river, white-handed gibbons or free-ranging tigers
anti-dam groups have held rock concerts and demonstrations, some featuring life-like models of crucified animals, in their campaign
newspapers are probing the issue in unprecedented detail. former prime minister kukrit pramoj says the government could face a mass uprising if it approves the nam choan dam
the dam's proponents say nam choam needs to be built, in what is the largest remaining area of protected forest in southeast asia, to increase thailand's energy supply by about 2 percent
the government's electric generating authority of thailand has described the proposed, 580-megawatt dam as the ``last possible exploitable source of hydro power'' in the country. it says it will create a reservoir that would also help irrigate farm land and assure water supplies in times of drought
the projected dam site is still hard to get to: a lurching, nine-hour drive over dirt roads from bangkok, the thai capital, followed by a four-hour jungle trek. when monsoons lash the countryside, a three-day elephant ride offers the only access
but dam opponents claim construction of nam choan, with the necessary approach roads, facilities and ensuing human encroachment, would spell doom for what they say is also the last area in thailand large enough to ensure the survival of a wide variety of wildlife
found in the thung yai and the adjacent huay kha khaeng sanctuary, an area about the size of delaware, are large mammals, such as elephant, gaur, tiger and clouded leopard; some 350 species of birds, and a wide range of plant life. a number of the species are classified as endangered in thailand, some worldwide
foreign conservation groups have written letters expressing concern to the thai government. in december, britain's prince philip, head of the world wildlife fund, urged an independent environmental impact study before a final decision is reached. a similar plea came from more than 1,300 conservationists and scientists at the general assembly in february of the swiss-based international union for conservation of nature and natural resources
the electric generating authority maintains that nam choan would degrade only 4 percent of the area. but ranger veerawat, who has served for 10 years in the sanctuary, contends the 47-mile-long dam reservoir would not only eradicate a biologically vital riverine valley but also disrupt the migration routes of animals, forcing them into smaller habitats
opponents also dispute the 4 percent degradation estimate, saying that in thailand roads built into remote, forested areas have inevitably been followed by massive logging, with collusion between businessmen and corrupt officials circumventing protective legislation
loggers are already felling the rich forests along the park boundary
pisit na patalung, secretary-general of wildlife fund thailand, one of some 30 private organizations opposing the proposal, said the dam issue has raised an environmental awareness among thais. until recent years, the public appeared apathetic as the country's once teeming wildlife was slaughtered and forests that blanketed about 70 percent of the country a generation ago were reduced to around 15 percent of total area today
the dam was first proposed in the early 1970s but plans were shelved in 1983 in wake of protests and charges that environmental impact studies were sloppy and improper
in 1986, the electric generating authority asked that the project be reconsidered and the government appointed a 40-man committee headed by deputy prime minister thienchai sirisamphan to come up with a decision, which is expected soon
some opponents believe government leaders will be impressed by their arguments that thailand now has enough alternate energy sources, including offshore natural gas and lignite, to scrap the dam proposal
others, however, feel that too many key bureaucrats and politicians are still little concerned over environmental problems
another wildlife ranger, sueb nakhasathien, didn't sound optimistic
thais haven't yet put a price on the environment,'' he said. ``they don't realize that trees and water have a price, that wildlife has a price.'' republican and democratic figures; picks up 4th graf pvs bgng, `the 51-member;' stands for ams</note>
vice president george bush and democratic presidential contender jesse jackson each snared another victory sunday, winning their parties' primaries in puerto rico
but massachusetts gov. michael dukakis remained the leader of the democratic presidential pack because jackson picked up no delegates in the non-binding ``beauty contest'' in the u.s. commonwealth
bush swept the winner-take-all gop contest in puerto rico, with 14 delegates at stake. puerto rico gop chairman luis ferre declared that ``bush has the 14 delegates,'' even though the counting was proceeding slowly. with results from almost one-third of the precincts, bush had picked up 97 percent of the vote, while dole had gotten only 3 percent
on the democratic side, jesse jackson won the non-binding primary that hinged more on local issues than the candidates. with 31 percent of the precincts reporting, jackson had 35 percent of the votes. the nearest contender was dukakis with 23 percent, followed by illinois sen. paul simon with 20 percent
the 51-member democratic delegation from puerto rico was expected to go to the convention uncommitted and vote as a bloc. the commonwealth will send an additional five party leaders, including the governor, to the convention as delegates
bob dole, fighting for the survival of his republican presidential bid, was in wisconsin campaigning for the state's april 5 primary. the kansas senator, who has suffered a series of crushing losses to bush, has pledged to keep his faltering campaign alive at least until that contest
dole, who was gravely wounded in world war ii, was making a visit to a veterans hospital in milwaukee on sunday. such appearances have become a campaign staple for dole, who likes to use them to suggest he can surmount the greatest odds, as he did when he was recovering from his crippling injuries
those odds appeared to lengthen sunday, as a poll published in the milwaukee journal suggested bush held a commanding lead in wisconsin. the survey of likely republican voters, with a 6-point margin of error, said 69 percent backed bush while 25 percent supported dole. pat robertson trailed with 6 percent
i've got a lot of hill to climb before april 5,'' dole acknowledged, but added: ``bob dole is a fighter.''
on the democratic side, dukakis led in wisconsin with 38 percent, with jackson at 30 percent, the journal survey indicated. the other three democrats were closely clustered: rep. richard gephardt, 11 percent; simon, 11 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore jr., 10 percent. the democratic survey had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
dukakis, at a boston breakfast on sunday, was upbeat after his victory a day earlier in the kansas democratic caucuses, joking that he was ``just a simple farm boy _ from brookline,'' a boston suburb
although he was edged out by gephardt in delegates counted saturday in south dakota and by jackson in texas delegates counted the same day, dukakis remained ahead in national delegates
the south dakota totals were in line with last month's primary, which gephardt won. texas had already allocated the bulk of its delegates on super tuesday, with the saturday figures from county conventions and caucuses
the latest ap delegate count gave dukakis 526.5 delegates to 508.55 for jackson and 362.8 for gore. simon had 171.5, gephardt had 154 and 292.65 were uncommitted. to nominate, 2,082 delegates are needed
gore told about 200 members of the harriman society, a social club of the westchester democratic party, that the country's first priority should be arms control so it can change its underlying political relationship with the soviet union
the next great negotiating effort beyond the strategic arms agreement will have to come in conventional arms control,'' gore said, adding, ``there is a deep and understandable fear that the balance of forces could be less stable after reductions than before.''
before his speech at a fund-raising cocktail party, gore said the april 19 new york primary ``may well turn out to be the critical contest.''
jackson got an enthusiastic reception when he addressed california democrats, meeting in palm springs. all the candidates were invited to address the annual gathering, but only jackson accepted
there's room for you in the jackson campaign,'' he said to cheers and applause
all the democrats planned to spend at least three days in michigan this week in advance of saturday's democratic caucuses, with 138 delegates at stake
simon, who jump-started his stalled campaign with a win in his home state of illinois last week, was campaigning sunday in michigan, where he has said he hopes for a respectable showing but is not expecting a victory
i'd be fooling you if i said we expected to win in michigan,'' he said
gephardt was taking a day off on sunday at home in suburban washington. the missouri congressman, who was the big democratic loser on super tuesday and did not mount a real effort in illinois, has staked his hopes on a strong showing in michigan, and planned to spend almost every day of this week in the state
bush, too, was in washington sunday, where he has spent most of his time since his illinois victory last tuesday. he planned to resume campaigning on monday
the vice president was meeting monday in trenton with new jersey gov. thomas h. kean, and some leading state republicans said the session could mean kean planned to endorse the vice president. a kean spokesman, carl golden, would not comment on whether an endorsement was forthcoming
bush planned appearances in connecticut this week with sen. lowell weicker jr., who has stopped short of formally endorsing the vice president. but weicker, like bush the scion of a powerful connecticut family, has been going out of his way lately to praise him
connecticut holds its primary march 29, with 35 gop delegates at stake. dole planned to venture into the state toward the end of the week, but robertson had no connecticut appearances scheduled this week
federal researchers working in secret have succeeded in igniting a nuclear fusion reaction in tiny pellets of hydrogen by using radiation from an exploding nuclear weapon, according to a published report
the new york times, citing scientists and officials who spoke on condition of anonymity, reported in its monday editions that the successful experiment occurred about two years ago at an underground nuclear test site in nevada
the results have triggered a dispute over how experiments in small-scale fusion, or ``microfusion,'' should proceed, the newspaper said
scientists have long tried to tame nuclear fusion reactions, in the hope they could eventually lead to an unlimited and relatively cheap source of electrical power. in fusion reactions, which are found in stars and hydrogen bombs, atoms are joined together to release energy; they contrast with fission reactions in which atoms are split rather than combined
in most cases, the scientists have tried to use concentrated light from giant lasers to trigger a fusion reaction, but laser-based fusion has never proved successful. the secret experiment in nevada, the times said, instead used x-ray radiation from a nuclear weapon directed at tiny fuel pellets
the prototype fuel pellets are glass capsules filled with hydrogen isotopes, the times said. a dozen pellets can easily fit on the head of a pin, but their power output could be equivalent to hundreds of pounds of high explosives, the newspaper said
the secret achievement required more energy than expected, scientists told the times. the newspaper said scientists and government officials are arguing over which direction fusion research should go
some say the laser-based microfusion program needs a radical change of course, the times reported, while others say the nuclear approach, while unconventional, was a milestone that generated valuable data that will help make fusion practical
the times said it is believed that the experiments have never been publicly disclosed. it said that last september, sheldon kahalas, director of the nation's microfusion effort, told a princeton university conference that the effort had reached a ``historical turning point,'' but refused to elaborate
et tu, al? that's right, al pacino, like his predecessor marlon brando, is bringing an urban accent and street-wise ways to the patrician role of marc antony in a production of ``julius caesar'' this week
casting brando was a great idea because brando is a great actor _ and so is al,'' the producer, joseph papp, said in an interview published sunday in the new york times
when the film version of ``julius caesar'' was made in 1953, brando was best known as the brutal stanley kowalski in ``a streetcar named desire.'' nevertheless, he won favorable reviews for his portrayal of the highbrow antony
the image, the idea that brando had done it, was an encouragement to me to think that i could do it too,'' said pacino, who grew up in the south bronx. but he insisted, ``i have taken my own route.''
also starring in the production, which opens tuesday as part of papp's new york shakespeare festival, are martin sheen as brutus, edward herrmann as cassius and john mcmartin as julius caesar
pope john paul ii visited the sick at salvator mundi hospital to celebrate the centennial of the congregation of the sisters of the divine savior, the order that operates the hospital
i have come here to pay homage to those who suffer and to those that deal with the suffering of others,'' the pope told doctors and nurses assembled in the hospital's chapel on sunday. his remarks were carried on speakers located throughout the hospital
salvator mundi admits an average of 2,700 patients a year from about 80 countries
while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis campaigns for the presidency, another dukakis is quietly in the running for her own version of the american dream
olympia dukakis, the governor's first cousin, says she ``jumped up and down 50 times, like a child,'' when she learned she had been nominated for an oscar as best supporting actress for her performance as cher's mother in the hit comedy ``moonstruck.''
the greek-american actress, probably best known for her ``aunt millie'' spaghetti commercials, says she thinks it's good luck that her cousin won the new hampshire democratic primary in the same week she received her nomination
there's something going on, up in the stars,'' she says in this week's people magazine
newspaper columnist ann landers followed her own advice and talked to counselors _ 5,000 of them at once
landers, a chicago tribune advice columnist whose words are carried in thousands of papers nationwide, gave the opening speech sunday at the convention of the american association for counseling and development
i could talk to you tonight on one of three subjects,'' said miss landers, whose real name in eppie lederer. ``i could talk about problems, i could talk about the wonderful people in counseling or i could talk about sex
because this is such a good audience, i'm going to combine all three and talk about the sex problems of the wonderful people who do counseling,'' she said as the audience erupted in laughter
landers said at least one thing hasn't changed since she began writing her advice column in 1955
i believe the most important thing i can do is tell my readers to go and get counseling,'' she said
the imminent release of a realistic street-gang movie starring sean penn and robert duvall has authorities here worried that life could imitate art, resulting in outbreaks of gang violence in audiences
we'll be sorry that movie was ever made,'' said los angeles county sheriff's sgt. wes mcbride, who attended a private screening march 6
many of the 150 gang investigators invited to the screening said the film, ``colors,'' features graphic violence and the use of real gang names and identifying colors that could trigger a wave of violence
it's going to leave dead bodies from one end of this town to the other,'' said mcbride, president of the california gang investigators association. ``i wouldn't be the least bit surprised if a shooting erupted in a movie theater.''
in the film, directed by dennis hopper, penn and duvall play police officers fighting gangs. many of the extras used in the film are real gang members
officials at orion pictures, which is scheduled to release the movie in los angeles april 15, could not be reached for comment sunday
some clint eastwood fans showed they have a soft spot in their hearts for the tough-guy actor when they offered to pay his delinquent $63 fine for a 1977 speeding ticket
the phones have been buzzing'' since news of eastwood's ticket was publicized a week ago, said district justice marion l. morgret of this western pennsylvania community
one altoona resident sent a $63 check for eastwood's fine and asked for a receipt as proof of payment. the district justice's staff returned the check uncashed since eastwood technically doesn't owe the fine anymore because of the statute of limitations
eastwood was stopped on oct. 23, 1977, for traveling 69 mph in a 55-mph zone on the pennsylvania turnpike
a royal gala brought veteran hollywood screen star douglas fairbanks jr. to a british stage for the first time in 12 years
fairbanks, 81, an honorary knight, was a master of ceremonies at the adelphi theater for sunday's gala to raise funds for the blind
among those present was princess margaret, sister of queen elizabeth ii
fairbanks, who lives in new york and palm beach, fla., last acted in london's west end in 1976 in a comedy, ``the pleasure of his company,'' at the phoenix theater. correct witness' last name to cline sted guerra. picks up 19th graf, `i left...'.</note>
hundreds of partying young people rioted on a gulf coast beach during the night before police moved in with tear gas and helicopters early sunday. and a car that sped off a nearby ferry dock was pulled out of the gulf with two bodies inside
what you have down there is a tremendous amount of intoxication going on. all it takes sometimes is for someone to bump into someone else. the crowd just turned into a riot,'' said jim kaelin, an officer with the texas department of public safety
at least four people were stabbed and two law officers were injured in the midnight beach melee, police said. eight people were arrested, and one person remained hospitalized sunday
one thing led to another, and it became a riot out there,'' said coast guard spokesman anthony e. lloyd in corpus christi
lloyd said most of the students appeared to be high-school age. about 30,000 students were staying in this island resort for spring break, he said
the violence began when a motorist hit a 16-year-old girl on the beach at this gulf coast vacation spot on mustang island, offshore from corpus christi, and tried to leave the scene, said dps officer a.g. michniak
angry youths attacked the driver and torched the car, said police chief don perkins. officers pulled the man away from the crowd before youths set the car on fire, he said
they stomped the car, broke all the glass out of it and flipped it over,'' said tom frazier, 22, a student at the university of texas
it took more than 100 police officers to break up the mob with the help of tear gas and hovering coast guard helicopters with searchlights
the driver of the car, a 26-year-old san antonio man, was in the nueces county jail in connection with the accident, perkins said. charges had not been filed by sunday evening
the girl who was struck by the car was treated for abrasions and bruises at ami coastal bend hospital and released, nursing supervisor sharon parrack said sunday
a portable toilet also was set ablaze, authorities said
the first police on the scene tried to arrest two people involved in the alleged hit-and-run accident but found the crowd too much to handle
objects were tossed and thrown at the officers and they called for asistance,'' said a dps dispatcher in corpus christi who would not give her name
police fired seven tear gas projectiles to disperse the crowd, kaelin said
michniak said the dps received the first call at 11:35 p.m. saturday and the disturbance was not declared under control until three hours later
paul cline of port aransas said he saw a stabbing victim while leaving the beach
all of a sudden, somebody yelled and a guy fell. he had blood all over his chest,'' cline said. ``i heard them shout, `he's stabbed! he's stabbed!' they started tearing at his clothes, and then the police came running over
i left. i hate to say it, but i was afraid for my life.''
the dps estimated the crowd at about 3,000
a good example would be to think of a high school football stadium where everybody ran down to the field and was packed tight,'' kaelin said
in an unrelated incident several hours later, a speeding car crashed through a barrier at a ferry landing and sank in water 20 to 25 feet deep, lloyd said
the small car sailed about 75 feet in the air before splashing into the water and sinking, said coast guard spokesman bob fisher
a ferry captain and deck saw the incident, lloyd said
the car just flew right off the ferry landing,'' lloyd said. ``it didn't stop, didn't skid or anything, it just went right into the water, and they saw its tail end going down.''
the identities of the two young men found in the car were not immediately available, he said
most of those injured in the rioting were treated at nearby ami coastal bend hospital and released, said a hospital spokeswoman. a 17-year-old boy remained at the hospital sunday in stable condition with a superficial abdominal wound, ms. parrack said
president reagan presented white house chief of staff howard baker with a new presidential medal of freedom on monday after baker's original was lost during a weekend break-in at his home in northwest washington
baker ``is probably the only person who has received two medals of freedom,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said
baker and his wife, joy, were sitting in their living room saturday evening when an alarm sounded. baker went downstairs to his study to fix what he thought would be an alarm sensor fallen from a window pane
instead, he discovered a burglar stealing expensive camera equipment and the former tennessee senator's medal of freedom
baker chased the thief upstairs, downstairs and out while his wife was phoning district police and white house security. the burglar dropped most of the stolen items while being chased through the house and fled into the street
police arrested a man later that evening who had some of the bakers' camera equipment but not the medal. the man has refused to identify himself to police
honda has broken ground for a second u.s. auto assembly plant
the honda of america manufacturing east liberty auto plant is scheduled to open in august 1989, company officials said. the $380 million factory will employ 1,800 workers and be capable of producing 150,000 cars a year
this sends a message around the world that ohio's workers can produce world-class products,'' gov. richard celeste said at sunday's ceremony
honda began manufacturing in the united states in 1979 with production at its motorcycle plant in marysville, about 35 miles northwest of columbus. the auto plant at marysville began production three years later. an engine plant at anna in western ohio began production in 1985
the new plant is part of a strategy aimed at establishing a self-reliant motor vehicle company in the united states with resources that compare to the tokyo-based company's operations in japan, honda officials said
corruption is so widespread here that crooked guards may be watching crooks who may have been arrested by crooked cops, defended by crooked lawyers or sentenced by crooked judges, longtime observers say
the only thing in the last 10 years that hasn't been crooked is both the da's and the u.s. attorney's office,'' former district attorney edward rendell said
various investigations in the nation's fifth-largest city, where the constitution was written 201 years ago, have resulted in convictions or charges against judges, police, defense lawyers and prison guards, the latest target of prosecutors
the wave of corruption has hit city hall, itself
a federal jury last year convicted councilman leland beloff and an aide of conspiring with reputed area mob boss nicodemo ``little nicky'' scarfo to extort $1 million from a developer
last week, district attorney ronald castille announced that the arrests of seven prison guards and a cook in an escape and an inmate's beating were part of ``operation ferret,'' an investigation expected to yield more than 100 arrests among the city's approximately 1,400 prison guards
also last week, a federal judge ordered former common pleas judge kenneth harris to begin serving a 12-year sentence for extorting bribes to fix cases. harris, 67, is one of three former city judges who have been convicted and one of 16 who have been named in various investigations
the pennsylvania supreme court in february ordered eight judges to be removed from the bench, six permanently, as a result of a federal investigation into cash payments from roofers union officials
in harris' case, a lawyer-turned-informant, barry h. denker, testified he gave cash to harris and two other judges now awaiting trial on extortion charges
denker also said he gave money or gifts to police, probation officers, trial commissioners and court criers while maintaining his practice in criminal defense law
another former lawyer, romaine phillips, was convicted of racketeering, conspiracy and extortion in the harris case
assistant district attorney patricia donleavy has said three or four lawyers may yet be charged. a former aide to harris testified three lawyers gave him money to deliver to the judge in exchange for favorable rulings
investigations also have targeted the city's police force. since 1983, 34 officers have been convicted in bribery and conspiracy cases, including a deputy commissioner who was convicted of extorting money from vice figures
other agencies also have been hit, with garbage crews accused of taking bribes to make pickups at businesses and city inspectors accused of taking bribes for licenses
we talked to contractors who refused to work in this city because they refused to pay off the (licenses and inspections) inspectors or the water department,'' castille said
castille said he must defend ``some of the hard-working judges, the hard-working city employees, the cops who put their lives on the line and the ones who aren't corrupt.''
the court scandal has grabbed constant attention
i don't remember anything that's quite comparable to what we have now,'' said city solicitor seymour kurland, who recently stepped down as chancellor of the philadelphia bar association
my feeling now is despite the image, there's a core, a very good core, of very fine judges. there's a very fine core of judges, of people in the city, who are making it work.''
judges and others whose images are being tarnished by what officials say are a few rotten apples have become angry
after the extortion conviction of former senior common pleas judge herbert r. cain jr., u.s. justice department prosecutor eric holder told reporters that corruption in philadelphia's judiciary ``starts at the top and goes all through the system.''
the remark prompted a heated response by common pleas president judge edward j. bradley, who said holder should ``keep his mouth shut.''
i don't think what he said was widely held,'' bradley said last week, adding that holder told him in a letter that he also told reporters the overwhelming majority of judges were doing excellent work
bradley said judicial corruption cases have presented an image problem
realistically, i've got to say it has caused the public to have a lower perception of the court,'' bradley said, noting the number of questioned or convicted judges is small compared with 125 total judges
in his remarks after the cain verdict, holder also said he was ``struck by the fact that there doesn't seem to be a hue and cry from the citizens of this city.''
the way that i see it as a citizen is that if you believe that the city officials are corrupt or the city is corrupt, you always have a last resort and that's the courts,'' castille said
so if you have the courts taking envelopes of cash, selling verdicts ... then what else is there?'' update with reaction from latest kidnap victim, louisiana sheriff. picks up 11th graf pvs, `weeks and...'.</note>
a convicted killer who escaped from a louisiana prison 1{ years ago and has been implicated in two interstate kidnappings since then was arrested sunday with a companion is also accused in one of the abductions
danny michael weeks, 34, was serving a life sentence for murder and another sentence for armed robbery at the time of his escape from the louisiana state penitentiary at angola in august 1986. he was later placed on the fbi's 10-most-wanted list
weeks was captured by a special 10-member fbi team, along with jorene h. florea, 56, said chief seattle fbi agent don s. tokunaga
weeks and ms. florea apparently were just passing through the seattle area, tokunaga said. agents received an anonymous tip from someone who had recognized weeks as a most-wanted criminal, the agent said
agents converged on weeks and ms. florea about a half-hour after receiving the tip as the two were looking into the trunk of a car in a residential neighborhood, tokunaga said. ``we were fortunate there were no incidents,'' he said
the two were not armed, but agents had not completed a search of the vehicle, he said
authorities said that after weeks and a companion escaped from the prison aug. 24, 1986, the two men abducted a woman at knifepoint in the parking lot of an alexandria, la., hospital and forced her to drive them to houston, where she was released unharmed about eight hours later
the pair then forced a second woman, who was a lieutenant in the u.s. army, to drive them hundreds of miles during a 50-hour ordeal that took her to el paso, texas, where she was left in a shopping center parking lot
weeks' companion, james lee colvin, 33, of shreveport, la., was arrested not long after that incident. last august, he was convicted on fedeal charges of kidnapping, using firearms during a violent crime, illegally possessing revolvers and transporting stolen vehicles across state lines
earlier this month, weeks and ms. florea were charged with the feb. 23 abduction of susan kathleen vincent, a guilford, n.c., sheriff's deputy, from a shopping center in greensboro, n.c. she was released unharmed in chicago three days later
i'm ecstatic,'' ms. vincent said sunday night about the capture. ``i'm real relieved.''
ms. vincent said that during her abduction, her captors robbed a bank in davenport, iowa. she said she also was forced to use a bank card to withdraw money, and ended up giving her kidnappers $208
i'm real glad they caught them so soon, before they got out of the country,'' ms. vincent said. ``the worst is over now. all that's left is the court action.''
sheriff layman godwin of ouachita parish, la., where weeks twice escaped from deputies' custody in 1982 and 1983, said seattle authorities had better take no chances with the captured fugitive
i just hope they learn from our mistakes that he's a sharp son of a gun,'' said godwin. in those two earlier escapes, charges were dropped as part of a plea bargain
weeks and ms. florea are to appear before a u.s. magistrate in seattle on monday, tokunaga said
weeks, originally from roswell, n.m., had been serving a 99-year-sentence for armed robbery and a life sentence for a 1981 contract slaying
he pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of second-degree murder in that slaying, avoiding a possible death penalty for conviction on the original charge of first-degree murder
advocates of spending limits for senate campaigns are regrouping for another battle, pursuing a new route after republicans talked the last attempt to death less than a month ago
the push is being led by sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., who is the chief sponsor of a 19-word resolution that he hopes will become the 27th amendment to the u.s. constitution
hollings is proposing the amendment as an alternative to legislation that was stymied by a 53-hour republican filibuster late last month
the amendment seeks to overcome a supreme court ruling _ buckley vs. valeo in 1976 _ that says congressionally mandated spending limits for election campaigns violate first amendment free-speech rights
the hollings plan specifically would allow congress to restrict the amounts candidates can receive and spend. if the amendment were ratified, congress would have to pass legislation setting limits
advocates of limits recite a litany of escalating campaign costs: the average senate winner spent $3 million in 1984, up from $600,000 in 1976. sen. david boren, d-okla., says this translates into having to raise $10,000 a week during a six-year senate term
the legislation the amendment would supplant called for a system of voluntary spending limits for senate campaigns, with incentives like cheap postal and television advertising rates for participants and public financing for them if opponents refused to observe the limits
that plan has 52 sponsors, 50 of them democrats, including majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., who has been trying to bring it to a floor vote for nearly a year against near-solid republican opposition
republicans, arguing that limits would hamper their efforts to gain strength in heavily democratic states, held ranks through a record eight cloture votes, the last coming feb. 26 to end the filibuster. byrd never got more than 55 of the 60 votes needed to shut off senate debate
hollings says he thinks he can get the support to beat any filibuster against his plan. but he said he's uncertain whether he can get the 67 votes needed to get a proposed constitutional amendment through the senate
he said byrd has assured him the proposal will be brought to the floor in the near future. ``i'm ready to go and he's ready to go,'' said hollings, adding that he hopes to get it approved this week by the judiciary committee
there is a different political mixture involved in the constitutional amendment route than with the byrd-boren legislation to set up voluntary limits
hollings did not cosponsor the byrd-boren bill. neither did amendment cosponsors howell heflin, d-ala., or strom thurmond of south carolina, judiciary's ranking republican. sen. william roth, r-del., is sponsoring a proposed limits amendment with slightly different wording
a small group of republicans favors limits but supported gop leaders in the partisan battle over the byrd-boren legislation. sen. arlen specter, r-pa., voted against cloture eight times but now says his ``strong inclination is to support this constitutional amendment.''
he made the statement last week at a hearing by the judiciary subcommittee on the constitution, where battle lines were drawn on both political and constitutional grounds
sen. mitch mcconnell, r-ky., one of the filibuster leaders, said he still was opposing limits because they would favor democrats. if television is driving up the cost of campaigning, he said, don't tamper with the constitution, force broadcasters to cut their ad rates. if special interest money is becoming too dominant, outlaw political action committees, mcconnell said
also opposing a limits amendment was the american civil liberties union, represented by joel gora, the brooklyn law school professor who was one of the winning lawyers in the buckley-valeo case
the aclu believes that government restrictions on political campaign funding infringe on freedom of speech and association,'' gora said. ``they would enshrine in the constitution itself the power of government to restrict campaign activity and hence political speech.''
but washington attorney lloyd cutler, who helped argue the losing side in the 1976 case, said larger questions are involved
the evidence is overwhelming by now that unlimited campaign expenditures will eventually grow to the point where they consume so much of our political energies and so fracture our political consensus that they will make the political process incapable of governing effectively,'' cutler said
one might fairly paraphrase lord acton's famous aphorism about power by saying: all political money corrupts; unlimited political money corrupts absolutely.''
after 10 months, one of the many unanswered questions in the criminal investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii is whether he benefited financially from his efforts on behalf of an iraqi oil pipeline project or scandal-plagued wedtech corp., sources familiar with the probe say
last may 11, independent counsel james mckay launched his inquiry of meese's assistance to wedtech and the probe has spread to the attorney general's involvement with the pipeline
in both instances, mckay's investigators have been examining stock trades made on meese's behalf by his investment manager, w. franklyn chinn. chinn and meese were brought together by meese's longtime friend e. robert wallach, a central figure in both the wedtech scandal and the pipeline project
it was disclosed earlier this month that:
_in connection with the $1 billion proposed pipeline, swiss oilman bruce rappaport paid $150,000 to his attorney wallach, who directed the funds to an account owned by chinn
rappaport was a partner in the project with san francisco-based bechtel group inc., which was going to build the pipeline. rappaport was brought into the deal in 1985 primarily because of his close ties to then-israeli prime minister shimon peres
_the money from the meese partners account, wallach's $150,000 placed in the chinn account and several hundred thousand dollars from chinn's biggest customer, marymount college of palos verdes, calif., were used as capital by chinn to buy hard-to-get, brand-new stock issues, which chinn sold later the same day. it would have been difficult for chinn to obtain such stock with meese's money alone
without using the holdings of the other accounts he controlled, ... mr. chinn may not have been able to conduct the number of trades he did ... on behalf of meese partners,'' a congressional subcommittee said in a report this month
_once the stock was sold and the profit and loss determined, chinn assigned profits and losses to his various customers
overall, meese invested $50,000 and came away 18 months later with $95,000, almost all of it gained through a total of 23 one-day stock trades. eighteen of the trades were profitable
in seven of the trades, the attorney general didn't have enough money in his account to generate the profits and losses that were assigned him
chinn's biggest customer, marymount college, didn't fare nearly as well as meese
was the stock trading actually a well-disguised payoff to meese?
that question is one that mckay's office has been unable to resolve, say the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity
central to the criminal investigation is whether there was a plan to steer the proceeds of chinn's stock transactions to meese and whether the attorney general knew about it
the attorney general says he knew nothing about the transactions because he had set up a limited blind partnership with chinn's company under which details were to be kept secret from meese as a way to protect the attorney general from violating rules against conflict of interest
the investigators face a wall of silence from the others involved in setting up the financial arrangements, chinn and wallach, who are both under indictment for racketeering in the wedtech scandal
wallach denied to mckay's investigators that he gave anything of value to meese, but wallach refused to tell mckay anything about his dealings with wedtech, his knowledge of the meese-chinn partnership and his dealings with chinn
mckay said that after the wedtech trial expected later this year of wallach, chinn and business associate r. kent london, the independent counsel may seek their testimony again
the attorney general's good fortune in stock trading began months after he smoothed the way for wallach to discuss the pipeline with then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane, who met with wallach and rappaport in june 1985. later in the year, meese and wallach met with peres about the pipeline, which was never built
also during the period the stock trading was taking place, chinn sat on the board of directors of wedtech, the bronx, n.y., defense contractor that allegedly paid out millions of dollars to lawyers and lobbyists in an attempt to influence various public officials, including meese, in the awarding of federal contracts
one of those lawyers was wallach, who was paid $1.3 million from 1981 through 1986 by wedtech
the stock trades that made profits for the attorney general took place some four years after meese, then white house counselor, arranged for his deputy, james jenkins, to intervene on behalf of wedtech in connection with a $32 million no-bid contract to build small engines for the army. despite the misgivings of army officials over what they regarded as a high price, wedtech was awarded the contract following a white house meeting called by jenkins
meese ended the financial arrangement with chinn last year after the investment adviser came under criminal investigation in the wedtech scandal and after public disclosure that chinn had sat on wedtech's board of directors. 1970</head>
when nicaraguan president daniel ortega sent his forces into honduras last week, it was not the first time troops from one country had crossed a border to attack enemy sanctuaries
richard m. nixon did much the same thing in 1970
the parallels between what u.s. forces and allied south vietnamese troops did in cambodia in april 1970 and what nicaraguan forces did in honduras last week are not precise
but the justification offered for the two actions 18 years apart is the same: that cross-border sanctuaries used by enemy forces to make war are fair game for the country under attack
in 1970, north vietnam and south vietnamese rebels were using sanctuaries in eastern cambodia to wage war against the u.s.-backed government in saigon
on april 30 of that year, more than 20,000 u.s. and south vietnamese troops crossed the border into cambodia to clear out the sanctuaries controlled by the north vietnamese
now, almost 18 years later, ortega has sent his forces into honduras, apparently for a similar purpose. according to u.s. estimates, upwards of 1,500 nicaraguan forces, backed by air power, entered honduras last tuesday to wipe out resupply facilities of the nicaraguan contra rebels
the nicaraguan action prompted president reagan, in response to a request from honduran president jose azcona, to send 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras in a show of american moral support. the troops are under instructions to stay away from the area of hostilities
reagan's decision touched off demonstrations in several u.s. cities, much as nixon's decision did 18 years ago on a much larger scale. days after nixon's announcement, four students were killed by national guard troops at kent state university
george carver, a former cia analyst on vietnam, said friday it would be a mistake to suggest that the cambodian and honduran examples are analogous
he said the honduran bases are used by a nicaraguan force against the nicaraguan government while, for the most part, the sanctuaries in cambodia were used by north vietnam to take over a foreign country, south vietnam
carver, now an associate at the center for strategic and international studies, a private research group, also recalled that while nixon acknowledged the offensive into cambodia publicly, ortega has not admitted the nicaraguan foray into honduras
the reagan administration has said that the evidence confirming the nicaraguan presence there is beyond dispute
in criticizing the nicaraguan action this past week, reagan administration officials have said it constitutes a potential danger to honduras, a country friendly to the united states
sidestepping the issue of the presence of contra base camps in honduras, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said the decision to dispatch u.s. forces was a show of support to a country whose ``territorial integrity is being violated by the cuban and soviet-supported sandinista army.''
but there is no evidence that the short-term sandinista goals in honduras go beyond destruction of the contra camps, just as the u.s. target in 1970 was not cambodia but the communist sanctuaries there
we take this action not for the purpose of expanding the war into cambodia but for the purpose of ending the war in vietnam,'' nixon said at the time
there is another key similarity. nixon felt he was justified in going after the north vietnamese camps to strike a blow against communist expansionism
ortega sees the contras in much the same way that nixon regarded the north vietnamese. the contras, ortega has said, are ``mercenaries'' who serve american strategic aims
a footnote: the american and south vietnamese forces left cambodia after a few weeks. u.s. troops were gone from south vietnam within three years and the north vietnamese conquest was achieved two years later. as for cambodia, a communist regime took power in 1975 and killed an estimated 2 million cambodians during its extraordinarily bloody 3{-year rule. the country is now under vietnamese military occupation
george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
alexander m. lewyt, an inventor who developed a vacuum cleaner designed to operate without interfering with tv or radio reception, died friday at age 79
lewyt, who was born in new york, the son of an austrian immigrant who ran a gadget shop, held patents on scores of inventions
when he learned of undertakers' difficulty in fastening neckties on corpses, the teen-age lewyt devised a new kind of bow tie that clipped on. he sold 50,000 of them. it was unclear whether he ever patented the concept
he was best known for the compact lewyt vacuum cleaner, which had no dust bag and was designed not to cause interference
in the first eight years after his vacuum cleaner was introduced after world war ii, lewyt corp. sold 2 million of them. during the war, lewyt corp. did a multi-million dollar business making such things as radar antennas and popcorn poppers
lewyt sold his interest in the company to the budd corp. in the 1950s
sidney johnson ``fiddlin' sid'' harkreader, one of the first featured fiddlers on the grand ole opry, died saturday at age 90
born near gladeville, harkreader bought his first fiddle from a catalog for $3.95 when he was about 10 with money earned from selling rabbit skins
he played on the opry, a live country music show, off and on from the 1920s until the 1950s. he performed well into his 80s
robert goralski, a former nbc news correspondent, died of cancer friday at age 60
goralski covered the vietnam war and the mideast war of 1967 and reported from the white house, pentagon and state department at various stages of his career
goralski left nbc in 1975 to join gulf oil corp. as public relations director. in recent years, he was a senior adviser to the american petroleum institute, a trade association for the oil industry
a large surplus of table wine in the european economic community will mean more competition for u.s. producers, according to an agriculture department report
during the late 1970s and early '80s, eec exporters supplied a rising share of the u.s. wine market, with imports peaking in 1984. since then, spain and portugal have joined the trading bloc, raising eec membership to 12 countries
based on grape, wine and transportation cost comparisons, california, france and italy have similar total costs for producing and transporting wine to major u.s. markets,'' the report said
imports of non-premium table wines from the eec ``should not reach the levels they did in 1984 in the near future,'' it said. ``however, because of its wine surplus, which is projected to reach 20 million to 25 million hectoliters in 1991-92, the (eec) will continue to place heavy emphasis on exports to the united states.''
a liter is slightly more than a quart, and a hectoliter is 100 liters, or roughly 26.5 gallons. the eec wine surplus, therefore, could exceed 660 million gallons in four years
the report was prepared by two cornell university agricultural economists, gerald b. white and david blandford, for the department's economic research service
according to studies, the transportation costs of shipping wine to the eastern united states are about $3 per case from italy and france, and $2 from california. actual production costs were estimated at $9.98 per nine-liter case in california; $9.37 in france; and $8.10 in italy
one reason for the large eec wine surplus has been a shift in european drinking habits, according to consumer studies in france
a switch from high-energy-using manual labor to lower-energy-using work reduced caloric needs of which wine was an important source,'' the report said. ``in addition, wine had an `old product' image that was less in tune with younger people than other beverages such as mineral water, beer and soft drinks.''
the french studies probably also explain declining wine consumption in italy and spain, ``where an exodus of population from the rural economy continues and old traditions are being replaced,'' the report said
on the other hand, there has been a trend toward the consumption of higher quality wines produced in specific regions, the report added. accordingly, eec policy for the last 15 years has emphasized the production of the quality wines
the agriculture department is tuning up its honey support program for 1988, and there's still a few days left to submit public comments on what to do
congress authorized in the food security act of 1985 a ``marketing loan'' program for honey to help reduce inventories held as surplus by the department's commodity credit corp
under the marketing loan concept, a farmer can get a regular ccc loan at a specified price support level and then, if he chooses, can repay the loan at the prevailing market rate
the law set the honey support at 64 cents per pound for 1986 and 63 cents in 1987. it says the loan for 1988 through 1990 will be the rate for the previous year, reduced by 5 percent. however, the 1988-90 support cannot be lower than 75 percent of the average price received by honey producers in the preceding five years, dropping the years of highest and lowest prices
currently, the loan repayment rate for 1987-crop honey ranges between 34 cents and 40 cents, depending on the color and class
according to the most recently published figures, inventories of ccc-owned honey as of oct. 31, 1987, totaled about 71.2 million pounds, down from 102.1 million pounds a year earlier
written comments on the 1988 honey program, including whether to continue the marketing loan program, can be sent by march 25 to: director, commodity analysis division, usda-ascs, room 3741-s, p.o. box 2415, washington, d.c. 20013
a war against the cotton boll weevil is being expanded in arizona after successful tests in other parts of the southwest, says the agriculture department
james glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said an initial $6 million program in california, western arizona and northern mexico reduced the weevil population by 95 percent in one year and eliminated it in three years
now, the campaign is being extended into central and eastern arizona, which will alleviate the problem of reinfestation from migrating weevils, he said. the expanded program will cost about $20 million, with cotton producers paying 70 percent of the bill
expanding the program will not only protect arizona agriculture but will safeguard the progress made in california and mexico as well,'' glosser said
by using traps baited with the weevil's natural sex attractant, or pheromone, the insect's populations can be pinpointed, according to program director frank myers of the arizona cotton growers research and protection council
after that, the insecticide malathion will be applied to fields by airplanes or with ground equipment
similar programs are also working in the southeast, where the boll weevil plagued cotton farmers for almost a century, costing them an estimated $12 billion since its entry from mexico in 1892, according to usda officials
the republicans have a runaway winner and now the democrats are in a quandary: they'd like to keep up with the bushes and have one of their own, but the prospects for wheeling and dealing are so delicious that many party leaders can barely contain themselves
it keeps the excitement going,'' says colorado gov. roy roemer. ``i'd like to have a voice.''
there will be brokering,'' says new york's mario cuomo. ``the question is where and how.''
if it happens at the convention, cuomo says, ``the whole united states will see you in the grubby business of cutting deals. i say that's no way to do it. i say let's do it when they're not watching.''
tip o'neill, the retired house speaker, harkens back to 1952, when the democrats nominated adlai stevenson in the most recent roll-call convention. ``it makes it more fun,'' he says
of course stevenson lost to eisenhower and the democrats were out in the cold for eight years. former president carter says the boisterous 1980 convention made him ``weaker than when i went in'' and he is urging that the democrats find a ``winning ticket'' and unite behind it in atlanta
that's the cool, calculated democratic party talking. the one whose chairman, paul kirk, wants to have a june summit to work things out before the july roll call in atlanta
the problem is that democratic voters haven't made it clear whom they want and party leaders fear that no one will emerge from the primaries
despite the predicament, the democrats can be sure that george bush is not taking his presidency for granted. so far, the struggle for the democratic nomination probably says more about the party's strength (breadth of support, with multiple candidates tapping different veins of support) than its weakness (no obvious leader to rebuild the party's old majority coalition)
the process is going to work its will,'' predicts sen. john kerry. ``nobody said the process had to end by march.''
for kerry's candidate, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the process is likely to end in may, one way or the other. alone among the candidates, dukakis has the money, the organization and the wintertime success to nail down the nomination during the second round of primaries and caucuses
democrats wouldn't even bother thinking about brokered conventions except that dukakis' third-place disappointment in illinois raised questions about his dominance in the string of urban states to come. he has from michigan on saturday to ohio on may 3 to eliminate the doubts _ with these key states in between: wisconsin, april 5, new york on april 19 and pennsylvania on april 26
the gary hart law of politics says that opportunity knocks just once every four years. if dukakis stumbles in the next five weeks, there will be little hope of redemption in california in june (let alone atlanta in july)
sen. albert gore jr., after an incredible two-week anguish over where to go next, is now plotting an april 5 ambush in wisconsin to start the ball rolling his way. he wouldn't seem to stand much chance, except that sen. paul simon of illinois is crossing the state line to make another last stand. simon could drain enough dukakis support to deny him the victory
like dukakis, gore will either win at the ballot box or he won't win at all. his hope is to block dukakis in april and may and then sweep california and new jersey on final tuesday, june 6
if the two of them slug it out without a winner, then who?
jesse jackson? he followed up his southern victories with second place in kansas last saturday and he maintains a slight lead over dukakis in the competition for texas delegates _ but many voters tell pollsters they would never consider voting for him. this ``high negative'' rating probably disqualifies him from the ticket
richard gephardt? he was the democratic golden boy for a while, but all the congressional endorsements in the world can't help if his trade and family-farm message doesn't win him michigan this weekend
that leaves the usual suspects: cuomo, sam nunn and bill bradley, with lee iacocca on the list to add spice. nunn has thrown in with gore, but not very vigorously. bradley is saying nice things about dukakis and cuomo is reconsidering his well-honed neutrality. in any event, it hardly seems worth exploring the alternatives until the coming ``dukakis primaries'' have run their course
jonathan wolman is the associated press' assistant bureau chief in washington
jean sutherland hasn't touched her husband or heard his voice in nearly three years, but she lives in the capital of lebanon so she can stay close to the american hostage
i am there and i feel very good there,'' mrs. sutherland said in an interview last week during a visit to the nation's capital. ``i don't have any real fears.''
mrs. sutherland has not courted publicity or criticized u.s. government officials to draw attention to the plight of her scots-born husband, thomas sutherland. few recognized her at a prayer ceremony wednesday to mark terry anderson's third year in captivity
anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held american hostage. he and sutherland have been held in the same room for some of the time, according to former hostages
sutherland, dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, was kidnapped june 9, 1985, arriving in beirut after a visit to the united states. his wife was in fort collins, colo., to finish her ph.d. thesis in english
a soft-spoken but direct woman, mrs. sutherland returned permanently to beirut in october 1985. except for periodic visits to see her three daughters, all in their 20s, she has remained in lebanon
the state department granted the wives of the american hostages special permission to stay in lebanon, which is off-limits to u.s. citizens. mrs. sutherland is one of the few americans remaining in the country
life in beirut has settled into a routine for mrs. sutherland, who teaches english at the american university and lives on the campus in west beirut. most of her time is spent working _ usually from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m
chaos in the country has forced many teachers to flee, leaving the school short-staffed, mrs. sutherland said. although her schedule is demanding, work gives meaning to her life and makes it bearable, she said
being at the university is so rewarding; there is so much to do,'' she said. she also created two funds to raise money for the university and lebanese children orphaned and handicapped by the war
she's really a saint,'' said barbara henry, a spokeswoman for the university in new york
while often too busy to leave the campus, mrs. sutherland said she travels around the city occasionally to shop and visit friends, especially the wives of the other hostages
security has improved since the syrians stationed troops in west beirut about a year ago to quell the warring militias. ``in a sense the lifestyle has changed quite remarkably and we have a sense of living quite normally.''
murders, muggings and robberies are common _ as in any big city _ but indiscriminate shelling has virtually ceased, she said
the challenge for lebanon these days is the economy, which has taken a beating as a result of the civil war. the electricity and the water often shut off, and imported goods are sometimes in short supply, she said
while so near to her husband, mrs. sutherland has had few clues about him or his captors. the hostages are thought to be held in the southern suburbs of beirut by pro-iranian shiite moslems close to iran
of the nine american hostages, six have wives living in lebanon. two _ mrs. sutherland and virginia steen _ were born in the united states; the others are from the middle east
the network of wives ``is a very strong support group,'' mrs. sutherland said, although she gets together on a frequent basis only with ilham ghandour, joseph cicippio's wife. cicippio was the comptroller at the university
the two live on the aub campus, while three other women live near the beirut university college where their husbands taught. they are mrs. steen and the wives of robert polhill and jesse turner. also living in lebanon is the wife of frank h. reed
the wives pass along rumors and tips about the hostages, and contact people they think might be helpful. but it is ``sort of hard over so much time'' to stay in touch, she said
one of mrs. sutherland's major concerns for her husband is the frustration that he must feel by being unable to work or use his time constructively
tom was always a worker and not being able to do something must be driving him crazy,'' she said
former hostages have said boredom was one of the worst parts of captivity
to amuse themselves, sutherland and anderson planned an imaginary farm while in captivity, according to the rev. lawrence martin jenco, a former hostage who spent time with them
mrs. sutherland lives in the present, refusing to look too far into the future. asked how long she expects her husband to remain a hostage, she replied: ``we don't know how many years it is going to be.''
and when he is released, she will be there, she said
like the fog that rolls in from the atlantic, enshrouding this base most mornings, mystery surrounds the payday robbery and killing of the uss john hancock's disbursement officer
sometime early tuesday after lt. j.g. ratish prasad finished his watch at midnight, someone shot him in the head at close range, choked him and shoved his body into a storage area on the destroyer
the killer vanished with $94,629 in navy payroll and blank checks
this base, stunned 10 months ago when 37 sailors were killed in an attack on one of its ships _ the uss stark _ in the persian gulf, is reeling from what veterans say is a crime like none in memory here
the naval investigative service, which is probing the 24-year-old prasad's killing in conjunction with the duval county sheriff's office, has been mum about the investigation, saying it will remain so until there is a break in the case. the sheriff's office also hasn't commented on the case
some have speculated, however, that because visits to such a ship are tightly restricted, the killer could be one of the 320 officers and sailors aboard the destroyer. even navy personnel without specific business have difficulty going aboard, said chief petty officer art riccio, a navy spokesman
that feeling is there. people are looking about, asking questions, trying to find out what is going on,'' command master chief curtis t. cook said in an interview with the florida times-union
or, the killer could be someone who slipped through the security gate at the base and a checkpoint at the pier, got on the ship, committed the crime and escaped
the navy is refusing to say if there are any leads, whether it has any suspects or whether the probe is focusing on crew members. however, navy and civilian investigators have been interviewing members of the ship's crew
mayport has 35 ships, including two aircraft carriers, and 18,500 active-duty personnel and 3,000 civilian employees
prasad, the only son of indian-born parents, rameshwar and mithilesh, was a strict vegetarian, unusual in the meat-and-potatoes navy. fellow officers aboard the ship called him ``radish'' because of his penchant for vegetables
as the man responsible for handing out pay, prasad probably got to know more people than many others during nearly three years in the navy
he smiled a lot. he was friendly and he always said hello to the rest of the crew. he probably could tell you by sight the name, and probably the pay record, of everyone on board,'' cook said
prasad's mother, in a telephone interview from her home in park forest, ill., told the florida times-union his death was the realization of the family's worst nightmare
we didn't want him to join. it was scary for us because you never know what is going to happen,'' she said
her son had a degree in business administration from the university of illinois and had planned to go to graduate school after the navy, relatives said
officials said that at every muster since the body was found, no one has been reported missing from the ship
we know exactly where everyone is at,'' riccio said, adding that at least a fourth of the ship's personnel is on duty at any one time and others must check in daily unless they are on leave
the ship's disbursement office is a secure area ``like a bank'' and the combination of the safe was issued only to those with a need to know, riccio said
when the disbursing office door was discovered open tuesday, an immediate search for prasad was called, said lt. cmdr. tim taylor. prasad had gotten off duty at midnight, then spent the night on board in a stateroom, taylor said
investigators initially thought prasad had absconded with the money, but they quickly found his car still parked on the pier. shortly afterward, his body was found in an isolated storage area one deck below his office
navy officials said the time of death, an important element of the investigation, hadn't been determined as far as they knew. again</head>
a man sexually assaulted a woman at gunpoint less than three hours after he was released on a rape charge, according to authorities who said the man was captured following a two-hour chase
lawrence david gremminger, 49, was captured when his motorcycle ran out of gas northwest of santa barbara, los angeles county sheriff's deputy roxanna schuchman said sunday
the chase with police, sheriff's deputies and the california highway patrol reached speeds up to 100 mph, she said
gremminger had been arrested friday for investigation of rape and posted $10,000 bail saturday, ms. schuchman said
he then began knocking on doors in a santa clarita valley residential area, asking housewives if their husbands were home and saying he needed help repairing a disabled motorcycle, the deputy said
at one house, he pulled a gun on a 46-year-old woman and forced her to perform a sex act, ms. schuchman said
the woman was able to break free and run for help, and two neighbors chased the man in their car. they alerted los angeles police officers who followed him into ventura and santa barbara counties before he ran out of gas and surrendered after a brief standoff
gremminger was being held sunday on $250,000 bail for investigation of sexual assault, assault with a deadly weapon and numerous vehicle code violations, schuchman said
the fire-damaged scandinavian star was being towed into port here so federal investigators can look for the cause of an engine-room blaze that cut short a mexican cruise
the ship could arrive as early as today at the home base of its operators, seaescape ltd., the national transportation safety board said
a preliminary inspection showed that the fire ``cooked'' wiring in the ship's engine room, said william p. fannon, leader of the four-member investigative team
once the ship is in miami, ntsb investigators hope to rig bright lights and ventilating fans in the engine room, which is currently lit by dim lights from an auxiliary power unit
we want to develop a scenario of what happened,'' fannon said. ``we're going to examine everything because the probable cause can come from any one of a number of indicators.''
the fire broke out wednesday morning when the star was about 35 miles northeast of the yucatan peninsula. the ship was returning to st. petersburg from a three-day cruise to cozumel, mexico
the ship was towed to cancun, and its 447 passengers were flown back to florida late thursday
fannon said the investigation will include interviews with crew members and passengers
as the ship was being towed, more than 260 crew members relaxed on deck chairs, fannon said
but he said the crew were hardly enjoying a vacation. because of electrical damage, the star had no water for showers
there is also no air conditioning,'' fannon said. ``it's quite uncomfortable.''
borrowers' rights provisions of the farm credit foreclosure law are being tested by a couple's attempt to buy back the farm they lost in foreclosure
a class action lawsuit in federal court by james and maureen leckband could affect the sales of hundreds of farms that the federal land bank of st. paul has taken from delinquent borrowers
the farm credit rescue law, which took effect jan. 6, says that when federal land banks decide to sell farms, they must give former owners 15 days to buy back the land. the leckbands' case is viewed as a test of what the price should be
a public sale of their 320-acre farm near worthington was interrupted friday with word that the lawsuit had been filed in st. paul, leaving confusion about the validity of the sale
the leckbands claim they are entitled to buy the farm at its current appraised value. the bank maintains the land is worth the maximum offer it draws from interested buyers
the difference can be significant now that farmland values are rising. expectations that prices will climb can generate bids well over appraisal estimates
attorneys for the bank said they had not seen the complaint and would not comment specifically on the case
but in general, ``we think fair market value is what somebody is willing to pay for it under a competitive bidding process,'' said william collins, general counsel for the st. paul district of farm credit services, which includes the bank
in addition to the specific issue of the leckbands' rights, the suit seeks to place responsibility with national farm credit administration officials for interpreting the law evenly throughout the country. the leckbands' attorney, james massey, said the omaha district of the farm credit administration has given borrowers rights his clients are seeking
the suit names several national and local fcs officials, as well as the bank
the leckbands, who raise crops and livestock, borrowed $316,800 between 1980 and 1983, according to the complaint. after they fell behind on their payments, the bank foreclosed on jan. 13, 1987. the leckbands were allowed to keep the property during a one-year redemption period
on feb. 26, the leckbands, citing the new law, demanded the bank allow them to buy back 240 acres at the appraised value. according to the complaint, the bank said the property would be sold through a public competitive bidding process in which the leckbands could participate
the bank specified minimum acceptable bids that exceeded recent appraisals by $13,500, the complaint said
david grigg was miffed when his 11-year-old son pointed what he thought was a toy bazooka at him _ then was stunned to find out it really was a live anti-tank rocket launcher
grigg said he was working on a car sunday afternoon when he saw his son, dennis, pointing the weapon at him
i walked over to tell him not to point toy guns at people,'' grigg said. ``then i found out it was a real one.''
grigg, who once served with an artillery unit in the army, said he looked down the barrel of the weapon and saw something inside
i decided not to take any chances and called the sheriff's department,'' he said
the sangamon county sheriff's department called for a bomb disposal unit, which identified the weapon as a law anti-tank rocket launcher, said gary mack, spokesman for the bomb unit
the bomb squad x-rayed the weapon, and determined it to be a live weapon with the firing pin intact, mack said. police then transported it to a gun club, where it was detonated
grigg said his son had been playing with the live weapon in the house for 1{ days before he noticed it
he thought it was a toy,'' grigg said
authorities were trying to find out where the weapon came from
grigg said his son got it from a friend who found it in his father's pickup truck
grigg said that boy's father is a trash collector who had gotten the weapon from another man who had been storing it in an old refrigerator and wanted it taken to a trash dump
there's a honey of a fight on capitol hill, and rep. silvio o. conte is in the middle of the stirred up beehive
the massachusetts republican is waging a one-man battle against beekeepers over the government's 38-year-old honey support program
i found these entitlements to be a classic example of wasteful federal spending,'' conte said in an interview. ``we now have a federal program that encourages producers to have every single drop of honey subsidized.''
the agriculture department's honey support program was created in 1950. sugar rationing and the need for beeswax for waterproofing ammunitions and equipment during world war ii had bolstered the honey business, and the end of the war hurt the once-prosperous producers
the post-war program was used sparingly for the first 30 years. companies would give the government honey in exchange for a loan, then redeem the loan and put the stored honey on the market when demand went up
but during the 1980s, world honey supplies outpaced demand, causing prices to drop. at about the same time, china began flooding u.s. markets with less expensive honey, along with mexico, canada and argentina
we became a dumping ground,'' said richard adee, president of the american honey producers association inc. and owner of a bruce, s.d., honey farm that he says is the largest in the world
domestic producers began relying more and more heavily on the federal supports. some producers now regularly obtain federal loans only to default on them later, leaving the government with tons of honey as collateral
adee defends the program as necessary to keep domestic producers afloat
everybody thinks this is a gravy train, but we've lost 20 percent of our industry in the past five years,'' he said
to conte, the program ``has ballooned out of control.''
we have to attack the program for what it is and not what it was. it's a free ride now,'' he said
in 1986, conte successfully capped the amount of money that could be put under loan and forfeited by each company at $250,000
but honey-industry supporters in congress, led by sen. john melcher, d-mont., removed the cap in the waning hours of congress last year
without the cap, an estimated 200 million pounds of honey will be subsidized at about 25 cents a pound this year _ approximately double the annual amount that was subsidized under the limitation, conte said
the agriculture department, which supported the cap and decried its removal, estimates the unlimited loans and forfeitures will cost the government an extra $6.1 million over the next four years. but adee said a 2-cent a pound reduction in the buy-back price will keep costs down
conte, a 15-term congressman and the top republican on the house appropriations committee, has vowed to unleash another attack on the honey industry this year
the american beekeeping federation, a lobbying group, is ready to fight back. last month, the federation sent out a fund-raising letter warning of conte's wrath
the changes in the honey support program at the last moment during the preparation of the reconcillation budget for 1988 has rep. silvio conte mad, no _ furious,'' the group's executive committee warned in a feb. 10 letter. ``rep. conte is out for revenge and he will try to kill the support program for 1989 and forever.''
in a frank assessment of its 1987 success and fear in 1988, the federation said: ``there were some big bucks and time spent in washington to change the program, but those are insignificant compared to what we will need in 1988 to save the program.''
conte said he will be satisfied with reinstituting the loan cap
i don't think i can get rid of the whole program. i'd love to, but i've been around here a long time. i'm realistic,'' he said. picks up 4th graf pvs, `the advertising ...'</note>
commercial actors and announcers nationwide were ordered late sunday to strike
unfortunately, no new negotiations have been scheduled at this time,'' a hot-line message to union members in los angeles said late sunday
representatives of the screen actors guild and the american federation of television and radio artists and advertisers could not be reached for comment late sunday
the strike will begin as planned at 12:01 a.m. this monday, march 21st,'' the union hot-line recording said, adding that members shouldn't renew or reinstate any old commercials
beginning at that time, no member of sag or aftra may audition for or perform in any television or radio commercial,'' it said. ``our fellow actors will also place picket lines in new york, chicago, miami, honolulu and other cities to follow next week.''
the advertising firm of ogilvy and mather was targeted by pickets in los angeles and honolulu. in new york city, strikers were told to set up picket lines at general motors plaza during a gm board meeting
in chicago, the agencies of leo burnett, j. walter thompson, ddb needham worldwide and tatham-laird and kudner were targeted for union picketing
talks on a new three-year pact between the commercial performers and the joint policy committee of the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers began jan. 11 in new york city and broke off march 7
union negotiators received a 93 percent strike authorization from members just before contract talks broke off
the contract dispute centers on performers' demands for a share of money made from commercials broadcast on cable television stations and advertisers' attempts to reduce union cost-of-living adjustments
the unions recently sent telegrams to all presidential candidates warning them of the strike and offering production waivers if they agree to interim contracts conceding the demands turned down by advertising negotiators
the interim contract offer was given to regular advertisers as well, and as many as 40 have said they will seek them, according to the union
the advertisers' negotiator, john mcguinn, had urged agncies to resist signing interim contracts, although he said a strike could last as long as six months
the joint sag-aftra membership is more than 100,000. the unions negotiate together on the commercial contract. union actors will be barred from auditioning or appearing in commercials, but can work in films and on television shows
the soviet underground economy has poked through the surface at riga market, a weekend jungle of moonlighters, fast-ruble artists and curious consumers brought out by mikhail s. gorbachev's economic reforms
you can get anything you want here; the price is the only thing,'' said lyonya. the curly-haired 17-year-old surveyed the open-air sales of imitation western clothes, wool and fur hats, coats and other goods at the market in northern moscow near the riga train station
a cigarette dangling from his mouth, lyonya moments before had approached a westerner and offered to illegally exchange money
thousands of shoppers jostle and slide through snow and ice to trade their rubles for goods of uncertain origin. a knee-length red winter coat devoid of any labeling was priced at 250 rubles, $400 at the official exchange rate
one hundred rubles ($160) could buy a jean skirt with the ``sfinks'' brand on a triangular metal tab displaying the ancient egyptian monument. the average worker earns about 200 rubles a month
the market illustrates the opportunities and abuses of gorbachev's drive to loosen some of the controls on the state-run economy, as well as the pent-up demand for anything western
black-market money traders and speculators who sell prized western goods and soviet imitations long have flourished underground at tourist hotels, among taxi drivers and elsewhere
but the reforms started by gorbachev, the communist party leader, have given traders a new place to operate, mingled with legal moonlighters who produce a few items by hand to earn extra rubles
gorbachev said in january that 300,000 soviets drive taxis, repair apartments, run restaurants and pump gas outside the official economy under new laws allowing citizens more freedom to work for themselves or form a cooperative
but many soviets complain cooperative goods and services are too expensive and those who work in them are out to make a quick profit. meeting with factory workers several weeks ago, gorbachev praised honest initiative but said authorities would not permit ``outright money-grabbing.''
a draft of a new law published recently indicates the government is planning to tax both the profits of cooperatives and the incomes of their members
on weekdays, riga market differs little from other farmers' markets scattered around moscow. but on saturdays and sundays it blossoms with the booths of several thousand merchants
the merchants say they work for themselves or are members of cooperatives formed under the new law. but they are reluctant to discuss their affairs, apparently either because they are operating illegally or because public disapproval makes them nervous
the newspaper moskovsky komsomolets, aimed at young readers, said in a recent article that riga market draws young people like a magnet and that ``crimes are committed here every day, and in no small quantity.''
although moscow needs such places, riga market should be limited to 300-400 sellers and officials must control the activity, the newspaper said
lyonya said western jeans like those he was wearing are available from speculators for about 100 rubles, and western-made boots cost 150 rubles to 200 rubles ($240 to $320)
a few minutes later, another young man approached the same western correspondent and asked if he had a jacket, boots, or pants to sell. told no, he followed behind and asked, ``do you have any friends?''
lyonya said a friend of his buys sweatshirts at the official price of three rubles, puts an english-language emblem saying ``manufactured exclusively for smash'' on them and sells them for 35 rubles
the seller, who had a half-dozen shirts hanging from a line, was asked how many such shirts he could sell in a weekend. he refused to answer and said the query was ``a provocative question.''
valery, a muscovite with several days' growth of beard and a wide-brim black hat, said he can buy the labeling and everything he needs for the ``sfinks'' denim line from associates at the market. he also had for sale two children's sweatsuits, one with walt disney's bambi emblazoned on it, for 20 rubles (about $32)
he said he sells in moscow occasionally but prefers the soviet far east or siberia. ``it's too crowded here. people have more money there because they earn higher salaries,'' he said
he said his store job offers him three days off for every one he works, giving him plenty of time to sew the garments. he declined to go into more detail about his business and refused to be photographed
moskovsky komsomolets said one morning's police records showed a young russian was arrested after selling an imported jeans jacket for 120 rubles ($190). another was selling packs of marlboro cigarettes for 8 rubles (about $12.80)
a 12-year-old boy was found selling things he stole from his parents, the newspaper said
the main heroes of these stories are basically young guys and girls, young communists,'' the newspaper said. ``do they need these lessons?''
arab americans are parlaying the palestinian revolt against israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza strip into a surge of charitable contributions and domestic political gains
last month, the united palestine appeal and other charitable organizations raised $300,000 to help palestinians continue a three-month resistance campaign that has captured the world's attention, according to david sadd, executive director of the national association of arab americans
this compares with some $1 million these groups raised in all of 1987, and does not include the checks sent by american palestinians to their relatives in the occupied territories, said sadd, whose group is a major lobbyist for an estimated 2.3 million arab americans
there's real pride about the courageous palestinians. we want to help them go on,'' said sadd. ``if they can't work, we want to make sure they have enough resources to continue the resistance.''
a civil disobedience campaign combined with intimidation by extremists have kept many of the 1.5 million palestinians under occupation away from their jobs in israel
sadd said leaders of major arab american organizations are discussing establishing a central resource to identify areas of need in the west bank and gaza and to coordinate distribution of medicine, blankets and other items
the organizations also are trying to link up with such established charitable groups as catholic relief to help channel their aid in order to prevent israel from blocking the funds, sadd said
the revolt in which 100 palestinian arabs have been killed has provided a renewed national consciousness in the mostly u.s.-born community whose parents or grandparents came from lebanon, syria, egypt and palestine
unlike the 6 million american jews, many of whom link their religious and national identity to israel, most american arabs have tended to identify less with their country of origin than with village and family groups
unlike the jews, we don't have zionism. we have always felt that this is our home,'' said james zogby, executive director of the arab american institute
but in recent years, zogby's organization and others have modeled themselves on long-established jewish lobbying and charitable groups in an effort to unite the community and organize grassroots support to influence the political scene
last year, the arab american institute launched a project to elect arab american candidates locally and nationally and to pressure other candidates to confront the sensitive issue of statehood for the palestinians
the west bank and gaza uprising and the harsh methods israel is using to quell it have given arab americans more confidence, he said
but other arab americans acknowledge that the inroads are slight, and may not be lasting. a wave of arab american indignation over the 1982 massacre of hundreds of palestinians by israeli-allied militiamen in the sabra and chatillah refugee camps fizzled out
community leaders note that arab americans are better organized now than they were then. the longer the revolt draws on, the more entrenched and sustained will be the support for it, they maintain
rep. nick rahall, a west virginia democrat of lebanese descent, warned that ``while arab americans are making gains from the uprising, the question is whether they can translate it into meaningful support in congress or in the presidential race.''
congress traditionally has been strongly supportive of israel and has not spoken out against the israeli killings and beatings. most presidential candidates have been vague when asked their views
the exception is jesse jackson, who has drawn broad support from arab americans for his condemnation of the israeli methods and for his longtime support of a role for the palestine liberation organization in mideast peace talks
arab americans have contributed $175,000 to his campaign, zogby said
since the palestinian unrest began dec. 8, arab americans have conducted demonstrations and vigils around the country, also sending thousands of letters to congressmen and presidential hopefuls
abdeen jabara, head of the arab-american anti-discrimination committee, said he was pleasantly surprised when he was invited by two groups of congressmen to brief them on his recent trip to the west bank. his previous attempts to get congressional attention for the palestinian cause failed, he said
but the changes are still very slight,'' he said. ``public opinion is with us, but congressional attitudes don't reflect this.''
twenty-nine years ago, a russian clergyman started a unique bilingual secondary school with unlimited funds on deposit at the ``bank of faith and hope.''
actually, it had $23. today, st. sergius high school has about $150,000 less than it needs to keep going and the rev. archimandrite anthony grabbe, its founder, says it might have to close this week unless it raises the money
the sum of $150,000 means life or death to us,'' says grabbe, who recently cut short some church work in the middle east to try to put the school on firmer financial ground
an emergency committee will try to raise the shortfall in the school's $500,000 annual budget. among its members will be designer oleg cassini, born a russian count, grabbe said
it's not the first time the tiny school has faced an uncertainty
in 1974, it was $40,000 in the red and grabbe prepared to shut it. but then, a dying russian emigre unknown to grabbe donated his life savings of $40,000
in 1981, when the school again teetered near extinction, a wealthy woman grabbe met 15 years earlier sent him $100,000. in addition, the school has received help from cassini, former democratic presidential candidate bruce babbitt and yoko ono, among others
the timely donations and teachers who work without pay in a pinch have kept alive grabbe's dream: that students in grades 3 to 12 study english and russian cultures together
but grabbe says he cannot understand why the school is not thriving now, since there is greater demand for russian experts as soviet-american relations warm
he describes the school as the only fully accredited russian-english secondary school in the nation and one of the very few that seeks to preserve the culture of czarist russia. grabbe is not a fan of the soviets, and has said he considers it a passing phase in russia's history
harley balzer, director of the russian area studies program at georgetown university in washington, said he was not surprised to learn of st. sergius' financial woes
we are not a nation that has traditionally regarded studying other people's languages as a high priority,'' he said
the school, which once enrolled 100 students but now has only 27, offers a complete program of russian language, history and culture besides a standard program taught in english
the school is located in a mansion on manhattan's upper east side. the classrooms are small, the desks and laboratory equipment old. the school's lease runs out next year
it was first established for youngsters from the new york russian emigrant community to transmit russia's heritage. but it broadened its program in 1963 to include non-russian students, said grabbe, an official of the russian orthodox church outside russia who oversees orthodox congregations in several middle eastern nations
its enrollment is now about half russian; the rest is composed of a variety of backgrounds, including moslems, blacks, jews, chinese, japanese and catholic, grabbe said. some graduates have gone on to work in u.s. diplomatic positions
a soviet emigrant student who transferred to the school this year said she is learning much more than in public school because of a higher teacher-student ratio and intensive instruction
i don't have any place to go if it closes down,'' said the 15-year-old, vadim korkhov
as a result of the budget shortfall, the 11th and 12th grades have been dropped, enrollment has declined because parents are uncertain of the school's future and teachers have not been paid since december, grabbe said
tuition, which ranges from $1,800 to $4,000 a year depending on grade level, makes up only about one-quarter of the budget
it's incredible that this situation exists with the current political climate,'' he said
but if all fails, he said with a smile, ``there's always the bank of faith and hope.''
rising costs last year forced a record 79 hospitals to close their doors, the american hospital association reported today
the closings, most in hospitals with fewer than 100 beds, were heavy in four southern states but were evenly split overall between rural and urban areas, the hospital group said
hospitals that barely break even or continually lose money cannot buy needed medical equipment, replace deteriorating buildings or add important services,'' carol mccarthy, president of the chicago-based organization, said in a statement
federal medicare payments, which represent 40 percent of a hospital's income, may be partly to blame for the closings, she added
hospitals saw the price of goods and services they purchase rise 22 percent between 1984 and 1988 while medicare raised the prices its pays hospitals ... only 11 percent,'' she said
of the 79 hospitals that closed in 30 states, 35 were for-profit, 30 were non-profit and 14 were government-owned, the association said
twenty-five hospitals closed in four states: arkansas, louisiana, oklahoma and texas
most of the closed hospitals ranged from 25 beds to 99
in the past year, nearly seven in 10 rural hospitals in this country lost money caring for patients, and 50 percent of urban hospitals operated in the red,'' ms. mccarthy said
jan shulman, an aha spokeswoman, said the 42 hospitals that closed in 1986 was the previous record
in addition to the 79 hospitals that shut down, 17 speciality outlets also closed in 13 states in 1987. most were rehabilitation or long-term care centers, said the association. offensive to readers. barbii is cq.</note>
despite the aids-related death of pornographic film star john holmes, industry officials insist the adult film business is aids-free and that precautions such as aids testing are widespread
concerned about the adverse publicity surrounding holmes' death, sex film producers and performers said last week that aids and venereal disease are virtually non-existent among sex-film stars
industry concerns were heightened by a statement by holmes' 24-year-old wife, laurie
it's my belief that aids is running rapidly through the adult entertainment business,'' said mrs. holmes, who once acted in porn films under the name misty dawn and whose husband died march 13 of a form of pneumonia brought on by acquired immune deficiency syndrome
ron sullivan, a sex-film producer and president of the industry's 350-member adult video association, said mrs. holmes ``is completely wrong.''
industry figures argued they have avoided aids by testing actors for infection and making sure the men use condoms and anti-viral spermicides. they said the small inner circle of pornographic performers insist on the safety measures
sullivan knew of no sex-film star who has contracted aids. it was not known how holmes got the disease, but in addition to his 14,000 claimed sexual encounters over the years, he used intravenous drugs, which also can spread aids
nina hartley, who starred in such adult fare as ``feminist porno actress'' and ``intellectual tinker bell,'' gave the porn industry a clean bill of health
there is absolutely no evidence aids is rampant,'' said the 27-year-old san francisco actress, who has appeared in adult films for four years. ``aids testing is pretty common, but it's not mandatory.''
ms. hartley suggested actors would jeopardize chances for key roles if they insisted on testing for their co-stars. she said she knows of only a few sex stars who demand aids testing
most of the veterans and people who have worked for quite a while really keep health conscious,'' porno star angel kelly said. ``in the last six months we've even begun printing up a newsletter to all the actors and actresses with health tips.''
sullivan and ms. hartley said there are only about 100 active sex-film stars, and they are cautious
we are capable of taking care of ourselves and we want the public to know that,'' said sullivan, who organized a voluntary testing program for adult film actors. his los angeles-based association is paying the $75 test costs
we're doing it because of the adverse publicity (after holmes' death) saying that the industry is inundated with aids,'' he said
movie sex star barbii said she gets tested regularly and insists that her partners be tested
most girls don't take (aids) seriously,'' barbii said. ``people don't talk about it _ it's kind of hush.''
but ms. hartley counters that fear of aids and venereal diseases permeates the industry, and that prevention, detection and discretion have gained industry acceptance
safe sex scenes are more prevalent now,'' she said. ``not every scene uses a condom and you won't see it (condom use) take over the industry, but more actors are using them
the aids virus damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to death from infections and cancer
it can be spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, or transfusions of infected blood or blood products
deaf children receive an inferior education caused in part by a misguided emphasis on placing them in regular public schools, a government commission reported today
the quality of education available to children who are deaf is poor,'' said the commission on education of the deaf
the 13-member panel, created by congress in 1986, said more attention must be paid to deaf students who are not college bound
the commission's 144-page report, ``toward equality: education of the deaf,'' says the u.s. department of education has pushed too hard to ``mainstream'' deaf children into regular public school classes instead of special schools or centers devoted to the deaf
the state of the art in the education of persons who are deaf is characterized by inappropriate priorities and inadequate resources,'' said the commission, chaired by frank g. bowe, a regional commissioner of the rehabilitation services administration
two-thirds of the commission members are themselves deaf or hard of hearing, including bowe. actress nanette fabray macdougall was also on the panel
the report recommended changes in the management of gallaudet university, including appointment of a deaf majority to its board of trustees. that was a student demand in the recent protests that forced the naming of the first deaf president at gallaudet
the gallaudet protests and the commission report spring from the same philosophy: that the deaf want more control over their own affairs and full recognition of deaf culture, including american sign language, their primary means of communication
the commission said significant strides have been made in educating the deaf since 1965, the last time a federal panel recommended improvements
but it said, ``the actual implementation of these initiatives has been inadequate and sometimes misguided, and that progress has at best been spotty and sporadic.''
all too often,'' the report said, changes ``turned out to be more well-meaning than effective.''
the federal government does much more for high-achieving deaf students than for those whom the nation's schools have failed. the ironic result is that those who need the most receive the least,'' it said
it said schools should ``pay attention to educational content rather than mere placement _ to what is taught rather than where it is taught.''
the report said 95 percent of all deaf children are ``prelingually deaf'' _ left without hearing at birth or deprived of it in infancy _ and the united states is not doing a good enough job identifying them soon after birth
many children have hearing impairments that go undiagnosed and untreated for as long as three to six years,'' it said. ``the average age of identification for profoundly deaf children in the united states is reported as 2{ years,'' compared to seven to nine months in israel
ninety percent of deaf children have hearing parents
the commission said most cases of deafness result from unknown causes. more than a quarter of the cases are linked to heredity, maternal rubella or german measles and meningitis. children can also be deafened by infections, high fevers and otitis media
the number of deaf children in u.s. schools has dropped from 46,279 in 1977-78 to 36,017 in 1985-86. the 22 percent decrease is due primarily to the aging of students born during a rubella epidemic in 1965-66
the commission said that bulge of deaf children growing up in the 1970s was bigger than residential schools could handle, and helped shift the pendulum ``toward accommodating deaf children closer to home in public schools.''
but even in regular schools, the deaf children are often isolated from their hearing peers for classwork. the commission said only 53 percent of deaf students in regular schools ``experience any degree of academic integration.''
the commission said that although lip-reading provides some language learning cues, ``at most only 40 percent of the sounds produced in the english language are visible on the lips.'' hearing aids can help some, but ``other young deaf children may understand as little as 5 percent of what is said to them.''
a residential school gives the child access _ for 16 hours a day instead of six hours _ to ``highly trained specialists who understand the fundamental principles of developmental psycholinguistics,'' the commission said
it said schools with classes just for the deaf ``are the least restrictive environment appropriate for many children.''
the commission acknowledged some deaf children ``benefit from education in regular classes,'' but said parents should have the option to place their child in schools for the deaf
some 145 u.s. colleges offer programs for the deaf, including gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf, which together receive $71 million in federal subsidies and educate 3,500 students
but the only regular colleges that regularly enroll more than 100 deaf students are california state university at northridge, st. paul technical institute and los angeles trade technical college
scientists have ignited a nuclear fusion reaction in tiny pellets of hydrogen by using radiation from an exploding nuclear weapon, raising hopes for an unlimited source of energy, a newspaper reported today
the successful experiment, viewed as a major advance toward determining the possibility of harnessing small-scale fusion, occurred about two years ago at an underground nuclear test site in nevada, according to the new york times
the u.s. government kept it secret because it did not want foreign countries to know about it, but some details have been discussed at scientific conferences, the newspaper said
while revealing nuclear fusion as a potentially highly potent energy source, the results have triggered a dispute over how experiments in small-scale fusion, or ``microfusion,'' should proceed, the newspaper said
scientists have long tried to tame nuclear fusion reactions, in the hope they could eventually lead to an unlimited and relatively cheap source of electricity. in fusion reactions, which are found in stars and hydrogen bombs, atoms are joined together to release energy; they contrast with fission reactions in which atoms are split rather than combined
in most cases, the scientists have tried to use concentrated light from giant lasers to trigger a fusion reaction, but laser-based fusion has never proved successful. the secret experiment in nevada, the times said, instead used x-ray radiation from a nuclear weapon directed at tiny fuel pellets
the prototype fuel pellets are glass capsules filled with hydrogen isotopes, the times said. a dozen pellets can easily fit on the head of a pin, but their power output could be equivalent to hundreds of pounds of high explosives, the newspaper said
the secret achievement required more energy than expected, scientists told said
some scientists say the laser-based microfusion program needs a radical change of course, while others say the nuclear approach, while unconventional, was a milestone that generated valuable data that will help make fusion practical, the newspaper said
nuclear fusion could be used to develop antimissile weapons and perhaps become a cheap source of boundless electric power, the report said
the times said the experiments were believed to have never been publicly disclosed. it noted that last september sheldon kahalas, director of the nation's microfusion effort, told a princeton university conference that the effort had reached a ``historical turning point,'' but refused to elaborate
panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega is assembling a stash of cuban-supplied arms outside of his nation's military bases so his loyalists can reach them anytime, says a panamanian pilot who defected last week
maj. augusto villalaz, who was one of noriega's personal pilots, says he flew three shipments of arms to panama from cuba and that noriega planned to import 500,000 pounds of weapons
he located the arms outside the military installations, and he can handle (them) with his people when he wants,'' villalaz said sunday on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''
villalaz said ortega's well-placed loyalists and big stash of cuban weapons will enable him to remain in power, if he chooses, longer than u.s. officials seem to think
secretary of state george p. shultz is among those predicting a quick end to noriega's rule, claiming sunday that the panamanian military is ``cracking open'' around noriega
the situation is that noriega must leave sooner or later. the sooner the better,'' shultz said on nbc-tv's ``meet the press.''
shultz said u.s. indictments against noriega on drug trafficking charges would not be dropped and noriega could not have any say about the government that would run panama after his departure
what he has to do is leave, and he should settle quickly before the opportunity that is there before him, to go to spain, should disappear,'' shultz said. spain has offered noriega political asylum on the condition that the united states not seek his extradition on the drug charges
increasingly, the military is cracking open and making it clear that they want him to leave,'' shultz said, citing the defection last week of noriega's personal pilots, villalaz and maj. ramon adames
villalaz said last week's coup attempt against noriega failed because an officer who was supposed ``to secure the commander of troops'' protecting noriega's headquarters failed to do so. he did not give any other details about the coup attempt
villalaz acknowledged a noriega claim that four of the five officers involved in the plot against him received training in the united states last month, but he said no u.s. agency was involved in the coup attempt
in a telephone interview, raul st. malo, minister counselor with the panamanian embassy, said the pilots told anti-noriega embassy officials that 70 percent of military officers supported the coup attempt, but that noriega has loyalists guarding the military's firepower. he said the anti-noriega personnel include captains, majors and colonels in all branches of the service
st. malo said other defections of high-ranking officers are expected ``very soon.'' he declined to give any details of the pilots' defection
villalaz described noriega as a ``very complicated'' man who doesn't talk very much. but he said noriega is a strong leader and has a hold on military people in key locations around the country
he's fairly secure because he has the main places in the (country) with the weapon power ... the military weight,'' villalaz said
asked if he thought noriega would ever agree to go into exile in spain, the pilot said, ``i don't think so. he's a very strong man.''
villalaz said that on noriega's orders he flew three shipments of weapons from cuba, stashing them in three locations around the country. he said 16 such flights were planned with a total of 500,000 pounds of weapons to be put in place outside regular panamanian military installations
national security adviser lt. gen. colin powell, also interviewed on abc, speculated that noriega could be intending to use the soviet-made arms to wage an insurgency of his own after he is deposed or for use elsewhere in central america
but he said he believes noriega's future is dim
he will leave, sooner or later,'' powell said. ``we will continue to apply pressure. he is a tough individual. he will take every opportunity available to him to stay in power.''
powell said he had no information about a report in sunday's editions of the washington post that federal law enforcement officials wanted to indict noriega eight years ago on charges of illegally buying and transporting weapons but stalled out of fear it would upset panama
we had evidence to indict him for conspiracy, but ... the justice department didn't want it,'' donald kimbler, a former agent with the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, told the post
in a separate interview sunday, panama's u.s. ambassador, juan sosa, who supports ousted president eric arturo delvalle, said that noriega is in his last days of power and would fall this week
he's not governing now, so either the military will continue to pressure to oust him, or he will go on himself,'' sosa said in an interview on cable news network's ``newsmaker sunday.''
the justice department will seek an ``immediately enforceable'' court order to force the palestine liberation organization to vacate its new york office, a department spokesman says
spokesman patrick korten said sunday that the department is planning to file suit in u.s. district court in new york to force the closing of the plo observer mission at the united nations
we're ready to go ahead and file the papers if they don't close the mission voluntarily,'' korten said
the united states has declared the plo a terrorist organization, but the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people
the plo served notice last week that it planned to defy any u.s. effort to shut the mission, which is in a new york city townhouse
korten said the department probably will file the suit by wednesday, depending on how long the paperwork takes
the chances are it would be within a day or two if they are not out,'' korten said. ``we are hoping those who walk into the office to look for them would find them gone. if that's not the case, then we would proceed with legal action.''
the justice department announced march 11 that it planned to enforce the anti-terrorism act passed by congress last year by going to court to close the mission. that act takes effect monday
korten said the suit would seek an ``immediately enforceable'' court order directing the plo to vacate its offices in new york
in a failed effort to stop the legislation ordering the u.n. mission closed, the state department last year closed down the only other plo office in the united states, an information office in washington
balancing 360 eggs on their ends may not be a scientifically approved way of demonstrating the supposed powers of the first day of spring. but don't tell that to performance artist donna henes
about 200 people helped henes balance the eggs at 4:39 a.m. sunday, the precise moment of the vernal equinox, one of two points in the year when the sun crosses the equator and day and night are equal
considering the hour, more people showed up than i expected,'' she said. the egg balancing took place on a long table-like platform at the south street seaport shopping area
according to henes, balancing an egg on its end is an ancient chinese custom that brings good luck
scientists are dubious whether eggs really do balance during the equinox due to changes in the gravitational pull, but henes is convinced
it's funny, because i've asked a lot of scientists about it and they say its impossible,'' henes said. ``however, when i ask them to join in the ritual and they see it happen, they become instant believers.''
henes, who has been observing the egg-balancing ritual for the past 13 years, said eggs are ancient symbols of fertility and spring around the world. ``easter is only one of many spring holidays where the egg is used as a symbol of rebirth,'' she said
after balancing the eggs, the participants enjoyed them at a breakfast prepared by one of the tourist attraction's restaurants
two bratwurst makers here say they've been inundated with long-distance orders since their business was featured last week by a new york newspaper
however, scott poth and scott luchterhand of poth's meats say their sudden popularity won't change things much _ at least not the secret recipe
that came down from my grandmother on my mother's side of the family,'' said poth, 29
poth operates the store his father, henry, started some 40 years ago, with the assistance of luchterhand, his brother-in-law
their store was one of 11 sheboygan shops featured in a march 13 article in the new york times, which called sheboygan the ``wurst city in the world.''
the impact could really be significant,'' said heather clyde, director of the city's convention and vistors bureau. ``it could really up attendance at our local bratwurst festivals.''
poth said he had more than a dozen orders from east coast residents last monday, a day after the article appeared
but while mail-order sales are always welcomed, poth said he knows his most reliable market will always be in sheboygan
brat fries are just a primary part of life here,'' he said. ``all the fund-raisers? brat fries. all the family picnics? brat fries.''
high school students pose the greatest menace at spring break time, said officials reeling from a wild weekend that included a riot, four stabbings and the deaths of two youths whose car plunged off a dock
that's our worst time, when the san antonio high school students are here,'' city manager gordon beck said sunday
beaches were again packed with partying teen-agers early today. an estimated 30,000 students were staying in this resort island town near corpus christi, said coast guard spokesman anthony e. lloyd
i think things are back to normal for a spring break, which is in no way normal,'' beck said
authorities said mainly high school students appeared to be involved in early sunday's three-hour disturbance by 3,000 youths, authorities said
what you have down there is a tremendous amount of intoxication going on. all it takes sometimes is for someone to bump into someone else. the crowd just turned into a riot,'' said officer jim kaelin of the texas department of public safety
the disturbance began when a motorist struck a 16-year-old girl on the beach and then attempted to leave, said police chief don perkins. angry youths began to attack the driver, but he was pulled away by police
the youths then tipped over the man's car and torched it, perkins said
they stomped the car, broke all the glass out of it and flipped it over,'' said tom frazier, 22, a university of texas student
more than 100 officers aided by tear gas and hovering coast guard helicopters with searchlights worked to restore order
the accident victim was treated for minor injuries. the driver, john montanes, 26, of san antonio, was charged with failure to stop and render aid and was in jail sunday night in lieu of $500 bond
two police officers were injured and eight people, including one accused of inciting a riot, were arrested as a result of the melee, police said
authorities reported at least four people were stabbed in unrelated attacks and a car containing the bodies of two young men was found in corpus christi bay. about a mile from the riot site, the car crashed through a barrier hours after the disturbance and sank in water 20 to 25 feet deep, said coast guard spokesman anthony e. lloyd in corpus christi
the victims' identities were not released
perkins said all eight of his officers were on duty late sunday
you never expect a riot,'' perkins said. ``you don't want it to occur, and with the cooperation of the students it won't occur. however, last night we got no cooperation.''
he said his officers felt seriously threatened at one point during the melee
when bottles and cans are being thrown at you, you get to feeling endangered,'' perkins said
while most of the injured were treated and released sunday, a 17-year-old stabbing victim remained hospitalized in satisfactory condition today at ami coastal bend hospital
a group of moderate baptists gathers tonight for its second annual meeting, wondering if it will retain a place in the fundamentalist-dominated southern baptist convention that sparked its formation
we are southern baptists, but we intend to hold up that flag of religious liberty and we're going to yell ouch every time they step on that principle and we're going to keep on yelling,'' said the rev. jim strickland, a cartersville pastor who is a leader of the southern baptist alliance
strickland said victories by moderates at some state baptist conventions last year indicate the southern baptist convention's annual meeting in san antonio, texas, this summer may be ``a high-water mark ... a shootout at the o.k. corral.''
nevertheless, strickland said, this week's alliance meeting at mercer university is not a strategy session for moderates
the southern baptist alliance is not a political organization. ... we are not going to do that footwork out there,'' although the alliance supports those political efforts, he said
the alliance was formed in february 1987 in reaction to fundamentalist actions as they gained control of the southern baptist convention, the nation's largest protestant denominaton with about 14.5 million members
fundamentalists maintain that the bible is without error in historical and scientific as well as religious areas; moderates hold there is room for interpretation
fundamentalists have removed moderates from leadership positions, including the presidency of southeastern baptist seminary in wake forest, n.c. in another instance, an employee of one of the denomination's agencies says he was fired because he said he believed jews could go to heaven without accepting jesus
the alliance has grown to include 34 churches with more than 20,000 members, plus about 2,500 other member whose churches do not belong to the alliance. strickland said the alliance is not intended to be the nucleus of a new denomination
our hope as members of the southern baptist alliance is that we can articulate baptist philosophy _ not necessarily current southern baptist philosophy _ about religious liberty. we want to call baptists who think religious freedom is important back to that heritage,'' strickland said
strickland is pastor of heritage baptist church, formed less than a year ago, partly because of fundamentalist control of the first baptist church of cartersville, he said
mercer university, supported by the georgia baptist convention, was itself the center of controversy last year when fundamentalists mounted a campaign to gain control of the school, citing its listing as a ``party school'' by playboy magazine and the moderate views of president r. kirby godsey
but the georgia baptist convention last november defeated efforts to remove godsey. the action was seen at the time as one of a series of victories by moderates in various state baptist conventions
most of the veterans and people who have worked for quite a while really keep health conscious. in the last six months we've even begun printing up a newsletter to all the actors and actresses with health tips.'' _ pornographic film star angel kelly, addressing concerns that the adult film industry is threatened by aids following the aids-related death of actor john holmes
the only thing in the last 10 years that hasn't been crooked is both the da's and the u.s. attorney's office.'' _ former philadelphia district attorney edward rendell, commenting on widespread local corruption that has led to convictions or charges against judges, police, defense lawyers and prison guards
i think things are back to normal for a spring break, which is in no way normal.'' _ port aransas, texas, city manager gordon beck, following a weekend that included a beach riot, four stabbings and the deaths of two youths whose car plunged off a dock
vice president george bush won the presidential endorsement of the conservative california republican assembly even through pat robertson personally sought the nod of the volunteer group
robertson called the cra _ the largest and most conservative of california's grassroots republican organizations _ the most important gop endorsing body in the nation in an enthusiastically received appearance before it saturday
but bush's supporters stressed the inevitability of his nomination and the need for conservatives to unify behind him. in the sunday vote, bush picked up nearly all the supporters of sen. bob dole and rep. jack kemp after their names were dropped from the endorsement ballot
bush led robertson by 178-70 on the first cra ballot, but failed to win the required two-thirds for an endorsement because dole had 34 votes and kemp 33. bush easily defeated robertson to win the cra endorsement on a 231-81 second ballot
oregon democrats have rejected a plank in their state party platform that would have called for reduced criminal penalties for growing and possessing marijuana
in the past, state democrats have approved platform planks advocating both outright legalization of marijuana and lessening criminal penalties, arguing that the money would be better spent fighting ``hard'' drugs
we're cleaning up our act,'' james klonoski, a past state democratic party chair, said after the marijuana plank was rejected sunday. ``in the old days, we used to embarrass our elected officials. we don't do that anymore.''
tom alexander, a benton county state convention delegate who wanted the marijuana plank in platform, said the main opposition was from gov. neil goldschmidt and other elected democrats worried about the party's image and the upcoming elections
the problem is that the democratic party leaders, because the republicans have shifted so far to the right, think we have to play to the republican moderates for votes,'' alexander said
sen. albert gore jr., after meeting with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, says he prefers ``direct negotiations'' between israel and its arab neighbors rather than the reagan administration's plan for an international middle east peace conference
i think there are questions that have been given short shrift that deserve a more careful study,'' the tennessee democrat told reporters after meeting with shamir here sunday. ``what would the role of the soviet union be in the conference?''
shamir maintained his opposition to an international peace conference in meetings with president reagan last week, saying a soviet presence in the talks would bring more pressure on israel to give up land captured from the arabs during the 1967 middle east war
gore spent sunday here campaigning for support in new york's april 19 presidential primary. he addressed about 1,200 people at the annual dinner of the council of jewish organizations of borough park, an umbrella organization for 190 groups in a neighborhood that is home to 100,000 hasidic jews
scattered snow fell in the lower great lakes region and along the mid-atlantic coast today, while a cold front brought rain to the pacific northwest
the southwest had temperatures in the 50s and 60s early today, following readings in the 80s and 90s on sunday in california and southern arizona. yuma, ariz., had the nation's high sunday with 95 degrees
the heaviest snow today was in the lower great lakes region due to squalls near shore. forecasters posted lake snow advisories in new york state along the shore of lake ontario, where up to 5 inches was possible
in the pacific northwest, heavier rainfall totals for the six-hour period ending at 1 a.m. est included about a quarter of an inch at hoquiam and fort lewis, wash
skies were partly cloudy across much of the northern half of the nation; clear skies prevailed in the south
today's forecast called for rain scattered across the northern plateau and pacific northwest; snow scattered across northern areas of maine; wind, gusty at times, across the northern third of the rockies
highs will be in the 60s or 70s across much of the nation; the teens and 20s across the northern and eastern areas of the great lakes and northern new england; 30s and 40s from the upper mississippi valley into the northern parts of the lower ohio valley and central appalachians into southern new england; 50s from the central dakotas into the rest of the lower ohio valley and mid-atlantic states region; 40s and 50s across the pacific northwest and northern plateau; 80s across the desert southwest and across much of texas, oklahoma and southwest kansas; and about 90 over southwest arizona and southeast california
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 11 below zero at marquette, mich., to 67 at yuma, ariz
other reports:
_east: atlanta 51 fair; boston 16 snow; buffalo 18 snow; charleston, s.c. 50 fair; cincinnati 30 cloudy; cleveland 16 fair; detroit 20 fair; miami 53 fair; philadelphia 27 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 20 cloudy; portland, maine 11 windy; washington 33 cloudy
_central: bismarck 24 partly cloudy; chicago 26 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 52 fair; denver 45 partly cloudy; des moines 32 fair; indianapolis 29 fair; kansas city 44 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 20 fair; nashville 56 fair; new orleans 51 fair; st. louis 43 fair
_west: albuquerque 43 fair; anchorage 24 fair; las vegas 53 fair; los angeles 60 partly cloudy; phoenix 64 fair; salt lake city 49 fair; san diego 61 partly cloudy; san francisco 51 fair; seattle 41 fair
_canada: montreal 1 fair; toronto 16 fair
guerrillas attacked six positions manned by an israeli-backed militia before dawn today in one of their biggest assaults this year, security sources reported
there was no immediate report of casualties and it could not be determined which guerrilla faction launched the assault on the south lebanon army outposts, the second reported clash in three days
after today's attack, israeli and south lebanon army gunners shelled the shiite moslem market town of nabatiyeh with mortars and tank cannon in an apparent retaliation for the pre-dawn raid, police said
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the guerrillas fired machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades into the south lebanon army positions in the central sector of israel's self-proclaimed ``security zone'' on the lebanon-israel border
the mainly christian south lebanon army retaliated with heavy machine guns and mortars, the sources reported
israeli troops rushed to reinforce the army positions and opened up on the raiders with tank fire, the sources said. the fighting lasted for two hours until the attackers withdrew, the sources said
several positions manned by irish and finnish troops of the united nations peacekeeping force were caught in the crossfire, but no u.n. soldiers were hurt, the sources added
the zone policed by the u.n. interim force in lebanon overlaps the israeli-occupied buffer zone carved out in june 1985 when israel withdrew the bulk of its army three years after its invaded lebanon
in the attack by israeli and south lebanon army on the moslem town, two women were wounded when five shells exploded in the sarai quarter, crowded with villagers in town for the weekly market day, police said
the 30-minute barrage brought the town of 150,000 inhabitants to a standstill. shopkeepers lowered their shutters, businesses closed and schools sent pupils home
today's hostilities came two days after tank-led israeli troops and south lebanon army militiamen raided suspected guerrilla bases four miles northeast of the security zone
shiite moslem guerrillas earlier fought a seven-hour shelling duel with the israelis and their militia allies in which two elderly lebanese civilians were wounded
israeli fighter-bombers raided a palestinian guerrilla camp in the chouf mountains southeast of beirut last thursday, killing one guerrilla in their deepest penetration into lebanon this year. cycle:</head>
detroit _ michael dukakis has a quarter of the delegates needed to win the democratic presidential nomination, but jesse jackson is right behind after a weekend of good showings for both democrats in kansas, texas and puerto rico. among republicans, george bush swept to victory no. 23
slug pm-political rdp, a0458
washington _ advocates of spending limits for senate campaigns are regrouping for another battle, pursuing a new route after republicans talked the last attempt to death less than a month ago
slug pm-campaign money, a0424
washington _ the republicans have a runaway winner and now the democrats are in a quandary: they'd like to keep up with the bushes and have one of their own, but the prospects for wheeling and dealing are so delicious that many party leaders can barely contain themselves
slug pm-before the brokers, a0429
san juan, puerto rico _ vice president george bush won puerto rico's republican primary and added 14 more national convention delegates to his tally, while jesse jackson won the democrats' non-binding ``beauty contest'' balloting
slug pm-puerto rico-primary, a0484
pm-political briefs, a0493
pm-us-deleg-sum, a0433
pm-us-dem-deleg-state-by-state, a0434,a0436,a0437
pm-us-gop-deleg-state-by-state, a0438,a0439
pm-us-dem-deleg-reg, a0440,a0441,a0442
pm-us-gop-deleg-reg, a0443,a0444
the ap
negotiations to reunite south korea's bitterly divided opposition collapsed again today with both sides refusing to compromise over sharing power and party posts
the reunification democratic party announced it had pulled out of talks with the smaller party for peace and democracy and said there was no hope of uniting the two parties. it denounced party for peace and democracy supporters for staging a violent protest that broke up talks
the party concluded it would be meaningless and impossbile to continue merger talks because the positions between the parties are so wide apart,'' said a reunification democratic party spokesman, kim pae-ryong
party for peace and democracy leaders said they wanted to continue unification talks, but they recognized negotiations had stalled. they charged the reunification democratic party wanted to destroy rival opposition groups
the two parties said there was no chance of reuniting before national assembly elections next month. both groups said they would mount separate election campaigns even though it would boost the government's chances of a major victory
the acting party for peace and democracy president, park young-sook, said the party hoped that unification talks could be revived after the election if not sooner. ``we need a strong leadership and a strong opposition,'' she said
about a dozen students staged protests at the two party headquarters today to demand the talks resume and wrote protests with blood after cutting their fingers
some opposition leaders and lawmakers had been pushing for reunification of the two parties to avoid a major defeat in the national assembly elections expected to be held april 26
opposition leader kim dae-jung and his supporters split away from the reunification democratic party to form the party for peace and democracy late last year after he and the larger party's president, kim young-sam, failed to agree on which one of them should run for president
both kims ran in the dec. 16 election and were defeated by government candidate president roh tae-woo after splitting the opposition vote
roh took office feb. 25
a standoff between nashville police and a man who said he accidentally killed his girlfriend ended early today when the gunman fatally shot himself, while an alabama gunman critically wounded himself after killing a man and holding police at bay, authorities say
george e. powell, 45, of nashville died at 1:35 a.m. of a shotgun wound to the head at vanderbilt university medical center, officials said
powell called police at 6:45 p.m. sunday and told them he had accidentally shot his girlfriend, caroline campbell of nashville, during a scuffle, said buddy mitchell, a hostage negotiator for the police
he says they both had been drinking and had a sawed-off shotgun,'' mitchell said. ``he says they got into an argument over the gun and it went off and shot her. he dragged her into the bedroom and covered her up with a blanket and set the telephone on top.''
powell, a sheet metal worker, told police he planned to kill himself, mitchell said. police said they talked on the phone with powell throughout the ordeal
at least 10 patrol cars and the swat team communications van were dispatched to the scene, and police sealed off the area
at 12:45 a.m., powell said goodbye to the negotiators on the phone, hung up and shot himself in the head, police said
in huntsville, ala., a 40-year-old man was listed in critical condition after an eight-hour standoff that began with the gunshot slaying of an acquaintance of the man's ex-wife and ended when the man apparently shot himself, authorities said
madison county sheriff joe patterson said jerry staggs apparently attempted suicide about 7 p.m. sunday after he released his ex-wife, sherry, 29, and the couple's two boys, whom he had taken hostage before noon
staggs was taken by helicopter to huntsville hospital, where he was being treated for a gunshot wound to the head, said spokeswoman june hackworth
the apparent suicide attempt ended a tense standoff that began when staggs shot the acquaintance of his ex-wife as the man sat in his car outside staggs' trailer, police said. about 25 police officers surrounded the trailer and evacuated residents of the dozen other mobile homes in the trailer park north of huntsville
the huntsville news reported today the victim was identified as don pressnell, a former athens police officer
patterson said staggs had been arrested two weeks ago on a kidnapping charge and there had been an attempt to obtain psychiatric treatment for him
the standoff ended when a shot rang out and mrs. staggs ran out the door of the trailer. she told police her ex-husband had shot himself in the head, said capt. robert moder of the huntsville police department
butler said staggs was employed by the city maintenance department. prominent arab attacked, arab houses bulldozed, other details. no pickup.</note>
israeli soldiers shot and killed a palestinian in the gaza strip today, arab reports said, and palestinians staged a widespread general strike in the occupied territories
the strike, which left shops shuttered and public transport idle, came in response to a plo call for ``the most severe confrontation'' to commemorate the 20th anniversary of a palestinian guerrilla clash with israel
also today, attackers fired at a moderate arab's home, the army bulldozed homes of suspected firebombers and a leaflet by arab underground leaders urged more arabs working for the israeli government to quit by saturday
defense minister yitzhak rabin warned sunday night the army may use tougher measures against palestinians after the shooting death of an israeli soldier, the first member of the military to be killed in four months of rioting
in the gaza town of rafah, soldiers today fired tear gas and ammunition at stone-throwing protesters. abdel ahmed jaber al mudalal, 17, of rafah, died after he was shot in the chest, according to arab reports and the palestine press service
al mudalal's body was taken to khan yunis' nasser hospital, the reports said. the army said it was checking the report. if confirmed, the fatality would bring to 104 the number of palestinians killed since the uprising began dec. 8, including four tear gas deaths, according to u.n. figures
rabin told reporters the army was investigating whether the shooting death of sgt. moshe katz indicated palestinians intended to expand the scope of their protests to firearms from the usual stones and gasoline bombs
katz, a reserve soldier, died sunday in bethlehem after he was shot in the head at close range while on guard duty at a government building
if ``extremist palestinian terrorist elements try to combine terrorist acts with civilian protests, we will have to change our operations and take harsher measures to handle both,'' rabin said
attackers fired shots before dawn today at the home and car of jack khazmo, a prominent moderate palestinian newspaper editor, workers at the weekly al bayader assiyasi said. no injuries were reported
wajiha awadallah, khazmo's secretary, said attackers ``fired many shots'' into khazmo's house in the village of ram, just north of jerusalem, at about 2:45 a.m
she said they also ``tried to burn the car, but it was windy and rainy,'' and the effort failed. she said she did not know who attacked the editor, whose newspaper follows a mainstream nationalist palestinian line
the domestic news agency itim reported the army demolished nine arab houses during the night _ three because they belonged to people suspected of firebomb attacks. the agency said it was the first time the army demolished homes of suspected firebombers. new rules for soldiers also allow them to shoot when attacked with firebombs
arab reporters said underground leaders of what palestinians call ``the uprising'' distributed a new leaflet, no. 11, calling for arabs belonging to or working for israeli-appointed municipal councils in the west bank and gaza to quit by saturday
hundreds of arab policemen resigned last week at the request of palestinian underground leaders, who are members of the plo
time and newsweek magazines filed an injunction with the supreme court today in an effort to recover news film israeli authorities confiscated after the shooting of katz. ``demands for the return of the film made repeatedly to israeli authorities has been unavailing, and as a result legal action is being pursued,'' the magazines said in a statement
israeli arabs on sunday decided to hold a general strike on march 30 to mark land day, an annual national event which began a decade ago as a protest against the government's policy of expropriating arab-owned land
fbi agents acting on an anonymous tip peacefully captured one of the agency's 10 most wanted fugitives, a killer sought in three kidnappings since his escape from a louisiana prison 19 months ago, authorities said
danny michael weeks, 34, and a companion, jorene h. florea, 56, were arrested sunday by a 10-member fbi team, said don s. tokunaga, who heads the agency's seattle office
the two apparently were just passing through when agents received an anonymous tip from someone who had recognized weeks as on the most-wanted list, tokunaga said
it was one of those spur-of-the-moment things,'' he said. ``we were fortunate there were no incidents.''
the two were scheduled to appear before a u.s. magistrate today
weeks was wanted for escape, interstate flight, and on warrants alleging kidnapping in houston and kidnapping and robbery in greensboro, n.c. he also has been implicated in a kidnapping in alexandria, la., the day after his aug. 24, 1986, escape from the louisiana state penitentiary
ms. florea was wanted by officials in greensboro on a warrant charging her with kidnapping
when arrested, the pair were unarmed and were looking into the trunk of a car
weeks, originally of roswell, n.m., was serving a life sentence for armed robbery and murder when he and james lee colvin, 33, of shreveport, la., escaped from the prison
the next day, authorities said, colvin and weeks kidnapped a woman at knifepoint in alexandria and forced her to drive to houston, where she was freed unharmed
later that day, authorities said, the two forced another woman at gunpoint into her car in houston. she was forced to drive them to el paso, texas, but was unharmed
colvin, who was captured in 1986 in los angeles, was convicted in august in houston of federal kidnapping charges
tokunaga said the greensboro warrants stemmed from the feb. 23, 1988, kidnapping at gunpoint of guilford county, n.c., sheriff's deputy susan kathleen vincent, 27. she was released unharmed in chicago on feb. 26
ms. vincent said that during her abduction, her captors robbed a bank in davenport, iowa
greensboro police said they were seeking the extradition of weeks and ms. florea in ms. vincent's abduction
weeks was serving a 99-year sentence for armed robbery when he was sentenced in 1985 to life in prison for the christmas 1981 contract slaying of army sgt. major hubert ester. weeks pleaded guilty to second-degree murder
ester's wife, patricia, was convicted of first-degree murder in 1983 for hiring weeks and is serving a life sentence
weeks escaped twice from authorities in ouachita parish, la. he committed the armed robbery in shreveport after his first escape. expert says</head>
most of the psychological tests now in use do a poor job of evaluating black personality and attitudes, according to a black psychologist who says he has developed a test to remedy the problem
it is time we begin to show sensitivity to black american culture and stop trying to make black americans conform to anglo test material and test biases,'' said robert l. williams, a professor of psychology and black studies at washington university in st. louis
williams made the comments saturday to about 150 people at a psychology conference, where participants studied the impact of ethnicity and race on their clients
black lifestyles should be examined and understood in terms of their historical, cultural and social realities and not in terms of a comparison with the experiences of other groups, for example euro-americans,'' said williams
he said he has developed a standardized test for blacks called themes concerning blacks
the test, now being used by a number of schools, corporations and psychologists, consists of 20 charcoal drawings depicting various aspects of black culture and lifestyles in rural and urban areas, he said
culturally specific tests are necessary because people of various ethnic backgrounds may perform badly on tests designed for and by euro-americans, and they may be labeled inaccurately as a result, williams said
mislabeling may have profoundly negative effects on intellectual and personality development,'' williams said
he said he was told by a white counselor in elementary school that he had only borderline intelligence and should take manual training programs in high school. williams later went to college and earned a doctorate from washington university
the conference, which ended saturday, was sponsored by the chicago school of professional psychology
a delta air lines jet made a safe emergency landing after one of its sets of wheels failed to lower. the jet's left wing scraped the runway and ignited but no injuries were reported
flight 314 circled portland international airport for 40 minutes sunday after the boeing 727-200's left landing gear failed to operate
the pilot, 20-year delta veteran tom peace, gently set the plane on its right and front wheels as it rolled 2,000 to 3,000 feet on a rarely used runway, said darrel buttice of the port of portland
port spokeswoman sara roberts said emergency crews immediately put out the small fire on the left wing
inflatable emergency chutes were deployed from the doorways, and the 71 passengers were evacuated without incident, ms. roberts said
the incident was under investigation by the federal aviation administration
the flight originated in atlanta and made a stop in salt lake city before heading to portland, buttice said. styles</head>
models in glen plaid cutaways or sequined jackets over black pants looked like emcees from the folies bergeres as italian enrico coveri threw a winter wear floor show to celebrate his 10th year as a paris designer
as for the skinny sequin dresses with hearts or fringes on bosoms and the crinoline short puffy dresses, they more often looked like toulouse-lautrec's dancers
his longer dance-hall dresses with striped taffeta skirts, moire jackets and bodices laced up with velvet were more wearable
coveri's show sunday featured day looks with military details. reversible short capes in all colors, plaids and houndstooth checks flew open over well-cut suits, either with short, full skirts or pants with gold-buttoned military jackets _ sergeant's stripe details stitched into the sleeves
long pants or minis had the zebra touch, sometimes paired with leather
angelo tarlazzi had a ``spaghetti western'' show with some strong ideas for day clothes
boots and cowboy hats were worn with almost everything, including the full-skirted belted coats _ black for daytime, taffeta for evening
some of the long and swirly-skirted coats in dusty pinks came out with brown beaver collars and full beaver sleeves. some of his greatcoats were worn with gray or navy battle jackets and flounced grey flannel skirts underneath
another suit had a tailored jacket front and puffy sleeves over slim velvet or tweed pants. tarlazzi often topped pants with long split or wrapped pleated skirts
minis appeared in low-waisted royal blue and black or red jersey, sometimes topped with wrapped shawls _ long a tarlazzi trademark
his new soft sweaters either had yoked fronts and black ribbons wound through their hems or ``passementerie'' or tasseled curtain-edging in bi-colored outfits
for evening, it was western saloon garb, with puffy taffeta skirts hitched up over boots, fitted fake fur tops with pointed hems, tiered and ruffled skirts with short tuxedo tops _ over pants
issey miyake, the artistic japanese with a flair for fabrics, has loosened up his complicated looks to smoother styles for easy wear
his triple-layered flowing jersey tent dresses in soft sky or royal or grape blues, plum, gray and black left the body totally unconstricted
menswear styles looked pleasingly shaped or baggy. but feminine notes abounded as well, especially in a short sheer crepe caramel dress pleated all over
miyake finished up with some trouser suits splattered with color
at balenciaga, designer michel goma showed simple sophistication in belted coats with pilgrims' or caped collars, suits with cropped weskit jackets and full-skirted tweed suits with full lacy petticoats showing underneath
at dorothee bis, the unpretentious styles were easy, young and offhand, always colorful, with fuchsias, blues and bright greens
her all-knit starters were slim polo-necked and short, coming out in 14 colors with matching tights. to pep up some of the dresses, she plastered them with triangles flapping from one point
shorts suits and babydoll dresses with yokes put in a cheery appearance. and evenings had glitter dusted on black or cocktail suits with guipure or heavy lace backs and sleeves on blazers over guipure skirts
a motorcycle that may have been laden with explosives blew up in downtown tokyo today, damaging windows of nearby buildings but causing no injuries, police reported
a police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the explosion occurred near hibiya park about 880 yards southeast of the imperial palace. he said the motorcycle appeared to have been rigged with explosives
he said there were reports of explosions in three other parts of the city and that authorities are investigating the incidents
the official said japanese radicals might have been responsible for the motorcycle explosion, but details were not immediately available
members of the florida baptist general convention are in an ``uproar'' over the drug arrest of their executive director
the rev. john taylor, 25, was one of 139 people arrested last week in operation crackdown iii by the broward sheriff's department, deputies said. he was charged with trying to buy crack from an undercover officer, police said
dr. henry j. lyons, a minister and president of the st. petersburg-based group, said taylor has been suspended without pay. that leaves vacant the convention's top administrative post two weeks before the 500,000-member organization convenes its annual meeting
taylor's future will be discussed at that gathering, lyons said
everyone is in an uproar and an outrage. they don't know what to think,'' lyons said. ``we will offer him some sort of rehabilitative help if he wants it or deems it necessary.''
if proven guilty, we will have no alternative but to terminate him from his office,'' lyons said. the convention is an association of 728 baptist churches that considers itself the single largest black organization in the state
lyons said taylor, who lives in st. petersburg, was in fort lauderdale on official convention business. he was arrested northwest of fort lauderdale several hours after he attended a service thursday at mount olive baptist church
lyons said he sent two ministers to fort lauderdale on friday to learn the facts of the case
the convention hired taylor 16 months ago, recruiting him from bishop college in dallas, where he was doing graduate work
he handles the nuts and bolts. he carries the program of the convention across the state,'' lyons said. ``he does his job extremely well. we were quite satisfied with his job performance. i have no reason to think he was using cocaine. it never dawned on me.''
a broward county jail employee said taylor was no longer in custody saturday
an unarmed intruder was shot to death while scaling a gate outside parliament, police said today
police spokesman ravi pawar said the unidentified man was challenged by security guards shortly after midnight sunday. when the man did not heed their calls, the guards opened fire, pawar said
a senior police officer investigating the case said the intruder was not armed. the official spoke on condition of anonymity
security is tight at parliament because it is currently in session and sikh militants agitating for a separate homeland have threatened to kill prime minister rajiv gandhi and members of his cabinet
the officer said a police team was sent to neighboring haryana state to an address in a diary found near the intruder's body
until the team returns, we cannot identify the man,'' he said
m. butterfly,'' which opened sunday night, is a brilliant new play, with layers of ironies, fantasies, sexual and romantic ambiguities and gender reversals by individuals and even the occident and the orient
the play, california-born playwright david henry hwang's broadway debut, stars john lithgow and b.d. wong, both giving striking performances
the story turns on its head puccini's opera ``madame butterfly,'' in which navy lt. pinkerton marries madame butterfly while stationed in japan then sails away while she lovingly believes he'll come back
in ``m. butterfly'' _ meaning monsieur butterfly _ it is the foreign man posted in the orient who deeply loves. lithgow plays rene gallimard, attached to the french embassy in beijing in 1960
the naive, babyfaced gallimard, who narrates the story in flashback from a french prison, sees the woman of his dreams, song liling (b.d. wong), singing ``madama butterfly.'' he calls the singer butterfly ever after
but butterfly is a chinese actor playing a woman, and whether butterfly cares for gallimard is unknown. they have an affair for 20 years in which gallimard never sees butterfly naked or allows himself to realize butterfly is a man
hwang, whose plays have been acclaimed off-broadway, was inspired by real-life reports of a similar situation in an espionage trial in france
in ``m. butterfly,'' butterfly is a communist agent who gives gallimard misinformation to pass on to america about vietnam. eventually butterfly gets him to become a courier and photograph documents
at gallimard's treason trial, butterfly, in a business suit, tells the judge, ``the west has a racial mentality about the east. the west thinks of itself as masculine, the east as delicate, wanting to be submissive.''
the play is talky, as plays of ideas are. but lithgow's character, as written and acted, is a rich one. gallimard had a wife (rose gregorio) and a fling with a young blonde (lindsay frost) whose frank speech he considered masculine. butterfly, asked by the judge (george n. martin) how gallimard could not know he was a man, says: ``men believe what they want to believe.''
the play is ambiguous about whether gallimard wanted to believe in his dream woman or whether he was, without knowing his own secret, homosexual. the two argue about that _ for too long _ after the trial, gallimard insisting, ``i am a man who loved a woman created by a man.''
the play ends like the opera, with gallimard having taken over butterfly's situation and finally her role
director john dexter has seamlessly woven eastern and western stage elements. stagehands wearing black, so they're ``unseen,'' as in oriental theater, move furniture and props. the stage has a red backdrop and a black platform encircled by a sweeping white ramp that reaches high into the wings
in other reviews, the daily news' howard kissel said the play is witty and filled with provocative images, but baffling. ``off-broadway, its assets would be properly appreciated,'' the review said. ``here its slick trappings set expectations it cannot meet.''
reviewer frank rich of the new york times said the ``singular'' play treats a number of universal conflicts _ men versus women and east versus west
though `m. butterfly' presents us with a visionary work that bridges the history and culture of two worlds, the production stops crushingly short of finding the gripping human drama that merges mr. hwang's story with his brilliant play of ideas,'' the critic wrote. honduras</head>
gov. richard celeste wants defense secretary frank carlucci to reconsider holding national guard training exercises in honduras because of recent reports of hostilities with neighboring nicaragua
in a letter to carlucci on saturday, celeste said he was concerned for the safety of ohio guardsmen after president reagan ordered ``combat ready'' members of the 82nd airborne into the central american nation
reagan sent the troops last week after nicaraguan troops reportedly crossed into honduras in pursuit of contra rebel forces battling nicaragua's sandinista government
i urge you to defer this and all national guard training missions at least until the current highly charged situation is behind us,'' celeste said in the letter. ``if not, what assurance can you provide that this is a neccessary and prudent training mission for our guard members at this time?''
the governor also wrote that he believed the presence of u.s. national guard units in honduras could undermine progress on central american peace negotiatons
celeste wrote that he continued to oppose sending ohio engineering units into honduras for exercises scheduled for 1989, but pledged to abide by instructions of the defense department and the national guard bureau
ohio and several other states joined minnesota in a lawsuit challenging the guard bureau's authority to commit state guardsmen to training exercises outside the country over a governor's objection. a federal court in minnesota last summer ruled in favor of the guard bureau, but the decision is being appealed
the governor's press secretary, debra phillips, said the letter was sent saturday by an overnight delivery service to carlucci ``so it will be on his desk when he gets in monday morning.''
copies of the letter also were sent to ohio's u.s. senators _ john glenn and howard metzenbaum _ and to u.s. rep. edward feighan, all democrats
the recent death of child star heather o'rourke has left mgm studio executives in a quandary over how to market her film ``poltergeist iii'' without appearing to exploit the 12-year-old actress
normal adults and obviously fathers like myself might be very offended,'' said barry lorie, mgm's senior vice president for marketing
miss o'rourke died feb. 1 of septic shock caused by a bowel obstruction. she had completed the film, scheduled for release june 10, last spring
she was best known for her lines ``they're heeeeere'' and ``they're baaaaack,'' which helped sell the first two ``poltergeist'' films
in ``poltergeist iii'' miss o'rourke's character, carol anne, still haunted by ghostly beings, is sent to live with relatives in chicago
although lorie said the films generally appeal to teen-age audiences whose members likely wouldn't be disturbed by miss o'rourke's death, he added he could imagine angry letters from adults denouncing an ad campaign that appears to trade on her death
the studio plans to test audience reactions to various ad campaigns shown at screenings before releasing the film june 10
lorie said mgm has also asked the movie's other main stars, tom skerritt and nancy allen, to avoid interviews that would lead to questions about miss o'rourke
lorie said the studio is worried about tabloid exploitation, particularly because one actor on each of the previous movies died shortly after shooting was completed
actress dominique dunne, who appeared in the original 1982 film, was strangled by an ex-boyfriend in 1982. julian beck, of ``poltergeist ii'' died of cancer in 1985
horse thieves cut a hole in a fence and allowed at least 75 beefalo to wander onto the florida turnpike, leading to five minor accidents, an injury to a woman and the deaths of seven animals, police said
five of the beefalo died in the accidents and two other injured animals had to be killed by humane society workers, the florida highway patrol reported
the beefalo, part of a 400-head herd owned by dr. arnie oper, roamed through a hole cut by thieves and ambled onto the turnpike extension north of miami sunday morning, said fhp sgt. alvis chinn
what they're doing apparently is stealing the horses in the early morning hours and they're leaving without fixing the fence,'' chinn said
the accidents caused an estimated $18,000 to $20,000 in damage to the vehicles involved, chinn said. an unidentified woman who was treated for minor injuries and released from palmetto general hospital, he said
motorist shelley d'errico said she slowed down when she spotted part of the herd. when one started toward her car, she took off
my husband told me to gun it,'' she said, adding that her car was unscathed. ``i don't know if my insurance company would believe that a buffalo put a dent in my car.''
the herd was rounded up by animal-control officers, passersby and ranch workers, chinn said. the beefalo, a hybrid of buffalo and cattle, were valued at $1,500 to $1,800 each
a woman who owed a $50 cocaine debt was beaten and locked in a car trunk, then doused with gasoline and set afire by angry drug dealers, police said
the 36-year-old woman, who officers refused to identify, was taken to alta bates hospital in berkeley with second- and third-degree burns on 15 percent of her upper body, police said. a nursing supervisor who asked not to be identified said the woman was in stable condition
this is my first time to find something like this in a coke deal,'' said police sgt. roy williams
authorities said witnesses told investigators a group of men confronted the woman friday seeking payment of the drug debt
they said that when she said she couldn't pay, she was beaten, thrown into the trunk of their car and driven away, then was returned and set afire
residents of one north oakland neighborhood held a rally saturday to urge a battle against drug dealers
after years of slavery, job discrimination, the depression, northern intimidation, lynchings and beatings, none of which broke the spirit of the black race, a little white powder has come along that has done more damage to the black community than any span of history,'' the rev. ray williams told listeners
many homes in the area had boarded up windows and barred doors
what's happened to the neighborhood?'' asked estelle harmon, a resident for 28 years. ``name it. everything. it used to be nice and neat and clean, and now all of these dope people have gotten in here, and i mean we are surrounded.'' strike, mrs. mandela saying no trouble with police. pickup 5th graf ``in soweto...''; subs 12th graf ``at the...'' with one graf to confirm reports students beaten</note>
commuter buses from soweto were deserted today and four buses near durban were firebombed as hundreds of thousands of blacks joined the first nationwide protest strike since major opposition groups were banned last month
in other violence, police fired tear gas at a predominantly indian university and arrested students who tried to force others to join the boycott. the strike was organized in defiance of emergency regulations to commemorate the 28th anniversary of a massacre in the township of sharpeville and to protest the banning of any activity by the united democratic front and 16 other anti-apartheid groups
police estimated 40 percent of the black work force in the johannesburg region stayed away from their jobs, but did not give a figure for the number involved
in sharpeville, residents placed flowers at graves of some of the 69 massacre victims and held memorial services
winnie mandela, wife of jailed african national congress leader nelson mandela, attended one of the services after arriving in the township south of johannesburg in a bus with other activists
there was an unconfirmed report police ordered the bus to leave, but mrs. mandela said her group left voluntarily
in soweto, the black township of 2.5 million people outside johannesburg, virtually no passengers boarded commuter buses, according to cheryl roxmouth of the putco bus company. normal daily ridership is about 75,000
schools and most shops in soweto were closed, and residents said few of the hundreds of mini-bus taxis which carry many sowetans to work were operating
south african transport services said ridership on its trains during morning rush hour was down by up to 20 percent. it dismissed as inaccurate an earlier press report that said ridership was down by about 80 percent
in durban, four putco buses were firebombed, prompting putco to halt service in several townships when drivers refused to work. police reported two unrest-related killings of blacks overnight, one near durban and one in soweto, but gave no indication if they were linked to the protest
at the university of durban-westville, where most students are of indian descent, police used tear gas to disperse protesters and arrested some students who tried to force others to boycott classes. some students attending class were beaten by supporters of the boycott
the strike was widespread in the johannesburg-pretoria area, in durban and around the eastern cape province city of port elizabeth. more than 90 percent of black workers reportedly stayed home around the city of uitenhage, where police killed 21 blacks during a funeral procession on sharpeville day in 1985
there was no explicit call for workers in the cape town area to strike
the united democratic front, the country's largest anti-apartheid coalition, had coordinated previous nationwide protests during the 21-month-old state of emergency. emergency regulations outlaw calls for strikes and boycotts, but hundreds of thousands of black workers and students nonetheless observed these protests by staying away from jobs and schools
several affiliates of the front, not affected by the new ban, took out newspaper advertisements announcing today's ``national day of protest.''
police commanders threatened action against organizers of the strike and issued assurances that blacks wishing to work would be protected from intimidators. there were reports of black youths turning back commuters but no reports of physical intimidation
commemorative services were scheduled in several cities and townships to mark the anniversary of the 1960 massacre in sharpeville. sixty-nine blacks were killed and about 180 injured when police fired on thousands of demonstrators protesting the pass laws. those laws, which restricted blacks' freedom of movement, were repealed in 1986
the predominantly white university of cape town and the mostly mixed-race university of the western cape closed in solidarity with the protest. for similar reasons, today's performance of ``district six,'' a musical with an anti-apartheid theme playing to full houses in johannesburg, was canceled
an afternoon protest was planned at johannesburg's university of the witwatersrand, where the president of the student council, rosemary hunter, reportedly was detained by police early today
sharpeville returned to the spotlight last week when it became known that friday had been set as the execution date for the ``sharpeville six'' _ five black men and a woman convicted of complicity in the mob killing of a black town councilor during anti-apartheid riots in 1984
appeals for clemency poured in from around the world, but president p.w. botha said he would not intervene to save the six
on thursday, 15 hours before the hangings were to take place, a supreme court judge granted a one-month stay of execution in order to consider defense attorneys' claims that a key state witness has perjured himself. find</head>
police looking for overdue books with fines totaling about $3,000 found more than 10,000 books from libraries worldwide in lockers rented by the oscar-nominated author whose book became the movie ``full metal jacket.''
police want to question jerry gustav hasford, author of ``the short-timers,'' said campus police detective ray berrett of california polytechnic state university, san luis obispo
a search warrant served by police from the school sought 87 overdue books that had been checked out from the campus library in hasford's name. fines totaled about $3,000
we found a lot more than we bargained for,'' said wayne carmack, another investigator
officers found only seven campus library books, but seized thousands of books marked as belonging to libraries as far away as england and australia, carmack said
university police have been unable to find hasford and question him about the books, but have not sought an arrest warrant from the district attorney's office, berrett said saturday
officers took a weekend break from the mammoth job of cataloging the pile of books, which measures 27 feet long, 5 feet wide and 5 feet tall, police dispatcher suzi goodwin said sunday
hasford, who recently lived in nearby morro bay, doesn't attend the university but got a library card under a program open to state residents, carmack said. but the card was obtained with a false address and social security number, carmack said
there was no comment from hasford; he does not have a listed telephone number in san luis obispo
hasford shares a 1988 academy award nomination for best screenplay adaptation with ``full metal jacket'' director stanley kubrick and michael herr
he didn't appear friday night at the writers guild of america awards ceremony, where he was considered for a similar award but didn't win. confirmed and to update total deaths. picks up graf 7 pvs bgng ``rabin told''</note>
israeli soldiers shot and killed a palestinian in the gaza strip today, arab reports said, and palestinians carried out a widespread general strike in the occupied territories
the strike, which left shops shuttered and public transport idle, came in response to a plo call for ``the most severe confrontation'' to commemorate the 20th anniversary of a palestinian guerrilla clash with israel
also today, attackers fired at a moderate arab's home, the army bulldozed homes of suspected firebombers and a leaflet by arab underground leaders urged more arabs working for the israeli government to quit by saturday
defense minister yitzhak rabin warned sunday night the army may use tougher measures against palestinians after the shooting death of an israeli soldier, the first member of the military to be killed in four months of rioting
in the gaza town of rafah, soldiers today fired tear gas and ammunition at stone-throwing protesters. abdel ahmed jaber al mudalal, 17, of rafah, died after he was shot in the chest, according to the palestine press service and other arab reports
al mudalal's body was taken to khan yunis' nasser hospital, the reports said. the army confirmed the death, but said it could not establish a cause because the youth's family had taken the body from the hospital
u.n. officials, meanwhile, confirmed arab reports that two men died sunday from gunshot wounds suffered earlier
khalid mohammed taher, 25, was shot march 16 during a protest in tulkarim. mohammed mahmoud hamad, 25, was hit by gunfire march 4 in the village of silwad, near ramallah
the fatalities brought to 106 the number of palestinians killed since the uprising begin dec. 8, including four deaths from tear gas inhalation, according to u.n. figures
rabin told reporters the army was investigating whether the shooting death of sgt. moshe katz indicated palestinians intended to expand the scope of their protests to firearms from the usual stones and gasoline bombs
katz, a reserve soldier, died sunday in bethlehem after he was shot in the head at close range while on guard duty at a government building
if ``extremist palestinian terrorist elements try to combine terrorist acts with civilian protests, we will have to change our operations and take harsher measures to handle both,'' rabin said
attackers fired shots before dawn today at the home and car of jack khazmo, a prominent moderate palestinian newspaper editor, workers at the weekly al bayader assiyasi said. no injuries were reported
wajiha awadallah, khazmo's secretary, said attackers ``fired many shots'' into khazmo's house in the village of ram, just north of jerusalem, at about 2:45 a.m
she said they also ``tried to burn the car, but it was windy and rainy,'' and the effort failed. she said she did not know who attacked the editor, whose newspaper follows a mainstream nationalist palestinian line
the domestic news agency itim reported the army demolished nine arab houses during the night _ three because they belonged to people suspected of firebomb attacks. the agency said it was the first time the army demolished homes of suspected firebombers. new rules for soldiers also allow them to shoot when attacked with firebombs
arab reporters said underground leaders of what palestinians call ``the uprising'' distributed a new leaflet, no. 11, calling for arabs belonging to or working for israeli-appointed municipal councils in the west bank and gaza to quit by saturday
hundreds of arab policemen resigned last week at the request of palestinian underground leaders, who are members of the plo
time and newsweek magazines filed an injunction with the supreme court today in an effort to recover news film israeli authorities confiscated after the shooting of katz. ``demands for the return of the film made repeatedly to israeli authorities has been unavailing, and as a result legal action is being pursued,'' the magazines said in a statement
israeli arabs on sunday decided to hold a general strike on march 30 to mark land day, an annual national event which began a decade ago as a protest against the government's policy of expropriating arab-owned land. dakota, since capturing gop caucuses in iowa.</note>
leaning back in his chair at a hotel suite as he waited for his next campaign appearance, sen. bob dole reflected on his reasons for remaining in the race for the republican presidential nomination
while some have begun to speak of concerns about splitting the gop, dole spoke sunday about responsibility and confidence
it's about the best thing that could happen to the party,'' dole said of his decision to stay in the race even though he has won just one primary _ south dakota _ since he captured the gop caucuses in iowa
it's the responsible thing to do. we've had a dozen republicans either look at this or formerly run as candidates. now we're down to two and we can get down to business.''
although some have speculated that a loss in the wisconsin primary april 5 may force him out of the race, dole said he thought his campaign work was only starting
it's the first day of spring, and we still haven't debated the issues,'' he said. ``we've had little press conferences that they called debates. ... but now we have a real chance to debate george bush.''
dole had challenged bush to a debate before the illinois primary, but bush refused. dole said he will try to arrange a debate before the wisconsin primary _ perhaps in wisconsin itself
we'll talk about any subject. he'll pick two and i'll pick two _ no notes, no moderator, just an hour or hour-and-a-half debate.''
dole kicked off a three-day campaign swing through wisconsin just hours after receiving news of a milwaukee journal poll that showed him trailing bush nearly 3-to-1 among wisconsin voters likely to vote in the primary
he said the poll was probably inaccurate but admitted ``i've got a lot of hill to climb.''
it's not surprising, but i don't think its accurate,'' he said. ``it was taken right after illinois with super tuesday still hanging over my head. my view is that you give voters a couple of weeks.''
dole was trounced by bush on super tuesday and then lost again in illinois. he said wisconsin was an important state for his campaign, but a loss april 5 did not necessarily mean he would drop out
we've been hearing the end is near, but people forget george bush stayed in eight weeks after he began losing to ronald reagan. eight weeks was enough for him to lose,'' he said in reference to the 1980 gop race. ``but i think eight weeks would be enough time for me to turn some things around.''
although emphasizing confidence, dole indicated that recent attention to the cuts he made on his paid national staff wore on his patience
he said he picked up a newspaper sunday morning in washington and was pleased to see there was not a single story about politics
it was kind of refreshing to pick up the paper and read about _ maybe not refreshing but different _ to read about panama, honduras, nicaragua and no politics
there are a lot of issues that should be discussed,'' he added. ``we shouldn't be into this game about are you going to run or are you going to drop out and how many staff people you have and all that inside baseball. the voter can care less about that.''
a misunderstanding by officers resulted in police breaking into the house of an elderly couple, where an 84-year-old man was killed in an exchange of gunfire, a prosecutor says
the officers were supposed to knock on the door but thought incorrectly that they were being ordered inside to capture a rape suspect, district attorney andy fuller said in an interview published sunday in the times of gainesville
dillard free was killed in the christmas eve shooting. fuller said free apparently was awakened by the sound of his front door being kicked down and fired two shots at officers
a grand jury on march 10 declined to indict the officer who shot free, but it expressed outrage about the shooting and called for a review of police procedures
a georgia bureau of investigation report on the shooting remains sealed because of indictments against the two people who told police the rape suspect was in the house. they are accused of making false statements
fuller said he decided to discuss the gbi's findings because ``the people of hall county need to know this information.''
fuller said six law officers told the gbi they remembered police detective robert gable directing that they use normal procedure for serving an arrest warrant _ that is, knocking and announcing ``warrant'' _ at the free home
but the officers who took up positions in front of the house, lee west, gary lenderman and kirk williamson, were not present to hear that order, fuller said
he said that when detective russell elrod told the officers by radio to ``go on in,'' lenderman seemed surprised and asked, ``you want us to go?''
the evidence indicates the detectives did not mean for (west and williamson) to break the door down, but the evidence also indicates that the uniformed officers felt they had been given a directive to go into the house,'' fuller said
west kicked down free's front door and he and williamson entered the darkened living room while sgt. benny patrick rushed onto the front porch, fuller said
he said patrick saw a silhouette moving inside and shouted ``police,'' but a shot was fired that narrowly missed his head. he said west then also shouted ``police'' and saw the figure fire again, striking a door frame
west then fired two shots, fatally wounding free in the thigh and neck
free's wife, agnes, 73, was hospitalized for shock and died march 5, three days after suffering a heart attack
the rape suspect the officers were seeking was arrested christmas day in texas. with details of second explosion.</note>
a motorcycle, apparently rigged with explosives, blew up today near the saudi arabian airlines office and a car bomb exploded near the israeli embassy about 15 minutes later, police said
there were no reports of injuries in the attacks. police said radicals may have been responsible
a police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the motorcycle, with apparent explosives on its back seat, burst into flames at about 7:17 p.m. near hibiya park and shattered windows of the saudi arabian airlines tokyo office. the park is about a half-mile yards southeast of the imperial palace
the police official said the second attack occurred near the israel embassy about 15 minutes later when explosives in a parked car's trunk exploded, damaging windows of nearby houses
he said there were no reports of damage at the embassy, about 3{ miles from hibiya park
the official said japanese radicals, who sometimes fire homemade missiles from cars parked in streets, may have been responsible for the explosions. further details were not immediately available
last month, four shuttle buses used to transport passengers to and from airports were burned in tokyo in apparent arson attacks by radicals opposed to the expansion of the new tokyo international airport in narita
local farmers and their supporters, including anti-government radical groups, have been resisting government plans to expropriate farmland to construct a second runway at narita
in may 1986, japanese radicals fired homemade missiles at the state guest house, the u.s. embassy, the imperial palace, the crown prince's residence and police headquarters in osaka before a seven-nation summit meeeting in tokyo
one attack came during japan's welcoming ceremonies for the heads of government of the united states, canada, britain, france, west germany and italy
a garbage truck driver who thought a cat had climbed into his compactor was stunned to find a man nearly buried under loads of trash
driver michael penton said he had taken on two loads of garbage when he got out of the truck to adjust the next garbage bin and heard a noise
at first i thought it was kids playing,'' penton said. ``but then i realized there are no kids there; it's all retirees or professional people.''
then he thought a cat was stuck inside
i just climbed up the ladder on the side of the truck, and there was this guy buried in the trash,'' penton said. ``all i saw was this arm and head.''
pasco county emergency workers disentangled dale berube, who suffered a broken pelvis and other injuries in the thursday accident
berube said he had been trying to retrieve an old rug from the garbage bin for a friend who wanted it to line a doghouse. he never heard the garbage truck coming
nor did he realize what was happening until he felt the truck pick up the metal box, he said in a strained voice saturday from his bed at bayfront medical center in st. petersburg. he was tossed into the truck and the compactor was started
i was very lucky,'' said berube, who has been having nightmares about his brush with death
i thought i was going to die for sure,'' he said. ``it was like squishing my body apart. i saw it coming back the third time and i thought, `please, god, please.'''
one of the country's most militant anti-apartheid newspapers today lost a court appeal seeking protection from government action, clearing the way for authorities to shut it down for three months
home affairs minister stoffel botha had intended to close the new nation in january, but the paper's court challenge delayed the move. his office would not comment today on how soon he would act
the paper was launched in january 1986 by the southern african catholic bishops conference as an alternative newspaper to reflect ``the daily struggles, desires and aspirations of the masses.''
published weekly with a circulation of 50,000 to 60,000, it has a small staff, and gets many of its reports from members of community organizations, trade unions and youth groups in the rural areas where the majority of black south africans live
its editor, zwelakhe sisulu, has been detained without charge for 16 of the 26 months of publication. the government has said he is being held because of his journalistic activities
authorities have banned four of the paper's editions and seized two. police have raided the new nation offices, and it was the first of six publications to be warned by botha that they could be closed or censored for publishing material he found objectionable
the paper does not claim to be objective. it's philosophy was explained in the last issue: ``journalists should not only report on what happens in society, but should also help find solutions to the problems of our country.''
but the paper challenged the government to prove in court that any of its reports were illegal under the law or the emergency regulations
the johannesburg supreme court ruled last week that botha has nearly unlimited powers to deal as he pleases with papers he feels might contribute to unrest. the court specifically ruled that botha did not have to give reasons for his decisions or actions
the court said the paper could appeal. but today, the court turned down the paper's request to keep botha from closing it during the nine months the appeal will take to be heard
the decision left the way open for botha to immediately issue a decree closing the paper
acting editor gabu tugwana said after the court decision, ``we are pretending we don't face any suspension. if the deadline (for the thursday) edition comes and we are printed, good luck to us.''
he noted that government gazettes, in which emergency decrees are published, usually come out on friday ``except in special circumstances. we don't know if we are that special to the government. they don't contact us. they don't have to.''
botha's power allows him to close a paper for up to three months, or establish an in-house censor, but tugwana said that if the paper is closed it would only be allowed to reopen under even more stringent restrictions
i just think the world at large, internally and externally, haven't yet seen this seriously. it is an action against the whole media,'' he said
there are many more axes hanging in the air that will fall on many others,'' he said in reference to warnings issued against several other papers. ``we are the first on the line because we have lesser protection. as far as the government is concerned, we are just a pamphlet.''
actors and announcers who make commercial went on strike nationwide today after contract talks were deadlocked over cable television residuals and cost-of-living adjustments
the screen actors guild and aftra did begin a strike at 12:01 this morning against advertising agencies and producers of commercials,'' said dick moore, a spokesman for the american federation of television and radio artists
he said no new negotiations had been scheduled
the joint sag-aftra membership numbers more than 100,000. the unions negotiate together on the commercial contract
talks on a new three-year pact between the performers and the joint policy committee of the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers began jan. 11 in new york city and hit an impasse march 7
union negotiators received a 93 percent strike authorization vote from members just before contract talks broke off
meanwhile, no new talks were scheduled between the 9,000-member writers guild of america and producers to end that union's 2-week-old strike. they have been at a stalemate over residuals from foreign distribution, creative control and a management proposal to restructure residuals for one-hour television shows sold into syndication
the commercial contract dispute centers on performers' demands for a share of money made from commercials broadcast on cable television and advertisers' attempts to reduce union cost-of-living adjustments
actors currently receive no residuals from cable television broadcasts of their commercials after they have earned their first $1,000 in payments from regular, prime-time television. virtually all ads shown on cable meet the $1,000 requirement, said guild official ken orsatti
the unions recently sent telegrams to all u.s. presidential candidates offering to grant them production waivers if they agree to interim contracts conceding to the demands
the interim contract offer was given to regular advertisers as well, and as many as 40 have said they will seek them, according to the union
three teen-age girls have been arrested and accused of terrorizing two elderly woman by pushing their way into the women's apartment and demanding money while they tore the place apart, police said
tanya williams, 16, and two 13-year-old females whose names were withheld because of their age were arrested sunday and charged with first-degree robbery and first-degree burglary, said police sgt. diane kubler
the three teen-agers allegedly pushed their way into an apartment occupied by 90-year-old emma otto and her 83-year-old sister, margaret tellesen, on march 16, kubler said
tellesen said she let the girls in wednesday when they asked to use the bathroom. one of the 13-year-olds knew one of the women through her mother, police said
the three scattered papers around the apartment, cut the telephone line and threatened to kill the women if they did not give them money, kubler said. the three left after the women gave them $50, she said
the three returned to the apartment saturday, pushing their way in and again threatening the women, the sergeant said
the three left after taking $300 in cash and two bank books, kubler said
building owner zack kaimakliotis took the women to police after the second robbery and detectives staked out the apartment
the three girls were arrested after they returned a third time early sunday. the girls told police they spent the money on clothes, the newspaper reported. assessment is not locero's, but his paraphrase of company statements.</note>
the government's ``superfund'' program cleaning up toxic waste dumps should go back to its old policy of seeking up-front payment commitments from polluters before beginning work, an environmental protection agency official says
gene a. locero says the program faces inevitable shortfalls as it begins new cleanup projects before the polluting companies agree to pay for the work
locero is head of the waste programs enforcement office at epa, but plans to leave. on april 15, he will become a special assistant to administrator lee m. thomas
his gloomy analysis of superfund's prospects appears in the march-april issue of ``environmental forum,'' a publication of the environmental law institute
locero's boss, winston porter, the assistant administrator whose programs include superfund, had not yet seen the article, his office reported
for the first two years of the program, officials negotiated with companies responsible for pollution at dump sites, trying to win agreements to pay before substantial work was begun
but accusations of political influence on decision-making that rocked the agency in 1983 and led to many resignations also led to a new strategy _ if cleanup agreements aren't reached quickly, the agency will start site investigations and cleanup work anyway and seek reimbursement later
amendments passed in 1986 that authorized an $8.5 billion program over the next five years oblige the agency to start 175 cleanups by october 1989, and another 200 by 1991
locero presented this worst-case analysis:
if it is assumed that the agency will fund all the starts itself, and that the average cost is $30 million for each action, then by october 1989 the agency would need $5.25 billion for these actions alone,'' and $6 billion more for the 200 actions to follow by 1991
epa now assumes each site will cost $21 million for cleanup alone, not counting overhead _ an estimate that has more than tripled in six years
companies will obviously pay for some, but ``the agency's top management officials do not dispute whether there will be a shortfall, but only how much,'' locero wrote
epa now tends to seek ``all or nothing'' agreements from the companies responsible for a site. the agency has little incentive to craft the far more difficult agreements where some companies pay for only some of the cleanup followed by court action against recalcitrants
locero says the court action is ``unlikely to be a priority'' and thus not much of a threat
to many companies that might settle with epa, ``this is equivalent to `shooting the volunteers,''' locero wrote. ``this dynamic, if not changed, reduces the likelihood that the agency can look to (companies) for a greater share of the cleanup outputs it is committed to.''
meeting the commitment means ``confronting the possibility once again that outside observers, especially congress, may criticize the agency by slowing down cleanup by looking to more (company) cleanups, or for entering into partial settlements that are too favorable'' to the companies
the 1986 amendments recognized that remedial action may not be able to achieve full restoration of every site, but ``some in the agency fear that making remedy decisions that are less than full restoration will provoke harsh and damaging criticism of the program,'' locero said
unfortunately this has diverted attention to collecting more and more data to justify decisions, which threatens to add more time to the ever-increasing length'' of site investigations, he added
locero said the the agency must consider beginning cleanup before the investigations are finished, and stop trying to make cleanups that will be final
on sites that involve polluted groundwater, he said epa should consider installing pump-and-treat systems early in the first months of a site investigation to capture the contaminant plume and keep the groundwater resource from being polluted further and save both time and money
in some cases, it might be just as appropriate ... to restrict access as long as the result was adequate protection of human health and the environment,'' locero said
prime minister noboru takeshita told graduating military cadets today that japan's military power should match its economic strength
we cannot cope with a military threat or maintain ties with our allies and gain their trust without defense capabilities commensurate with our national power,'' takeshita told the 410 graduates of the national defense academy in kanagawa prefecture, west of tokyo
takeshita's speech was his first at the nation's only defense college since he became prime minister last november
takeshita said japan would use its military only for defensive purposes and would never threaten other nations
he said japan's defense buildup would be attained within the framework of the japan-u.s. security treaty, while adhering to japan's three non-nuclear policies. japan bans the manufacture, possession and introduction of nuclear arms into japan
the united states has been pressuring japan to increase defense spending and take more responsibility for its defense. but some asian nations, which suffered from japanese aggression during world war ii, have expressed concern about a japanese military build-up
takeshita said japan's security ``will not be guaranteed by its military power alone'' and called for a comprehensive approach to security, including diplomatic efforts and efforts to maintain a continuous supply of natural resources from abroad, academy spokesman nobuo tsuchida quoted takeshita as saying
last year, japan formally scrapped a decade-old ceiling which limited defense spending to 1 percent of its gross national product. during the current 1986-90 defense buildup plan, the government says japan's defense spending will total $119.87 billion. protesters</head>
king hussein of jordan today called on moslem nations to back protesters in the israeli-occupied territories and repeated that the the plo must join any peace talks
the palestinian people have a rightful claim on us to support their uprising both on the national and international level so that the uprising may bear fruit,'' hussein said in opening a conference of foreign ministers from the organization of islamic conference. the group includes 45 moslem nations and the palestinian liberation organization
hussein, a key player in any middle east peace negotiations, said: ``the uprising of the palestinian people is not an end in itself nor is it a transient coincidental event that will soon wither away
it is rather an expression of the will of an entire nation to fight for its freedom and right of self-determination in its own land.''
hussein, in his remarks prepared for delivery to the conference, gave no specifics of what kind of help he wants for the palestinian protesters
the protesters have been fighting israeli occupation forces in the west bank and gaza strip in an outbreak of violence that began nearly four months ago. the united nations reports more than 100 palestinians have died in that time from gunfire, beatings, and tear gas inhalation. the first israeli soldier was killed sunday
israel seized the west bank from jordan and the gaza strip from egypt in the 1967 middle east war
in demanding that the plo be included in peace talks, hussein parted ways with the united states, which subscribes to the israeli view of the group as an illegal, terrorist organization
hussein also called on iran to accept u.n. calls for a cease-fire in its 7{-year-old war with iraq. in the latest escalation, the two nations have been hurling missiles into each other's cities for the past three weeks
hussein told those attending today's conference that the war was a ``wound ... still bleeding and draining our resources and energies.''
iraq has said it will stop shooting if iran does. but tehran has said it will only comply with the u.n. appeal when iraq is branded the aggressor
the supreme court today agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts, setting the stage for a new ruling on the boundaries between congressional and presidential powers
the court said it will hear reagan administration arguments challenging the comptroller general's role in administering the 1984 competition in contracting act
the case raises issues similar to those in the constitutional fight over the gramm-rudman deficit-cutting law
the case stems from rejection by the u.s. army corps of engineers of a low bid submitted by ameron inc., a new jersey company, to repair sewer lines at the united states military academy at west point, n.y
although ameron submitted a bid of $1.03 million, some $200,000 less than the next lowest bidder, it was rejected by the corps because of a problem with the bond supporting the bid
ameron protested the rejection under provisions of the 1984 competition in contracting act
the law empowers the comptroller general, a congressional watchdog, to suspend the award of contracts and to award bid-preparation costs and attorney's fees to companies that successfully challenge the rejection of their bids
the law was prompted by alleged excess costs of awarding many lucrative government contracts without competitive bidding. the law's supporters said that in fiscal 1983 the government awarded $114 billion in non-competitive contracts out of a total of $168 billion
administration lawyers said the powers given the comptroller general in the 1984 law are unconstitutional under the supreme court's 1986 ruling in the gramm-rudman case
in that decision, the justices struck down the core provision of the deficit-reduction law because it designated the comptroller general as the official with power to set across-the-board budget cuts. the court said such a function impermissibly blurs the line separating the legislative and executive branches
the comptroller general is appointed by the president but can be removed from office only by congress
in the dispute over contract bidding, the 3rd u.s. circuit court of appeals said the comptroller general's powers under the 1984 law are within constitutional bounds
the appeals court said the law ``rather than concentrating power in the legislative branch ... diffuses and divides power, giving final control over procurement decisions to the executive but permitting meaningful oversight by an agent of congress.''
it said the comptroller general legitimately may delay contract awards to assure that federal procurement officials pay attention to his recommendations
the law is aimed at counteracting ``the apparent willingness of procuring agencies to frustrate congressional inquiry by rushing to complete challenged procurement projects,'' the appeals court added
justice department lawyers told the high court that the law gives the comptroller general non-legislative powers to determine ``the timing of a contract between an agency of the executive branch and a private party.''
the law was defended by comptroller general charles a. bowsher and by democratic and republican leaders of congress
the case is army corps of engineers vs. ameron, 87-163. gulf. picks up 4th graf, `iraq, meanwhile ...' edits to tighten. changes byline.</note>
iranian gunboats today attacked a liberian tanker and a spanish refrigerator ship in the persian gulf, setting them afire, and norwegian officials said as many as 54 crewmen were believed killed in a weekend iraqi raid
maritime salvage experts, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the blaze today aboard the 10,168-ton refrigerator ship iberian reefer was ``fierce.''
salvage tugboats were racing to aid the vessel, but there were no immediate word on casualties, the officials said
gulf-based shipping executives said earlier at least one iranian gunboat fired up to 10 rocket-propelled grenades at the 61,762-ton liberian-registered fumi, setting its engine room ablaze and blasting holes in one of its tanks
the japanese-managed tanker, laden with saudi arabian oil, was on its way out of the gulf. the executives said salvage tugboats helped the fumi's crew put out the fire
the iranian attacks today were in apparent retaliation for an iraqi attack on kharg island oil terminal saturday
the norwegian foreign ministry in oslo said as many as 54 crewmen were presumed dead in that attack
most of the crew were iranians or asians, although a swedish officer was among the missing
if the norwegian report is correct, it would be the highest death toll from an iraqi raid on iranian vessels since the so-called ``tanker war'' began in 1984, an offshoot of the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war
about 480 ships have been attacked by one side or the other since the war broke out. until the weekend attacks, more than 200 seamen had been killed
christen puntervold of the norwegian shipping association said four of the 29-man crew of the tanker 253,837-ton sanandaj had been found alive after the attack saturday
the others are missing. about the other ship, we don't know for sure, but we are afraid it could be the same for them,'' he said, referring to the 316,379-ton avaj which also carried a crew of 29
both ships were owned by the national iranian tanker co., but sanandaj's crew was enlisted by viking engineering, which is norwegian owned
bahrain's information minister, tariq al-moayyed, called for foreign naval forces in the region to guarantee the safety of shipping lanes in the gulf, through which 20 percent of the non-communist world's oil supplies pass
the minister, in an interview with nbc-tv urged the foreign forces to ``reach a declaration ... that they will not allow interference with freedom of shipping in the gulf.''
iraq, meanwhile, said it fired a long-range missile into tehran today, the 105th in three weeks, and that iranian gunners pounded its southern port city of basra in an 18-hour artillery and rocket barrage
there was no immediate report from tehran of a missile strike
but the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, cyprus, reported that the missile was fired at 3:40 p.m. in retaliation for the bombardment of basra
it said there were ``heavy casualties'' in basra, which the iranians were hammering in apparent retaliation for rocket and air attacks on tehran and other cities sunday
iran's official media said at least 33 civilians were killed and 65 wounded in those strikes
both sides have fired nearly 250 missiles into each other's main cities and border towns since feb. 29, reportedly killing hundreds of civilians
the iranian news agency today reported scores of kurdish children, aged between 2 and 10 years old, were being treated in hospitals for injuries suffered in iraqi chemical bomb attacks thursday
the children were among 4,000 iraqi kurds tehran claims were injured in the iraqi raids on towns captured by iranian forces in a new offensive
the iranians have charged that 5,000 kurds in the northeastern towns of khomal, halabja and dojaila were killed in the chemical bombing raids
iran claims it has punched 9{ miles into northeast iraq in an offensive launched a week ago
the iraqis have admitted the loss of several towns in sulaimaniyeh province as iran reported fighting still raging between its revolutionary guards and iraq's 5th corps
the supreme court today refused to let states and local governments regulate the prices most of the nation's cable television operators charge for basic service
the court, without comment, rejected arguments that the deregulation effected in 1986 by congress and the federal communications commission left subscribers vulnerable to illegal monopoly pricing
most of the nation's 7,800 cable operators provide both basic and ``premium'' services. for an extra monthly fee, subscribers receive channels offering exclusive sports and movie programming
basic service includes local broadcast stations and a few cable networks such as cnn, espn and c-span
prior to 1984, the fcc allowed local communities to regulate the rates charged for basic cable service but not for premium service rates
congress in 1984 enacted the cable communications policy act, which lets local authorities regulate basic cable rates only in the absence of ``effective competition.''
defining ``effective competition'' was left up to the fcc, and the commission's definition paved the way for the deregulation of basic-service rates charged by more than 90 percent of all cable operators
the commission's rule says any cable system faces effective competition _ and avoids local regulation of basic-service rates _ if television viewers in the area can watch at least three different channels without a cable hookup
the deregulation took effect dec. 29, 1986
the prices cable operators charged for basic service rose an average of 10.6 percent during the first six months of deregulation, according to a survey released by the national cable television association
the survey indicated that premium-channel rates dropped 2.3 percent during the same period
the u.s. circuit court of appeals here upheld the commission rule and basic-service rate deregulation last july 17
the appeal acted on today was filed by lawyers for connecticut, new york city, the national league of cities and the american civil liberties union
the fcc committed procedural and substantive errors that will ... pre-empt state and local governments of traditional cable rate regulation powers and will expose cable subscribers to monopoly pricing,'' the appeal contended
lawyers for the commission and the cable operators association urged the justices to reject the appeal
the case is connecticut vs. fcc, 87-671
the supreme court today agreed to examine the power of labor unions to fire elected officials for disagreeing with union policies
the court said it will consider killing a lawsuit by a los angeles area union business representative who said he was fired illegally by the sheet metal workers' international association
edward lynn was elected to his position with local 75 of the sheet metal workers union in 1981
he and other members of the local became increasingly critical of how the union was spending its money, and organized a dissident group that successfully defeated proposals to raise the local's dues
the international association in 1982 placed local 75 in trusteeship and under the leadership of a regional official, richard hawkins
hawkins proposed a new dues increase that again was defeated, with lynn speaking out against the hike
hawkins then filed charges against lynn, and the international union removed lynn from office. he also was fined $2,500
lynn sued in federal court in 1983, accusing union leaders of firing him illegally and violating his free-speech rights
a federal judge threw out the suit but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated it
the appeals court said that because lynn was elected to his position as business representative he could not be fired for taking a stand against policies proposed by other union leaders
lynn's removal was precipitated by his outspoken opposition to the proposed dues increase, a position which also reflected the view of the majority of the union membership,'' the appeals court said
its decision drew a distinction between an elected union official and one who is appointed
the supreme court in 1982 ruled that appointed union administrators are not protected from dismissal when there is a change in union leadership. the high court ruled then that business agents of a teamsters union local could be fired for supporting a rival of the man elected president of the local
the 9th circuit court said lynn's firing was a different matter because he was elected, and that he cannot be dismissed by the parent union to suppress dissent
just as the international may not impose a trusteeship for illegitimate purposes such as suppressing dissent, so it may not use the powers inherent in a legitimate trusteeship for similarly illegitimate purposes,'' the appeals court said
the case is sheet metal workers vs. lynn, 86-1940. 5th graf, `aurelio barria ...' edits to tighten.</note>
shops and stores remained shuttered today and thousands of soldiers toting m-16 rifles and tear gas canisters patrolled the capital at the outset of a general strike aimed at ousting strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
buses and taxis were operating normally, but many were empty or were carrying fewer passengers than normal. traffic was light
many government offices appeared to be operating with limited personnel, despite a government warning that public employees would be suspended if they joined in the work stoppage
in the city's central business district, where six previous strikes in the past nine months have had little effect, most stores didn't open
businessmen there have never before joined larger, wealthier merchants and industrialists in a strike
we're sending noriega a message,'' said the owner of one small shoe store, who asked not to be identified. ``we hope he's listening.''
helmeted soldiers in battle garb patrolled nearby. no violence was reported early in the day
the government said the troops were deployed to assure transit of buses and taxis and to provide security for businesses and store owners that wanted to open despite the strike call by the national civic crusade
many of the transportation companies are owned by the panamanian defense forces and those that aren't require government licenses to operate
aurelio barria, head of the opposition national civic crusade, said sunday the government may try to use an emergency decree to forcibly open industries and businesses that close during the strike
the indefinite work stoppage was called after noriega, commandr of the defense forces and the force behind the civilian government, rejected a u.s. plan for his removal as ``unacceptable, illogical and anti-panamanian.''
noriega, who has been indicted in the united states on drug trafficking charges, reportedly told william walker, a u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state, he wanted to remain in panama and help from a transitional government
walker and michael kozak, a state department legal officer, were said to have offered noriega freedom from u.s. extradition if he sought asylum in a third country. they met with the general and his high command on friday
secretary of state george p. shultz, appearing sunday on nbc's ``meet the press,'' said noriega ``can't expect to have any say in the transition.''
the panamanian government has responded to recent unrest with a state of emergency allowing it to suspend civil rights and take over private businesses
the next few days are the determinant time,'' said barria. he predicted the strike ``will be very, very successful.'' the civic crusade is an umbrella coalition of groups seeking noriega's downfall
barria also said sunday he heard meetings had been held within panama's defense forces to discuss what to do about noriega, and barria said he expected some action by the military this week
but maj. augusto villalaz, who had been one of noriega's personal pilots before defecting last week, said noriega had loyalists and cuban arms to keep him in power
villalaz told abc's ``this week with david brinkley'' on sunday that he had flown three shipments of arms to panama from cuba and that noriega planned to import 500,000 pounds of weapons
on sunday, many panamanians flocked to supermarkets to stock up on food, flashlights and other essentials to last through the coming strike
barria confirmed sunday he had met with the papal nuncio, msgr. jose laboa, but denied persistent reports that the church official was mediating a solution between noriega and the opposition
barria previously said noriega approached opposition leaders with an idea for a ``panamanian solution'' to the crisis that would allow the general a future role in the military. but the crusade rejected the idea, barria said
we don't have anything to negotiate with him except his departure,'' barria said, ``the day and the flight number.''
in panama city's pacific port area of balboa, dock workers striking because they have not been paid their full salaries vowed to keep the docks shut down today. the union has run out of emergency food bags and its 800 members have not received wages for two weeks
panama's already ailing economy was sent into a tailspin last month after noriega's indictment and the effort of then-president eric arturo delvalle to fire the general, who heads panama's 15,000-member defense forces. noriega allies in parliament on feb. 26 ousted delvalle, who has since been in hiding
the reagan administration retaliated by backing the freezing of panamanian government bank deposits in the united states, creating a critical cash shortage in panama, which uses the dollar as its currency
the supreme court today sought the reagan administration's views of an appeal by hawaii officials seeking to roll back an annual $10.5 million increase in intrastate telephone rates
the court asked justice department lawyers to comment on a lower court ruling that the state lacks authority to block the higher rates
the high court is not expected to decide whether to grant full review to the case until hearing from the government lawyers, which could take months
the hawaii public utilities commission in 1984 granted a $20 million rate increase to hawaii telephone co., $10.5 million less than the company requested
the company then filed a federal lawsuit, charging that the reduction violated an order of the federal communications commission
generally, the fcc regulates interstate phone rates while state public utility officials regulate intrastate rates
but the commission in 1981 adopted a plan to reduce interstate rates for phone users in hawaii, bringing the charges into line with interstate rates for people in the 48 contiguous states
the lower rates were to be phased in over four years in an effort to avoid a dramatic impact on rates for in-state calls
the hawaii telephone co. said the commission plan bars state officials from imposing the $10.5 million reduction
a federal judge agreed with the company, and that ruling was upheld last september by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals
the appeals court said the commission properly pre-empted the state's authority in this case
no one disputes the authority of a state ... to establish a reasonable rate of return for utilities within its jurisdiction,'' the appeals court said. ``but ... (hawaii's) adjustment here was a fairly transparent and improper attempt to circumvent the fcc mandate.''
the appeals court said the commission has priority in apportioning the cost of equipment and other expenses between in-state and out-of-state service
the case is puc vs. hawaiian telephone co., 87-1152
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether an airline may be forced to reinstate workers when their strike ends, making necessary the layoffs of trainees and employees who crossed the picket lines
the court said it will study an appeal by trans world airlines in a dispute stemming from a 1986 strike by flight attendants
twa and the independent federation of flight attendants had a three-year contract that expired july 31, 1984. when negotiations failed, the union called a strike on march 7, 1986
twa hired more than 1,220 new flight attendants after the strike began. in addition, about 1,280 twa flight attendants crossed picket lines either at the outset of the walkout or as the strike continued for more than two months
twa also placed new flight attendants in training, including 463 who had not completed training when the strike ended may 17, 1986
the union then filed a federal lawsuit charging twa with unlawfully refusing to reinstate more than 2,000 workers who had gone out on strike
the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last may that some striking flight attendants were entitled to their old jobs at the expense of all trainees and some flight attendants who had crossed the picket lines
the appeals court said the strikers should be reinstated if they had more seniority than those, called cross-overs, who had not honored the picket lines
but the appeals court also said the 1,220 flight attendants hired during the strike could not be dislodged by any of those who stayed out during the strike
with regard to the cross-overs, the 8th circuit court said they may not be given preferential treatment over striking workers with more seniority ``because such action impermissibly discriminates among union members based on the degree of their union activity.''
an employer may not divide the workforce into those who engaged in strike activity and those who did not,'' the appeals court said
it said the 463 trainees cannot be considered permanent replacements in the same category as the 1,220 newly hired flight attendants. therefore, the trainees ``were subject to displacement by returning strikers,'' the appeals court said
the distinctions were made under the railway labor act, which governs airlines as well as railroads
twa said it is ``simply incomprehensible'' to force employees choosing not to strike to give up their jobs in favor of ``unsuccessful strikers.''
by a 4-4 vote on march 2, the supreme court ruled in another case growing out of the 1986 twa strike that an airline may be forced to continue collecting union dues from workers after its contract with employees has expired
twa sought to discontinue the dues check-off after the strike ended. but the justices' split vote automatically upheld an 8th circuit court ruling that the airline may not cancel the check-off provision unless it is agreed to in negotiations with the workers
the case is twa vs. independent federation of flight attendants, 87-548. hawkins</head>
the supreme court today turned away a legal dispute sparked by controversy over the health of former sen. paula hawkins, r-fla
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that the public has no right of access to pretrial statements and other materials generated by civil lawsuits
lawyers for the miami herald had argued that denying public access to all unfiled pretrial materials in civil cases violates the constitution's first amendment
in a related case, the justices last november let stand a florida supreme court ruling that the public has no right to hear or see pretrial statements, called depositions, given during criminal prosecutions
in the case acted on today, the florida court extended its ruling on pretrial materials in criminal cases to depositions and other pretrial materials in civil cases
hawkins, who lost her senate seat in the 1986 election to democrat bob graham, a former florida governor, injured her back in a 1982 accident at television station wesh in orlando
she sued in early 1986, charging that the accident _ a studio set wall fell on hawkins while she was taping a talk show _ was caused by the station's negligence
the lawsuit alleged that hawkins' injury became a physical handicap that impaired her ability to work
while pretrial proceedings were underway, hawkins continued her work in the senate and actively sought re-election. but as a result of the lawsuit's allegations, her health became a major issue in the campaign coverage
in october 1986, about two weeks before the election, the orlando sentinel sought to intervene in the lawsuit between hawkins and wesh and compel access to pretrial documents, including hospital and medical records
two other newspapers, the miami herald and the florida times union in jacksonville, filed similar requests
hawkins settled her lawsuit out of court in june 1987 but the herald continued its effort to obtain the pretrial documents
under florida law, those documents are not routinely placed in public court files
the supreme court last july 2 ruled against granting access. it relied on its earlier decision denying public access to pretrial depositions in criminal cases
the herald then filed the appeal acted on today
the case is miami herald publishing co. vs. gridley, 87-1193
the supreme court today sent back to a lower court a dispute over a racial-quota integration plan for a public elementary school in chicago
the justices told the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals to study whether a challenge by a group of whites, cubans and american indians to quotas at the walt disney ``magnet'' elementary school has become moot
the court did not explain why it believes the case may have lost its legal relevancy but the chicago board of education contended that the children on whose behalf the original lawsuit was filed now are too old to attend the school
the disney school was opened in 1968 on chicago's north side to promote integration. students were selected by lottery to reflect the racial, ethnic and economic composition of the area
the school is considered a ``magnet'' because it offers special educational opportunities designed to attract a cross-section of the community
many cities in the nation have adopted the magnet concept as a key element in integrating public schools
chicago officials incorporated racial quotas at the disney school as part of the school system's overall integration plan adopted in response to a complaint by the federal government charging segregation. the city signed an agreement in 1980 with federal officials, promising to implement a citywide integration plan
the quotas at disney were challenged in 1981 by parents of cuban, american indian and white children. those children were told they would be admitted to the school but two months later were informed they could not attend because the quotas had been adjusted in the interim
the quotas require that white students comprise 15 to 35 percent of the school's population, and that minorities comprise from 65 to 85 percent
the disney plan was upheld by a three-judge panel of the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals. the panel said that chicago's citywide desegregation plan already had been upheld in previous federal court rulings, precluding any attack on the quotas at the disney school
the students excluded from disney ``are indeed necessarily attacking the desegregation plan as a whole by challenging its effect upon them,'' the panel said
the students' parents then asked for a review of their appeal by all 10 members of the 7th circuit court. by a vote of 6-4, the judges refused to hear the case
judge frank h. easterbrook of the 7th circuit, in voting to hear the case, said, ``chicago has not been found to have engaged in racial discrimination in operating its schools. some such finding ... is essential before children may be shuffled from one school to another on account of their race.''
he added that the children who were barred from attending the disney school were being deprived of educational opportunities they may be unable to receive at any other public school in the city
the case is samayoa vs. chicago board of education, 86-1503. lawyer</note>
the iran-contra independent counsel has evidence that richard secord and albert hakim skimmed nearly $1 million from bank accounts containing money from the arms sales to iran, a newspaper reported today
the money was used by secord and hakim to invest in arms, food and real estate businesses for their personal gain, the chicago tribune reported, citing unidentified sources close to the investigation by independent counsel lawrence walsh
according to the report, secord and hakim transferred the money from swiss bank accounts in three installments from august to november 1986. the two reportedly used $760,000 from the accounts to buy a one-third interest in forway industries, a military supply company in new jersey, and $50,000 on a plan to work with forway to market a laser sight for night weapons firing, the newspaper said
the tribune said walsh obtained some of his information through the help of willard zucker, an attorney and financial adviser who has been granted immunity from prosecution. the geneva-based zucker managed the swiss bank accounts and allegedly set up shell corporations to mask the diversion of $18 million of the money paid by the iranians, the tribune said
a federal grand jury indicted secord and hakim, along with lt. col. oliver north and former national security adviser john poindexter last week on charges of conspiring to siphon the profits from the iranian arms sales and use the money for the benefit of the contras fighting the leftist nicaraguan government. it also accused secord, hakim and north of using some of the money for personal gain
the four have said they would plead innocent at an arraignment thursday
the indictment also charged secord and hakim of conspiring to pay illegal gratuities to north
zucker and a spokesman for walsh declined to comment about the matter, the tribune said
secord was in meetings today and unavailable for immediate comment, said joan corbin, a secretary at washington, d.c.-based american trade consultants
secord's attorney, tom green, was traveling and also unavailable to comment immediately, said julie linwood, a secretary at green's washington, d.c. law firm. governor's suit</head>
the supreme court today refused to revive some allegations previously raised in former massachusetts gov. edward j. king's $3.6 million libel lawsuit against the boston globe
the justices, without comment, let stand rulings that three editorial cartoons, one editorial and two columns king sued over, did not libel him
the high court earlier this month cleared the way for a jury trial on king's claim he was libeled by a nov. 8, 1981, column written by david farrell, who since has left the newspaper
state courts threw out most of the ex-governor's claims in pretrial proceedings, ruling that the sued-over comments and cartoons amounted to constitutionally protected expressions of opinion
king, who served as the state's governor from 1979 through 1983, contended that he was libeled in various cartoons and articles, most of which were published in 1981
cartoons are seldom designed to disclose facts but rather are ordinarily understood by reasonable viewers to be rhetorical, exaggerated means of expressing opinions,'' the massachusetts supreme judicial court said in ruling on king's suit last aug. 17
the state court said the other articles ordered dropped from the suit also fell ``within the ambit of protected opinion.''
the case is king vs. globe newspaper co., 87-1259
the supreme court today refused to reinstate a $150,000 libel award won, and then lost, by a joplin, mo., policeman against his local newspaper
the justices, without comment, let stand rulings that officer don r. speer failed to prove the joplin globe acted with ``actual malice'' when it accused him in an editorial of using excessive force
the controversy stems from an april 23, 1983, demonstration outside a downtown joplin bar
about two dozen protesters picketed the bar that evening because most of its patrons were homosexual
speer was sent to arrest the demonstrators because they had not obtained a parade permit
while making the arrests, speer got into an altercation with max mccoy, a globe reporter who was taking photographs of the demonstration and arrests
mccoy, who sustained injuries and whose camera was broken, told globe editors that speer and other police officers used excessive force
an april 24 article reflected both mccoy's and the police's versions of the incident
an editorial published two days later condemned speer's conduct, stating that while mccoy was ``cuffed and defenseless, the officers continued to strike him, kick him.''
speer sued the paper's publisher, ottaway newspapers inc., in federal court, contending that the editorial had libeled him
a jury awarded him $100,000 in compensatory damages and $50,000 in punitive damages but the trial judge threw out the award. the judge ruled that speer, treated as a public figure for purposes of the lawsuit, had not proved actual malice
public figures who sue for libel must prove that the statement was false and published with knowledge or reckless disregard of its falsity. private individuals who sue for libel have an easier task: they must prove the statement was false and published through negligence
in upholding the trial judge's ruling, the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last sept. 9 that mccoy had nothing to do with publication of the editorial at issue
a finding of institutional actual malice by the globe may not be based only on mccoy's state of mind,'' the appeals court said
it added that globe editors knew mccoy ``as a trusted employee and believed him to be reliable, honest and good with details.''
in the appeal acted on today, lawyers for speer argued that the appeals court ruling will spur newspapers to ``compartmentalize their fact-finding and writing functions since liability can only be imposed by persons occupying the latter status.''
the appeal added, ``rewarding a newspaper for the calculated deceit of an employee it retains to gather information ... constitutes an unnecessary denigration of the individual's right to the protection of his own good name.''
the case is speer vs. ottaway newspapers, 87-942
civil rights leader joseph lowery has been denied a visa for a trip to south africa, his wife said today
evelyn lowery said the south african embassy in washington gave her husband, who is president of the southern christian leadership conference, no reason for the denial
we ... have our suspicions. you know the situation in south africa, the persecution of black leaders there, and they certainly know we're in sympathy (with south africa's blacks),'' mrs. lowery said
lowery, who was in massachusetts today to lecture at holy cross college, had planned to deliver a sermon at memorial services for martin luther king jr. scheduled for friday through sunday in south africa. he was informed of the visa denial over the weekend, mrs. lowery said
kevin brennan, a spokesman for the south african embassy in washington, confirmed that lowery's visa application had been denied, but would not give a reason
a jury today began its fifth day of deliberation in the murder trial of a young man accused of strangling a teen-age woman in central park, where they walked from a popular watering hole
the jury returned to the courtroom this morning and listened to a reading of testimony from dr. robert c. shaler regarding body fluid stains on the victim's jacket
during deliberations sunday, jurors asked justice howard e. bell to restate the charges against robert chambers and asked if they could take notes
bell allowed that, but admonished the jurors to also listen carefully. it is highly unusual for new york juries to be allowed to take notes
chambers, 21, is charged with second-degree murder in the aug. 26, 1986, strangulation of jennifer levin, an 18-year-old woman he had met in an upper east side bar frequented by affluent young people
the jury could convict chambers of the lesser crimes of first-or second-degree manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide
the prosecution has charged that chambers used miss levin's blouse to strangle her, while his lawyers maintain he accidentally killed her when she hurt him by squeezing his genitals during rough sex. rightists trouncing christian democrats. picks up 5th graf, ``i want ...' edits to tighten.</note>
a resurgent right battered the governing christian democrats in municipal and legislative elections, according to early returns today
the result of sunday's balloting, in which hundreds of thousands participated despite threats of guerrilla violence, sets the stage for a rough final year in office for president jose napoleon duarte, a christian democrat
the leftist guerrillas had called for a boycott of the voting, and the sizeable turnout was hailed by politicians as a triumph for democracy and a demonstration of civic spirit
the rightist republican nationalist alliance, or arena, won the mayor's post in san salvador from the christian democrats, who had held the position for the past 24 years. they also appeared assured of a majority in the 60-seat national assembly, according to projections made by local television stations
the christian democrats currently hold 33 seats. arena has 13
the ``areneros'' apparently benefited from a wave of popular discontent with the christian democrats
duarte was elected in 1984 on a platform of ending the war and improving the economic situation. but four years later, the war that has taken 65,000 lives grinds on, an estimated 40 percent of salvadorans are unemployed and inflation is running at an annual rate of about 40 percent
arena's campaign slogan was ``change for the better,'' which apparently struck a chord in the electorate
prior to the election, the chistian democrats themselves had conceded they would be set back by the vote, citing the natural erosion of support experienced by a party governing in troubled times
arena national chairman alfredo cristiani told a news conference sunday night his party, if it gained control of the legislature, would work with the christian democrats to resolve the country's pressing problems
we will not present a systematic and capricious opposition. we must look for unity regarding certain crucial points,'' he said
in the san salvador mayor's race, armando calderon sol, the candidate of the rightist alliance, beat alejandro duarte, the christian democratic candidate and son of president jose napoleon duarte
i want to publicly recognize that mr. calderon sol has won,'' duarte said at a news conference sunday night. he congratulated the salvadoran people for voting despite threats of violence from leftist guerrillas
this day was a glorious gesture of the salvadoran people,'' he said. ``we have defeated the terror and violence of the left.''
the third party presenting candidates nationwide was the national conciliation party, another rightist group. leftist parties declined to present candidates, saying the war made fair elections impossible
state-run channel 10 television, citing unofficial preliminary counts, estimated 66 percent of the 1.6 million registered voters had cast ballots. it said that, according to its projections, arena would win an outright majority in the assembly
mario samayoa, president of the electoral council, also hailed the electorate for turning out to vote
he also said there had been no allegations of fraud by any party from any polling station in the country
in a bid to disrupt the election, leftist guerrillas blew up electrical lines, cutting energy to much of the country saturday night. however, little violence was reported during the election sunday, apart from rural skirmishes in the central part of the country. no casualties were immediately reported
power was returning gradually to some regions by today
today was the first day since friday that salvadorans could expect normal transport. the marxist-led farabundo marti national liberation front, an alliance of five guerrilla armies, lifted its 3-day-old road travel ban as of midnight sunday
the rebels had termed the election ``a farce'' and called for a boycott
to vote is a duty, the way we demonstrate we are salvadoran citizens,'' said pablo castellano, a 38-year-old peasant farmer in nejapa, 10 miles north of san salvador. he had walked 10 miles in the blazing sun to cast his ballot
the guerrillas had warned polling places would be considered ``military objectives'' because of the wide deployment of soldiers to provide election security
they had stepped up urban violence in the 10 days prior to the voting. three car bombs exploded in san salvador, wounding three people
voters were electing all 60 members of the national assembly, the unicameral legislature, and mayors and town councils for 262 municipalities nationwide
the guerrillas, who have been fighting since 1979, demand a share of power in exchange for laying down their arms. the government rejects the demand
sam w. reynolds, a businessman who was appointed a u.s. senator and served for seven months, has died. he was 97
he died at home sunday of pneumonia, a family spokesman said
reynolds owned and operated reynolds-updike coal co. for 76 years until retiring in 1984. he also was a partner in updike lumber and coal
gov. bob crosby appointed reynolds, a republican, to the senate in 1954 after the death of sen. hugh butler. reynolds did not seek election to a full term
reynolds was a city councilman in 1956 and 1957 and had been city civil defense coordinator. he won the nebraska amateur golf championship seven times
reynolds' wife, louise, died in 1981. survivors include a brother, three daughters, six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren
a funeral was scheduled wednesday
the supreme court, with four of nine justices on the sidelines, today refused to kill a 13-year-old lawsuit stemming from an armed confrontation between indians and federal agents at wounded knee, s.d
the remaining five justices, citing the lack of a quorum, automatically upheld a federal appeals court ruling that clears the way for a trial on allegations that the government's use of army troops in the 1973 incident violated constitutional rights
the suit names former presidential aide alexander haig, ex-attorney general richard kleindienst and 10 other federal or military officials as defendants
on feb. 27, 1973, an armed group of indians with grievances about the federal government's handling of indian affairs occupied the village of wounded knee on the pine ridge reservation
the fbi, u.s. marshals service and bureau of indian affairs police sealed off the village by setting up roadblocks. before the 71-day standoff ended, two indians were killed and a deputy marshal was wounded
fourteen people, most of them residents of the pine ridge reservation, sued in 1975. their suit contends they were confined unconstitutionally because army troops helped maintain the roadblocks and an armed perimeter around wounded knee
the suit relies heavily on a federal law, the posse comitatus act, that bans use of the army or air force as a civil police force
because the use of army troops violated federal law, it also violated the individuals' constitutional protection against unreasonable government seizures, the lawsuit says
people who allege they were subjected to a constitutionally impermissible search or seizure may sue the offending officials for damages
u.s. district judge donald j. porter in south dakota threw out the suit but the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated it in 1986
the supreme court last year agreed to review the 8th circuit court's ruling, and today's brief, unsigned opinion upheld that ruling
the 8th circuit court said the involvement of army troops was ``affirmatively forbidden by a criminal law of long standing, itself expressive of an authentically american tradition of even longer standing.''
while acknowledging that a seizure that violates federal law does not necesarily violate the constitution, the appeals court said violations of the posse comitatus act represent ``a special case.''
chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices sandra day o'connor, antonin scalia and anthony m. kennedy disqualified themselves from the case without explanation
the case is haig vs. bissonette, 86-987
the plo defied an eviction deadline today to vacate its u.n. observer mission under a u.s. anti-terrorist law as the general assembly met in emergency session to consider ways to keep the mission open. a court battle appeared likely
the plo observer, labib zehdi terzi, made no move to shut the 13-year-old mission in a townhouse near park avenue and said he was awaiting u.s. legal action against the palestine liberation organization
once we see what they do, then we will respond,'' he said in the u.n. delegates lounge. he said last week that u.s. authorities would have to drag him away
but no confrontation or physical move to shut the mission was expected. the u.s. government said that if the plo does not leave the united states voluntarily, then it would initiate legal action this week to make it move. but u.s. officials say they will allow litigation to run its course
the united states has declared the plo a terrorist organization, but the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people. it was invited to new york by the united nations
the plo's counsel, former attorney general ramsey clark, said that if the united states files suit against the plo, he will seek to dismiss the complaint
envoy terzi said it is up to the united nations to go to court on behalf of the plo
in the emergency session which started friday, all speakers denounced the u.s. move to close the plo mission and 50 more speakers were scheduled this week
today and tuesday the assembly is scheduled to consider calls by some delegates to take legal action on behalf of the plo and to house the mission on u.n. international territory _ off limits to u.s. police
the plo participates in all debates on the middle east but has no voting rights
some delegates also want to move the next 159-member general assembly to geneva in september or to shift the special session on disarmament in may and june to geneva, but such moves are unlikely
this week the assembly is expected to adopt a resolution calling on secretary-general javier perez de cuellar to take all necessary action, including legal steps, in defense of the headquarters agreement
the justice department was expected to initiate legal action in manhattan federal court probably by wednesday to close the mission, department spokesman patrick korten said in washington on sunday
we're ready to go ahead and file the papers if they don't close the mission voluntarily,'' he said
clark has said the closure order is illegal because it violates the 1947 u.s.-u.n. headquarters treaty under which the united states allows u.n. missions to operate
clark said the anti-terrorism law of 1987 and legal efforts to oust the plo are unconstitutional because they conflict with international law. he said the u.n. headquarters agreement takes precedence over u.s. domestic law
the anti-terrorism law was attached to a state department spending bill and requires closing the plo mission by today
the state department and united nations opposed the legislation on grounds it violates u.s.-u.n. treaty obligations. secretary of state george p. shultz called it ``a very bad piece of legislation'' which unnecessarily glorifies the plo
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether public officials may be sued when their alleged gross negligence permits a child to be abused by a parent
the justices said they will hear an appeal on behalf of a wisconsin boy who at age 4 was seriously and permanently brain damaged from beatings by his father
social workers were accused of violating the child's constitutional rights by failing to come to his rescue after they had repeated evidence he was being beaten
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals last year threw out the suit against the winnebago county, wis., department of social services and two of its employees
the boy, joshua deshaney, first came to the attention of the welfare agency when he was brought to a hospital in 1983 with cuts and bruises. the girlfriend of joshua's father said the boy was injured in an attack by another child
officials suspected he was being abused by adults. a social worker, ann kemmeter, was assigned to the case
joshua was returned to the custody of his father, randy deshaney, with a recommendation that deshaney's girlfriend move out of the house because deshaney had hinted she might be abusing the boy
deshaney's former wife and joshua's mother, melody deshaney, was living in cheyenne, wyo., where the couple had been divorced
a month after the first hospital visit, joshua again was treated for suspicious injuries
ms. kemmeter visited the deshaney home on several occaisons and noticed bumps on joshua's head. the boy also was treated again at a hosptal for various bruises and injuries. also, deshaney's girlfriend still was living at the home
ms. kemmeter visited the deshaney home on march 7, 1984, and was told that several days earlier joshua had fainted in the bathroom for no apparent reason. but according to court records she did not ask to see the boy
the following day joshua was treated at a hospital for head injuries that destroyed half his brain, leaving him profoundly retarded and institutionalized for the rest of his life
the boy's father was convicted of child abuse and sentenced to two to four years in prison
the county social services department and its employees were sued by joshua's mother on grounds the boy was deprived of liberty without due process
the 7th circuit court said in dismissing the suit, ``if the defendants, though blameworthy, did not cause joshua's injuries, they cannot be said to have deprived him of his liberty. deprivation implies causation.''
the appeals court continued, ``it is unlikely that ann kemmeter's well-intentioned but ineffectual intervention did joshua any good at all. but it is most unlikely that it did him any harm. she merely failed to protect him from his bestial father.''
the appeals court added that ms. kemmeter ``failed to act on mounting and eventually overwhelming evidence that joshua was in great peril from his father.''
but the appeals court said it would place welfare agencies in an unfair predicament to require them to take custody of children who are suspected victims of abuse
to place every state welfare department on the razor's edge, where if it terminates parental rights it is exposed to ... suit by the parent ... and if it fails to terminate those rights it is exposed to ... suit by the child, is unlikely to improve the welfare of american families and is not grounded in constitutional text or principle,'' the appeals court said
in her appeal to the supreme court, mrs. deshaney said the 7th circuit court ruling is in conflict with decisions by other appeals courts
in other action, the court:
_ left unresolved whether public school students enjoy any constitutional protection against paddling or other corporal punishment by teachers and administrators
the justices, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling in a new mexico case that ``at some degree of excessiveness or cruelty'' such punishment violates constitutional rights. but another appeals court has rejected that view
_ refused to let the dalkon shield's maker set up a $15 million emergency fund to help women who say the contraceptive device left them infertile
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that blocks creation of the fund pending the outcome of bankruptcy proceedings for a.h. robins, which manufactures the device
in a related case, the court refused to review a ruling that at least temporarily barred some dalkon shield users from suing aetna casualty &amp; surety co., which insures a.h. robins for liability claims
_ rejected a constitutional attack on a federal law requiring broadcasters to give equal time to opposing candidates for public office
the justices, without comment, turned down the appeal of a sacramento, calif., television reporter kept off the air while he ran for a non-salaried town council seat
_ agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts, setting the stage for a new ruling on the boundaries between congressional and presidential powers
the court said it will hear reagan administration arguments challenging the comptroller general's role in administering the 1984 competition in contracting act
_ agreed to decide whether states may impose sales taxes on most books, newspapers and magazines while exempting religious publications
the justices said they will review a texas court ruling that said such a tax neither violates equal-protection rights nor breeches the constitutionally required separation of church and state
_ refused to let states and local governments regulate the prices most of the nation's cable television operators charge for basic service
the court, without comment, rejected arguments that the deregulation effected in 1986 by congress and the federal communications commission left subscribers vulnerable to illegal monopoly pricing
_ agreed to examine the power of labor unions to fire elected officials for disagreeing with union policies
the court said it will consider killing a lawsuit by a los angeles area union business representative who said he was fired illegally by the sheet metal workers' international association
_ agreed to consider shielding states from having to help pay for cleaning up hazardous waste sites when the federal government sues businesses under the so-called superfund law
the court said it will hear arguments by pennsylvania officials that exposing states to such liability could saddle them with $100 billion in clean-up costs
the child-abuse case is deshaney vs. winnebago county, 87-154
lt. col. oliver north's request to retire from the marine corps later this spring has received final approval from the navy, pentagon officials said today
north, the fired national security aide who was indicted last week in connection with the iran-contra affair, also has received permission to start using up his accumulated leave and will no longer have to report for work at marine corps headquarters
lt. col. north began his terminal leave today,'' said lt. col. john shotwell, a marine corps spokesman. ``he had sufficient leave on the books to cover the period from now until his retirement on may 1.''
north announced friday that he had decided to retire from active duty, saying the step was necessary because he would likely have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government'' to defend himself against the iran-contra charges
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer,'' north said at the time
accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps.''
north becomes eligible to retire with a military pension on may 1 _ the point at which he will have spent 20 years on active duty. he automatically had the right to request retirement on that date, but needed a waiver of a requirement that he provide at least four months' advance notice of his plans
that waiver was approved by chase untermeyer, the assistant navy secretary for manpower and reserve affairs
north was reassigned to marine corps headquarters on the planning staff in november 1986 after president reagan fired him as an aide to the national security council
north, former national security advisor rear adm. john poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury march 16 on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, said the defendants organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
the supreme court today refused to let the dalkon shield's maker set up a $15 million emergency fund to help women who say the contraceptive device left them infertile
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that blocks creation of the fund pending the outcome ofbankruptcy proceedings for a.h. robins, which manufactures the device
in a related case, the court refused to review a ruling that at least temporarily barred some dalkon shield users from suing aetna casualty &amp; surety co., which insures a.h. robins for liability claims
robins, facing massive damage claims from hundreds of thousands of women, filed for bankruptcy in 1985 to protect the company's assets. its intrauterine device allegedly caused pelvic inflammation, spontaneous abortions, infertility and, in a few cases, death
robins filed for bankruptcy under what is known as chapter 11, a law that allows debtors to protect assets while repaying debts under a court-devised plan
the company stopped marketing the dalkon shield in 1974 but did not actually recall the product until 1984
robins reported on march 7 that it had a fourth-quarter loss of $1.69 billion in 1987 due to funds set aside for dalkon shield injury claims. the company reported an $81.8 million profit for the year
the case acted on today involving the $15 million fund centered on an attempt by robins to trim some of its losses and to provide immediate money for women who could undergo corrective surgery or become pregnant through in vitro fertilization
that procedure involves fertilizing the woman's egg outside her womb
robins said the surgery, costing approximately $15,000 per woman, or the in vitro procedure would give women approaching the end of their safe child-bearing years a chance to have children
`many claimants who used the dalkon shield when it was introduced in the early 1970s are approaching the biological deadline,'' the company said. it added that the emergency fund serves humanitarian purposes and makes good business sense because it could reduce claims against robins by women whose fertility is restored
lawyers representing women suing the company also supported the idea. the fund was approved last may 21 by u.s. district judge robert r. merhige jr. in richmond, va., who is presiding over nationwide claims against robins
merhige separately has ordered robins to create a $2.48 billion trust fund to pay some 200,000 claims against the company. robins had paid $500 million in damages before filing for bankruptcy
in a related development, american home products corp. is proposing to take over robins for $3 billion
the emergency $15 million fund that is the subject of today's supreme court action was opposed by owners of robins stock. on nov. 3, the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in the stockholders' favor
the appeals court said the federal bankruptcy code prohibits creation of the emergency fund because it would give preferential treatment to some with claims against robins. the money cannot be spent while reorganization of the company is pending in bankruptcy proceedings, the appeals court said
in the case involving aetna, federal lawsuits were filed in kansas and new hampshire by thousands of women seeking damages from the insurance company
they said aetna was at fault because robins delegated to it responsibility for monitoring the performance of the dalkon shield and deciding whether it should be recalled. the women also accused aetna of covering up evidence that the devices were defective
the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals in september blocked the lawsuits, at least until the bankruptcy proceedings are concluded
the appeals court said, ``inevitably, aetna must involve robins in this litigation. aetna's primary defense logically will be that robins _ not aetna _ is responsible for the injuries suffered.''
the appeals court continued, ``robins will inexorably be drawn into this litigation ... (and) it will detract from the (bankruptcy) process.''
the cases are mabey vs. official committee of equity security holders, 87-1267, and oberg vs. aetna, 87-1208. pvs, ``from there xxxx</note>
;
new york (ap) _ four people were arrested today in the beating death of a man who was chased and attacked by an angry mob after he snatched $20 from a woman in a bakery, police said
residents of nearby buildings watching the chase from their windows yelled encouragement as the man was pummeled sunday, reflecting their growing hostility to the street crime and crack dealers in the neighborhood, police said
the crowd of more than a dozen people used sticks and their bare hands to beat the man, identified by police as raymondo carraballo, 41, of manhattan. one man grabbed a garbage can and banged it down on the man's chest as he lay on the sidewalk and then others used the can to hit him again and again, said sgt. ed burns, a police spokesman
police have ruled the death a homicide. sgt. john clifford, a police spokesman, refused to provide the names of the four suspects or any other information
two housing authority police officers rescued carraballo and took him to housing authority headquarters, burns said
from there an ambulance took carraballo to mount sinai hospital, where he lost consciousness and died sunday evening, burns said. an autopsy was scheduled
the beating took place in front of the jefferson houses, a public housing project in the east harlem section around the corner from the capri bakery, where the suspect grabbed $20 from 21-year-old anna beteran, burns said
as carraballo ran out of the store, beteran and her unidentified sister-in-law chased him and yelled at a group of passers-by that he had stolen her money
the crowd chased carraballo and caught him around the corner. between 15 and 20 people joined the pursuit, but it was unclear how many actually took part in the beating, burns said
burns said carraballo had no previous criminal record, but apparently was a drug addict. ``his arms were covered with needle tracks,'' he said
police said several people had been questioned but no arrests had been made and no weapons recovered
at this point we don't have any of the weapons, but we know by the comments on the 911 calls for help that many forms of weapons were used,'' burns said
hester r. mccullough, once a heroine of the political right for her 1940s stand against entertainers associated with communist causes, is dead at 71
mrs. mccullough died at home sunday
in the late 1940s, mrs. mccullough, then living in greenwich, conn., returned a $6 subscription ticket to a performance by dancer paul draper and harmonica player larry adler, whom she accused of being members of communist-front organizations
in a letter to the greenwich community concert association that was published in a local newspaper, mrs. mccullough wrote that the entertainers, ``while fine artists, have been openly denounced in the press as being pro-communist and, as such, i do not believe should appear in any community project in greenwich.''
draper and adler sued mrs. mccullough for libel, but they decided not to pursue the case when it ended in a hung jury in 1950. by then it had become a cause celebre taken up by conservative columnists such as westbrook pegler
in later years, mrs. mccullough said she had no regrets
what i thought then, i still do,'' she told the philadelphia inquirer magazine in a 1987 interview. ``the communists themselves wanted to destroy this country and its government.''
mrs. mccullough was born in philadelphia, graduated from london university when she was 19 and became a secretary at the former pennsylvania military college, now widener university
she married john t. mccullough, a harvard graduate, who worked for time magazine
mrs. mccullough is survived by a son, bruce, of hollywood, calif. update with king announcing that policy about ira funerals will be reviewed. picks up 12th graf, `concerning the ...'</note>
the irish republican army shot dead a policeman today, two days after a mob at an ira funeral killed two british soldiers
police said the policeman was shot in the head in a jeep in the roman catholic creggan district of londonderry, and died at a hospital
the ira claimed responsibility in a clandestine message to belfast media
the officer, whose name was not made public immediately, was the 23rd person and the second policeman to die in the british province this year
police sources said today about 30 suspects were being sought in connection with the mob attack saturday on two british soldiers. the outlawed ira also claimed responsiblity for the killings of the soldiers
irish and british newspapers said a police roundup of suspects in catholic strongholds in belfast was imminent
police made no formal statement, but the sources, requesting anonymity, said suspects were identified by studying videotape of saturday's rampage, in which the two soldiers were beatend and stripped naked by the crowd and shot by ira gunmen
three suspects were arrested immediately after the killings
in the catholic markets district of west belfast, police seized 600 pounds of ``explosive material'' early today and said they arrested a woman
in london, northern ireland secretary tom king announced today an immediate review of its new policy of not policing irish republican army funerals following the killings saturday
in all, five people died during burials or funeral corteges in a four-day period last week
king said a ``massive murder investigation is under way'' in the soldiers deaths
concerning the search for the killers of the soldiers, a statement by the royal ulster constabulary, the northern ireland police force, said only that, ``inquiries are being actively pursued.''
but police sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 30 suspects were identified after officers scrutinized film of the slayings
the british army said sunday the two soldiers had ignored general orders to stay away from the irish republican army funeral procession
the men's commanding officer in belfast, lt. col. martin roberts, said in a radio interview today that the men must have driven into the area by mistake
obviously, the soldiers drove into the funeral cortege by mistake and tried to escape and in the process they were hemmed in by the black taxis,'' said roberts, who is commander of the army's communications in northern ireland
an army helicopter assigned to film the funeral in catholic west belfast hovered overhead as corporals derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23, were killed. king flew to belfast on sunday for briefings from army and police chiefs and was shown the helicopter's film of the attack
ulster unionist leader james molyneaux claimed the two soldiers were ``sacrificed'' to the new policy of not policing ira funerals while 500 members of the security forces were on standby in the city
the rev. ian paisley, leader of the democratic unionist party, also blamed the soldiers' slayings on the new policy. he called on king and the police chief, sir john hermon, to resign
but conservative lawmaker michael mates said scrapping the new policy could mean more violence. ``a return to heavy-handed policing could provoke riots, which is what the ira want so they can say to the world: they won't even let us bury our dead in peace,'' he said
the mainly catholic ira wants to drive the british from northern ireland and unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic
on wednesday, as security forces stayed away from belfast's milltown cemetery for the funerals of three ira members slain by british forces in gibraltar, a protestant gunman killed three mourners and wounded 68 with grenades and bullets
the two soldiers slain saturday interrupted the funeral of kevin brady, 20, one of the three killed in milltown cemetery
a statement from the ira, which said its members shot the soldiers after identifying them, said the mourners thought they were being attacked when the soldiers' car sped toward them
sinn fein, the ira's legal political wing, blamed the british government for the violence and praised those who beat the soldiers for their ``bravery in protecting the cortege from attack.'' grafs, picking up in 6th graf pvs, ``what does; deletes grafs 10-12 pvs, resuming ... primary.</note>
george bush picked up the endorsement of new jersey gov. thomas h. kean today, while democrat albert gore jr. got kind words but no endorsement from new york gov. mario cuomo and richard gephardt got the same from chrysler chairman lee iacocca
the meetings came one day after bush swept to his 23rd primary-season victory in puerto rico and after democrats michael dukakis and jesse jackson recorded good weekend showings in kansas, texas and puerto rico
most of the democrats were campaigning today in michigan, where caucuses saturday offer the next big delegate prize of the season, while bush flew to new jersey for a rally
in meetings today with well-known non-candidates:
_kean endorsed bush in new jersey, saying as bush stood alongside him at a rally, ``we need a president who doesn't apologize for what's wrong with america, but who brags about what's right. we need a president who doesn't have his eyes fastened on the failings of the past, but who gazes steadily at the opportunities of the future.''
_cuomo said in albany, n.y., said he'd had an ``excellent'' and ``interesting'' meeting with gore, but he told reporters he is still not ready to endorse a democratic presidential hopeful. ``the endorsements don't mean a great deal,'' cuomo said
_in michigan, iacocca said, ``dick gephardt's a good friend of mine and he knows what he's talking about on trade.'' but he made no endorsement and said he also was looking forward to meeting with other presidential candidates
gephardt led the democratic parade into michigan, talking with auto executives and steel workers as he works for the victory he must have here to rescue his campaign
what does it profit this nation to conquer grenada if we are losing the auto industries of pontiac, flint and detroit?'' the missouri congressman told michigan democrats over the weekend
wisconsin looks like the next major battleground for the republicans, after bush won his latest victory in the puerto rico primary on sunday. the vice president won with ease over sen. bob dole, who admitted that he has done little to slow down bush's drive for the gop nomination
i still have a lot of supporters out there,'' dole said in milwaukee. ``we want them to know bob dole is a fighter, that we're going to stay in this race. ... i've got a lot of hill to climb before april 5'' and the wisconsin primary where polls give bush a big lead
bush picked up the 14 delegates at stake in puerto rico, boosting his total to 788. that's nearly 70 percent of the 1,139 he needs to win at the national convention in new orleans this summer. dole, who hasn't won an event since feb. 23, has only 178. former television evangelist pat robertson had 17
in puerto rico, jackson won the non-binding preference poll with dukakis running second and simon third. but it was a fight more about local matters than presidential politics
the 51 delegates from puerto rico all ran as uncommitted, and the campaigns promised major efforts to woo them in coming weeks
dukakis won the kansas caucuses on saturday, picking up 16 delegates. but jackson rode strong urban support into a surprising second place and 14 delegates
it's the first farm and agriculture state that i've won and won decisively,'' dukakis said at a dinner in detroit on saturday night. ``i think that's a very good sign for the future. ... now we're on to michigan and here we are.''
in texas, jackson appeared to do better, splitting the delegates there in county conventions that were the next step in allocated at-large delegates for the state. that gave jackson a one-delegate edge over dukakis in the texas national delegate count _ including both the primary and caucus results _ but more complete returns could change that
in south dakota, a saturday caucus followed the results of the feb. 23 primary and gave rep. richard gephardt of missouri the no. 1 spot in state delegates
all that activity left the latest ap delegate count this way: dukakis, 526.5; jackson, 508.55; sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, 362.8; sen. paul simon of illinois, 171.5; and gephardt, 154. of those chosen, 343.65 were uncommitted. to nominate, 2,082 delegates are needed
michigan's saturday caucuses offer 138 to be divided up, and a weekend poll suggested dukakis and jackson were far ahead in that battle as well
a detroit news survey of 38 likely caucus-goers gave the massachusetts governor 33 percent and jackson 30 percent _ a virtual tie. gephardt had 14 percent in the survey conducted march 15-17, with the others trailing
dukakis and gore sounded the traditional party themes in michigan, where auto industry troubles have thrown thousands out of work
we're not going to sit on the sidelines while our neighbors are thrown out of work and america's hometowns are boarded up and left to die,'' dukakis told the party dinner in detroit on saturday
gore emphasized that ``i'm a friend of organized labor and always will be. i believe it is time to put the white house back on the side of working men and women.''
simon, who is looking to wisconsin for victory, admitted that ``i'd be fooling you if i said we expected to win in michigan'' as he campaigned through the state
more than 1 million color televisions, one of china's hottest consumer items, lie unwatched in warehouses partly because suppliers use them for barter and influence, it was reported monday
there were more than 900 cases of illegal trade involving 400,000 color tvs last year, said the china daily, quoting a report in the gongren ribao workers' daily
the nation made 6.7 million color sets last year, 62 percent more than in 1986. however, about one-sixth of them were in warehouses despite heavy consumer demand, the report said
the newspaper blamed part of the problem on poor distribution
it also decried ``unsound tendencies'' among suppliers and distributors who hoard the sets. the newspaper said color sets ``have acquired a kind of bargaining power and can be used to obtain favors.''
the director of one tv factory reportedly obtained steel only after giving sets to suppliers. some supply departments used sets as leverage to gain other best-selling products and unload unpopular ones, the newspaper said
villagers trying to rescue a donkey from a dam dived for cover when they saw what had trapped its hind leg: a wooden box containing a surface-to-air missile
soldiers called to the village near the town of filabusi in southwestern zimbabwe found eight more of the soviet-made missiles after scouring the dam, according to elephant news, a zimbabwe military magazine
the missiles were intact and had never been used,'' the magazine quoted capt. mike mandiringa, commander of the search party, as saying. ``if it were not for the donkey, they would still be in the water.''
the officer said he believed the missiles were stored in villagers' huts by guerrillas during the seven-year war that led to zimbabwe's independence from britain in 1980
the villagers apparently dumped the weapons in the dam when the war ended, he said
guerrillas fighting the white minority government of ian smith in that conflict were supplied with an unknown quantity of heat-seeking missiles
angry poultry farmers threw live chickens and eggs at a u.s. diplomatic office monday during a protest of imported american turkeys
the 3,000 farmers also took their protest to the bureau of foreign trade, where they pelted a senior government official with eggs
during the demonstration outside the american institute in taiwan, farmers shouted ``we don't want u.s. turkeys!''
one protester cried out, ``slogans are useless!'' and the farmers threw 30 live chickens and dozens of eggs into the institute compound. visa applicants, reporters and policemen outside the building also were hit by the eggs
farmers argue that chicken prices have fallen more than 50 percent in five months because the united states has made taiwan a ``dumping ground'' for turkeys
they gave a petition to officials at the institute, which handles diplomatic matters between the united states and taiwan in the absence of formal relations
the protesters then went to the bureau of foreign trade and threw eggs at vincent siew, the bureau's director general, when he spoke with the farmers but failed to promise an immediate ban on turkey imports
siew told demonstrators that allowing u.s. turkey imports was part of a plan to help reduce taiwan's huge trade surplus with the united states, which taipei said reached $16 billion last year
taiwan officials want to lower the surplus to reduce u.s. protectionist sentiment
siew spoke to the farmers in a gynmasium near the bureau office but had to leave under riot police escort as farmers yelled: ``step down, vincent siew!'' the demonstrators dispersed four hours after the protest began
siew is a member of the taiwan-u.s. trade committee, which recommended easing restrictions on u.s. turkey imports. the cabinet still must approve the decision
the american institute in taiwan said u.s. turkeys accounted for less than 1 percent of taiwan's poultry market and did not hurt local farmers. it said the price slump was caused by overproduction and inadequate distribution and marketing
demonstration leader chen tung-fang, president of taiwan's poultry association, argued that chicken farmers have suffered an average monthly loss of $21 million since u.s. turkey imports increased in november
agriculture council officials said taiwan imported 2,261 metric tons of turkeys from the united states last year, up 142 percent from a year earlier
an earlier demonstration was held wednesday, when about 5,000 fruit and poultry farmers marched through taipei streets to protest the government decision to import turkeys and more fruit from the united states
the supreme court today agreed to consider making it easier for people to use a federal anti-racketeering law to sue businesses
the court said it will hear an appeal by phone customers in minnesota who have accused northwestern bell telephone co. of trying to bribe state public utility officials
the phone subcribers sued the company under a law known as the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act (rico)
they said the company beginning in 1980 tried illegally to win rate increases by offering gifts, employment offers, tickets to sporting and cultural events and other favors to members of the minnesota public utilities commission
the suit was thrown out by a federal judge and that ruling was upheld last september by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals
the appeals court said the phone users failed to allege a continuing pattern of racketeering activity required to make a case under the rico act
a single fraudulent effort or scheme is insufficient'' grounds for a suit, the appeals court said. it said the phone customers' ``complaint alleges no more than a series of fraudulent acts committed in furtherance of a single scheme to influence'' the public utility commissioners
the supreme court is being asked to pick between various theories of how difficult it should be to maintain such a lawsuit
the most expansive view would permit a rico suit when there are two related acts ``in furtherance of a single episode or a scheme.''
a more restrictive view would be that a pattern of racketeering activity exists only when there are multiple separate criminal schemes or episodes
those suing northwestern bell said there also is a middle road that would permit such suits based on an analysis of various factors, including the number and variety of alleged illegal acts, the number of victims, the length of time of the activity and the number of participants in the alleged scheme
they said the 8th circuit court ruling conflicts with decision by a number of other federal appeals courts
the case is h.j. inc. vs. northwestern bell, 87-1252
sheer elegance at chanel for next winter won designer karl lagerfeld a roar of applause in his monday ready-to-wear show
the great choices in short or long skirts and pants were welcome for chanel fans, sometimes disappointed with lagerfeld's recent creative eccentricities
his sportier looks were based on glen plaid or tweed blazers with lean skirts or pants, often topped with short fencers' capes
with feathered hats, it was vaguely tyrolian, although there were lots of familiar chanel chain belts and buttons used discreetly throughout. gold buttons were de rigueur down the arms and jackets of most suits
as a change from the familiar and much-copied chain and quilt chanel shoulder bag, there's a new model in bright red and green plaids
one of the best jackets here was narrowed at the waist, had curved lounging-jacket lapels, patch pockets with a pleat and came in bright red, green or navy. it topped a swingy, pleated gray skirt or pants
the trouser suits for day were in muted browns, grays or greens, cutest with a nipped plaid bolero. also in the tyrolean vein were the long or short gathered bold plaid skirts, dressiest when topped with a clinging black sweater with lace yoke
there were blouses galore for all the easy pants, most often in white georgette silk crepe with pierrot, double-pleated ruffles and wide flounced necklines
the longer suits _ often in navy or black _ were strictly lean, but moved well. and in black velvet they had lovely touches of double knit rows of ruffles or embroidered flowers, big and small
the fluid evening satin pyjamas with belted tunic tops in searing colors could be sure-fire classic winners
knits were super too, remarkable in ivory cable-knit cardigans over gorgeous draped chiffon dinner dresses. in spite of some peppy, full, bright skirts with lace, ribbons, crinolines and busy tops, the overall statement was totally wearable chic
kenzo's show was a cheery ode to fall. he too showed all lengths with some medieval-renaissance touches. his best red suit with a skirt just above the knee had an interesting sleeve puffed out below the dropped shoulder
kenzo's pants suits were lean and pin-striped for dandies, black ``smokings'' a la george sand or had a medieval look with page-boy knickers, often with capes in rust or olive colors and sometimes with big silk scarves with renaissance portraits
other graceful touches were in the colorful tweed and flowered velvet fitted suits, again skirts mini to long. there was a lovely ``skyline'' inspired group of light challis wool and chiffon dresses printed with puffy clouds
maryll lanvin's versatile approach featured well-cut clothes in good fabrics. they looked young, but could be worn by any age
lots of pants worked fine, especially topped by fitted, checked cropped jackets or tiny boleros in autumn colors
also remarkable were her short suits with very long jackets in windowpane-checked bright yellow or royal blue. other suits came out in more subtle gray, tan or brick shades with full peplums on the jackets
the best coat in hot tones of orange, fuschia and emerald turned up in an egg shape and was worn with a neat piped suit underneath _ in a different sizzling shade
cocktail looks turned elaborate, with drapes and puffs and dazzling colors. they exuded a faint air of ungaro, but were less showy than his exaggerations
a safe but appealing party choice would be the romantic white ruffled victorian blouses over black draped silk sheaths
paisley turned up here as all over the paris shows, in soft, full-skirted day dresses or as big borders on flounced black numbers, or dresses with pointed handkerchief-panel skirts. and the velvet paisley lounging pyjama suit was best of all
sonia rykiel, often best at her own familiar tunes, classic knits, branched out at her winter show into quilted tops and suits that were so puffy they made the wearer look like the michelin man
but she had some excellent suits. an amethyst or flame short knit suit with the jacket bowed in back had the rykiel chic. and her fitted caviar or houndstooth spencer suits were timely and handsome, as were the graceful dark or tan solid-color suits, nearly ankle-length
evenings at rykiel are best in the slinky, long black outfits with sparkly details. striped taffetas with big v-shaped panels in front and full skirts in silvery grays lacked rykiel's light touch and ended up on the too-prim side of heavy victorian
an old print that has adorned a wall in a painter's cottage for decades is a genuine rembrandt etching worth about $53,500, an art expert said monday
the 1626 print, titled ``jesus' circumcision in the temple,'' is the fifth known copy of the etching, said theo lorentzius, who examined the artwork
the print, which measures 8 inches by 5 inches, also was examined by experts of amsterdam's rijksmuseum, a center of rembrandt learning
the owner, painter evert musch, said he bought it about 40 years ago from an art dealer in groningen, a city 16 miles north of this village in the northeastern netherlands. he didn't recall what he paid for it
i've always believed that the print was a genuine rembrandt,'' musch said in an interview with the associated press. the print bears the signature ``rembrandt fecit,'' latin for ``rembrandt made.''
two weeks ago, musch showed his print on a dutch tv show about privately owned art, and the station brought in lorentzius for his opinion
musch said he planned to keep the print. ``it's far too beautiful to sell,'' he added
the supreme court, agreeing to decide an important issue for all lawsuits alleging age bias in employment, said today it will study the case of a laid-off pennsylvania man
the justices agreed to decide whether eugene f. brieck's lawsuit against his former employer, harbison-walker refractories, should proceed to a jury trial
harbison-walker, a division of dresser industries, sells specialized ceramic brick products primarily to steel producers. brieck worked as an installation specialist for harbison-walker from 1965 to 1982
in july 1982, several employees of harbison-walker's iron and steel marketing support group were laid off, including brieck. he then was 55
brieck sued harbison-walker in pittsburgh in 1984, contending that he was laid off and not recalled to work because of his age. his lawsuit pointed to a 39-year-old installation specialist with less seniority who was not laid off until november 1982 and then recalled eight months later
lawyers for harbison-walker contended that the other employee, hugh faust, was retained because of his more diverse work experience
but brieck alleged that such diverse capabilities played a very small role in the job faust performed
u.s. district judge gerald j. weber threw out brieck's suit, ruling that harbison-walker had articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory business reasons for laying off brieck while retaining a younger man with less seniority
but the 3rd u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated brieck's suit last june 19
the appeals court ruled that an employer charged with violating the federal age discrimination in employment act cannot avoid trial by articulating legitimate business reasons if the suing employee presents ``a reasonable inference that the employer' proffered explanation ... is unworthy of credence.''
the appeals court added: ``the question is not whether the employer's asserted reason is plausible, but whether there is also evidence of record which, if credited, could render the reason implausible.''
in seeking supreme court review, lawyers for harbison-walker argued that the appeals court ruling ``virtually eliminates summary (pretrial) judgment in employment discrimination cases.''
the case is harbison-walker vs. brieck, 87-271. collapse</head>
a bomb exploded in a four-story apartment building in moslem west beirut today, and police said several people were believed buried in the rubble
the blast occurred at 7 p.m. in the tarik jedideh district
civil defense rescue teams and ambulances rushed to the scene, police said. they had no further details
meanwhile, in tripoli, 50 miles north of beirut, an unfinished eight-story building collapsed at daybreak, burying six construction workers, police reported
they said one worker was rescued after six hours. although rescue teams reported hearing moans beneath the wreckage, hopes were fading at nightfall that any of the others would survive
police said the cause of the building collapse in tripoli was not immediately known.  
vice president george bush won puerto rico's republican primary and added 14 more national convention delegates to his tally, while jesse jackson won the democrats' non-binding ``beauty contest'' balloting
with 35 percent of the precincts reporting, bush picked up 98 percent of sunday's vote. gop rival sen. bob dole of kansas had received just 2 percent
bush had an overwhelming 1,935 votes compared to just 48 for dole in ballots that had been tallied. ``bush has the 14 delegates,'' said local gop chairman luis ferre
the vast majority of puerto ricans chose to vote in the democratic primary. with 91 percent of the precincts reporting, jackson led with 87,757 votes, or 32 percent, followed by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 70,733 for 26 percent
illinois sen. paul simon was third with 57,639 votes or 21 percent. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 45,361 for 17 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt had received 9,159 or 3 percent of the votes
the democratic primary had no effect on the candidates' delegate totals for the democratic national convention next july in atlanta. the 33 delegates at stake sunday, who will choose another 18 delegates, have said they will go uncommitted to the convention
in all, puerto rico will send 56 delegates to the convention, including gov. raphael hernandez colon and four other party leaders who automatically receive delegate seats. leaders say the delegation intends to vote as a bloc
puerto rico's two main political parties, hernandez colon's popular democratic party and the out-of-power new progressive party, predicted that 1 million voters would cast ballots. new progressives in general favor statehood for puerto rico while popular democrats do not
the turnout was less than half what was expected, possibily because the system approved by the state election commission required voters to register beginning at 9 a.m. but prohibited them from voting until after 2 p.m. the system was set up to prevent double voting
in 1980, the republican presidential primary was held two weeks before the democratic primary. new progressive party voters cast ballots first for george bush, a longtime proponent of statehood for puerto rico, and then for jimmy carter. the popular democratic party supported massachusetts sen. edward m. kennedy eight years ago
gop chairman ferre said many republicans probably did not vote because of the confusion caused by dole backers who tried to call off the primary and choose delegates instead by caucus. the issue was not settled until two days before the primary when a superior court judge ruled it must be held
in preliminary figures released shortly after noon, the commission reported the pdp slate ahead of the npp slate by 373,950 votes to 297,408, with most of the 1,650 polling stations tabulated. a total of 671,358 valid votes were counted
pdp officials claimed they won at least 29 democratic convention delegate seats, and perhaps all 33 that were at stake
what we have seen in these primaries is a prelude of what will happen in november'' when the two parties meet again in gubernatorial elections, said hernandez colon, who is running for re-election
the victory touched off pdp celebrations that included fireworks, speeches and a merengue band at party headquarters, and a caravan that wound its way, horns tooting and loudspeakers blaring, through the old san juan and puerta de tierra sections of the capital at 2 a.m
ex gov. carlos romero barcelo, who headed the npp slate, conceded his delegates lost, but said, ``we are not defeated. the defeated don't continue to fight and we are in a fight (against the pdp) from today on.''
romero barcelo faces a primary on june 12 against san juan mayor baltasar corrada del rio for the npp nomination for governor. losing sunday may have weakened his standing in the party
aside from a test of strength between hernandez colon and romero barcelo, at issue was control of the local democratic party, whose leaders will be chosen by the 33 delegates elected sunday
the npp wants puerto rico to become the 51st u.s. state. the pdp wants things to remain as they are _ with puerto ricans as u.s. citizens with almost every right and obligation except they cannot vote for president in the general election and do not pay federal taxes
anticipating trouble between the rival parties, the police department canceled days off and vacations, and stationed 3,000 officers at or near polling stations and party offices. the sale of alcoholic beverages was prohibited from midnight saturday to sunday night
there were no reports of violence
a woman who put a job-wanted ad in a newspaper was recruited as a communist spy and trained to photograph secret documents with a camera disguised as a cigarette lighter, officials said monday
the woman, arrested friday in bonn, hid film taken for her soviet bloc spymasters in a specially constructed can of hairspray, prosecutors said
she used at least 26 locations in bonn to deliver documents and pick up instructions from other communist agents, they added
prosecutor kurt rebmann said investigators were assessing the damage to national security caused by elke falk, who worked in the west german chancellery from 1974 to 1977 and in other ministries later
the suspect delivered notes, copied documents and photographs from all of her professional duties to her intelligence contacts,'' rebmann said
ms. falk is being held in investigative custody awaiting formal charges, rebmann said. security officials have not identified the soviet bloc intelligence agency for which she allegedly worked
ms. falk was a secretary in the economic coooperation ministry at the time of her arrest friday, hours after officials disclosed the defection of a high east german transport official who apparently led authorities to her
she was the chief secretary to volkmar koehler, no. 2 man in the economic cooperation ministry, until 1987 and later moved to the ministry's european section, officials reported
ministry spokesman manfred oblaender said ms. falk had access to ``very confidential and secret documents'' provided to the ministry by west german intelligence agencies
rebmann told reporters ms. falk was recruited by a man using the name gerhard thieme after she placed an advertisement in a newspaper looking for work. on sunday, the mass-circulation newspaper bild reported that ms. falk began syping after thieme seduced her
in its monday editions, bild said ms. falk had access to top-secret military and defense documents while working at the chancellery
quoting security sources it did not identify, bild said she also had access to transcipts of meetings between former chancellor helmut schmidt and foreign leaders, including former presidents jimmy carter and gerald r. ford
according to rebmann, communist agents warned ms. falk in 1985 that she might be exposed. she told west german authorities she stopped spying at that time and destroyed her equipment, but ignored urgings by communist contacts to flee to the east, he said
he said ms. falk was paid about $11,760 for the information she delivered
bild quoted the security sources as saying ms. falk's activities represented the most serious security breach since the arrest of guenther guillaume, a top aide to former chancellor willy brandt
brandt was forced to resign as chancellor in 1974 after guillaume was exposed as a spy
in the last major west german spy scandal, 15 communist agents were arrested or disappeared between august and december 1985. among them was hans-joachim tiedge, the man in charge of catching east german spies, who fled to east germany
gil evans, a composer, pianist and band leader who made his mark with innovative arrangements with jazz great miles davis, has died in cuernavaca, mexico, at the age of 75
evans died sunday of peritonitis while recuperating from prostate surgery, his widow, anita, said today in new york
evans had been active until recently, playing at a new york club in december and january. he went to cuernavaca to recuperate from his operation, taking his synthesizer to work on new compositions
an upcoming tour will proceed as planned, with evans' son miles leading the gil evans orchestra, mrs. evans said
gil left tones of music to be carried forth,'' mrs. evans said
jazz historian and writer leonard feather said evans made his mark with innovative arranging, particularly in three records by trumpeter miles davis. the albums, ``miles ahead,'' ``porgy and bess'' and ``sketches of spain,'' showcased davis' cool style
they were really among the most brilliant orchestral jazz records made by anybody,'' feather said. ``he made brilliant use of tone colors.''
evans was born ian ernest gilmore green in toronto, ontario, on may 13, 1912. his parents were australian and he grew up in stockton, calif., starting his first jazz band while in high school
he led a band in stockton from 1933 to 1938, and from 1941 to 1948, except for three years of army service, he arranged for the claude thornhill orchestra
he experimented with bebop with davis, gerry mulligan and john lewis, worked as a free-lance arranger in new york and gained recognition for a reunion with davis in 1957 that resulted in ``miles ahead.''
in 1958 he started recording with his own band. his arrangements always had a fuller, more orchestral sound than most jazz and swing bands. in recent years, evans had added electronically amplified instruments for a more commercially acceptable sound
evans had recently had worked on a record album with helen merrill, and davis told mrs. evans last week that he had written a new tune, titled ``gil evans.''
the upcoming tour included appearances at the jvc jazz festival here and appearances in london and at the umbria jazz festival in italy, mrs. evans said
a memorial service will be held in new york, probably on easter sunday, mrs. evans said. evans' sons, noah and miles, were with him in cuernavaca when he died. announcing suspension of military operations. deletes el salvador section.</note>
here is a summary of developments sunday and today involving nicaragua, honduras, the united states and el salvador:
american soldiers engaged in military maneuvers sunday at a honduran airstrip just 20 miles from the nicaraguan border, but u.s. officials said the threat from sandinista troops had subsided and combat appeared unlikely
president reagan sent 3,200 u.s. military personnel to non-combat areas in honduras last week after the central american nation reported that nicaraguan forces had crossed its border to raid bases of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels
lt. gen. colin powell, the u.s. national security adviser, said in washington the u.s. military exercises should be completed shortly and the troops will return to the united states
the reagan administration indicated support for a new $48 million proposal for aid to the contras that was advanced by a bipartisan group of senators
contra and nicaraguan leaders met today in sapoa, nicaragua, for the first cease-fire talks held inside nicaragua
nicargua announced that it would suspend military operations for the duration of the talks
on sunday, deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco reiterated a previous sandinista position that the negotiations strictly deal with the mechanics of a cease-fire. rebel leaders said the talks must also focus on ``democratization of nicaragua and free elections.''
earlier, nicaragua formally protested a honduran bombing raid on sandinista positions saturday as an unwarranted act of aggression. it has denied that its troops crossed the jungle-choked border dividing the nations
president jose azcona hoyo on sunday said nicaraguan troops are retreating from honduras and the u.s. soldiers probably won't be needed much longer
honduran officials said saturday's air raid on sandinista positions was carried out because about 600 nicaraguan troops were moving too slowly from a section of the bocay area that honduras considers its territory
congress should order american troops and military installations pulled out of japan unless the japanese do much more to pay for western defense, sen. ted stevens said monday
stevens said that because of the strength of the japanese economy and its favorable trade balance with the unite states, tokyo should be able to foot the bill for its own defense
the yen has conquered a great portion of american,'' the alaska republican told a group of pentagon officials during a hearing of the senate appropriations military construction subcommittee. ``now that the japanese economy is going full tilt,'' japan should pay the full cost of keeping u.s. troops and facilities in that nation, stevens said
stevens said he was ``putting the pentagon on notice'' that he plans to offer a bill next year that would require u.s. military withdrawals from japan
stevens said his proposal would be similar to legislation which was routinely sponsored _ and just as routinely defeated _ by former sen. mike mansfield, d-mont., calling for u.s. troops to be withdrawn from europe. mansfield is now u.s. ambassador to japan
mansfield was right,'' stevens said
the united states has been pressuring japan to increase defense spending and take more responsibility for its defense. those calls have been particularly loud on capitol hill, where japan has come under increasing criticism for its trade policies
in tokyo, prime minister noboru takeshita said monday that japan's military power should match its economic strength
japan last year formally scrapped a decade-old ceiling which limited defense spending to 1 percent of its gross national product. during the current 1986-90 defense buildup plan, the government says japan's defense spending will total $119.87 billion
japan pays about 40 percent of the $5.9 billion cost of maintaining u.s. facilities in the country
richard armitage, assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, told stevens that congress shouldn't engage in ``japan-bashing.''
japan is increasing its defense budget, armitage said, and the spending total ``is on the verge'' of passing the british, french and west german defense budgets
we should look beyond the popular ally-bashing rhetoric of a campaign year,'' armitage said
stevens responded that he would have offered his proposal this year, but ``it shouldn't be an election-year issue.''
japan is now meeting all its mutually agreed defense goals, armitage said, and is building up its naval fleet
sen. james sasser, d-tenn., chairman of the subcommittee, told armitage that ``this burden-sharing issue is not going to go away.'' the congressional criticism ``is the reflection of a deeply felt concern among the american people'' that u.s. allies should do more
on other matters, sasser said ``there are good signs'' that nato will come up with a new home, probably italy, for the 401st tactical fighter wing in spain. the spanish government earlier this year formally asked that the wing's 72 f-16s be removed from torrejon air base outside madrid
congress has banned the spending of any u.s. money to relocate the wing. instead, the cost will be picked up by nato
five army pershing ii missiles were flight-tested today at the air force space and missile test center range
the missiles were successfully fired by nato troops from west germany under battlefield conditions, said dave harris, a spokesman for the army's redstone arsenal in huntsville, ala
the pershings have been banned from use under an arms treaty signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, but the treaty has not yet been ratified by the senate
the pershing is a field missile launched by its own erector and can be carried anywhere, towed by a truck. each of the missiles cost $4 million
the missiles were launched separately during the morning from 8:01 a.m until 11:53 a.m., army officials said. pvs, boren said. deletes final 7 grafs pvs to shorten.</note>
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said today the reagan administration is ``very encouraged'' by a new congressional plan to send aid to the contra rebels, but said other suggestions were also welcome
we anticipate signing on to a bill, in the sense that we want a contra aid package, and we are working to get the best one that we can get,'' fitzwater told reporters. ``i think something will be very forthcoming very soon.''
the $48 million plan, which would permit the delivery of as much as $2.5 million worth of previously authorized arms and ammunition, was proposed friday by sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., and a bipartisan group of senators. it came in the wake of president reagan's decision to airlift more than 3,100 u.s. troops to honduras
reagan dispatched the troops wednesday after nicaragua's leftist government mounted an offensive against contra rebels along the honduran border. in his saturday radio address, reagan blamed congress' recent rejection of new aid for the contras for the sandinista push against the rebels
asked if the administration objected to anything in the new proposal, fitzwater said, ``i would say overall that we are very encouraged by the kassebaum proposal ... but we want to be open to other suggestions as well.''
he said the administration would hold talks with house speaker jim wright, d-texas, ``when the time is right.'' discussions with other members would continue today, he said, but he refused to name the individuals
asked if the administration believed there was a chance that military aid for the rebels would be approved, the spokesman declined to comment
the spokesman said the sandinista push against the contras had ``improved chances'' for such a package because it had changed minds on capitol hill
events of the last week have left little to the imagination in terms of what president (daniel) ortega and the sandinistas are really up to,'' fitzwater said
secretary of state george shultz, offering the administration's first comment on the contra aid proposal said sunday that it ``should go forward.''
commenting on nbc-tv's ``meet the press,'' he said the package was ``a little low on money'' but under study by the administration
representatives from capitol hill differed today on whether the situation had improved chances for renewed contra aid
senate intelligence committee chairman david boren, d-okla., said on abc-tv's ``good morning america'' that the u.s. show of strength had ``helped the situation.''
boren said he was ``amazed that there hasn't already been more action'' in advancing the plan
however, rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., a senior member of the house foreign affairs committee and an opponent of further military aid to the contras, said today that a favorable vote in the house is much more problematic
the events of last week probably enhanced the possibility of some kind of aid package moving forward,'' hamilton said on the same abc-tv show. ``but there are a lot of obstacles to overcome. it's very had to predict at this point.''
but some in congress say the administration, if it chooses to back a new contra aid request, must confront doubts about the seriousness of the border clash and perhaps even a backlash in congress prompted by the sudden airlift of troops
there is ... a very serious lack of full trust here, which goes back many years,'' said house majority leader thomas foley, appearing on cnn's ``newsmaker sunday.''
reagan's national security adviser, lt. gen. colin powell, denied sunday that he had misled congress when he briefed lawmakers wednesday. he acknowledged, however, that he had failed to mention reagan's decision in principle to send troops to honduras if president jose azcona requested them
we did not go into the specific options because we did not want it all over the newspapers,'' powell said during an appearance on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''
the national security adviser said the fighting on the nicaraguan-honduran border was ``pretty much over'' and offered assurances that it was unlikely u.s. troops would become involved
the combat zone is rapidly disappearing as the sandinistas appear to withdraw, and i don't think there is any reasonable likelihood that they would be anywhere near the combat zone,'' powell said of the u.s. troops
want to buy a million-dollar mansion with hardwood floors, chandeliers and a spiral staircase? a firm here will build you one on its assembly line and ship it to you in pieces on flatbed trucks
it's really an evolutionary thing for home building,'' said george oswald, treasurer of techno craft inc., a 3-year-old, privately held company
this business started with mobile homes, went to double-wides and then two-story units. we said that's all well and good but we're going to go ahead of that,'' said greg cunningham, the company's founder and chief executive officer
each two-story luxury home built by techno craft, which began production last august, has hardwood floors, a spiral staircase, chandeliers, a fireplace, jacuzzi, bidet and imported tiles. options include a steam room, sauna and an elevator
cunningham, 35, started the techno craft in 1985 when another company he heads had trouble finding an adequate supply of upscale housing in the new york metropolitan area
this is really the answer to the housing problem in this country, modular housing and done right,'' he said
techno craft produced 100 homes on its assembly line last year and has orders this year for 450, he said
oswald said the company will have to build another plant next year to meet demand. he said they eventually want to make 1,000 homes a year for sale between maine and virginia and increase employment from 125 to 700
nationally, 51,000 modular homes were produced last year, up from 39,000 in 1977, according to the 1988 edition of the red book of housing manufacturers. modular homes accounted for 2.8 percent of the 1.85 million homes built in 1987, according to the book, which based its findings on a survey of more than 500 companies
john j. smolke jr., chief of pennsylvania's division of manufactured housing, a state regulatory agency, said a shortage of skilled labor and greater profit for the builder have helped the growth of the industry
but he said the industry still has to overcome the image that pre-fabricated homes belong in the low-rent district
when people think of something built in a plant, they still envision ... the typical mobile home,'' smolke said
cunningham said building homes in a factory has advantages to building them on the lot
homes built on site can take eight months to a year to build and are subject to vandalism and theft, exposed to the weather and dependent on local labor, he said
techno craft's factory-built mansions take eight weeks from the start of construction to the day the homeowner can move in, and 95 percent of the work takes place in the factory, cunningham said
peter cornell, president of cornell development corp. in albany, n.y., decided to have techno craft build 151 townhouses for a development near albany
they are the only people who can do in the factory what i can with a real quality crew,'' cornell said. he said techno craft will do it at a lower cost
in the 480-foot-long techno craft plant, sections or modules of a house are assembled along an assembly line with 24 work stations
floors and roofs are constructed at separate stations to the side of the assembly line and moved to the line by overhead cranes
the finished sections are shipped from the plant in central pennsylvania on six flatbed trucks and can be assembled in a day
after the sections are lifted onto a foundation with a crane and assembled, siding is added and pre-cut molding and carpeting is installed, cunningham said
oswald said modular homes from other builders require more construction after they are placed on their foundations
it would take anybody else two or three years to get where we are and by that time we'll be way ahead,'' he said
a leukemia patient learned today that his bone marrow does not match that of his brother, a homeless florida man who had declined to undergo testing until he was offered $1,000
you kind of start counting on things and then you have a big letdown,'' said steven j. chapman. ``i've just made up my mind not to count on anything.''
doctors said they were presenting other treatment options to chapman, 31, of oolitic
it's would have been a very rough treatment,'' said dr. richard s. fayssoux, the hematology and oncology specialist who is treating chapman
the patient's brother, randy chapman, 32, who was located last month on the streets of miami, initially refused to submit to tests
if he dies, he dies,'' said randy chapman, who earns his living as the subject of medical experiments
randy chapman eventually accepted an indiana philanthropist's offer of a $1,000 testing incentive. the brother, who left home 16 years ago, would have received an additional $2,000 had there been a match and subsequent transplant operation
steven chapman said doctors were checking into a partial bone marrow match that was located through a national registry
we'll come up with something else,'' said chapman
a woman crossing a street was hit by four vehicles and killed, police said
janell bankhead, 25, was hit by a van as she walked across a street about 12:30 a.m. sunday. she tried to get up, but a pickup truck heading in the opposite direction dragged her a short distance
another van then hit ms. bankhead and the driver did not stop. then a third van ran over her, police said
the drivers who stopped after hitting the woman said they did not see her in the darkness, police said. officers were searching for the driver of the van that did not stop. drivers of the others were not cited
a soviet official today charged that u.s. negotiators are jeopardizing prospects of signing an accord to cut long-range nuclear weapons at the next superpower summit
the remarks came in an interview of alexei a. obukhov, the soviets' top arms negotiator, published today in the communist party newspaper pravda. they coincided with the first day of talks in washington between soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze and u.s. officials
i have the impression that the americans began to hesitate and are not sure now whether it is worthwhile to have an agreement on strategic offensive arms ready by the designated date, that is by the time ronald reagan visits moscow,'' obukhov told pravda. ``today, the americans are slowing down the pace rather than increasing it.''
shevardnadze and u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz have been holding monthly meetings to work out differences in a 200-page treaty to cut long-range missiles by 50 percent
president reagan has been expected to go to moscow later this spring, on a date to be announced, for his fourth meeting with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. both sides have said they would like to sign the treaty on strategic weapons at that time
shultz said in moscow last february that the two sides had agreed to tell treaty negotiators to draft verification and other key elements by the time shevardnadze came to the united states. he also said negotiators should speed up progess in order to ensure a treaty would be ready to sign at a moscow summit
but obukhov said americans were dragging their feet with the idea of turning lack of progress against the soviets. ``our partners think that, with this kind of action, they can spoil the term for working out the agreement and place the blame for this on us,'' he said
obukhov also said the reagan administration's position on the strategic defense initiative, better known as ``star wars,'' still stands in the way of an agreement. the soviets say the program to deploy a space shield against nuclear attack violates the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty between the superpowers
in a separate dispatch, the official tass news agency said the u.s. ``military-industrial complex'' has become wary of star wars because the program's cost may preclude spending on other types of military weapons
the prospect of enormous funds being allocated for sdi at the expense of other military programs has caused obvious concern to individual members of the military-industrial complex, who are beginning to see the star wars project as two birds in the bush that can make them lose the bird in hand,'' tass said
vladimir chernyshov, the agency's military writer, said the fifth anniversary of the strategic defense initiative is being widely celebrated in the united states although ``there is effectively nothing left of the sdi `dream' as conceived five years ago.''
while then they were talking about an `impregnable shield,' now they are talking about a `first phase' of an abm system with very limited capability,'' chernyshov wrote
however, he said it would be a ``dangerous illusion' to believe that because of opposition in congress and elsewhere star wars will soon be abandoned
more than 250,000 refugees of drought and civil war from neighboring sudan need more help to control disease and starvation, the government-owned news agency said monday
the sudanese refugees are aggravating an existing hunger problem in ethiopia, where 7 million people are threatened by starvation. most live in the northern provinces of tigray and eritrea, where ethiopia is fighting its own battle against secessionist rebels
an average of sudanese 15 refugees died each day last month, but the daily death toll recently had dropped to three, ethiopian news agency said, quoting one of the country's red cross officials
the red cross is working among seven national and international agencies providing food, clothing and medicine to the refugees
at least 47,000 of them flooded into ethiopia's western border regions of illubabor and wellega in the past four months. the agency said the influx was increasing daily
many of the refugees were fleeing a war started in 1983 by the southern-based sudan people's liberation army. the rebels are fighting the moslem-dominated government in khartoum for economic reforms and more autonomy in the mainly christian and animist south
that war has also worsened chronic droughts
police arrested 34 taxi drivers monday for violating anti-pollution rules that ban half of the capital's 15,000 taxis from the city center each day
a spokesman for the cabbies said they intentionally entered the district to challenge the ban, which they dismiss as illegal
the ban is part of a set of wide-ranging restrictions limiting traffic in athens. the measures are aimed at dispelling an eye-stinging brown smog that hangs over the city in calm weather
the taxi drivers were arrested because they brought cabs with even license-plate numbers into the 5-square-mile central zone on a day reserved for odd-numbered vehicles, said a spokesmen for the traffic police
nikos stekas, a spokesman for the athens taxi drivers union, said cabbies will defy the ban every day, claiming it cuts their income in half
the taxi drivers face a one-year jail term or a $370 fine, police said. they could also lose their operating permits for a month
state rep. bill english takes along a portable television set and earplug when he goes to the house floor to vote
other lawmakers cluster around a lobby television set or around tvs and radios in their offices, so focused on them that house leaders sometimes need six quorum calls to transact business
the house is virtually at a standstill, with five members working as the board of managers for the senate's impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham and the 55 others fascinated by testimony that has included an alleged death threat, sexual affairs, political paybacks and the governor himself
the trial entered its fourth week monday, and the senate has considered only one of three charges against mecham, a first-term republican who is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona
many house committees canceled meetings last week for lack of bills the chairmen wanted to consider, and the house moved to a three-day week beginning monday, down from four-day work weeks
the 30-member senate, meanwhile, has scheduled night committee meetings in an effort to act on the relatively few key areas lawmakers want to address this session: the budget, taxes, air pollution and indigent health care
regular sessions are supposed to last 100 days, which generally would mean ending in late april. but pressure to close does not begin in earnest until per diem pay is cut in half after 110 days and stops altogether after 120 days
lawmakers say the pace has been especially slow this year, despite promises from the house republican leadership that things would start moving once the house finished pre-impeachment hearings and sent the matter to the senate
it's not been a terribly productive year so far,'' says house minority leader art hamilton, a democrat from phoenix
it's the most difficult session i've seen in 16 years, and it doesn't seem to be getting any better,'' he added, citing ``a lot more emotion than probably action.''
republican leaders acknowledge that impeaching a fellow republican has taken its toll on party unity. hamilton and others note the inaction on major bills and the concentration on issues such as a resolution telling congress that soviet troops should quit angola
other committee chairmen, meanwhile, have continued to limit debate, prompting a series of walkouts by democrats who complain that important bills are not being given a full hearing
republican leaders say they have been trying to keep the session as normal as possible, but hamilton said he thinks lawmakers should take advantage of the spare time to look in-depth at issues such as taxes, arizona's medicaid alternative and pollution, which normally get resolved on a rush basis due to the press of other business
but because most house members are watching the trial, hamilton said, the house is doing little other its ``normal work at a much slower pace.''
it's tough to compete with the soap-opera draw of the impeachment trial
mecham is charged with ordering the department of public safety director not to cooperate with an investigation of the alleged threat by a state official against a former mecham aide. the aide was about to testify before a state grand jury on the governor's unreported $350,000 campaign loan
mecham also is accused in the impeachment trial of concealing the loan and misusing $80,000 in state funds by loaning the money to his auto dealership
mecham has said he will be exonerated
a two-thirds vote of the senate is required to convict mecham, and lawmakers also could bar him from public office. mecham also faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election. last 4 grafs pvs to trim.</note>
the state department today complained of massive soviet arms shipments to nicaragua as the war in the central american country cast a shadow over the visit of foreign minsiter eduard a. shevardnadze even before he opened talks here
charles e. redman, the department spokesman, said the soviets shipped over 3,000 tons of equipment to the sandinista government in january and february alone
for a number of years, the soviets have supplied nicaragua with $500 million to $600 million in assistance annually, he said. ``i certainly don't see it as an issue heating up,'' redman said. but, he said soviet military support is a ``continuing cause for concern.''
in another development before shevardnadze opened talks with secretary of state george p. shultz late in the day, the white house confirmed that there could be two superpower summit meetings this year
signing a treaty to sharply reduce strategic nuclear weapons this spring in moscow ``is our goal,'' presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said
we are hopeful, but there is no guarantee that we'll have a start agreement ready to sign at the summit,'' he said
therefore, fitzwater said, reagan told the international herald tribune last friday in an interview that ``if there was an agreement later sure we'd find some way to sign it.''
while the administration complained about soviet military aid to nicaragua, shevardnadze was bound to register moscow's irritation over the dispatch of 3,200 american troops to honduras
we have quite a few problems,'' the soviet foreign minister said on his arrival sunday for three days of talks with shultz and a session with president reagan at the white house. he singled out the situation in central america as `'rather grave and of some serious concern to us.''
also, an impasse has developed in negotiations, held in geneva under united nations auspices, for the withdrawal of an estimated 120,000 soviet troops from afghanistan
still, the visit may produce a date for the next superpower summit _ speculation centers on late may in moscow _ and some progress toward a treaty to sharply reduce u.s. and soviet long-range nuclear weapons
the treaty is the projected centerpiece for reagan's fourth meeting with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. but negotiations in geneva have proceeded slowly
it's by no means in the bag,'' shultz said sunday of the accord that would reduce by 30 percent to 50 percent the overall arsenals of u.s. and soviet long-range bombers, missiles and submarines
it's possible, but we're not going to try to have one just for the sake of a treaty,'' shultz said on nbc-tv. ``we'll only be willing to go forward; the president will, if it's something we regard as good.''
shevardnadze, in a statement on his arrival at andrews air force base, outside washington, said he was optimistic about arranging reagan's visit
i think we will be able to decide about the date,'' he said, then added, ``we have to work hard; we have to work intently.''
u.s. and soviet negotiators have been working on drafts for the strategic arms reduction treaty. one would deal with how nuclear weapons will be scrapped, another with verifying compliance with the accord
the two sides have exchanged drafts in the past month on how they would inspect each other's missile sites and make sure cutbacks are carried out. shultz and shevardnadze are also due to review the procedures for reducing nuclear arsenals
the procedures are likely to follow the pattern of the treaty to ban intermediate-range nuclear missiles. but verification is considered a more difficult problem since not all the long-range weapons would be scrapped
shultz indicated strongly that reagan would go to moscow to see gorbachev _ with or without a treaty to sign
i think it is important that summit meetings have content,'' he said. ``but it's also true that we are now evolving into a process where, perhaps, they will come to be a little more normal. ... there are plenty of things on our plate right now that could come to fruition other than the strategic arms treaty.''
reagan, in an interview published in the international herald tribune, said he was willing to meet with gorbachev a second time this year if the negotiations for a strategic arms treaty could not be completed by the summit later this spring
shevardnadze, after resting from his long flight from moscow, arranged for a late afternoon meeting with shultz today. they will meet again on tuesday and wednesday. his call on reagan at the white house tentatively is scheduled for wednesday
shultz and shevardnadze have been meeting monthly to plan for the summit. improving the human rights situation in the soviet union and soliciting soviet support for an international arms embargo against iran also are among the u.s. goals
in the meantime, the wars in nicaragua and afghanistan underscore u.s.-soviet rivalries
guerrillas in both countries are fighting with u.s. weapons against marxist governments equipped by the soviet union. the reagan administration last week turned the heat up in central america by sending troops to honduras. injuries</note>
a commuter train bound for chicago hit a truck and derailed today, injuring at least 16 people, one of them seriously, officials said
the train derailed after hitting a truck at a crossroads just west of new lenox, said will county police sgt. belt, who would not provide his first name
nancy talaga, a witness, said the truck was stopped at a red light, and when the light changed, the truck tried to cross the tracks, which have warning signals and crossing gates
the train was right there,'' she said. ``i saw it in my rear-view mirror hit the trailer and derail.''
the truck went into a ditch and the driver came out of the cab, she said. he was trying to walk away, but was unsteady and had blood on his head
new lenox fire chief ken hossack said the injured were taken to silver cross hospital in nearby joliet. he said there were no fatalities
julie grant, a spokeswoman at silver cross, said 16 people had been brought in, with one in serious condition. the others were in good condition and were expected to be released, she said
ms. grant said the man in serious condition, terry lewis, was believed to be the truck driver
the accident occurred shortly after 10:30 a.m., officials said
tracks were blocked in both directions, said joyce macdonald, a spokeswoman for metra, the commuter railroad
we have sent a train out from chicago to pick up passengers who want to continue their trip to chicago,'' ms. macdonald said
two republican congressmen _ dan schaefer of colorado and howard nielson of utah _ announced monday they are running for re-election to their fourth terms in office
schaefer, 52, was first elected to congress from colorado's 6th district to serve out the term of former astronaut jack swigert, who was elected in 1982 but died before he could be seated
he said this might be his toughest contest if former state sen. martha ezzard, a former republican turned democrat, gets in the race. she has expressed interest but has not formally announced
nielson, 63, former utah speaker of the house and one-time statistics professor at brigham young university, won his last election by a 2-1 margin
so far, one democrat, unsuccessful 1984 u.s. senate candidate craig oliver, has announced he will challenge nielson. pvs: ``at the...' ^by laurie asseo</note>
a witness at gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial testified today that she was certain she told the governor of an investigation into an alleged death threat two days before he is accused of trying to hinder the probe
peggy griffith, director of the governor's office of women's services, told the senate, ``i believed at the time he understood me.''
mecham is accused of trying to thwart an investigation of the alleged threat, and he testified last week that he did not recall mrs. griffith telling him there was a probe
mrs. grifith also said today that her secretary, terri fields, complained that mecham and his attorney were ``hounding'' her about information on the alleged threat against another official
mrs. griffith quoted ms. fields as saying, ``they just keep asking me about the conversation you had with lee watkins,'' who is accused of making the alleged threat
mecham is charged with ordering department of public safety director ralph milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat by watkins, then head of state prison construction, against former top mecham aide donna carlson
it was mrs. griffith who reported the threat, and ms. fields testified for the defense earlier in the trial in an effort to discredit mrs. griffith's testimony. ms. fields said mrs. griffith was sometimes forgetful and tended to exaggerate things
defense attorney fred craft, who cross-examined mrs. griffith today, asked if she had a ``total recall'' memory
when i hear a death threat i do,'' mrs. griffith said
she also said that during the first several days after the alleged threat occurred, ``i felt very much like nobody believed what i was saying.''
at the time of the alleged nov. 12 threat, ms. carlson was about to testify before a state grand jury on the governor's unreported $350,000 campaign loan
the governor's defense attorney, fred craft, also is expected to be called to the stand before testimony is completed on the count involving the death threat. craft attended a crucial meeting at which mecham was told about the alleged threat
mecham also is accused in the impeachment trial of concealing the loan and misusing $80,000 in state funds by loaning the money to his auto dealership. opening arguments were expected this week on the $80,000 loan
on sunday, with his impeachment trial entering its fourth week and some rocky testimony behind him, mecham said he is still convinced the senate will exonerate him
with the world looking on as they have, i can't see how any of them (senators) who have any claim of judging on the evidence can do anything but exonerate me,'' mecham said
mecham spent part of three days on the stand last week, and contended he was the victim of an attempted mutiny by people in government, including attorney general bob corbin and milstead
but his effort to discredit the former head of his dps security detail, lt. beau johnson, backfired friday when mecham admitted he lacked proof _ as he earlier testified that he had _ that johnson had stolen an unrelated report on the agency from the governor's office
johnson had reported the alleged death threat to mecham, although the governor contends he was not adequately informed of the seriousness of the matter
mecham testified that watkins told him he had been informed by johnson's supervisor, lt. col. james chilcoat, that johnson had taken the report
however, deputy dps director lt. col. gary phelps sparked applause and laughter from the gallery when he testified moments later that watkins in fact had taken the report _ which watkins denied
mecham said sunday he thought he had ``not really'' been hurt by his admission that he lacked the proof he had claimed under oath that he had. and, he said he hadn't intended to make the claim against johnson
i inadvertently used it when they were asking for a lot of things'' during his testimony, mecham said
mecham also said he believed watkins ``was telling the truth when he told me what chilcoat told him.''
the defense also sought last week to discredit milstead with testimony on his sex life by a woman who claimed to be his former lover, christina johnston. she was not allowed to give specifics, but said their relationship was ``intimate and personal'' and that she had been married ``only six'' times
mecham said he had never met mrs. johnston, but that he was told by craft that she was ``a very decent, honest person.''
with the exception of milstead, she marries men instead of just lives with them,'' mecham said. ``women who are vulnerable get taken advantage of by predatory men in this world.''
mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham, and lawmakers also could decide to bar him from future public office
mecham also faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election
nancy reagan, mostly recovered from a bout of laryngitis, traveled to new york on monday to attend a performance of ``phantom of the opera.''
she's feeling better,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters
the first lady planned to attend the musical on tuesday with her brother, dr. richard davis and his wife patricia, as well as the composer of the show, andrew lloyd webber
mrs. reagan was to meet with the cast after the show and mark the celebration of webber's 40th birthday, said mrs. reagan's spokeswoman, elaine crispen
mrs. crispen said the first lady, who had remained over the weekend at the white house to nurse her throat, has ``90 percent of her voice back.''
she's just fine,'' the spokeswoman said
five army pershing 2 missiles, banned from deployment under a treaty with the soviets, were test-fired monday
the unarmed missiles were successfully fired under battlefield conditions by nato troops, normally based in west germany, an army spokesman said. the tests went off separately from 8:01 a.m. to 11:53 a.m., army officials said
the pershings have been banned from use under an arms treaty signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, but the treaty has not been ratified by the senate, a move that could come in late spring
the intermediate-range nuclear forces, or inf, treaty, calls for the destruction of all missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles
six of the pershings were tested feb. 15 at cape canaveral air force station, near the kennedy space center, said capt. ken warren, an air force spokesman
the treaty does not require either side to withdraw or destroy missiles until it has been ratified by both governments
the pershing is a field missile _ each of which costs $4 million _ launched from its own assembly that can be carried by a truck
a supreme court justice monday criticized a denver lawyer over the fees he is charging as the court's ``special master'' in a case
justice harry a. blackmun, dissenting from a court order granting charles j. meyers $69,661.25 in interim fees, complained about the hourly rates many large law firms charge their clients
meyers, a former dean of stanford law school, is a partner in the denver office of the los angeles-based law firm of gibson, dunn &amp; crutcher
meyers in 1984 was appointed as special master in a still-pending dispute between texas and new mexico over use of pecos river water
texas is being allowed to ``sue'' new mexico in the supreme court before the case has been heard by any lower court. in such cases, the justices invoke the court's ``original jurisdiction'' and hire a special master to conduct hearings and make recommendations
the case, in varying forms, has been before the high court since 1975
meyers' submitted bill of over $69,000 represents work he and an associate of his law firm, diana poole, have devoted to the case since late 1986
meyers' bill, to be paid by texas and new mexico, reflects compensation averaging $275.12 an hour for himself and $191.30 for ms. poole
in his dissenting opinion, blackmun notes that many of the 246 hours ms. poole spent working on the case represented getting herself familiar with the legal issues. another associate in meyers' law firm, steven crafton, had been assigned similar duties before leaving the firm's denver office
it seems apparent _ indeed (meyers) so concedes when he describes the nature of the `early months' of her work on the case _ that a substantial amount of ms. poole's time was self-education ... and was duplicative background work already performed by ... crafton,'' blackmun said
the consequences of crafton's departure hardly are to be charged to these litigants,'' blackmun added
he added: ``it also is difficult for me to accept the fact that in denver, colo., this partner's time is now worth $290 an hour, having been increased from $265 on nov. 1, 1987, and that the time of ms. poole is now worth $200 an hour, having been elevated from $170 beginning nov. 1, 1987
it seems to me that `establishment' law firms are doing themselves and the public a disservice by asserting fees of this magnitude so persistently over dissents from the court
public dissatisfaction with lawyers is not unknown; neither is public distrust of lawyers. a fee application of this kind tends to build that dissatisfaction and that distrust,'' blackmun said
the case is texas vs. new mexico, 65 original
president reagan will meet with richard joaquin balaguer, president of the dominican republic, during a white house working visit and lunch on friday, it was announced monday
balaguer, who is scheduled to enter the united states at miami on thursday, also will meet with secretary of state george shultz and members of congress, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said
fitzwater said that balaguer's official activities would be followed by a private u.s. visit
safety experts previewed a series of new designs for child-resistant pill containers monday to highlight this year's national poison prevention week
the special medicine containers have helped reduce the number of children fatally poisoned from nearly 500 in 1962 to 56 in 1985, reported terrence m. scanlon, chairman of the federal consumer product safety commission
marsha millonig of the national poison prevention week said resistant caps are one of the three main factors in reducing poisonings, along with the growth of poison control centers and improved parental awareness of the dangers of poison for children
and dr. toby litovitz of the national capital poison control center at georgetowen university hospital stressed that even with the reduction in poisonings, the danger to toddlers persists and merits continued vigilance
while the special caps on medicine bottles and other products have helped reduce the toll on children, scanlon conceded that many adults also have trouble with them
hugh lockhart of michigan state university described several possible design changes that have been developed
the currently popular design, in which the cap from a pill bottle must be pressed down and turned to get it open, requires some strength and determination, he noted
basically, people are required to ``engage a series of lugs that they cannot see, using a principle that they do not understand. it's no wonder they've had trouble,'' lockhart said
one of the findings of the university researchers is that the physical strength of very old people may be no greater than than of a small child, he said. but the elderly generally retain manual dexterity and can handle problem solving better, so those abilities were considered in designing new closures
among the closures being tested, he said, are:
_placing individual pills in a strong plastic blister, with a peel-off backing
_designing a rigid plastic package with pills in individual blisters. the package would fold in half with a child-resistant latch holding it closed
_bottle caps similar to the current ones, except with a slot that a key could be slid into to allow them to be turned to open
_another bottle cap with a hole in the side into which a pencil or other tool could be inserted to twist it open
_a somewhat easier to open version of the current caps, which is lifted to open rather than being pressed down
_using inks in contrasting colors to make the directions and arrows stand out on caps, expecially those on which arrows have to be lined up to get them open
safety commission vice chairwoman carol dawson said the agency is arranging for test samples of the various designs to be made, and expects to give them tryouts during the next year
designs that are successful would be made available for manufacturers to copy at no charge, she said
some of the designs could be more costly than current child-resistant caps, although lockhard declined to speculate on the amount of the cost
the closure manufacturers association, meanwhile, applauded the research effort and said its members are anxious to participate in the testing of the new designs
a gunman in a black helmet shot dead the driver of a stretch limousine parked on a greenwich village street monday, then roared away on a motorcycle into rush-hour traffic, police said
the indications we see here are symptomatic of a mob hit,'' assistant police chief aaron rosenthal said at the scene
obviously, they knew who they were shooting at. they were very cool about it and very gutsy,'' he said. ``i would characterize it as cool, gutsy and professional and deliberate.''
rosenthal said he had little information on the victim, limousine owner-driver gregory decurtis, 29, who lived across the street from the shooting scene
his cream-colored cadillac was parked outside a cafe when two men, both wearing black helmets, sped up on a red and white motorcycle at 8:20 a.m., police said
one man dismounted and fired five shots into the closed driver's window, striking decurtis three times in the arm and once in the back, police said. the man then got back on the bike and fled
a passenger in the front seat, a man in his late 20s, was unhurt; his name was not released, said officer hugh barry
police moved in on a crowd of more than 500 people demonstrating today against u.s. military presence in central america, arresting an estimated 225 protesters who tried to block the entrance to the federal building
baton-wielding officers began rounding up demonstrators after police capt. william welch warned the crowd they were gathered illegally and ordered them to disperse
demonstrators hurled newspaper vending boxes and other debris into the street, trying to disrupt traffic and stay one step ahead of helmeted police
shouts of ``no contra aid'' and ``u.s., cia, out of nicaragua,'' filled the air as the demonstrators circled in front of the closed main entrance while early arrivals for work got in through another door
but the crowd quickly moved to that entrance, holding aloft a 6-foot-long sign reading, ``this building closed for renovation of morals.''
some demonstrators tried disrupting traffic, wandering in the path of cars and forcing them to swerve or stop. in one instance, a demonstrator fled, leaving behind a small yellow scooter, which an officer picked up and hurled into the gutter
most of those arrested were cited for taking part in an illegal assembly
we're not going to stop these protests because we want people to know we are seriously committed to stopping u.s. intervention in central america,'' said bill nygren, a spokesman for pledge of resistance, one of several groups sponsoring the demonstrations
on friday, about 250 people were arrested when they encircled the building and tried to stop 5,000 federal workers from entering
today's effort follows a protest through city streets saturday night by at least 5,000 people, where _ at one point _ several hundred protesters battled police for 25 minutes after a fire was lighted in the street
since thursday, 278 people have been arrested during troop deployment protests in san francisco. most of those arrested were cited for failure to disperse at an unlawful assembly, said sgt. dave ambrose
last wednesday, reagan ordered 3,200 troops, 1,100 of them fort ord near monterey, into honduras to counter the reported presence of nicaraguan soldiers in that country
an explosion ripped through a four-story apartment building in moslem west beirut on monday night, killing one man and injuring four others, police said
investigators were trying to determine the cause of the 7 p.m. blast in the low-income, predominantly sunni moslem district of tarik jedideh
some surviving tenants claim it was a gas cylinder explosion and others say it was a small bomb that went off on the staircase,'' a police captain said
the explosion wrecked the northern front of the building, but all four apartments remained intact
the dead man was identified as mohammed kurdi, 85, the landlord's father
his grandson, also named mohammed kurdi, shouted: ``it's him! it's my grandfather!'' when civil defense rescuers found the body in the debris
rescuers rushed to the scene after the explosion. all the tenants had been accounted for
in tripoli, 50 miles north of beirut, an unfinished eight-story building collapsed at daybreak, burying six construction workers, police said
one man was rescued after six hours. although rescue teams reported hearing moans beneath the wreckage, hopes were fading at nightfall that any of the other five would be found alive
it was not known why the building collapsed
the senate finance committee, flooded by complaints from farmers, fishermen and mining companies, voted monday to allow some sales of diesel fuel without the payment of tax
the relief would be financed by doubling the tax on gas-guzzling cars and closing a loophole that has allowed a handful of distilleries to dodge part of the liquor tax by watering down some of their booze
because of the drive to reduce the budget deficit, farmers and others who buy diesel for off-road use may not get their relief until oct. 1. unless some bookkeeping trick can be found quickly, they will have to pay the 15.1-cent-a-gallon tax and then apply for a refund when they file their income tax returns next year
but the prospect of delivering that message to farmers is not a happy one for lawmakers
when we go back for recess (easter week), it will be about (tax-return) filing time and it would be like us walking through a field of scorpions barefooted'' to have to tell farmers they face all that paperwork for another six months, said sen. david pryor, d-ark
with the creativity of the minds around here, perhaps we can come up with'' a solution that will make the relief available on april 1, said sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, the committee chairman
the committee is restrained by an agreement between congress and the reagan administration which requires that each dollar of tax relief be offset by a dollar of tax increase
as part of the deficit-reduction law passed last december, farmers and other off-the-road diesel users are required to pay the tax, beginning april 1, and then apply for a refund. congress found there had been a considerable amount of evasion because of the difficulty in policing so many retail outlets. the new law requires the tax be collected by wholesalers or producers
farmers accused the government of trying to balance the budget on their backs, contending there is no reason that washington should have interest-free use of their money _ an average of about $320 per farmer per year _ for as much as 12 months. similar complaints have come from timber companies, mine operators, fishermen and oil drillers
the finance committee put together this package, which is subject to approval in the senate and house:
_to allow all diesel bought for any off-road use from wholesalers to escape the tax altogether. tax-exempt buyers of off-road diesel from retailers would have to pay the tax and get a refund next year. this would cost the government $543 million through 1993
_to approve a ``taxpayer bill of rights,'' which would clamp down on what are perceived to be abuses of taxpayers by the internal revenue service. this would lose $517 million over five years, due chiefly to a drop in compliance
_to extend through june 30, 1989, the expiring authority for the irs to withhold tax refunds from people who owe student loans, farm loans and other federal debts. this would raise about $400 million
_to double the tax on new cars whose fuel efficiency does not meet federal standards, raising $375 million through 1993. in the current model year, the tax hits only expensive foreign cars, such as the $138,850 lamborghini countach, which gets 8.8 miles per gallon and is subject to a $3,850 levy, and the bmw 750, which gets 16.4 mpg and faces a $1,500 gas-guzzler tax. those taxes would rise to $7,700 and $3,000 respectively
_to limit use of a ``wine flavors credit'' under which some manufacturers of distilled spirits avoid a significant share of the $12.50-a-gallon liquor tax by mixing some products with a grape-based alcohol. this is expected to raise $360 million over five years
the committee's bill does nothing about a 1986 law, also aimed at tax evaders, that requires about 82,000 state, city and county government units to pay taxes of 9.1 cents a gallon on their gasoline and apply later for a refund. that provision took effect jan. 1
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primary in puerto rico on sunday
1,494 of 1,650 precincts reporting - 91 percent
dukakis, 70,733 - 26 percent
gephardt, 9,159 - 3 percent
gore, 45,361 - 17 percent
jackson, 87,757 - 32 percent
simon, 57,639 - 21 percent
larouche, 3,753 - 1 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primary in puerto rico on sunday
582 of 1,650 precincts reporting - 35 percent
bush, 1,935 - 98 percent
dole, 48 - 2 percent
robertson, 0 - 0 percent ^eds: for release at 6 p.m. est.</head>
government regulators around the world require too many long and costly tests to determine whether new synthetic chemicals are cancer hazards, two experts said monday
a few relatively quick tests can identify the class of chemicals that form the greatest hazard, and new tests may have to be devised for the rest, they said at a science writers seminar sponsored by the american cancer society
nobody knows how to register a chemical that's safe around the world'' because so many tests are required, including those that do not really tell how hazardous a chemical would be for humans, said john ashby of the central toxicology laboratory of ici ltd., a chemical company in chesire, england
a limited number of short-term tests will correctly identify chemicals that can cause genetic mutations, which have the highest chance of causing cancer in humans, he said
one major test, called the ames test, looks for genetic changes in bacteria called salmonella. another compares the molecular structure of a new chemical to those that have proven cancer-causing in the past, he said
such tests will overlook chemicals that cause cancer without damaging genes, and which apparently affect the natural mutation rate of genes, he said. new tests in animals will probably be needed to find those, he said
currently, some regulators require high-dose tests in mice and rats that run two or three years, and chemicals are labeled cancer-causing even if they cause only specific tumors in particular sexes of rodents, he said
no chemical with such limited effects has been shown to cause cancer in people, he said. such chemicals are far less likely to cause cancer in humans exposed to low dose levels than one shown to damage genes and cause cancer in a range of tissues in several rodent species, he said
saccharin is one example of a chemical with only limited effect in animals that should not be considered a carcinogen for people, he said
vincent devita, head of the national cancer institute, said he thought the labeling of saccharin as a carcinogen was ``overblown,'' making for confusing comparisons with such cancer dangers as cigarette smoke
the theme of excessive testing was echoed by the second expert on chemicals, michael shelby of the national institute of environmental health sciences
he said that of 23 chemicals or chemical combinations on a standard list of cancer hazards, 20 score positive on the ames test or another short-term test that checks for genetic damage in bone marrow of rodents
another would probably score positive, he said. the remaining two are asbestos fibers and a form of estrogen. so when new substances that resemble either of those come up for testing, they should get special consideration, he said
at least six guards at a nazi death camp resembled a retired ohio autoworker accused of war crimes who claims he is a victim of mistaken identity, his lawyer said monday at a special evidentiary session
john demjanjuk's attorney said the new evidence casts doubt on the testimony of five survivors of the camp who identified his client as a guard known as ``ivan the terrible.''
attorney yoram sheftel was speaking to a special session of a three-judge panel at demjanjuk's trial in jerusalem. the year-long trial ended feb. 16, and judges were considering a verdict when they agreed to permit the defense to offer the new documents submitted last week
sheftel also argued that part of the evidence used to bring demjanjuk to trial was forged and thus throws the prosecution's case into question. he said the 1979 testimony of a soviet citizen, who said demjanjuk was a guard at the sobibor death camp, was concocted to frame his client
you cannot by any stretch of the imagination be in two places at one time, in both treblinka and sobibor,'' sheftel said
demjanjuk, 67, is charged with operating the gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at treblinka in nazi-occupied poland in 1942 and 1943
the ukrainian-born demjanjuk, who settled in the cleveland area after world war ii, says he was set up by the soviet union. he says the soviets wanted to hurt him because he had fought in an anti-communist army unit organized by the germans during world war ii
the new evidence for his defense includes 12 statements from treblinka inmates who failed to identify demjanjuk as ivan from two photographs of the autoworker in an eight-picture lineup. three others pointed to the two pictures, but identified them as six different nazi guards, sheftel said
sheftel said the 1979 statement came from a soviet citizen named i.t. danilchenko. he said the document was contrived to lend credence to a key piece of prosecution evidence, demjanjuk's purported nazi id card provided by the soviet union to israel
i don't know whether danilchenko is alive or whether there even is such a person,'' sheftel said
the prosecutor dismissed the defense's claims. ``i fail to see how any of this helps the defense,'' said prosecutor michael shaked. ``all this proves to the court is that there were quite a number of survivors who pointed to demjanjuk's picture as being familiar to them.''
he said the importance of the soviet citizen's statement was nil
demjanjuk sat impassively during the eight-hour session, occasionally yawning
a federal judge in washington ordered the u.s. justice department to release the new evidence last month after the demjanjuk family filed a request under the freedom of information act
a federal magistrate denied a prisoner's request for materials to worship satan, ruling that satanism is not a religion and the knitting needles he wanted for bloodletting would pose a security risk
holman prison inmate charles mccorkle had filed a lawsuit against state officials, claiming he was prevented from practicing satanism at the maximum-security prison
besides asking for the satanic bible and other books on the occult, mccorkle asked for knitting needles to draw blood for his rituals
u.s. magistrate william cassady ruled earlier this month that ``satanism is an unreligion,'' instead of a religion
it is a philosophy of life that rejects all religions and promotes the idea that man should not be subservient to any natural or supernatural being,'' cassady ruled
if mccorkle's requests were granted, the magistrate ruled, he would ``create a severe security risk to prison officials and other inmates.''
mccorkle's suit earlier was dismissed as frivolous, but the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta ordered a hearing on the claim, which prompted cassady's review
in his 11-page recommendation, the magistrate said mccorkle has a history of psychiatric disorders, has attempted suicide by slashing his wrists and has admitted to a previous addiction to numerous drugs, including heroin
assistant attorney general david christy, who defended the prison system, applauded cassady's decision
this is the first time i've seen where a judge held unequivocably (satanism) is not a religion,'' christy said
mccorkle is serving a 40-year sentence on three separate burglary convictions. he claimed if he had the proper reading materials and articles needed for his rituals, he could practice magic and gain mental and physical prowess over others, including prison officials, and could ``curse others even to the point of death.''
the state department on monday hailed el salvador's national elections, calling them a strong victory for the democratic process in that country
department spokesman charles redman said some experienced observers described sunday's balloting as being the most well run and secure of the five elections held in el salvador since democracy was restored in 1982
there was virtually no evidence of election fraud or pre-election violence by any of the contending parties,'' redman said
the strong turnout, apparently around 70 percent, in the face of a concerted guerrilla campaign of terrorism and intimidation should make it clear that the vast majority of the salvadoran people reject the revolutionary violence and rhetoric of the communist guerrillas,'' he said
the election produced sizable gains by a rightist party, one of whose leaders, roberto d'aubuisson, has been denied a u.s. visa from time to time because of his alleged association with death squad groups
redman was asked whether the united states had any reservations about the outcome of the elections
our basic policy is that we don't choose sides in these kinds of elections,'' redman said. ``the u.s. government is committed to the support and the consolidation of democratic government in el salvador, no matter which party wins power through free and fair elections.'' also suspending offensive operations. picks up 6th graf pvs ``redman told...''</note>
president jose azcona hoyo said nicaraguan troops are retreating from honduran territory and the 3,200 u.s. soldiers on an emergency mission in honduras probably won't be needed much longer
in washington, state department spokesman charles redman said all or almost all the nicaraguan forces have returned to their homeland
nicaragua, which announced today it was suspending military operations against the u.s.-backed contra rebels during cease-fire talks, has denied sandinista forces entered honduras in pursuit of the contras
defense minister gen. humberto ortega, leader of the nicaraguan delegation in the cease-fire talks, also urged the contras to halt their military activities during the three days of discussions
bosco matamoros, spokesman for the contra delegation, later announced a suspension of the contras' offensive military operations in nicaragua as an ``expression of our good will.''
redman told reporters in washington all or nearly all the nicaraguans had left honduras and there has been a substantial sandinista deployment on the nicaraguan side of the border
i don't have any way to confirm that it's a 100 per cent withdrawal but i think the evidence is that it has been a general withdrawal back across the river,'' he said
asked whether the american ground forces sent to honduras last week can be withdrawn, redman said it was difficult to know what the sandinistas will do next
one can hope that they've learned a lesson this time,'' he said
on saturday, honduras launched an air raid aimed at driving out about 600 sandinistas that officials said were leaving honduras too slowly. the government said two u.s.-made f-5 fighter jets fired rockets at the sandinista troops
honduras said the air raid was eight miles inside its borders, but nicaragua said it was five miles within its territory
nicaragua formally protested the air raid as an unwarranted act of aggression. it said the honduran planes dropped bombs in the bocay area of nicaragua, 170 miles northeast of managua
things are getting back to normal,'' azcona said sunday. ``if there are no more incidents, the american will leave,'' he did not say when the u.s. troops, which began arriving thursday, would depart nor did he further describe the sandinista withdrawal
a high-ranking honduran military official said sunday that honduras planned to position troops all along the 500-mile-long border with nicaragua to guard against future incursions
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, would not say when the troops would be in place or if this would be a permanent operation
president reagan ordered the u.s. troops in after he and honduras said 2,000 sandinistas had crossed the border
rep. g.v. montgomery, d-miss., a member of a congressional delegation that ended a fact-finding mission to honduras on sunday, said he expects the u.s. military personnel to pull out in about a week
i think it'll all be over by then,'' montgomery, a member of the house armed services committee, said at a news conference at palmerola, headquarters for the american military operation in honduras
the u.s. national security adviser, lt. gen. colin powell, also said the fighting was essentially over. appearing on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' powell said the troops will return to the united states soon
peace talks between contra rebel leaders and officials of the sandinista government began today in the southern border post of sapoa, nicaragua, 90 miles south of managua near the costa rican border
victor hugo tinoco, deputy foreign minister in nicaragua, said the talks will center on finding a way for the contras to lay down their arms. the contras say the talks should include political issues
the new $48 million proposal for u.s. aid to the contras would include delivery of up to $2.5 million in previously authorized military assistance
on sunday, secretary of state george p. shultz said in washington that the package should go forward, although he said it was ``a little low on money.''
but some in congress say the reagan administration, if it chooses to back a new contra aid request, must confront doubts about the seriousness of the border clash
there is ... a very serious lack of full trust here,'' said house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash
foley said he hoped the latest round of fighting has not destroyed chances for progress in the nicaraguan peace talks
public high school students are talking with aids victims as part of a program to learn about the deadly disease
the strangest thing about living with this illness is that i don't know what the future is for me,'' jim slemmons recently told students at lincoln high school. ``i just go day to day. that's one reason i'm here today. you guys have a bright future. you need to make sure it stays that way.''
michele crouch, 17, took the advice to heart
just because he has aids, you can talk to him and be in the same room, and you won't get it,'' she said. ``i also learned you have to protect yourself. if you don't know where someone's been, you don't want to be with them.''
the discussion was part of a program of four sessions for 10th-graders. participation requires parental approval
the first part, led by a medical student, teaches facts about acquired immune deficiency syndrome. the second looks at students' fears about the disease and those who have it; the third features one of 18 trained people with aids talking with students; and the fourth is a discussion of that visit
christian haren _ an ex-model, eighth-grade dropout and aids victim _ said he encountered resistance to the program from school officials worried about parental opposition
but he said superintendent ramon cortines approved the idelopments sunday and today involving nicaragua, honduras, the united states and el salvador:
american soldiers engaged in military maneuvers sunday at a honduran airstrip just 20 miles from the nicaraguan border, but u.s. officials said the threat from sandinista troops had subsided and combat appeared unlikely
president reagan sent 3,200 u.s. military personnel to non-combat areas in honduras last week after the central american nation reported that nicaraguan forces had crossed its border to raid bases of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels
lt. gen. colin powell, the u.s. national security adviser, said in washington the u.s. military exercises should be completed shortly and the troops will return to the united states
the reagan administration indicated support for a new $48 million proposal for aid to the contras that was advanced by a bipartisan group of senators
contra and nicaraguan leaders met today in sapoa, nicaragua, for the first cease-fire talks held inside nicaragua
both sides announced they would suspend offensive military operations for the duration of the talks
on sunday, deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco reiterated a previous sandinista position that the negotiations strictly deal with the mechanics of a cease-fire. rebel leaders said the talks must also focus on ``democratization of nicaragua and free elections.''
earlier, nicaragua formally protested a honduran bombing raid on sandinista positions saturday as an unwarranted act of aggression. it has denied that its troops crossed the jungle-choked border dividing the nations
president jose azcona hoyo on sunday said nicaraguan troops are retreating from honduras and the u.s. soldiers probably won't be needed much longer
honduran officials said saturday's air raid on sandinista positions was carried out because about 600 nicaraguan troops were moving too slowly from a section of the bocay area that honduras considers its territory
the supreme court agreed monday to decide whether abused children may sue public officials for failing to protect them from their parents
the justices said they will hear an appeal on behalf of a wisconsin boy who suffered serious and permanent brain damage from beatings by his father. social workers and officials are accused of gross negligence in ignoring evidence the boy was being brutally victimized
the court's study of the case, expected to yield a ruling sometime in 1989, comes amid growing concern nationwide over child abuse
in other actions, the court:
_left intact a ruling that forces school officials in new mexico to defend themselves at trial against allegations they violated a young girl's constitutional rights by paddling her
_left intact a federal law requiring broadcasters to give equal time to opposing candidates for public office
_agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts. at issue is the proper boundary between presidential and congressional power
_agreed to decide in a case from texas whether states may impose sales taxes on most books, newspapers and magazines while exempting religious publications
_refused to let states and local governments regulate the prices most of the nation's cable television operators charge for basic service
in the child-abuse case, the court will consider reinstating a suit against the winnebago county, wis., department of social services and two of its employees
the agency was accused of violating the rights of joshua deshaney because it failed to rescue him from his father's beatings. the department was charged with knowing about the beatings since 1983 when joshua was four
he has been institutionalized since 1984, suffering from injuries that destroyed half his brain and left him profoundly retarded
the boy's father, randy deshaney, since has been convicted of child abuse and sentenced to two years to four years in prison
a social worker, ann kemmeter, was assigned to the deshaney case in 1983 after joshua was brought to a hospital with various cuts and bruises
ms. kemmeter visited the deshaney home several times but allegedly failed to take any steps to remove him from the home or protect him
deshaney's ex-wife, melody, sued the social services officials on grounds they violated the child's constitutional right not to be deprived of liberty without due process
mrs. deshaney was divorced from her husband and living in cheyenne, wyo., when she was informed her son had suffered serious brain damage. deshaney had custody of his son
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals threw out mrs. deshaney's suit. the appeals court said the social welfare agency and its employees ``though blameworthy, did not cause joshua's injuries.'' the appeals court said ms. kemmeter ``merely failed to protect him from his bestial father.''
the appeals court also said welfare agencies should not be placed in the predicament of removing a child from home and facing suit by the parent or leaving the child there and risk being sued by the child
putting officials in that position ``is unlikely to improve the welfare of american families and is not grounded in constitutional text or principle,'' the appeals court said
in other developments, the court:
_agreed in a case from pennsylvania to consider shielding states from having to help pay for cleaning up hazardous waste sites when the federal government sues businesses under the ``superfund'' law
_refused to hold hustler magazine financially liable for the death of a 14-year old texas boy who died during a sexual experiment that was the subject of an article in the magazine
_refused to allow the manufacturer of the dalkon shield to set up a $15 million emergency fund to help women who say the contraceptive device left them infertile
_refused to give a pasadena, calif., shopping mall owner more power to restrict such activities as distribution of leaflets and solicitation of signatures for petitions
_refused to kill a 13-year-old lawsuit against former federal and military officials stemming from an armed confrontation between indians and federal agents at wounded knee, s.d., in 1973
hundreds of thousands of blacks on monday defied emergency regulations and joined a national protest strike commemorating the 28th anniversary of the sharpeville massacre
the strike occurred despite a ban on major opposition groups that usually coordinate such action
the demonstration was widespread in the johannesburg-pretoria area, in durban and around the eastern cape province city of port elizabeth. but there was no specific call for a strike in the cape town area, and major mining companies reported little or no disruption of their operations
police estimated 40 percent of the black work force around johannesburg stayed away from their jobs. labor experts say there are about 800,000 full-time black workers in the area
a south african court, meanwhile, denied an appeal by one of the country's most outspoken anti-apartheid newspapers, clearing the way for the government to shut it down
home affairs minister stoffel botha had intended to close the new nation in january, but delayed the move while the newspaper sought temporary protection from government action
after the court denied such protection monday, botha's office declined to reveal when it would shut the periodical
after the court decision monday, the new nation's acting editor, gabu tugwana, said ``we are pretending we don't face any suspension. if the deadline (for the thursday) edition comes and we are printed, good luck to us.''
monday's protest commemorated the death of 69 black people killed in 1960 when police fired on thousands of demonstrators protesting south africa's pass laws
the laws restricting blacks' freedom of movement were repealed in 1986
in sharpeville, the scene of the massacre, residents placed flowers on the victims' graves
winnie mandela, wife of jailed african national congress leader nelson mandela, attended one of the services in the township south of johannesburg
several hundred black youths jogged alongside mrs. mandela's van, chanting freedom songs
in durban, police in a helicopter fired tear gas to disperse boycotting students who rampaged through the campus at the predominantly-indian university of durban-westville. the boycotters chased students out of classes, then assaulted them when they sought refuge in the library
police reported two unrest-related killings of blacks overnight, one near durban and one in soweto, but gave no indication whether they were linked to the protest
four buses were fire-bombed in durban on monday and service to black townships was cancelled when drivers refused to work
the united democratic front, the country's largest anti-apartheid coalition, had coordinated previous nationwide protests during the 21-month-old state of emergency
but last month, it was banned, along with 16 other organizations, from participating in any activity not approved by the government
several affiliates of the front took out newspaper advertisements announcing monday's ``national day of protest.'' and anonymous pamphlets calling for school and work boycotts appeared on doorsteps in the black townships
it is illegal under emergency regulations to call for boycotts of anykind
police had said they would ensure the safety of blacks who wanted to go to work, but they reported no intimidation in soweto, the township of 2.5 million blacks outside johannesburg
schools and shops were closed and there were virtually no passengers in commuter buses or taxi-vans
one of the largest stayaways, more than 90 percent of black workers, occurred near the eastern cape city of uitenhage, where police shot dead 21 blacks during a funeral procession on sharpeville day in 1985
the port elizabeth evening post, after carrying reports of the strike in its early editions, received a telephone call from a police officer who noted that emergency regulations prohibit news reports about the impact of illegal strikes
the newspaper dropped the strike stories from its late edition, but there were no reports of similar warnings being issued to other media
moscow will meet middle america when four soviets are invited into the homes a suburban police chief and other local hosts next month
virginia cassin, village clerk of west suburban oak park and one of the hosts, says the visit will give people in her town a rare chance to promote world peace
good personal relationships are a beginning,'' said mrs. cassin, who recently visited the soviet union. ``you have to start small.''
the visitors will be among 400 soviets touring 240 cities in the united states this year under a program called ``soviets, meet middle america,'' sponsored by the san francisco-based center for u.s.-u.s.s.r. initiatives
the visitors to oak park, a community of 62,000 people, include two from moscow and two from the state of georgia. they will get a good taste of the united states in oak park, said police chief william kohnke
we're a very diverse community,'' he said sunday in a telephone interview. ``we've got frank lloyd wright, a working-class of people, professionals, and it's close to the city (of chicago).''
several homes built by wright, the late architect, are in oak park
oak park has a reputation for racial diversity, but it made headlines recently when a quasi-governmental agency effectively blocked a bid by a predominantly black church to buy a building in an oak park shopping district
kohnke said that episode, which generated strong local comment against racism, illustrates the american system of political dialogue
it shows that people speak out, people aren't afraid to criticize,'' he said
leonid manov, 30, who is from the institute of law in moscow, will stay with kohnke during the 4{-day visit beginning april 9. the chief said he has visited the soviet union, and corresponds frequently with some soviets in police work
irina malikova, 34, identified as a ``politologist'' from moscow, will stay with mrs. cassin
vakhtang rcheulishvili, 40, of tblisi, executive secretary of the georgian peace committee; and ilyia chkeheidze, 21, a student at tblisi academy of arts, will be guests of owners of a bed and breakfast
the center for u.s.-u.s.s.r. initiatives is a non-profit, organization dedicated to reducing hostility through communication, according to its literature. it hopes to make the most of glasnost, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of ``openness.''
the group coming to oak park also will visit washington d.c.; cassanovia, n.y.; redding, calif.; and san francisco
a leukemia patient learned monday his bone marrow does not match that of his brother, a homeless florida man who had refused to undergo testing until an anonymous donor offered him $1,000
stephen l. chapman, 38, said that although he was disappointed the marrow was not suitable for transplant, he had tried not to get his hopes too high
you kind of start counting on things and then you have a big letdown,'' said chapman. ``i've just made up my mind not to count on anything.''
his doctors said they were presenting other treatment options to chapman, whose leukemia is in remission
the next best step is unknown, but there are choices,'' said dr. richard s. fayssoux, the hematology and oncology specialist treating chapman
the chances for him to live longer would have been better (with the transplant), but it's not like he's guaranteed a 50-year life with the transplant,'' fayssoux said
the patient's brother, randy chapman, 32, was located last month on the streets of miami. he earns his living as a test subject for medical experiments and initially refused to submit to tests to determine whether his marrow matched that of his ill brother
he eventually accepted an indiana philanthropist's offer of $1,000 to take the tests. the brother, who left home 14 years ago, would have received an additional $2,000 had there been a match and subsequent transplant
chapman, the father of two children, continues to undergo chemotherapy treatments. doctors have told him that forms of treatment other than the bone marrow transplant might be less risky and painful, but also potentially less effective
he wouldn't have the immediate risk, but he also wouldn't have the long-term possibilities,'' said fayssoux
chapman said doctors were checking into a partial bone marrow match located through the national marrow registry
we'll come up with something else,'' chapman said. ``it's pretty difficult, but i wasn't counting on it either way.''
the roman goddess venus will come to life again as vanna white stars in the nbc movie ``the goddess of love.''
in the movie for next year, miss white, the letter-turner on ``wheel of fortune,'' will star as venus. she comes to life when a young man places his fiancee's wedding ring on the statue's finger
the comedy will be in the mold of ``splash,'' ``bewitched'' and ``i dream of jeannie.''
it's the first film for miss white, who has become a celebrity phenomenon on the highly popular game show
she has appeared on such shows as ``simon &amp; simon,'' ``227'' and ``it's garry shandling's show.'' engines</head>
letting a truck's diesel engine run at idle causes twice as much damage as driving, and truckers who let their rigs idle during rest stops are wasting money and diesel fuel, a researcher said monday
some truckers have a misconception that idling is good for their rigs, but researchers at argonne national laboratory found that excess idling can shorten the life of a diesel truck engine by six months to a year
there's a lot of misinformation out there (among truckers),'' said larry r. johnson, director of argonne's center for transportation research. ``they realize it's using fuel, but some of them perceive that it's good for the engine to keep it running.''
in one of a series of studies for the u.s. department of energy aimed at improving fuel efficiency in the trucking industry, johnson said argonne researchers found that one hour of idling causes as much engine wear as two hours of driving
based on interviews with trucking company officials and drivers, they calculated that a typical 18-wheeler idles about 800 hours a year, the equivalent of 64,000 miles of driving, johnson said monday in a telephone interview
he said that much idling would make the engine need an overhaul up to a year sooner than under normal driving conditions
it wears out an engine twice as fast as being under load,'' johnson said
diesel engines usually require an overhaul every five years or 500,000 miles, he said
many truckers leave their rigs running when they stop to rest as a way of keeping the engine and diesel fuel warm in the winter, and keeping the cab heated or cooled in summer, he said
but the argonne researchers found that idling in the winter cools the engine faster than if it were shut off because fans blow cold air over the engine block and fuel lines, johnson said
the lower idling temperature damages the engine by causing water vapor to condense in the crankcase, said raj sekar, a mechanical engineer at the argonne transportation center
the water mixes with unburned sulfur oxides from diesel fuel combustion and produces sulfuric acid, which corrodes the piston rings and cylinder liners, he said
the argonne researchers also calculated that the typical trucker idles his engine at least three hours each workday, wasting an estimated 800 gallons of fuel a year, johnson said
as an alternative to idling, johnson said, the argonne study recommended that truckers or trucking companies buy heaters for the fuel system, engine block, cab and sleeping compartment. he said the cost of buying each heater would pay for itself in one year through fuel savings alone
argonne, located 25 miles west of chicago, is operated by the university of chicago for the department of energy
president reagan has nominated air force lt. gen. merrill a. mcpeak for promotion to general and assignment as commander-in-chief of the pacific air forces, the pentagon said monday
assuming he is confirmed by the senate, mcpeak, 52, would receive his fourth star and the rank of full general and replace gen. jack i. gregory, 56, who will retire on aug. 1 after 35 years of active-duty service
gregory, a native of somerset, ky., has commanded the pacific air forces since december 1986. mcpeak, of santa rosa, calif., now commands the 12th air force
maj. gen. peter t. kempf, 51, was chosen by reagan for promotion to lieutenant general and command of the 12th air force
kempf, a native of elizabeth, n.j., now commands the air force tactical fighter weapons center
with am-central america bjt
president reagan's spokesman monday predicted quick action in congress to renew u.s. aid to nicaragua's contra rebels, but there was little movement on capitol hill toward any new aid package
we anticipate signing on to a bill, in the sense that we want a contra aid package, and we are working to get the best one that we can get,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters. ``i think something will be very forthcoming very soon.''
but house speaker jim wright, d-texas, the administration's chief opponent on the issue, seemed disinclined to move ahead before seeing the outcome of a new round of cease-fire talks between the rebels and nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
what we need to watch very carefully is the peace talks,'' wright told reporters. ``i hope both sides will be very forthcoming.''
asked about prospects for a $48 million contra aid proposal being drawn up by senate backers of the rebels, wright objected to provisions that allow the cia to continue delivering previously stockpiled weapons and that would give reagan a guaranteed future vote in congress on new military aid
if they would agree to humanitarian aid without military aid, that could be done very swiftly,'' wright said. ``we would be ready to meet (with republicans) at any time.''
the continued standoff on the aid issue seemed to be an indication that last week's developments in the region had little clear impact on congressional opinion. sandinista troops allegedly crossed the honduran border to attack rebel camps, and the united states responded by sending nearly 3,200 troops into honduras in a symbolic show of force
the last u.s. aid to the rebels ended feb. 29, and the issue has been stalled since the house voted narrowly on march 3 to defeat a $30 million package of strictly ``humanitarian'' help _ food, clothing and the like _ for the rebels
the senate aid package, assembled by sens. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., david boren, d-okla., and others, would offer a one-year, $48 million infusion of humanitarian aid, as well as continued authority for the cia to deliver weapons remaining in rebel inventories, estimated at as much as $2.5 million
in addition, it would give the administration the right to a guaranteed expedited vote on a future request for new weapons aid to the contras
fitzwater said the administration was encouraged by the package, but he stopped short of fully endorsing it, saying other suggestions also were welcome
he said the administration would hold talks with wright ``when the time is right.'' discussions with other lawmakers would continue, he said, but he refused to name the individuals
president reagan was scheduled to go to capitol hill on tuesday for a meeting with republican house members, and aid to the rebels was expected to be high on the list of items for discussion
fitzwater said last week's sandinista incursion had improved chances for passage of a contra aid bill in congress. he said the incident had ``left little to the imagination in terms of what president (daniel) ortega and the sandinistas are really up to.''
house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., said it was not clear that the incident had changed congressional minds
foley said he believed administration intelligence reports of a well-planned sandinista incursion involving at least 1,500 troops. but he said it appeared casualties were low and that the contras ``were not seriously disrupted as a force in the field. it has not been established that there is any need for an immediate military resupply,'' he said. jackson buying it. picks up 5th graf pvs, `his menagerie...'</note>
the reagans won't be the only famous family in the neighborhood after michael jackson moves his furry, feathered and scaled friends to a 2,700-acre spread now in escrow for $28 million
jackson has also been rumored to be interested in a $5 million hotel near the ranch, but the owner of the grand hotel, william healey, said monday he has not talked with the singer or his agent
it's a rumour,'' real estate broker healey said. ``there's absolutely no truth to it.''
the ranch in the scenic santa ynez valley 100 miles northwest of los angeles was on the market for $32 million and includes a main house on a 32-acre section, a large clubhouse and 50,000 oak trees. jackson had originally offered $17 million, the los angeles times reported sunday, quoting unidentified real estate sources
his menagerie includes monkeys, llamas, snakes, birds, and barnyard animals, except for a cow
the animals had been kept on a one-acre encino compound near the home where he and his family have lived since the 1960s. it's unknown whether jackson will sell the home, which he enlarged in 1982
the 1,570-sqare-foot house in los angeles' san fernando valley is now jackson's recording studio. he built an 11,500-square-foot house in front and a four-car garage with 850 square feet for living quarters. talks</head> first name of calero to adolfo, sted alfredo as sent. picks up 12th graf pvs bgng, the peace talks...</note>
sandinista government and contra rebel leaders today announced a suspension of military operations during the first cease-fire talks ever held inside the country
gen. humberto ortega, the nation's defense minister and brother of president daniel ortega, made the announcement that government troops were halting military operations and urged the contras to ``act in kind.''
he called the three days of peace talks that began today in this small town on the border with costa rica ``an historic encounter.''
bosco matamoros, spokesman for the contra delegation, later announced a suspension of offensive military operations in nicaragua as an ``expression of our good will.'' he also said the conversations were ``frank and of mutual respect.''
the talks began at 11:10 a.m. (12:10 p.m. est), more than an hour late. both delegations started meeting behind closed doors in the custom house on the border just outside sapoa, the only building large enough here for the event
humberto ortega is heading the nicaraguan delegation to the peace talks. alfredo cesar is the leader of the contra delegation
the sandinista delegation includes brian wilson _ an american pacifist whose legs were severed when he was hit by a train during a protest last year _ and singer kris kristofferson. wilson and kristofferson are longtime sandinista supporters
cheering sandinista supporters lined both sides of the 90-mile-long road from managua to sapoa as ortega drove by. many carried red-and-black sandinista flags, and school children waved nicaraguan blue-and-white paper banners
mariachi bands played music along the route. the crowds shouted: ``we insist on the surrender of the mercenaries,'' as the contras are called by the sandinistas
the contra delegation arrived a few minutes after the sandinistas in a bus escorted by a group of cars and jeeps. the entire town was closely guarded by sandinista troops and security agents in plainclothes
adolfo calero, another contra leader, said the contras came ``here with an open agenda, and that it includes democratization, includes amnesty. we insisted on speaking about all the problems facing nicaragua.''
the peace talks were held despite an earlier sandinista offensive along the honduran border
in a break with the past, both sides agreed that the talks would have an open agenda
but on sunday, deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco reiterated a previous sandinista position that the negotiations strictly deal with the mechanics of a cease-fire
and the contras indicated that they wanted to talk about other matters, such as democratization and free elections
the contras replaced calero, the top-ranking leader of the nicaraguan resistance, with cesar as head of their delegation in the hope that his familiarity with the sandinistas might pressure the nicaraguan government into serious negotiations
cesar was a former high-ranking sandinista official before he broke with the sandinistas in 1982
also scheduled to attend was aristides sanchez, a third member of the directorate of the resistance, the contra umbrella organization
entering today's sessions, contra leaders indicated they were not optimistic
the sandinistas don't object to making tactical concessions, but they will never enact reforms that risk their grip on power in nicaragua,'' said contra adviser gonzalo facio
cesar asserted the contras had recently suffered military setbacks, but that the sandinista offensive had helped their cause politically
rebel fighters ``are going to be militarily weakened by the suspension of united states aid and the growth in soviet aid to the sandinistas,'' cesar said
but he added that ``politically we are going to be stronger and the sandinistas weaker because the international community condemned them for their bombardments last week of our positions.''
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the mediator in previous talks and an observer to today's discussions, also seemed pessimistic about their outcome
i see the situation as quite complicated,'' he said during his sunday homily in managua. ``it is very difficult to reconcile two things that are completely opposite.''
the cease-fire talks are called for under a central american peace plan signed by the region's five presidents last aug. 7
the sandinistas have already complied with some stipulations in the peace accord by lifting a nearly 6-year-old state of emergency and allowing more press freedom
the rebels have been fighting the government since 1981 in a conflict that has killed more than 40,000 people
howard benedict, veteran aerospace writer for the associated press, was awarded the 1987 lauren d. lyman award for distinguished achievement monday by the aviation-space writers association
benedict, who has covered the nation's space program for nearly three decades starting with the earliest space and missile shots, expressed concern at the awards luncheon about the future of america's space program
we need a space program that transcends political boundaries. it cannot be a political football or a partisan event,'' he said. ``... sadly i don't see that commitment on the horizon.''
benedict, who is the ap's correspondent at cape canaveral, fla., was cited for his lifetime of distinguished achievement as the news service's senior aerospace writer. his career included coverage of man's first steps into space, his first walk on the moon and the challenger shuttle disaster
the aviation-space writers association established the lyman award in 1972 in memory of lauren ``deac'' lyman, a pulitzer prize-winning aviation writer for the new york times. the award is sponsored by united technologies corp., for which lyman also once worked
a u.s. army transport helicopter participating in a military exercise in honduras crashed on monday, and a number of soldiers were reported injured, pentagon officials said
the officials, who requested anonymity, said the accident occurred monday afternoon near the honduran town of juticalpa and involved an american uh-1 huey transport copter
while the initial reports were fragmentary, it appeared that the copter was carrying nine soldiers and that all of them survived, the sources said
we have no reports of any fatalities,'' said one official. ``but we do have reports of some injuries and medical evacuations under way.''
the sources said the accident did not occur in or near a combat zone and did not involve hostile fire
it looks like it was mechanical,'' said one official
the accident scene was said to be located about six miles south of juticalpa. that would place it 35 miles north of the honduras-nicaragua border and about 60 miles west of the border region where nicaraguan troops were fighting contra guerrillas last week
the pentagon sources, who stressed they were awaiting more information from u.s. authorities in honduras, said it was unclear whether the nine aboard the huey were all american or whether some of the passengers might have included honduran troops
the united states airlifted more than 3,100 army troops to honduras last week in a warning to the leftist sandinista government, after nicaraguan troops moved into honduras to attack base camps of the u.s.-backed contra guerrillas
after arriving in honduras, the american soldiers dispersed around the country for joint exercises with honduran forces. one of those exercise areas is near juticalpa, and a battalion from the 82nd airborne division was sent to that site
the reagan administration has made it clear it does not intend to send the u.s. troops into combat with the sandinistas. administration sources said monday it appeared the fighting was ending in any event and that nicaragua was withdrawing its troops from honduran soil
according to the pentagon sources, the uh-1 that crashed monday was apparently assigned to u.s. forces in panama and was not airlifted to the country by the 82nd airborne
the pentagon maintains a force of about 1,100 military personnel in honduras as part of what is known as joint task force bravo to oversee training exercises in the central american country
rising to what one called a ``once-in-a-lifetime chance,'' engineers from around the world unveiled designs monday for a new williamsburg bridge from brooklyn to manhattan _ even though the old bridge may not have to be replaced
the 85-year-old span over the east river is slowly disintegrating, although officials have not decided whether to rebuild or replace it
one of the 25 designs submitted calls for a bridge with two 48-story towers topped by v-shaped structures, one holding a restaurant and one a museum
another, designed by an international consortium that includes the architect i.m. pei, feature a roadway held by two metal wishbones slightly twisted like a ribbon pulled taut and given a half turn
but the designs may never span anything but the imagination
since announcing the competition for a new bridge last year, local officials have discovered that the bridge may not be as close to collapse as was feared. although a 1985 study showed that the bridge would have to be replaced by 1995, later inspections have indicated that it might last longer
preliminary estimates indicate that the bridge could be renovated for about $250 million. estimates for a new bridge range from $200 million to $600 million
still, bridge engineers attending monday's unveiling said they could not resist the opportunity to design a major new bridge for one of the world's largest cities
such a location you'll never find again,'' said swiss engineer bruno thurlimann of zurich, who collaborated on a swiss-american proposal with i.m. pei &amp; partners and three other companies. ``it's a once-in-a-lifetime chance.''
asking why an engineer submitted a design is ``like asking sir edmund hillary, `why did you climb (mount everest)?''' said nils d. olsson of drc consultants inc
structural engineers are always looking for fresh challenges, and this is one of the most important projects since the verrazano,'' he said
olsson, whose new york firm proposed the restaurant-topped bridge, was referring to the verrazano-narrows bridge, a link completed in 1964 between brooklyn and staten island. with 4,260 feet between supports, it is one of the world's longest suspension bridge
most of the designs for the williamsburg call for a 1,600-foot cable-stayed bridge that would be the longest of its type in the world
a cable-stayed bridge has cables stretching from its towers to the roadway, while a suspension bridge has a roadway hung from cables stretching from one side to the other
the united states has sold mexico 30,000 metric tons of surplus non-fat dry milk for $1,260 per ton, about a third less than it cost american taxpayers, the agriculture department said monday
acting undersecretary richard w. goldberg said the surplus powdered milk was sold by the department's commodity credit corp. to conasupo, the mexican government's food purchasing authority
goldberg said the sale ``reflects the world market price for non-fat dry milk at the time the sale was negotiated'' with mexico. deliveries are scheduled through march 1989. in addition, the ccc provided mexico with a three-year credit arrangement at commercial rates of interest, he said
according to a recent ccc report, about 454 million pounds of non-fat dry milk were held in storage, with a value of more than $385 million, or about 85 cents per pound
there are approximately 2,205 pounds in a metric ton, which translates to a u.s. value of $1,874 per ton
the surplus was acquired by ccc through purchases of cheese, butter and non-fat dry milk to support the price of milk paid to dairy farmers
congress in 1985 farm law mandated the export sale of 150,000 tons of dairy products annually for the three fiscal years ending sept. 30, 1988. the latest deal with mexico boosted sales this year to 77,520 tons, goldberg said. court</head>
the latest squabble between prosecutors and defense attornyes isn't about cases, tactics or money. it's about being able to bypass new security procedures at the dirksen federal building, and it's headed for _ where else? _ the bench
complaints from the public have been few, but the security system brought the entire u.s. district court system here to a screeching halt one afternoon and prompted 39 attorneys _ including several of chicago's best-known defenders _ to petition the district's 21 judges for the same exemptions granted to prosecutors and building employees. a decision is expected thursday
things are bad enough when the lines stretch all the way around the (elevator) bank,'' attorney judith halprin, who is spear-heading the defenders' effort, said monday
but when they decided to give exemptions to prosecutors,'' she added, ``that was the last straw.''
replied u.s. attorney anton valukas: ``we're being given exemptions because we're employees of the building, no more, no less. ... this seems to be a means by which certain people can keep their names in the paper.''
the u.s. marshal's office said the procedures were in response to a growing number of threats against the federal judiciary nationwide and an increase in terrorism trials. they follow recent trials of members of the el rukn street gang and the puerto rican independence group, faln, on terrorism-related charges
ms. halprin's first act of defiance came march 8, the day the airport-type screening began with federal marshals using metal detectors for all people heading to courtroom floors and x-ray machines for briefcases
ms. halprin, invoking her constitutional rights against unreasonable search and seizure, refused to step through the metal detector on her way to u.s. district judge brian duff's courtroom
that was 10 a.m. ms. halprin waited in the lobby for more than two hours while her client, charged with selling phony immigration papers to an undercover agent, stood before duff
the judge issued an order exempting ms. halprin, but she remained there for another two hours because a marshal refused to disobey chief u.s. district judge john grady's original directive
duff responded by ordering chief u.s. marshal john adams to appear before him and explain why he should not be held in contempt of court
duff himself was then called to an emergency meeting of the district's judges and a new order resulted: attorneys working trials that began prior to march 8 could be exempted for the duration of that trial
but that hasn't satisfied ms. halprin and her colleagues
they're exempting whole classes of people, chicago policemen for example,'' she said. ``well one of us was representing a cop subpoenaed by a grand jury
so, the target of the investigation gets to go through untouched,'' she added, ``and the lawyer is the one subjected to a search of his person and papers
now is that silly or not?''
efforts to place deaf students in regular public schools have backfired, leaving many deaf students with an inadequate education, a government commission told a senate panel monday
the state of the art in deafness education today at all levels is unsatisfactory,'' frank r. bowe, who chaired the commission on education of the deaf, told the senate labor and human resources subcommittee on the handicapped. ``we still have high school graduates reading below a third-grade level.''
the 13-member commission, established by congress in 1986, concluded that the education department should consider placing deaf students in special schools or centers for the deaf, instead of forcing them to compete with their hearing counterparts
those of us who are deaf have had access to some form of education, but it's not been a good one, and it's not getting better,'' said bowe, a regional commissioner of the rehabilitation services administration, who also is deaf
two-thirds of the panel themselves are deaf. the commission, made up of government officials and educators of the deaf, also included actress nanette fabray macdougall
the report also recommended that a majority of the board of trustees of gallaudet university be hearing impaired, which was a demand made by students at the school for the deaf during protests earlier this month
the commission concluded that significant improvements have been made in techniques for educating the deaf since 1965, when a federal panel last suggested changes
the report also determined, however, that ``the actual implementation of these changes has been inadequate and sometimes misguided, and that progress has been at best spotty and sporadic.''
the commission found that 95 percent of america's deaf students are ``prelingually deaf'' _ left without hearing at birth or deprived of it in infancy _ and recommended improvements in identifying these children and teaching them english
early intervention programs are very important,'' said gertrude galloway, a commission member. ``right now, many children come to school at 4 or 5 with no language.''
the commission also called for expansion of post-secondary education programs, including vocational and technical training, junior college and college programs. currently, there are two colleges in the nation for deaf students, and four regional post-secondary programs housed at hearing colleges
the commission also recommended that the department of education include american sign language _ the native language to most of those born deaf _ under the bilingual education act, which would treat asl like any other foreign language. this would give deaf students access to special training programs other foreign-language students now receive
establishment of a national institute on deafness as part of the federal national insititutes of health is another priority of the commission, along with the creation of a national technical insititute for the deaf at gallaudet
the commission also instructed congress to pass legislation requiring the federal communications commission to issue rules making new televisions capable of decoding closed-caption broadcasts. until those sets are common, decoders should be distributed free, the commission said
the commission took 20 months to interview deaf education specialists, students and school administrators before coming up with the 52 recommendations included in the 144-page report
a house panel will hold hearings on the commission's study next week, and senate and house committees then will work with the department of education to establish some of the proposed changes
members of the deaf community lauded the report
the commission is on target,'' said philip bravin, an ibm executive named last week to chair gallaudet's board of trustees. ``the education of the deaf in america needs to be improved. i'm doing ok, but many of my friends and peers aren't.''
a bottle containing a note from a high school class probably languished for two years in the gulf stream before a hurricane swept it to the coast of france, a marine biology teacher said
the bottle was found by pierre maupin the day after the storm hit the brittany village of carnac in northwest france last october, said john gregory, a teacher at john i. leonard high school
it was ironic _ the guy who found it didn't show excitement,'' gregory said friday. ``he just filled out the information sheet, sent it back, and that was it.''
but students at the school, who received maupin's reply in late december, are enthusiastic about the bottle-releasing project, which is aimed at helping them learn more about ocean currents
(when) he told us what we would be doing, at first it didn't seem as exciting. but when we started getting the letters back, it seemed interesting,'' said 16-year-old anthony izzarone
since 1976, gregory's classes have released about 900 silicone-sealed bottles 30 miles off florida's gold coast into the gulf stream. so far, 104 bottles have been found in locations ranging from cape canaveral and melbourne, just up the florida coast, to the azores islands in the mid-atlantic
the high school's experiments have a return rate of 11 percent. that's much better than the national oceanic and atmospheric administration, which gets back only about 2 percent of the bottles it puts in the ocean to test currents, gregory said
environmentalists still nagged by the demise of the last known dusky seaside sparrow plan a final search of the bird's one-time habitat before writing an epitaph
a search of the area near kennedy space center had been planned for this spring, even though regional officials of the u.s. fish and wildlife service are convinced there are no more duskies
a final search will be conducted in about a year before the dusky is declared extinct, said john christian, deputy assistant regional director of the wildlife service in atlanta
state and federal officials sponsor the bird-watching expedition in which volunteers will go through area with binoculars. if no duskies are spotted, the species will be considered extinct
the last tiny dusky died of old age in june in a specially designed environment on discovery island, a walt disney world zoological park primarily for birds. the last five survivors, all males, were taken there from their only known wildlife habitat on cape canaveral several years ago
they were bred with close cousins, seeking to preserve their genes, but they died one by one
the bird's decline began in the 1940s when mosquito fighters began spraying ddt over the st. johns river refuge marshlands, ruining the duskies' eggs and insect food supply
although they were protected by law, conservationists say the birds did not have much chance against diking, drainage, land-clearing, highway construction, housing developments, mosquito-control projects and fires
we have laws protecting the species, but not the habitat,'' said john wood, a federal official. ``you can protect the species all you want, but if you don't have the habitat, they have no place to go and won't make it.''
but christian pointed out that the 5,000-acre st. johns refuge was purchased for $3 million to protect the dusky
we thought we had enough habitat to sustain them, and then the population just crashed,'' christian said. ``we will never know what biological mechanism was responsible. nobody really knows.''
charles cook, curator of discovery island and a leader in the fight to preserve the dusky genes, said he hoped that someday some of the part-duskies will be released on an experimental basis in the protected area
cook believes there is a chance one or more of the birds may exist in a remote section of the refuge
scientists always keep the option open,'' he said. ``i definitely feel it is worth looking into, particularly in a peripheral habitat not frequently visited by people.''
a commuter train on monday slammed into a truck that crashed through the railroad crossing gates, injuring at least 16 people, authorities said
the semi tractor-trailer, carrying medium-duty trucks, burst into flames upon impact, and the driver was seriously injured, authorities said
the force of the crash sent two passenger cars off the train tracks and broke the engineer's leg, authorities said
the metra commuter train, headed from joliet to chicago, was carrying 16 passengers and five crew members, and likely was traveling at about 50 mph when it hit the truck a mile west of new lenox, said metra spokesman chris knapton
as the crossing signals became activated, the driver of the tractor-trailer combination continued southbound and attempted to beat the train,'' said will county sheriff's lt. jim srygler
the truck driver smashed through railroad crossing gates. the gate came down on his hood,'' knapton said
sixteen people, including the engineer and the truck driver, were taken to silver cross hospital in joliet, a spokeswoman said. most were treated and released
the truck driver, terry lewis, 34, of drayton plains, mich., was in serious condition, said the spokeswoman
police would not immediately talk about any charges that could be filed
vice president george bush is the overwhelming favorite going into new york's april 19 primary among likely republican voters questioned for a statewide poll released monday
the marist county institute for public opinion reported that of the 292 likely republican voters sampled, 68 percent favored bush, 22 percent opted for kansas sen. bob dole nd 3 percent went for pat robertson. six percent said they were undecided and less than 1 percent picked another candidate. the margin of error was plus or minus 6 percent
the institute also reported that in theoretical matchups between bush and the major democratic candidates, the vice president came out ahead of every democrat except massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
libertarian party presidential candidte ron paul said monday that president reagan has acted like a ``bully boy in central america'' by sending troops to honduras
by sending troops to honduras on his own say-so, the president is flouting the constitution,'' paul said
the former republican congressman from texas said it is not the job of the federal government to run central america like a colony
i don't want my sons murdered in another vicious and unconstitutional war. and i don't want any other american boys harmed either,'' paul said in a statement
the political damage ohio and other urban states may be doing to themselves by holding late-season presidential primaries could go beyond having fewer candidate choices, an elections researcher says
linda l.m. bennett, a political science professor at wittenberg university, says the problems of ohio's cities and others in the northeast and midwest may be ignored as candidates look past ohio's may 3 primary and toward the clincher _ california, which holds its primary june 7
the problem begins with the emphasis placed on the february iowa caucuses, ms. bennett says
it emphasizes all the old classic themes of american politics,'' such as the romanticized notion of farming, she said. but urban problems are getting lost in the shuffle
it would be nice if they addressed the issues of the 90 percent of us who live in urban areas,'' ms. bennett said
here are some of the recommendations made monday by the commission on education of the deaf in a congressionally ordered report:
_the u.s. department of education should put less emphasis on placing deaf students in the ``least restrictive environment'' and more on providing an appropriate education. for many, that means special schools and centers for the deaf
_the department should specify that removing a deaf child from a regular classroom does not require ``compelling evidence.''
_congress should grant full recognition to american sign language as a ``native'' language, just like spanish, under the bilingual education act and programs
_more help and services for low-achieving deaf students, not just the college bound
_congress should require the federal communications commission to force broadcasters to caption their programming, and consider the same requirement for film producers
_congress ``should caption its own televised proceedings.''
_congress should require the fcc to issue rules making new tv sets capable of decoding closed captions. until such sets become widely available, decoders should be distributed free to the deaf
_earlier identification of deaf infants. it isn't necessary to test the hearing of every newborn, just those at high risk of hearing impairments
_the u.s. department of health and human services should issue guidelines to help states improve screening procedures
_parents should have the option to choose what type of school their child attends, and must ``believe in whichever communication method is chosen for their child's educational program.''
_congress should pass a ``quality in deaf education'' bill
_changes should be made in the management of gallaudet university, including appointment of a majority of deaf people to its board of trustees
_congress should bar hearing undergraduates from gallaudet, which in 1985 began to admit a handful interested in careers in education of the deaf
_the model secondary school for the deaf at gallaudet should admit more low-achieving deaf students so that it ``more closely mirrors the national demographics of secondary school-age deaf children.''
_the government should expand its regional postsecondary education program to the southwest. it now has programs in other regions
_congress should establish a national center on deafness research at gallaudet
_congress should create a national institute on deafness and other communication disorders at the national institutes of health
_gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf in rochester, n.y., should limit enrollment of foreign students to 10 percent, and charge them 75 percent of the actual costs, or about $18,250 a year
_both gallaudet and ntid should do a better job of hiring the deaf. only 12 percent of the staff at ntid and 25 percent at gallaudet are deaf
the state department expressed regret monday at south africa's denial of a visa to u.s. civil rights leader joseph lowery
we believe that greater, not lesser contact between our two societies is needed,'' said state department spokesman charles redman
the south african embassy in washington gave no reason for the denial it issued over the weekend, said evelyn lowery, whose husband is president of the southern christian leadership conference
we ... have our suspicions. you know the situation in south africa, the persecution of black leaders there, and they certainly know we're in sympathy (with south africa's blacks),'' she said
kevin brennan, an embassy spokesman, confirmed lowery's application for a visa was denied. he declined to give a reason
lowery, who was in massachusetts monday lecturing at holy cross college, had planned to deliver a sermon at martin luther king jr. memorial services scheduled in south africa friday through sunday. value</head>
eligible stockholders in six financially troubled production credit associations in the omaha, neb., and spokane, wash., districts will receive par value cash or credit for their stock, the farm credit system assistance board said monday
eric p. thor, head of the board, said the compensation will go to those whose stock was either frozen or not retired at par when the associations went into liquidation
acting under the new agricultural credit act of 1987, the board ``initiated a series of agreements resulting in the issuance of preferred stock on behalf of the associations in liquidation'' to a related entity, the farm credit system financial assistance corp
the corporation will provide more than $20.5 million to retire the frozen stock, thor said. as a result, association borrowers whose stock was frozen or retired at less than par value will be able to collect par value for their stock
stockholders should receive checks or notification of credit within a few weeks, he said
the associations in liquidation in the omaha district are the o'neill and valentine production credit associations. in the spokane district, the pcas are glendive, milk river, western montana and western washington
the associations, which are cooperatively owned by the borrowers, extend loans to farmers to meet production expenses
state attorney general robert abrams said monday he will prevent representatives of tawana brawley from disrupting the grand jury hearing evidence into the black teen-ager's allegations that she was sexually attacked by six white men
the rev. al sharpton, a new york city minister advising the 16-year-old girl, has threatened to stop anyone from testifying tuesday at the grand jury hearing. sharpton said he'd risk arrest to stop the proceedings
i don't think there is a need or necessity to move the grand jury, but we would take any and all steps that are necessary to protect the integrity of the grand jury process,'' abrams said at a news conference
representatives of miss brawley have refused to cooperate with state prosecutors investigating the alleged racial and sexual attack. they have criticized suggestions that witnesses might be granted immunity in exchange for their testimony
the teen-ager's lawyers want a special prosecutor named to investigate race-related crimes, for abrams to be removed from the case and for a new grand jury to be convened outside of dutchess county
abrams also said he was appalled at the telecast of photos of miss brawley shortly after her alleged november attack by a group of white men and is investigating how a television station got the pictures
he said no one in his office authorized the release of the photos, which were shown thursday night on wnbc in new york city and nationally on the nbc's network news
i was indeed quite upset,'' abrams said, adding ``it's a serious invasion of the privacy of the victim.''
one of the photos shows the word ``nigger'' scrawled on miss brawley's stomach and another shows her lying in her hospital bed with monitoring devices attached to her upper torso
mary lou o'callaghan, director of news information for nbc, said the network would not reveal the source of the photos. ``we covered what has become a significant news story,'' she said in defense of the telecast
abrams said he was confident that no one in the attorney general's task force released the photos. other law enforcement agencies that investigated the case might have given the photos away, he said
the pentagon has quietly increased the number of security personnel in panama, dispatching more than 300 soldiers to the strife-torn country in the past three days, officials said monday
two-thirds of those dispatched during the latest troop movement were members of the 503rd military police battalion, which is headquartered at fort bragg, n.c., the pentagon said
the remainder were dispatched from fort eustis, va., and fort hood, texas
capt. nancy laluntas, a pentagon spokeswoman, said in response to a query that ``212 members of the 503rd military police battalion have deployed to panama to augment u.s. security forces in that country.''
this deployment of military police is not in response to any incident, but simply good planning in view of the current unrest in panama,'' she continued
the deployment began last friday ``and is a prudent measure, consistent with the panama canal treaty, to further safeguard the canal and u.s. lives, property and interests in the area,'' she said
in addition to the mps, about 100 soldiers from forts eustis and hood were dispatched ``to assist in the movement of these additional security force personnel and to augment u.s. southern command security forces,'' she added
those soldiers are ``army airfield movements control personnel,'' the spokeswoman said
the latest dispatch of troops comes less than a week after the pentagon ordered slightly more than 100 marine and air force security personnel to panama to bolster security around the panama canal and nearby military bases
all told, about 420 security personnel have now been sent to panama to join the roughly 600 servicemen who already were assigned to security duties with the u.s. southern command, which is headquartered there
the southern command, which oversees all u.s. military operations in the region, has about 10,000 servicemen assigned to it
the pentagon's security concerns stem from the administration's efforts to unseat panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
although no moves have been reported against american servicemen or their dependents, defense officials are said to be concerned that noriega might lash back at the united states by attacking or sabotaging facilities there
backers of a drive to oust mayor federico pena say they expect to collect 50,000 signatures, 10,000 more than necessary to force a new election, by the april 13 deadline
i think we're going to be in real good shape,'' said marge doty, whose metropolitan action committee is heading the recall effort. she said the names would be counted wednesday
just because marge says it, doesn't mean it's true,'' said former denver election commissioner susan duncan, leader of a group fighting the recall
recall organizers must prove at least 39,091 signatures are of registered voters in order to force a new election. the ballot would include pena and all candidates who collected 300 valid nominating signatures
the recall drive against pena, now in his second term, is rooted in the public works department, where employees began gathering after last summer's mayoral election to air their grievances
by fall, the workers, who complained pena is a poor manager, had hired doty, retired director of admissions at denver general hospital
basically, we're guiding ourselves by intuition,'' doty said in an interview last week. ``the political expertise is coming from the seat of my pants.''
the petition drive was launched jan. 15 amid criticism of pena's snow-removal efforts after a christmas weekend snowstorm left unplowed, impassable streets. the effort was fueled by television reports last month that street crews, who were followed and secretly filmed, were loafing on duty
but even if enough valid signatures are collected, it could be months before an election is held
after april 13, pena will have 10 days to challenge signatures, and the election commission will have 50 days to conduct hearings on the mayor's appeal
if there are enough valid signatures, the city council will have to schedule an election within 60 to 90 days
pena would be reimbursed by the city for any legal challenge to the petitions. if he won the recall election, the state would reimburse him for campaign expenses
exporters have sold china an additional 200,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat at subsidized prices, the agriculture department said monday
the sale, equal to 7.34 million bushels, was handled by continental grain co. and will be shipped in the 1988-89 wheat marketing year that begins on june 1
melvin e. sims, general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said the sales were part of an authorized 1.2 million tons of wheat announced feb. 5 under the export enhancement program, or eep
although no selling prices or other details were announced, recent prices of wheat at farm points have averaged around $2.67 per bushel, indicating a u.s. farm value of about $20 million
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat
china bought more than 4 million tons of wheat under previous eep arrangements, which allow exporters to sell commodities at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition and then collect free government surpluses of grain or other commodities as bonuses, or subsidies
sims said the bonus averaged $24.45 per ton, or about 67 cents per bushel of wheat. the bonuses will be paid in the form of surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp
china has 260,000 tons remaining for use under the eep initiative announced on feb. 5, he said
actor ed flanders, making a sentimental return for the last episode of nbc's ``st. elsewhere,'' surprised fellow actors and angered producers by delivering an unscripted soliloquy on death, it was reported monday
flanders, who earlier this season left his role as dr. donald westphall, was back for a farewell to the series, which is leaving the air at the end of the season
the script taped friday called for flanders, as westphall, to make a touching statement about beginnings and endings at st. eligius hospital, otherwise known as ``st. elsewhere.'' instead, usa today reported, he talked about death as his fellow actors looked on bewildered
he spoiled the moment for everybody,'' producer tom fontana told the newspaper
executive producer bruce paltrow called flanders' speech ``a tragedy.''
fontana and paltrow declined to talk about the incident monday, but larry bloustein, a spokesman for mtm enterprises, which produces the show, said they confirmed the accuracy of the report
there was no immediate word on what the producers would do, although there was talk of refilming it with dr. mark craig, played by william daniels, reading the lines
aids has meant isolation and poverty for a family of four, two with aids and two exposed to the fatal disease, said the father
the parents, who agreed to be interviewed by the tampa tribune if their identities were protected, lost their jobs and were forced to seek government assistance. their two cars were repossessed and furniture sold to pay debts and buy food, said the couple, who are in their 30s
the woman said she confided in a friend at work, who told the boss. she and her husband, who worked in the entertainment field, were fired, she said
we were rejected by almost everyone we knew, everyone we worked with,'' he said
the couple said they filed a discrimination complaint with the florida commission on human relations but dropped the case after an investigator told them that fighting their ex-employer would expose the family to a traumatic public argument, possibily involving their children
the father said he was infected with the aids virus through a sexual encounter with another man years ago, the tribune reported monday
unknowingly carrying the virus, he married in 1980 and two years later fathered a son. he was healthy, he said, except for a nagging cough and a shortness of breath one doctor attributed to asthma
then, early last year, while his wife was pregnant with their second child, he learned he had acquired immune deficiency syndrome, the newspaper reported
worse, he learned his 6-year-old son has aids. his wife is being treated for aids-related complex, a less-severe condition associated with the aids virus
and their 7-month-old son has tested positive for aids antibodies, but doctors don't know if he will develop the disease
a couple of months ago, the father said, ``i was ready to die.'' but his outlook changed, he said, mainly because of an aids support group and the realization that his family needed him
before you die of aids,'' he said, ``you have to live with it.''
today, the family primarily lives on social security disability payments. medical costs average more than $1,100 a month, and they must pay $251 before medicaid's catastrophic health-care plan picks up the rest
when you look at it from the financial point of view, it looks pretty bleak,'' he said. ``so we don't look at it that way.''
a man who held his ex-wife and two sons hostage in a deadly burst of violence at his trailer home had been jailed recently for a similar, less violent episode, authorities said monday
police said jerry staggs, 40, shot one man to death outside the trailer sunday morning and, after holding his children and ex-wife hostage for eight hours, shot himself in the head sunday night. staggs died monday morning
sheriff joe patterson said staggs, who worked for the city's maintenance department, had been taken into custody earlier this month and accused of abducting sherry staggs, 27, who had been married to him for 11 years
the sheriff said officers ``tried to get the mental health center to talk with him when we had him in jail for kidnapping his ex-wife ... but they wouldn't talk to him.''
gary porier, county mental health center director, said he had ``no direct knowledge'' of the sheriff's request. ``we always go to any law enforcement emergency call if they ask us,'' he said
there were no reports of any injuries in the earlier incident
but on sunday morning staggs killed don pressnell, 41, as he drove up with mrs. staggs and her brother, eddie hamilton, 28
hamilton said the staggs' marriage legally ended march 16 with mrs. staggs getting custody of their 9-year-old son, michael. hamilton said she was going to take the boy on an outing when staggs became irritated at seeing pressnell and pulled a gun
he shot him (pressnell) once in the head and then started shooting at me,'' said hamilton. ``he emptied that gun but he missed me. i threw a cup of coffee on him and he pulled another gun out of his pocket and pointed it at sherry's head and made her and michael go back inside.''
scotty staggs, his 15-year-old son from an earlier marriage, also was at the home and held hostage
about 25 law enforcement officers surrounded the trailer and evacuated residents of other mobile homes in the trailer park. staggs used his 15-year-old son to communicate with police. the boy told officers ``we'll all be dead'' if authorities tried to enter the trailer. ``my daddy's word is worth gold.''
about 6 p.m., the 9-year-old was released and about a half-hour later, the 15-year-old was freed. then a shot rang out and mrs. staggs fled the trailer. she said staggs had shot himself in the head
police found the critically wounded man inside and had him flown by helicopter to the hospital, where he died shortly before 5 a.m. monday. and show difference between two trade proposals, gephardt said ...</note>
with chrysler corp. chief lee iacocca at his side, democrat richard gephardt on monday defended his presidential campaign's ``$48,000 k-car'' television advertisement, saying critics are missing the point
and he suggested that massachusetts gov. michael dukakis might be easing his opposition to gephardt's tough trade legislation
you may be seeing a battlefield conversion ... by the end of the week he may be supporting the gephardt amendment,'' the missouri congressman said of his democratic presidential rival
gephardt said dukakis told michigan democrats over the weekend that he supported trade legislation by sen. donald w. riegle jr. of michigan _ which gephardt said was the senate counterpart to his own bill
however, there are differences between the proposals offered by the two lawmakers. gephardt's amendment targets ``excess and unwarranted'' trade surpluses for elimination without specifically going after trade barriers. riegle's proposal, a compromise with critics of the gephardt amendment, directs the u.s. trade representative to secure the removal of unfair trade barriers
gephardt said he must win michigan's caucuses saturday to keep his campaign alive. he spent the day campaigning across the state, speaking to law students at the university of michigan in ann arbor, visiting a steel mill in trenton and meeting with iacocca in highland park
he brushed aside suggestions that his k-car advertisement inaccurately claimed that the $10,000 chrysler car would cost $48,000 in south korea. asked if the figure was correct, iacocca said gephardt has the point correct, whatever the details
close to it. maybe it's only $35-40,000, but don't lose sight of it, it's still a big difference between $7,000 here for a comparable car,'' iacocca told reporters outside the chrysler corp. headquarters near detroit
the detroit free press reported monday that a k-car would cost about $33,000 in korea but that none is sold there. and gephardt in an interview with the detroit news admitted that many of those taxes are levied in korea on domestic consumption
gephardt said the ad was designed to educate voters to the problems created by foreign barriers to american products
the hyundai ad is simply to get them to see what we face,'' he said
i'm told the ad is imperfect because they have enough taxes in south korea so that a south korean has to pay $29,000 for hyundai,'' gephardt told 400 law students in ann arbor. ``they don't want their people to buy cars ... that's an export platform ... we can't have those.''
later on the campaign bus, gephardt said the debate misses the point: `i really don't think it is south koreans' interest to get into this: is it $38,000 or $48,000?''
at the chrysler corp. headquarters, gephardt met privately with iacocca. at a outdoor news conference, both men said they talked about trade and not about an endorsement
dick's a good friend of mine and he knows what he's talking about on trade,'' iacocca said
gephardt praised the corporate chief for his help on trade policy
he was one who stood up for the gephardt trade amendment on the floor and said it would improve our trade policy,'' gephardt said
gephardt said there was no delay in getting his trade amendment through a congressional conference committee
this week we're going to send the offer back to the senate. they sent up their bill. we're going to send them our bill ... i want to get the trade bill done and when it's done, it's going to be a tough new trade policy along the lines of the gephardt amendment,'' he said
every other democratic candidate has been critical of the gephardt trade amendment. gov. dukakis has said it is dead,'' gephardt said. ``he agrees, i guess with the wall street journal editorial page, foreign business interests and the reagan administration, who all want to see the gephardt amendment dead. the gephardt amendment is alive and well and we're going to pass it.''
in the speech at the law school, where he was graduated, gephardt discarded a prepared text in which he admitted his campaign is reeling
yes, we've had some setbacks. but the view from the canvas is quite an education. and what i've learned is that defeat is not being knocked down _ defeat is not getting back up,'' he said in his prepared text. ``there's no quit in me and there's not quit in you.''
earlier, in highland park, gephardt said: ``i'm going to do well in michigan. the people in michigan are interested in someone who is really going to stand up on the trade issue. they know i'm that candidate ... obviously i need a good result here.''
that familiar face playing mayor edward i. koch in woody allen's next film is none other than ... mayor edward i. koch
the mayor filmed a scene for allen _ another well-known new yorker _ in the basement press room of gracie mansion on monday
he played himself, fending off a bunch of reporters during a news conference
the reporters were played by actors, and when reaed koch to read his lines for them, he refused and alluded to his recent unsuccessful campaign to put a $6 cap on movie prices
you'll have to pay $7,'' he said. askprotest     03-21 0080</first>
about 50 people gathered outside the headquarters of the department of health and human services on monday to protest the use of animals in medical research
the hour-long peaceful protest featured speeches by several participants and the arrest of about a dozen demonstrators when they attempted to block the entrance to the building
the demonstration was organized by a california-based group, ``in defense of animals.'' `department spokesman ... rightist victory' with 2 to update with lugar comment, details; corrects spelling to d'aubuisson, lower-case d', throughout</note>
rightists stunned the ruling christian democrats on monday with a landslide victory in legislative and municipal elections, weakening president jose napoleon duarte in his last year in office
voters ignored a leftist guerrilla call to boycott the elections and threats of violence and turned out in great numbers sunday to elect legislators and municipal officials from 262 towns and cities nationwide
mario samayoa, president of the central elections council, said more than 50 percent of the votes cast went to the republican nationalist alliance, known as arena
the rout included the election of arena candidate armando calderon sol, a 39-year-old lawyer, as mayor of san salvador in a race against alejandro duarte, son of duarte
the defeat in the capital, home to 1.5 million of the country's 5 million people, was especially bitter because the christian democrats had held the post since 1964
final results of the nationwide races were not expected before tuesday night
the guerrillas rejected the elections as illegitimate, contending they could not be free and fair in wartime
samayoa said monday that more than 70 percent of the 1.6 million registered voters cast ballots
we knew they (the guerrillas) would not be able to daunt the people, to intimidate them,'' he said
samayoa's announcement of a majority for arena meant the triumph was even greater than the rightists had originally predicted, increasing their membership in 60-seat national assembly from 13 to at least 30
such a tally would guarantee arena control of the legislature because two small rightist parties supportive of arena are assured of at least one seat apiece
local media projections gave arena between 33 and 35 seats. the christian democrats entered the race with 33 seats
the upset by arena drastically altered prospects for duarte, one of the staunchest u.s. allies in central america, in his final year as president. it raised big questions about el salvador will proceed in its fight against an 8-year-old guerrilla insurgency and how it will deal with staggering problems of underdevelopment aggravated by the conflict
arena, formed in 1981, is fiercely nationalistic. its founder, retired army maj. roberto d'aubuisson, has blasted the united states and is considered the boss of early 1980s death-squads
former u.s. ambassador to el salvador robert white once described d'aubuisson _ who retained his legislative seat in sunday's vote _ as ``a pathological killer.''
d'aubuisson has rejected such charges, as well as the term ``death squads.'' he says citizens were obliged to defend themselves against leftist ``terrorists.''
the party's president, alfredo cristiani, a coffee-grower and businessman who was educated at georgetown university, has been trying to project an image of moderation for the past two years. cristiani also retained his seat in the legislature
el salvador needs support and would probably be in difficult problems if the u.s. would not provide support,'' he told the associated press in an interview sunday
washington sent el salvador almost $600 million in military and economic aid last year, tops in the western hemisphere
in washington, the state department hailed el salvador's national elections and called them a strong victory for the democratic process
sen. richard lugar, an indiana repblican who led an observer team named by president reagan, called the election honest and important ``because power transferred peacefully'' and ``the rebels didn't win.''
state department spokesman charles redman was asked whether the united states had reservations about the rightist victory
our basic policy is that we don't choose sides in these kinds of elections,'' redman said
arena benefited from a huge groundswell of popular discontent with the christian democrats. duarte defeated d'aubuisson for the presidency in 1984 on a platform that promised to end the war and improve the average salvadoran's lot
but the war continues, unemployment is estimated at 40 percent and inflation is about 40 percent annually
cristiani said sunday night his party would not present what he termed ``a systematic and capricious opposition'' to duarte in the new assembly
we are not going to make war on duarte,'' he added, apparently trying to dispel speculation that arena would do everything possible to make the christian democrats' life impossible with an eye to winning the 1989 presidential election
cristiani said he and his party would try to reach agreement on fundamental points, including how to wage the war, with all parties represented in the legislature
if the guerrillas do not accept the proposal we will make them, which will be the result of a national consensus, they do not leave any other way out but a military solution,'' he said. new grafs 2-3</note>
republican presidential contender bob dole, trailing george bush in wisconsin as well as nationally, challenged bush anew to a debate on monday and won applause from a farm crowd for his proposal to freeze most federal spending
later, in eau claire, dole called for stiffer penalties for drug dealers, including capital punishment
if that person is tried and convicted and found guilty, i can't think of any penalty that's severe enough _ including the death penalty,'' dole said. ``we've got to set an example. we've got to stop it. we're not going to do it by just a slap on the wrist.''
vern peterson, acting mayor of amery, a farm community in northwestwern wisconsin, said during dole's appearance that he would send a debate invitation to bush this week ``and of course you, mr. dole, are invited.''
i'll be here. in fact, maybe i'll just stay here,'' said dole, who has unsuccessfully pressed bush for a one-on-one debate for weeks
bush is far ahead of dole in the race for the republican nomination. and a poll published sunday in the milwaukee journal showed the vice president leading dole by nearly 3-to-1 among wisconsin voters likely to vote in wisconsin's april 5 primary
dole's remarks about his proposed spending freeze drew cheers from more than 900 farmers who packed a small barn to hear him speak during farm city days
dole said his deficit-reduction plan would allow ``no exceptions, except some things for low-income americans.''
that one-year freeze will save $150 billion over three years, no taxes, no gimmicks, no phony accounting, just $150 billion in real savings,'' dole said
he said the freeze would give him time to negotiate a budget deficit reduction plan that would provide a lasting solution to the problem of rising federal red ink
on another topic, in an interview after he toured the festival grounds, dole said he thought a newly proposed aid plan for nicaragua's contra rebels could pass the senate if brought to a vote, ``but the big question is whether it can be brought to a vote in the senate.''
dole said that although wisconsin gov. tommy g. thompson has endorsed bush, the republican governor is a good example of a lawmaker who makes a good executive
my opponent says bob dole is a good opponent but he doesn't have any executive experience. governor thompson had 20 years of experience in the legislature and now he's governor and he's doing a good job of saving you money because he can go back and deal with the legislators he knows,'' dole said. ``i can do the same.''
the palestine liberation organization on monday defied a u.s. order to shut down its u.n. observer mission and washington prepared to take legal action to close it
the general assembly, meeting in its second emergency session on the dispute, was expected to urge washington to desist from its efforts to close the mission
diplomats said the assembly also would request u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar to take legal action if necessary to protect the plo mission and provide alternative accommodations to its members on u.n. international territory
the 1987 anti-terrorist act passed by congress went into effect monday. it requires the government to close the plo mission, whose offices are in a townhouse in new york city
zehdi labib terzi, the plo's permanent representative to the u.n., said he would not voluntarily close the 13-year-old mission near park avenue as ordered by attorney general edwin meese iii
once we see what the u.s. government does, then we will respond,'' terzi said
in washington, justice department spokesman mark sheehan said in a telephone interview that the government probably would file suit tuesday in u.s. district court in new york city seeking a court order to close the mission
we will lay out our belief that continued operation of the plo u.n. observer mission is in violation of the law passed by congress and ask the court to agree and issue an order directing him (terzi) to close down,'' sheehan said
he said he did not expect an immediate ruling by the court, and the plo probably would have at least 20 days to file a response to the civil suit
in a message to terzi on march 11, meese said if the mission was not closed voluntarily by march 21, the plo would be in violation of the law and a suit would be filed
a source at the united states' u.n. mission, speaking on condition of anonymity, said if a court rules against the plo, the government might try to render the plo mission ineffective by turning off electricity and water
plo officials have said repeatedly the dispute is between the united states and the united nations, not between washington and the plo
the united nations and the plo say the 1987 anti-terrorist act violates the 1947 u.n. headquarters treaty, by which the united states agreed to allow all u.n. missions to operate
the plo was granted observer status by the 159-member world body, which considers the organization the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people. the plo participates in u.n. debates on the middle east but does not have the right to vote
former u.s. attorney general ramsey clark, the plo's legal counsel, has said that if the united states sues to close the plo mission, he would seek to have the complaint dismissed on grounds the united states lacks jurisdiction
an 11-year-old boy played with a loaded anti-tank weapon for a day and a half, thinking it was a toy bazooka, but never figured out how to fire the rocket, authorities said monday
weapons experts detonated the 66mm armor-piercing rocket round on sunday at a local gun club after the boy's father alerted police
the vietnam war-era weapon has a range of more than 1,000 yards and the projectile can pierce more than 6 inches of steel, officials said
had dennis grigg, fired the weapon, it could have exploded in his face because the propellant in the projectile had leaked out, said chief deputy chris kratzer of the sangamon county sheriff's department
but the boy never figured out how to operate the weapon
investigators tried to unravel conflicting accounts about how the boy obtained the weapon, while the army attempted to find out where the device came from by tracing the control numbers on the launcher and projectile, kratzer said
the boy's father, david grigg, said he was working on a car sunday afternoon when he saw his son pointing the weapon at him. grigg looked down the barrel, saw something inside and called the sheriff's office
the boy told police that he got the weapon from a friend who found it in his father's pickup truck, but the man mentioned by the boy denied involvement, kratzer said. confusion</head>
party officials and even jesse jackson's campaign staff were at a loss monday to explain why he beat michael dukakis, albert gore, jr. and other rivals in a primary-day democratic straw poll
among the republicans, vice president george bush prevailed in his party's primary sunday in an atmosphere of confusion in which most polling stations did not have ballots and few republicans voted. bush garnered all 14 national convention delegates
you all stood in there and got the job done,'' bush told supporters in a telephone call monday from air force two as he traveled between campaign stops in the northeast
i have no idea'' why jackson won, said miguel hernandez agosto, a leader of the popular democratic party slate of delegates who will travel to the july presidential nominating convention in atlanta
jackson never visited this island 1,000 miles southeast of florida, and never allowed himself to be pinned down on its main political interest _ should puerto rico remain a u.s. commonwealth or become the 51st state
asked why he thought jackson won, press aide tom schade said in a telephone interview from jackson's headquarters in chicago, ``i don't have an answer for that.''
jackson's victory may or may not help him at the democratic national convention. puerto rico's 56-member delegation is going uncommitted, as hernandez agosto and gov. raphael henandez colon stressed after sunday's balloting
the straw poll was ``merely an expression of affection and good wishes for the candidates,'' hernandez agosto said monday. ``it does not commit the delegates in any way. each member of the delegation is aware of that.''
gov. hernandez colon said, ``at this time, we have not made a decision on which u.s. presidential candidate we are going to support.''
the latest unofficial results showed that with 1,494 of 1,650 precincts reporting, or 91 percent, jackson had 87,757 votes, or 32 percent, to 70,733 votes, or 26 percent, for dukakis, and 57,639 votes, or 21 percent, for illinois sen. paul simon
simon made one campaign trip here, as did dukakis. the massachusetts governor also sent a videotaped speech to pdp delegates, in spanish, noting he honeymooned in puerto rico
among other democrats, tennessee sen. gore finished fourth with 45,361 votes, or 17 percent, missouri rep. richard gephardt, fifth with 9,159 votes, or 3 percent, and lyndon larouche last with 3,753 votes, or 1 percent
bush swamped kansas sen. bob dole, 1,935 votes to 48, or 98 percent to 2 percent, according to the latest unofficial results with 582 of 1,650 stations reporting, apparently just 35 percent
dole backers tried up to the last to call off the primary and allocate the 14 gop delegates by caucus
on sunday, gop ballots and election material sat unused in trucks because no one came to distribute them to precinct stations. local party chairman luis ferre, expecting a very low turnout, approved a plan sunday morning whereby 1,650 polling stations were consolidated to 104
the state election commission, which conducted the election, was not consulted about the maneuver and on monday was unsure how to tally republican votes. the consolidation might mean that bush's 1,935 votes represent much more than 35 percent of all gop votes cast
dole had no following here,'' ferre said. ``his supporters tried to stop the primary'' because they knew that otherwise, dole had no chance of defeating bush
on the democratic side, 33 delegates were selected. those 33 will choose 18 more. the remaining five seats in the delegation automatically go to party officials such as gov. hernandez colon
the main issue was not simon's advocacy of statehood for this caribbean island of 3.5 million, or gore's defense of tax breaks that generate jobs here, or dukakis' position that federal minimum wage laws be applied here. the main issue was control of the local democratic party
the party currently is split exactly in half _ the popular democratic party of gov. hernandez colon and the rival new progressive party of ex-gov. carlos romero barcelo each has its own chairman, vice chairman and national committeeman and committeewoman
the entire 33-member pdp delegate slate won sunday, 373,950 to 297,408, giving hernandez colon an island-wide base to press for federal patronage, legislation and the political status quo whereby puerto ricans are u.s. citizens with almost every right and obligation except they cannot vote for president and pay no federal taxes
the npp favors statehood for puerto rico
democratic presidential contender jesse jackson pledged monday to bring an end to apartheid in south africa if elected
jackson, speaking at a denver high school, was asked whether he supported a protest by university of colorado students against the university's investment with a company that has south africa holdings
i support the ambition of those students,'' said jackson. ``a university must maintain a moral integrity and should not invest'' in south africa
broadening his statements to include u.s. policy toward south africa, jackson said, ``it doesn't make much sense to mine harbors in nicaragua and send troops to honduras in the name of open and free elections and then say nothing when south africa locks up labor leaders and kills innocent men, women and children.''
the integrity of our nation is at stake,'' he said
jackson said pressure and sanctions by the united states and its allies could end apartheid
the sure way to end apartheid in south africa is to elect jesse jackson president,'' he said
jackson, who has made anti-drug comments a part of most campaign appearances, exhorted the students at george washington high school to stay away from drugs
he also urged the students to participate in colorado's precinct caucuses april 4, noting that they coincide with the 20th anniversary of martin luther king jr.'s assassination
since gary hart is not in the race, let me be colorado's favorite son,'' said jackson, who later met briefly with hart at stapleton international airport. hart withdrew from the presidential race for the second time march 11
i have appealed to him (hart) for help in our campaign to give assistance in the direction of policy development, and he will help do so,'' jackson told reporters after meeting with hart
hart said this did not mean he was endorsing jackson. ``direct endorsements are old-fashioned,'' he said. ``i can't deliver any votes to jesse.''
but he said he was willing to work with jackson _ or any democratic candidate _ on policy matters
i think the best assistance i can give him or any other candidate for president is in the area of policies,'' said hart. ``i want to work very closely with jesse and his people to help him develop a policy to govern this country.'' background, that actress undecided about presidential candidate, convention focused on local races.</head>
former ``falcon crest'' siren morgan fairchild is making another name for herself in the muddy waters of democratic politics
not content to just raise funds for democratic causes and candidates, ms. fairchild took on a new role as a delegate at the state party convention over the weekend
if you're an actor who has made up your mind about a presidential candidate, you're asked to go to iowa, go on national television and tell everybody why you support the candidate,'' she said. ``so if you are seriously involved, you have to be willing to make that commitment and know what you're talking about.''
but the blond, blue-eyed femme fatale is hardly ready to run for office herself
it's the last thing i would think of,'' she said. ``my contribution right now is in trying to raise funds. people don't need me to give a speech.''
miss fairchild is undecided on which presidential candidate to support, said one of her publicists, rachel vizcarra. ``she just hasn't made up her mind yet.''
during the weekend convention, delegates selected candidates for backing in local races in the june primary. sted of nine as pvsly reported; injuries apparently not serious. picks up 5th graf pvs bgng, `one pentagon ...</note>
a u.s. military helicopter crashed monday during a training exercise near the honduran town of juticalpa and all 10 american soldiers aboard were injured, u.s. officials reported
maj. gary hovatter, spokesman for the american forces sent to honduras last week, said the uh-1 huey helicopter went down at about 1 p.m. est and he called the crash an accident
in washington, pentagon spokesman lt. cmdr. mel sundin said there were 10 people aboard the helicopter, not nine as previously thought. their injuries did not appear to be serious
all are in good to excellent condition,'' sundin said. he added that those aboard the chopper were american soldiers, but did not have further details
capt. nancy laluntas, a pentagon spokeswoman, said earlier that there were no reports of fatalities. she said other helicopters evacuated the victims for medical treatment but it was not clear where they were taken
one pentagon official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the cause of the crash appeared to be mechanical
hovatter said the helicopter was taking part in an exercise called ``golden pheasant,'' which was launched after 3,200 u.s. soldiers arrived in honduras last week
president reagan sent the troops as a warning to nicaragua after u.s. and honduran officials said nicaraguan soldiers crossed into honduras to attack base camps of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels
neither hovatter nor laluntas gave further information on the injured soldiers because the victims' relatives had not yet been notified
the officers said the helicopter crashed about six miles south of juticalpa. the area is 35 miles north of the honduras-nicaragua border and about 60 miles west of the region where nicaraguan troops battled the rebels last week
the troops sent to honduras were from the 82d airborne division based at fort bragg, n.c., and the 7th light infantry from fort ord, calif
all aboard the helicopter were from the 82nd airborne, chip barkley, a spokesman with the american embassy in tegucigalpa, told raleigh radio station wptf-am
but pentagon sources said the helicopter that crashed apparently was assigned to u.s. forces in panama and was not airlifted to honduras by the airborne division
the reagan administration has said the troops were not sent to combat against nicaragua's sandinista army. administration sources said monday it appeared the fighting was ending and the sandinistas were withdrawing from honduran territory
the pentagon maintains a force of about 1,100 military personnel in honduras as part of joint task force bravo to oversee training exercises in the central american country
the uh-1 helicopter is a single-engine transport craft
deceptive marketing by bell of pennsylvania results in many customers paying for optional telephone services they don't want or need, state officials charged monday
in a joint announcement, attorney general leroy zimmerman and consumer advocate david barasch said bell has been engaged in a longstanding sales practice that misleads customers about service options. in some cases, they said, lower-income residents were saddled with costly extras
the attorney general and consumer advocate filed separate but related legal actions to restrain bell from using the allegedly illegal marketing practices, to make refunds to customers and to pay civil penalties
in many cases, bell representatives assign services such as call waiting and wire maintenance plans without ever telling the consumer that the services are optional,'' zimmerman said during a news conference
bell, the state's largest telephone company, said the allegations were unjustified and ``an affront'' to its employees
regis f. filtz, bell vice president and chief operating officer, said company representatives often spend a half-hour or an hour with customers to ensure they make informed choices
certainly we sell. but we have no interest in overselling, or selling services by misleading customers as to the cost, value or benefits of our services,'' filtz said
bell serves about 3.7 million customers, representing about 80 percent of the state's telephone lines
barasch said consumers have spent about $176 million on bell's optional services since 1984. but he was unable to determine how many customers may have been mislead about the charges. optional services include touch-tone service, call forwarding, call waiting, three-way calling and speed calling
the allegations were based on 32 test calls made to bell representatives by agents posing as customers
in one test call, an agent identifying herself as a single mother living on welfare was assigned a package of services costing $28.55 monthly, when basic phone service could be obtained for $6.65 per month, officials said
of the callers, more than 70 percent were assigned up to three optional services they had not requested or were not told were optional, officials said. three-quarters of the callers were assigned touch-tone service without requesting it or without being told it was optional, they said
in a complaint filed with the public utility commission, barasch labeled the sales practices ``unlawful, unfair and deceptive.'' besides the penalties and refunds, barasch also asks the commission to force the company to set up new procedures for initiating and re-establishing service
zimmerman, in a suit filed in commonwealth court, asks that the company be assessed civil penalties for violating consumer-protection laws
barasch estimated the company would have to pay ``many millions of dollars'' in refunds and fines. wide-ranging talks</head> meeting. picks up 4th graf pvs bgng: a treaty ...; should stand for ams</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz opened wide-ranging talks monday in which he intends to confront visiting soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze about massive soviet arms shipments to central america
they met for 90 minutes to set their agenda for the next two days. also, shevardnadze told reporters, he had ``a very general review of the international situation'' with shultz
the dispute over central america appeared unlikely to spoil progress in efforts to reduce u.s. and soviet nuclear arms or preparations for the next superpower summit meeting in moscow
shevardnadze was expected to offer a late-may summit date and to have it accepted by president reagan after they meet wednesday at the white house
the soviet foreign minister called his first session with shultz ``organizational.'' asked if a date for the summit would be set during his visit, shevardnadze said, ``i think so.''
a treaty to slash u.s. and soviet armories of long-range nuclear arms by 30 percent to 50 percent is the projected centerpiece of reagan's fourth meeting with general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev
while shultz said sunday the agreement was not yet ``in the bag,'' u.s. and soviet experts will try to square drafts of their treaty proposals during shevardnadze's three-day visit
but the wars in nicaragua and afghanistan cast a cloud on the pre-summit preprarations
assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway and state department spokesman charles e. redman accused moscow of an unceasing supply of weapons to the leftist government in nicaragua
apparently referring also to the reported supply of soviet rifles and other arms to embattled panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega from cuba, ms. ridgway said: ``what we need now is an end to the continued soviet provision of these high levels of military equipment.''
redman, meanwhile, accused the soviets of shipping more than 3,000 tons of equipment to nicaragua in january and february alone
for a number of years, the soviets have supplied nicaragua with $500 million to $600 million in assistance annually, he said. ``i certainly don't see it as an issue heating up,'' redman said, but soviet military support is a ``continuing cause for concern.''
in afghanistan, meanwhile, the united states has been arming rebels fighting a marxist government backed by an estimated 120,000 soviet troops and weapons
the united states is demanding the soviets withdraw the troops and also end the aid. negotiations between afghanistan and pakistan reached an impasse last week, but shultz evidently was not prepared to seek a compromise solution with shevardnadze
they're the ones who got into afghanistan and the ones who have to figure out how they are going to get out,'' ms. ridgway said
reagan, at a white house ceremony to sign an afghanistan day proclamation approved by congress, said:
we may be approaching an historic moment. we all hope that what we hear from moscow means there will be a complete and irreversible withdrawal of all the soviet forces from afghanistan, that the afghan people will be able to freely determine their own future, and that the millions of refugees can return to their homes with dignity.''
shultz's first session with shevardnadze dealt primarily with setting an agenda for their talks on tuesday and wednesday. they will take up four main issues: arms control, human rights, regional disputes and u.s.-soviet relations generally
that is the traditional lineup for what has become monthly meetings between shultz and shevardnadze, alternating between washington and moscow
but in a novel break with tradition, instead of scheduling a formal dinner tuesday night, shultz arranged a buffet at the state department _ simultaneously with the showing in the ben franklin reception room of the movie, ``that's entertainment.''
and tuesday morning, a new ``risk-reduction'' center will be opened at the state department to provide quicker communication between the two capitals in order to avoid accidental nuclear war
a formal agreement was signed here last september. a center is being established in moscow, as well
satellite links will transmit information between the two capitals, augmenting an existing telecommunications hotline
guerrillas in south lebanon made one of their biggest assaults of the year before dawn monday, attacking six positions manned by israeli-backed militiamen, a u.n. spokesman said
there was no immediate report on casualties and it was not clear which faction was involved. it was the second battle between anti-israel guerrillas and the south lebanon army reported in three days
security sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the attackers fired machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades into militia positions in the central sector of israel's self-proclaimed ``security zone'' just north of the border
the mainly christian militia, which is financed by israel and acts as its surrogate, retaliated with mortars and tank cannon
timur goksel, the u.n. spokesman, said several positions manned by irish troops of the u.n. peacekeeping force were caught in the crossfire but reported no casualties
there was very heavy shooting in the area,'' he said. ``seven irish battalion posts were caught in the crossfire.''
sources said israeli soldiers rushed to the militia's aid in qantara, shoumariyeh, rashaf, haddata, beit yahoun and braachit, a string of villages 13 miles southeast of tyre, and opened up on the raiders with tank cannons
the fighting lasted for two hours and the attackers withdrew, the sources said, speaking privately
militiamen and israeli gunners later shelled the shiite moslem market town of nabatiyek. two lebanese women were reported wounded
monday's hostilities came two days after israeli troops and south lebanon army militiamen, led by tanks, raided guerrilla bases four miles northeast of the security zone
israeli fighter-bombers raided a palestinian guerrilla camp in the chouf mountains southeast of beirut last thursday, killing one guerrilla
a canadian-soviet research team has completed nearly a fifth of its 1,100-mile trek across the arctic with only the anticipated problems like frostbite and blisters, its spokeswoman said monday
the 13 soviet and canadian team members skied 13 miles monday, shirley smyth said by telephone from ottawa. she said the team covered 16 miles sunday, its greatest single-day distance, in minus 33 cold
using an angle-measuring device called a theodolite, which resembles a surveyor's transit, scientists are trying to find a second magnetic pole on their journey over untrodden territory
she said a canadian and soviet doctor on the 3-week-old expedition are treating team members for frostbite and blisters
team members took a two-day break last week to begin scientific tests and repair broken equipment. they also varied their steady diet of dried-meat known as pemmican with fruit, eggs and steak
they could have a bit of a picnic,'' said smyth. ``it was a break from pemmican.''
she said relations between canadians and soviets were warm and spirits high
the expedition left the severnaya zemlya archipelago, the northernmost point in the soviet union, to ski and walk to the north pole. the three-month journey will end in canada at cape columbia on ellesmere island
lawmen along the texas coast braced for another wave of tourists monday after a wild weekend that included a riot, four stabbings and two drownings
hundreds of sailors will flood the coast near galveston this week when their ships dock, navy officials said as law officers in the surrounding areas made plans to bolster their forces
we're going to have to have more law enforcement,'' said j.p. luby, a county commissioner whose district includes nearly 20 miles of public beaches
we want the spring breakers to have a good time, but things should be worked out so that we have a better understanding of the problems,'' he said
over the weekend, eight spring break revelers were arrested following a late-night riot, four stabbings and several drunken driving incidents. two san antonio men were killed when their car crashed through a flashing barrier and plunged off a ferry dock, sinking in 20 to 25 feet of water
we had 35 units patrolling the area of port aransas and the padre island national seashore. but at night, there are not as many to go around,'' luby said. ``the department of public safety had 18 officers out and that wasn't enough.''
luby said he and constables, police and emergency workers met two weeks ago to prepare for the onslaught of college students converging on corpus christi-area beaches
but no one was prepared for the fracas that erupted saturday night on nearby mustang island, he said
the melee erupted shortly before midnight when a motorist struck a 16-year-old girl on the beach and then attempted to leave, said police chief don perkins. angry youths began to attack the driver, but he was pulled away by police
the mob tipped over his car, smashed in the windows and set it and a nearby portable toilet afire, police said
police estimated there were 3,000 rioters and about 100 officers on hand. officials used tear gas and helicopters with search lights to quell the uproar
two law enforcement officers were injured in the melee. four people were stabbed in unrelated attacks, police said
the real problem is we have 21{ miles of beach in nueces county and port aransas has 3 miles and everyone congregates in an area of about 1{ to 2 miles of beach,'' luby said. ``you've got too many people in a small area.''
authorities said it was calm along the beach monday
still, there is one more weekend of large crowds expected for spring break before the easter weekend, when more tourists are expected
in galveston, 230 miles to the northeast of here, officials say 1,650 sailors from the uss lexington and two other navy ships will be mixing with the students
navy spokesman lt. jim fallon in dallas said the training vessel uss lexington, the submarine rescue platform ship uss petrel and a research submarine will be berthed at galveston on tuesday through friday
many of the sailors who serve aboard the ships will get shore leave during the visit, he said. he estimated about 1,000 sailors will be off the ships at one time
the world bank is asking its 151 member governments for an additional $2.24 billion in cash, including $420 million from the united states, in order to raise lending to poor countries, the bank's president said monday
the bank now lends about $14 billion a year at current rates of interest, though for much longer periods than commercial banks usually do. it lends an additional $3 billion annually on even easier terms to the poorest countries
the new cash represents 3 percent of the bank's recently announced $74.8 billion increase in capital, which has been approved by the member governments. the rest of the money would be on call in case the bank fell short of funds. but it has never had to use any of its ``on call'' money in more than 40 years of operations
the united states is being asked for the biggest single share of the new capital increase: $14 billion, of which $420 million would be in cash and the rest on call. because the cash would be spread out over five or six years, the administration is now asking congress for a first $70 million
but as a former congressman who well remembers senator everett dirksen`s description of the appropriations process as `a billion dollars here, a billion dollars there, and pretty soon you're talking about real money,' i do not expect or want automatic approval of this capital increase,'' said bank president, barber b. conable, a former republican congressman from new york
conable said that as needs have grown in the third world, resources to meet them have not kept pace
he noted that in the previous five years there had been a flow of $65 billion from the industrial countries to the poor ones
the reversal amounts to a crisis for development, one that puts a duty on the world bank to be even more vigorous as an honest broker between rich and poor...,'' he said
conable's speech was prepared for delivery in san francisco to the world affairs council of northern california. copies were distributed to reporters by the bank's headquarters in washington. publicist says</head>
comedian bob hope underwent surgery monday for what was described as a ``benign condition'' of his prostate gland, his publicist said
the 84-year-old comedian ``does not have cancer,'' said spokesman jim mahoney after the surgery
hope was operated on at the usc kenneth norris jr. cancer hospital, but mahoney explained that hope was at the facility because he had been referred to dr. donald g. skinner, chief of urology at usc who performs his operations at the cancer hospital
skinner said hope was in ``excellent'' condition after the operation
mahoney said the comedian is expected to be hospitalized for three or four days. the operation was scheduled in advance, not emergency surgery, he said
last week, the comedian was one of the presenters at the writers guild of america awards at the beverly hilton hotel. he chatted with reporters and photographers there, but didn't mention the surgery
mahoney said the operation, common for older men, was similar to a procedure performed on president reagan in january 1987. the surgeon removed fibrous tissue filling the prostate, using small instruments and working through a catheter
the 3,200 u.s. troops rushed here after an alleged incursion by nicaraguan troops will begin a set of joint maneuvers with the honduran army tuesday, a u.s. military spokesman said
maj. gary hovatter, spokesman for the american forces in honduras, made the announcement monday but refused to disclose details
the announcement came as nicaragua's sandinista government and contra rebels agreed to halt all offensive military operations during three days of talks that began monday. the negotiations are to achieve a permanent cease-fire
u.s. troops arrived in honduras last week at the request of president jose azcona hoyo and are stationed at five bases throughout honduras. the soldiers are from the 82nd airborne division based in fort bragg, n.c. and the 7th light infantry division from fort ord, calif
in an exercise monday, a u.s. helicopter crashed near a base in the southern town of juticalpa with 10 people aboard. hovatter said there were injuries but would not give further information until relatives are notified. pentagon spokesmen in washington said there were no fatalities and that the injuries did not appear serious
some of the u.s. soldiers are based at jamastran, about 20 miles from the nicaraguan border, but 80 miles from the site of the alleged nicaraguan incursion at the bocay region in the honduran province of olancho. the bocay area straddles the nicaraguan-honduran border
others are at tamara and at san lorenzo in southern honduras, and a corps of about 200 soldiers remained at american military headquarters at the honduran air force base of palmerola, about 45 miles northwest of tegucigalpa
president reagan dispatched the troops both as a show of support for honduras and as a warning to nicaragua against further action in the area
president daniel ortega of nicaragua repeatedly has denied his country's troops were inside honduras. the contras maintain supply and staging camps in bocay region
honduran presidential spokesman lisandro quesada said monday the estimated 2,000 sandinista troops who entered this country last week in pursuit of contra rebels have dwindled
col. manuel suarez benavides, the honduran armed forces public relations director, said it will be ``days only'' before the u.s. troops return home
neither suarez nor quesada would say the threat from the sandinistas has ended
when the last sandinista crosses the segovia river into nicaragua then this subject will be forgotten,'' quesada said. arrests at similar minneapolis protest, picking up 3rd graf ``shouts of'' and adds 6 grafs with details from minneapolis.</note>
riot-ready police moved in quickly monday, arresting 225 demonstrators among a yelling crowd of more than 500 people protesting u.s. military presence in central america
at a similar protest in minneapolis, police arrested about 50 of several hundred protesters after rocks and paint and paint were thrown at the federal building there and a window was broken
in san francisco, arrests for blocking entrances to the federal building and the streets around it began within minutes of the start of the protest at 7 a.m. the main entrance was closed, and for about a half-hour the protesters blocked the rear entrance. more than 5,000 people work in the 20-story building
shouts of ``no contra aid'' and ``u.s., cia, out of nicaragua,'' filled the air. some demonstrators, surging from one intersection to another, hurled newspaper vending boxes and debris into the street, disrupting traffic
on friday, about 250 people were arrested when they encircled the federal building
and on saturday, at least 5,000 people rallied in the streets. bottles, wooden crosses and bags of garbage were thrown at police. one person was arrested for felony assault on an officer, and four others were arrested on assorted charges
demonstrations have been held in several u.s. cities since president reagan sent 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras last week after honduras said 2,000 sandinistas had crossed the border from nicaragua
on monday, officers with visored helmets and batons marched on the double from one street to another as protesters harassed them with quick moves. some protesters went limp and were dragged screaming to police vans. a young man was hit in the mouth with a baton and bloodied
at times, as many as six police vans and a sheriff's bus lined up to receive those arrested. they were photographed and booked on the street before being taken to the hall of justice for citations
we're not going to stop these protests because we want people to know we are seriously committed to stopping u.s. intervention in central america,'' said bill nygren, a spokesman for pledge of resistance, one of several groups sponsoring the demonstration
the minneapolis protesters, carrying signs reading, ``human rights, not reagan might'' and ``stop the killing, ronnie. work for peace now,'' were met by dozens of police carrying night sticks and wearing protective head gear
officers ripped some banners down and tore them up and used dogs to keep the streets clear. none of the protesters got inside the federal building
the demonstration began at late afternoon when protesters blocked a busy intersection with their bodies, chanting ``u.s. out of honduras.''
scores of them faced off against about 30 counter-protesters who chanted ``more contra aid,'' but no violence was reported
a brief scuffle began when a man who said he was an undercover police officer grabbed an american flag from a protester and took it away, saying it was government property
demonstrators burned a flag in a protest friday
a u.n. fact-finding team will leave for nicaragua tuesday to investigate the border violence between nicaragua and honduras, the united nations announced
it said in a statement monday that the delegation of two diplomats and two military observers was being sent at the request of the leftist sandinista government
the statement said the team will visit only nicaragua since no permission was received from the honduran government to observe the situation on the honduran side of the border
border violence flared in the mountainous, jungle-covered bocay region last week when about 4,500 nicaraguan troops mounted a major assault to drive u.s.-backed contra rebels from nicaraguan territory and destroy contra supply bases on the honduran side
president reagan sent about 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras on a training exercise as a show of support for that government
the u.n. observers are gilberto schlittler-silva, director-designate of the u.n. division of security council affairs; aleksandr martinovic, political affairs officer in the office of secretary-general javier perez de cuellar; and two ecuadorean military officers, maj. jose viggiano and maj. eduardo gorgitano
they are to report to perez de cuellar upon their return
records for low temperatures were set in alpena, mich., 5 degrees below zero; binghamton, n.y., 3 degrees; marquette, mich., 15 below; and youngstown, ohio, 7 degrees. records were tied in sault ste. marie, mich., 9 degrees, and el paso, texas, 28
tuesday's forecast called for rain along the northern pacific coast; widely scattered rain showers and mountain snow in the northern plateau and the northern and central rockies; scattered showers from southern montana and northern wyoming into southern minnesota, with scattered snow in northern minnesota; and sunny skies over eastern and southern sections of the nation
high temperatures were expected to reach only into the 20s in northern new england, in the 30s and 40s over the rest of new england and from north dakota to the mid-atlantic states; in the 40s from washington into northwest montana; and in the 70s and 80s from southern california across the desert southwest, the southern rockies, the southern plains, the upper and middle mississippi valley and the southeast; and in the 50s and 60s in most of the rest of the nation
three former du pont co. employees suffering from exposure to asbestos pledged monday to give 90 percent of a $75 million award in punitive damages to six institutions
william kapp jr. of elkton, md., one of the victims and spokesman for the group, said the $67.5 million _ if the damage award is upheld on appeal _ will be donated ``to try to help our fellow asbestos victims, as well as to help assure that this kind of corporate abuse of public trust will never happen again.''
this is just our way of putting the punitive damages award to its highest purposes,'' kapp said
in november, a superior court jury awarded kapp, 55; james webb, 74, of newport; and joseph kaster, 71, of the newport area and their wives what has been called the second-largest personal injury award in u.s. history, against raymark industries inc. of trumbull, conn
the jury supported claims that raymark, formerly raybestos manhattan inc., conspired with the former johns manville corp., now manville corp., to suppress information relating to the health hazards of asbestos and failing to place warnings on their products
raymark manufactured asbestos that the men worked around for more than 25 years at du pont's newport plant. previous state court rulings had barred liability of employers in such cases
in addition to the punitive damage award, the men were awarded more than $1 million in actual damages for personal injury. they said they had contracted lung disorders linked to breathing asbestos fibers. six co-defendants settled the case
there are 350 similar cases pending against raymark in delaware
the inhalation of asbestos, once commonly used in building insulation and other products, has been linked to cancer and other diseases
the national campaign against toxic hazards, a toxic victims advocacy group, was earmarked to receive $13 million of the $67.5 million
the boston-based group's organizing director peter obstler said the money would be used ``to continue to provide staff and technical assistance to victims'' of toxic chemicals
but kapp stressed that the money may never be awarded
both sides are awaiting a decision from judge clarence w. taylor on whether to uphold the award. if it is upheld, raymark will appeal, according to legrande l. young, raymark general counsel
kapp, who employed by du pont for 33 years before he became too ill to work, said he was hoping the move to donate the money to charity would persuade taylor to uphold the $75 million award
young said he did not think the judge could be swayed. ``either it's an appropriate judgment or it's not,'' he said
the other institutions targeted for part of the award at $13 million each are the mount sinai school of environmental medicine in new york; the university of delaware school of business to establish a chair to advance the study of business ethics; the medical center of delaware's carpenter clinic for cancer research; and the white lung association, a baltimore-based organization of asbestos victims
an additional $2.5 million was pledged to the emily p. bissell hospital for the critically ill in newport
the largest jury award is believed to be $127.8 million to an orange county, calif., teen-ager who sued ford motor co. over burns he received when the gasoline tank of his 1972 pinto exploded. with demonstration in sidon. picks up 10th pvs, `at rafah...' subs 17th pvs, `time and newsweek...' with 1 graf to include reuters joined suit.</note>
israeli troopers on monday shot a palestinian teen-ager dead and a plo leaflet exhorted arabs to ``shower soldiers and herds of cowardly settlers'' with stones, firebombs and iron bars
troops expanded their search for weapons in the occupied west bank and gaza strip the day after an arab shot and killed a soldier in bethlehem
at least 106 palestinians and the israeli soldier have been killed since riots began in the occupied lands dec. 8, according to u.n. figures
israeli police arrested a prominent arab-american attorney monday and assailants attacked the homes of two moderate palestinians _ a newspaper editor and a member of jordan's parliament
the army announced a new military law permitting any security prisoner to be held up to six months with less judicial review than before. it said the law eliminated the requirement that a military judge review a case within 96 hours
israeli officials said the measure would apply for six months and would ease an overload on the military court system, which has handled nearly 3,000 cases since december. arab lawyers said they feared detention without trial could become more common
arabs mounted a general strike monday in the west bank and gaza to mark the anniversary of a 1968 battle resulting from an israeli raid on palestinian guerrillas inside jordan
graffiti scrawled on walls overnight urged arabs to attack israeli troops and civilians in memory of the battle at karameh, jordan
protests were reported at more than a dozen sites in the west bank and gaza. palestinian flags, outlawed by israel, flew from utility poles and were raised on mosques
an estimated 12,000 palestinians demonstrated at the ein el-hilweh refugee camp in the southern lebanese port city of sidon to show support for the uprisings in the occupied territories
ein el-hillweh is the largest refugee camp in lebanon with about 60,000 inhabitants
at rafah, a seaside town in the gaza strip, israeli troops tried to restrain protesters by dropping tear gas from helicopters, and then used live ammunition, arab witnesses said
soldiers shot abdel ahmed jaber al mudalal, 17, in the chest and he died of his wounds, according to the palestine press service and other arab reports
army spokesmen confirmed the death but said the family took the body from nasser hospital at khan yunis and the cause of death could not be determined
israeli gunfire wounded 16 palestinians on monday, according to hospital officials and the arab-run press service, which provided names and ages. the army said 11 arabs were wounded
leaflet no. 11, the latest distributed by the palestine liberation organization, told arabs to prepare for a long struggle against the israelis by developing ``home economy, raising chickens, rabbits and planting vegetables.''
it urged palestinians to ``shower soldiers and herds of cowardly settlers with stones, firebombs and iron bars'' and designated march 26 as a day of struggle against israeli-appointed arab municipal officials in the west bank and gaza
the people of the uprising will be severe with anyone who remains outside the national consensus and refuses to resign immediately,'' it said
time and newsweek magazines and the reuters news agency filed a suit with the supreme court in an effort to recover film confiscated after sunday's fatal shooting of israeli sgt. moshe katz in bethlehem. photographers took pictures moments after katz was shot in the head
demands for the return of the film made repeatedly to israeli authorities have been unavailing, and as a result legal action is being pursued,'' the magazines said in a statement
military officials said soldiers had widened the search for illegal weapons since the katz shooting. the jerusalem post quoted one as saying ``substantial amounts of weaponry'' were in the gaza strip but many caches were in mosques, ``beyond the grasp'' of israeli soldiers
army policy prohibits soldiers from entering mosques
jonathan kuttab, the arab-american lawyer, was charged with supporting an illegal organization _ a reference to an art exhibit at the hakawati theater that he said included palestinian nationalist work
kuttab, who is the theater's attorney and on its board, called the charge ``ridiculous and an infringement of the freedom of artists.'' he was released on bail of 1,000 shekels, or about $750
attackers fired shots at the home and car of jack khazmo, a moderate palestinian editor who lives in ram, a village just north of jerusalem, and threw three firebombs at the home of mousa abu ghosh, a member of jordan's parliament, in the west bank city of ramallah
israel captured the west bank and gaza strip from jordan and egypt in 1967. comment from miles davis. picks up 6th graf, `trumpeter dizzy...'.</note>
gil evans, a composer, pianist and band leader considered one of the greatest orchestrators in jazz, has died in mexico, his widow said here monday. he was 75
evans died sunday in cuernavaca of peritonitis while recuperating from prostate surgery, anita evans said in new york
evans, who had led his band in a new york city club in december and january, decided not to return to the club in march but to go to mexico to recuperate. mrs. evans said that he felt energetic when he left on the trip and he took his synthesizer and their two sons, noah and miles
evans made his mark in the 1950s and 1960s with innovative arrangements for trumpeter miles davis, particularly three recordings that showcased davis' cool style: ``miles ahead,'' ``porgy and bess'' and ``sketches of spain.''
they were really among the most brilliant orchestral jazz records made by anybody,'' said jazz historian and writer leonard feather. ``he made brilliant use of tone colors.''
through his spokeswoman, terry williams, davis said: ``whenever i had a question about the music, composing or which way to go, i would think about what gil would do. i'll really miss him.''
trumpeter dizzy gillespie, reached in los angeles, said evans would be missed ``for keeping time with the age that he's in.''
whatever new thing, new ideas come up, gil evans was right on top them,'' said gillespie, who knew evans well but did not perform with him. ``he will be missed for having a very strong feeling for the soloist. he was tender. one of a kind.''
evans was born in toronto may 13, 1912, and grew up in stockton, calif., where he organized a jazz band in high school. his first professional band, in stockton, was taken over by skinnay ennis, but evans stayed on as arranger
he was beginning the style that deployed instruments to bring out richness of tone and textures. he never left jazz as his base, and his arrangements never conflicted with the sense of spontaneity vital to jazz
after he worked as arranger for the claude thornhill orchestra during the 1940s, evans' reputation grew with his work for davis' nine-piece band in 1949. he blended french horn and tuba on davis' ``boplicity'' and ``birth of the cool,'' which proved influential
his first recording with his own band, ``the arranger's touch,'' used french horn, muted trumpet and bassoon in arrangements marked by originality. evans arranged for davis again in 1959, with davis playing flugelhorn over a 19-piece orchestra, on the album ``miles ahead.''
evans orchestrated two more davis albums, ``porgy and bess'' and ``sketches of spain,'' tailoring them to davis' artistic temperament. he worked as a free-lance arranger, doing works like cannonball adderley's ``pacific standard time'' album and his own ``out of the cool.''
a project to arrange for rock guitarist jimi hendrix was canceled by hendrix's death in 1970. later, evans recorded ``gil evans plays hendrix.'' he scored the film ``absolute beginners'' at age 74
an upcoming tour of northern europe by the gil evans orchestra, plus appearances at jazz festivals in umbria, italy, and new york will go on, mrs. evans said, with son miles evans conducting
she said that a memorial service will be held, probably on easter. both sides propose cease-fires. picks up 10th graf pvs, `cheering sandinista...</note>
the sandinista government and u.s.-backed rebels on monday opened three days of talks in this border town by exchanging cease-fire proposals and agreeing to a truce during the negotiations
neither side seeks a military victory over the other,'' said alfredo cesar, head of the rebel delegation, after the completion of the first day of talks _ the first face-to-face negotiations on nicaraguan soil
he said the contra rebels proposed a 30-day cease-fire and continuous talks to reach a permanent truce
cesar told reporters the contras also proposed total amnesty and guarantees of free expression to lead toward reconciliation. he called monday's talks, which were behind closed doors, ``a step ahead.''
defense minister humberto ortega, leader of the government delegation, said he proposed an ``immediate and definitive cease-fire.'' he did not elaborate
the rebels, battered by a two-week-old sandinista offensive, agreed to accept a truce for the duration of the negotiations in what contra spokesman bosco matamoros called ``a gesture of good will.''
frank arana, another contra spokesman, said the two sides discussed military and political issues including ``concepts of democracy.''
if so, it would be the first time the sandinistas consented to discuss political issues with the rebels
in two rounds of indirect talks in the dominican republic and costa rica, the sandinistas demanded the negotiations deal exclusively on the mechanics of a cease-fire
negotiations opened after ortega, brother of president daniel ortega, said the sandinistas were suspending military operations for the duration of the talks and called on the contras to do the same
sandinista spokesman manuel espinoza said the ``reciprocation of the contras'' in agreeing to suspend hostilities and ``the fact that this meeting is taking place are the first positive steps'' toward a permanent cease-fire. he spoke to reporters during the lunch break
the rebels entered the talks in this small town on the border with costa rica without high expectations of sandinista concessions
cesar told reporters earlier that he feared the rebels were being weakened ``by the suspension of united states aid and the growth in soviet aid to the sandinistas.''
unlike the two previous rounds of negotiations, the sapoa agenda was supposed to be open. on sunday, however, sandinista officials said they would focus on a cease-fire in the civil war, which began in 1981 and has cost an estimated 40,000 lives
cheering sandinista supporters calling for a contra ``surrender'' lined both sides of the 90-mile road the government delegation traveled from managua to sapoa. the contras arrived from costa rica
soldiers and security agents in plainclothes guarded sapoa. security was especially tight at the customs house, where the talks were being held
with the sandinista were brian wilson, an american pacifist whose legs were severed by a train in califoria during a protest last year, and singer-actor kris kristofferson. both are sandinista supporters of long standing
the contras made cesar, once a high sandinista official, head of their delegation in hopes of gaining benefit from his familiarity with the sandinistas
cesar said he last visited sapoa as a sandinista revolutionary fighting the late president anastasio somoza, who was overthrown in july 1979
it has been nine years since i was last in sapoa and i am still struggling for the freedom of nicaragua,'' he said. cesar broke with the sandinistas in 1982
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, nicaragua's roman catholic prelate who mediated earlier talks, and joao baena soares, general secretary of the organization of american states, attended the meeting as observers
cease-fire talks are required under the peace plan signed by the presidents of nicaragua, honduras, costa rica, el salvador and guatemala last august. among other provisions are amnesties, greater democracy and an end to the use of one nation's territory for attacks on another. saying only political option offered mecham was ``going down with ship,'' moving up background, picking up 4th graf ``craft testified...'. deletes 13th graf pvs, `the obstruction...', now redundant.</note>
gov. evan mecham's lawyer, in an abrupt role change, became a witness in his client's impeachment trial monday, saying the only political option advisers offered the governor was ``to go down with the ship.''
fred craft, who was subpoenaed by the senate on a motion by democratic minority leader sen. alan stephens, made the comment during cross-examination by prosecutor paul eckstein
craft and his co-counsel, jerris leonard, objected to the cross-examination, saying that only senators were supposed to question a lawyer called as a witness under such unusual circumstances. the presiding officer disagreed
eckstein asked whether craft ever advised mecham to resign
i've talked to the governoer a lot,'' said craft. ``sometimes i've said, `governor, why are you doiing this to yourself?'''
without answering directly, he recalled mecham advisers brainstorming about the governor's political options
we had these meetings and no one could see a political escape route for the governor,'' craft said. ``no one was offering the governor any other political option than to go down with the ship.''
craft, now one of mecham's lawyers in the impeachment case, was a washington lobbyist for mecham and an adviser to the first-term republican
the senate, which began its fourth week of inquiry into the governor's actions monday, has been hearing testimony on an allegation that mecham tried to obstruct justice by thwarting an attorney general's probe of the alleged death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson
the obstruction of justice charge is one of three broad allegations against mecham at the trial. he also is charged with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and with misusing $80,000 from a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
earlier, craft corroborated mecham's assertions that he was not informed that a death threat had been made against a former aide
craft testified he stood next to mecham when a state police officer first reported the alleged threat. craft said it was reported as ``an altercation between two employees.''
i never heard `felony.' i never heard `death threat' and i certainly never heard `tampering with a grand jury witness,''' craft said in an almost exact duplicate of mecham's own testimony last week
at the time of the alleged threat last november, ms. carlson was preparing to testify before a grand jury investigating mecham's campaign finances
like mecham, craft accused lt. beau johnson of the department of public safety of testifying falsely when he said he alerted mecham to a possible felony _ tampering with a grand jury witness
craft swore johnson never gave that warning
i don't remember so much what he said as what he did not say because i'm a trained lawyer ...,'' said craft. ``if he had said those words, my antennae would have gone up
johnson has said he went to mecham and told him that a mecham aide, lee watkins, had threatened mrs. carlson and that a possible felony was involved. mecham has denied this version, saying he understood two employees had a disagreement and that he referred it to watkins' superior, max hawkins
senators supported stephens' motion to have craft testify because he was mentioned by other witnesses as participating in key conversations. craft said he did not give the governor legal advice during that period and acknowledged he could not claim an attorney-client privilege of confidentiality
craft took the stand after peggy griffith, he official who reported hearing the alleged threat against ms. carlson, said she was told mecham blamed her for getting him ``in hot water.''
mrs. griffith, returning to testify as a prosecution rebuttal witness, said she was told by her secretary, terri fields, that the governor and his then-lawyer, murray miller, were mad at mrs. griffith
she came in and was very tearful and agitated,'' mrs. griffith said of ms. fields. ``she said,`i can't stand it anymore. i'm going to quit. they're hounding me. the governor and murray miller ... they said it's all your fault, peggy. they said if you had not told, the governor would not be in hot water and it's all your fault.'''
mrs. griffith, a strong mecham supporter, said that was ``a gut blow.''
it would take a two-thirds vote of the 30 senators to convict mecham. they could then take another vote and forbid mecham to ever hold state office again
mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in 60 years, also faces an april 21 criminal trial on felony charges of concealing the $350,000 loan and a recall election may 17
mecham, who friday completed three days of testimony, was absent from the trial monday. to death</head> zone description was applied to section of spanish harlem, sted the entire neighborhood. picks up 6th graf pvs, `this is...'.</note>
three men and a teen-ager who ``thought they had done the right thing'' were charged monday with manslaughter in the beating death of a man who allegedly stole $20 and was chased by a mob in a drug-ravaged neighborhood
the four were surprised when told they were being charged in the death of raymondo caraballo, 41, said detective capt. william quigley
they thought they had done the right thing, chasing and capturing this guy,'' quigley said. ``well, somebody's dead. somebody's got to be responsible for it.''
three others were being sought and arrests were expected, he said
the killing took place in a section of spanish harlem that residents and area workers described as a drug war zone
this is vietnam here. it's bad, it's bad,'' said a city worker cleaning out a room on the ground floor of the building outside which caraballo was beaten. he insisted on anonymity
the suspect entered a bakery shortly after noon sunday and grabbed $20 from 21-year-old anna beteran, witnesses told police
i heard the people screaming,'' bakery co-owner orlando testa said monday. ``the guy stole the money from the girl and ran away.''
as caraballo ran out, beteran and her unidentified sister-in-law chased him, police said. the women lost sight of him when he ducked into the jefferson houses project about a block away, quigley said
as the women asked members of a crowd on the corner if they had seen the man, caraballo appeared and the group gave chase
they started to beat him (with) fists and feet,'' quigley said at an afternoon news conference. a garbage can cover was thrown at caraballo, but it was deflected and did not hit him, as reported earlier, quigley said
he was getting beaten all over, the legs, the ribs,'' said al rivera, 27, who was visiting a friend in the area of the beating sunday
he was yelling, `please stop. no more, no more,''' rivera said, pointing to the blue scaffolding under which the beating took place
housing police who were called in broke up the crowd. the man stood up and was handcuffed, but the officers radioed for an ambulance as they took him away
the man died about five hours later at mount sinai hospital. hospital personnel said, according to quigley, that caraballo had irreversible brain trauma and internal injuries. an autopsy was scheduled
quigley identified the four charged with first- and second-degree manslaughter as david andino, 22, charles mimms, 20, jesus negron, 23, and isidore cuadrado, 14. none knew the man who was killed or the others arrested, quigley said
negron was arrested about 10 p.m. sunday and the other three surrendered overnight because ``the word was out in the street,'' quigley said
in the neighborhood bodegas, in the housing project and on the street, the talk monday was about drugs and robberies and an exasperating way of life that causes people to live by looking over their shoulders
it's frightening. ... it's crazy,'' julia white, a 16-year resident and supervisor with the jefferson houses tenants association, said about the presence of drug users
there's no answer to it. and there's no end to it,'' she said, shaking her head
last year, a girl was found killed ...'' she said, hesitating as he suddenly remembered where: ``in here. oh, my goodness.'' would accept help in ending war; iraq's u.n. ambassador accusing iran of using chemical weapons. picks up 4th graf pvs, `the king ...' adds 6 grafs at bottom with details of iranian allegations.</note>
king hussein on monday urged the moslem world to support the revolt in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip, where more than 100 palestinians and an israeli soldier have been killed since dec. 8
opening a meeting of foreign ministers of the 46-member organization of islamic conference, the jordanian monarch also expressed hope that iran would agree to a cease-fire in its war with iraq
the iranian envoy to the conference, mohammed ali tashkiri, told reporters that his nation would accept the help of any ``truthful hand'' that tried to end the devastating iran-iraq missile duel on each other's cities
at the united nations monday, iraq's u.n. ambassador accused iraq of using chemical weapons which he said killed 5,000 people and wounded 5,000 in kurdish border cities inside iran
king hussein told the conference in his opening address: ``the palestinian people have a rightful claim on us to support their uprising both on the national and international level so that the uprising (in the occupied territories) may bear fruit.''
the king did not elaborate on what forms aid should take, but asked the ministers to support an international conference on middle east peace
sharifuddin pir zadeh, secretary-general of the islamic conference, said earlier that protesters in the israeli-occupied territories should be supported ``financially and morally.''
hussein said the palestinian were ``heroically fighting for their freedom and national rights and defying in their uprising the arrogance of the forces of occupation.''
he said there should be a seat for the palestine liberation organization at an international peace conference, which would involve the parties to the conflict and the five permanent members of the u.n. security council: the united states, soviet union, britain, france and china
by calling for a plo seat at the conference, hussein set himself apart from u.s. peace proposals, which he discussed in amman on sunday with u.s. envoy philip habib. the u.s. plan does not call for a plo seat at the conference
the uprising of the palestinian people is not an end in itself nor is it a transient coincidental event that will soon wither away,'' hussein said. ``it is rather an expression of the will of an entire nation to fight for its freedom and right of self-determination in its own land.''
the rebellion in the occupied territories, which palestinians call ``the uprising,'' and the iran-iraq war dominate the agenda of the meeting, at which all members of the conference except chad are represented
king hussein, who supports iraq in the war, called the conflict a ``deep wound in the body'' of the moslem world that is ``bleeding and draining our resources and energies.''
our hope is that iran ... will accept security council resolution 598, which represents the will of the international community,'' he said
the resolution, passed last july, provides for a cease-fire and return to pre-war borders
iraq has said it will stop shooting if iran does but the iranians demand that iraq be named the aggressor before a truce takes effect. iraq invaded iran in september 1980 after several border skirmishes
tashkiri, who heads the foreign relations department in iran's ministry of information and religious guidance, told journalists that he would attempt to get the conference to discuss the missile duel
we support a halt in the war of the cities and we will back any truthful hand that tries to stop it,'' he said
the relatively low-ranking level of the iranian delegation in amman appeared to make it unlikely such negotiations would start at the conference
iran's u.n. ambassador, mohammad ja'afar mahallati, accused iraq of sending planes to bombard border cities with nerve gas on a scale ``unprecedented'' in the persian gulf war, and also of employing mustard gas and cyanide gas in a campaign that began march 17
iraq's ambassador, ismat taha kittani, refused comment
mahallatti asked the u.n. security council to denounce iraq, to send a fact-finding team to verify his claims and to mobilize the world health organization and similar agencies to aid victims
an explosion monday near the imperial palace and another blast close to the israeli embassy shattered windows but caused no injuries and apparently were the work of radicals, said police
a motorcycle rigged as a bomb burst into flames and exploded at 7:17 p.m. near hibiya park, about 900 yards southeast of the imperial palace, breaking windows in the saudi arabian airlines office, said a police official who spoke on condition of anonymity
about 15 minutes later, explosives in the trunk of a parked car went off 3{ miles away, near the israeli embassy, breaking windows in buildings nearby, he said. there were no reports of damage at the embassy
the police official said japanese radicals, who sometimes fire homemade missiles from cars parked in streets, may have been responsible for the explosions in downtown tokyo. no more details were immediately available
in february, four shuttle buses used to transport passengers to and from airports were burned in tokyo in apparent attacks by radicals opposed to expanding the new tokyo international airport at narita. there were no reports of injuries
narita area farmers and their supporters, including anti-government radical groups, have resisted plans to expropriate farmland for a second runway at the $2.5 billion airport at narita
in 1986, radicals fired homemade missiles at the state guest house, u.s. embassy, imperial palace, crown prince's residence and osaka police headquarters before the seven-nation summit meeeting held in tokyo in may
one attack occurred during japan's welcoming ceremonies for the heads of government of the united states, canada, britain, france, west germany and italy. separate toll lists kept and figure unaltered</note>
ira gunmen killed a policeman monday at a checkpoint in londonderry, the 12th victim in two weeks of heightening tension and sectarian violence
britain announced a massive manhunt in west belfast's roman catholic ghettos for the killers of two british soldiers caught in an ira funeral procession
northern ireland secretary tom king said in london that the royal ulster constabulary has launched an immediate review of its new policy of keeping a low profile at irish republican army funerals. the policy was aimed at avoiding clashes between police and supporters of the outlawed ira
the policeman who was killed monday, clive graham, 25, was shot in the head in a jeep while at a checkpoint in the roman catholic creggan district of londonderry, northern ireland's second-largest city. he died later in the hospital
the ira claimed responsibility for graham's killing in a clandestine message to belfast media
he was the 12th person to die since march 6, when british commandos shot dead three ira guerrillas who allegedly were plotting a car bombing in gibraltar
the funeral policy was started wednesday at services for the guerrillas killed in gibraltar. a protestant gunman opened fire and hurled grenades at the catholic milltown cemetery, killing three people and wounding 68
king's announcement of a review of the policy stopped well short of demands by leaders of northern ireland protestant parties to return to a heavy presence at ira funerals
as expectations grew of an imminent wave of arrests in west belfast, there was also speculation that dozens of ira supporters who were filmed surrounding and beating the soldiers' unmarked car with iron bars and dragging them out had gone into hiding
a massive murder investigation is under way in which all possible resources are involved to identify all those responsible,'' king said of the manhunt in west belfast
three people were arrested saturday and police sources said monday that up to 30 others were being sought after hours of scrutiny of film taken by an army helicopter which hovered over the scene and by tv networks. gruesome scenes of the attack also were shown on television
cpls. derek wood and david howes, in plainclothes, were surrounded when they drove up to the cortege, dragged from their car, stripped, beaten and shot dead
king said an emergency meeting of senior government ministers from britain and the republic of ireland will be held this week to consider stepped up security
king denied charges by northern ireland protestant politicians that police and troops failed to come to the soldiers' aid because of political orders to stay away from ira funerals
he said it was not immediately clear to police watching film relayed from the helicopter that soldiers were under attack because police ``were certain there were no security forces in the area whatsoever.''
he said the soldiers were under general orders to keep out of catholic districts unless on operational duty and had ``no reason to be in the vicinity of the funerals.'' he said he did not know why they were there
as the commons listened in silence, king praised the corporals, identified as signals corpsmen heading back to barracks after doing maintenance work at a base in belfast, for their restraint in firing only one shot into the mob that surrounded them
the truth is that there will be new depths (of horror) again as long as this awful and evil campaign of terrorism and revenge continues,'' king said
it has got to stop in the name of humanity and if there is to be any decent future for the people of northern ireland and for all those living in the island of ireland, and if the evil shroud of terrorism is to be lifted from the united kingdom as whole.''
since 1969, 2,638 people have been killed in the sectarian violence in this protestant-dominated province. the ira is fighting to end british rule and unite northern ireland with the catholic republic of ireland under a leftist administration. 03-21 0781</first> cut budget, raises possibility of tax increases later, and with some bills introduced by legislators. no pickup. should stand for ams.</note>
warning that louisiana is in a ``terrifying financial crisis,'' gov. buddy roemer on monday told the legislature that he must have unprecedented authority to make budget cuts in order to keep the state afloat
we must build on the foundation of a balanced budget,'' roemer said in his address before lawmakers called into special session
although the governor said the first step would be to cut spending, he said tax increases would be necessary later
roemer said the state faces a more than $2 billion problem, including a $210 million cash-flow shortage that could shut down government within 50 days, a projected $756 million deficit for the 1988-89 fiscal year and an accumulated debt of $1.3 billion
we inherited a mess, a real, unbelievable mess,'' the governor said
roemer asked lawmakers to give him the authority to cut up to 20 percent from each department and eliminate entire state programs through the rest of the fiscal year ending june 30
i must have the power to make decisions and accelerate the decision-making process,'' he said
the governor said that if then-gov. edwin edwards had accepted $100 million in budget cuts that roemer proposed during the transition, the cash-flow problem would have been averted
time is eating us alive,'' he said
roemer said the legislature could reverse any budget decisions he makes when lawmakers convene for their regular session in april, adding, ``i am not requesting that you abdicate your responsibility in the budget process.''
the special session would center around solving the short-term cash problem and laying the groundwork for paying off the accumulated debt. budget cuts made now will translate into savings in the next fiscal year, he said
as part of a government reorganization plan to save money, roemer asked lawmakers to divide the department of health and human resources into two agencies, eliminate the department of urban and community affairs, and forgive loans taken from ``dedicated,'' or special-use, funds to keep the state operating
besides eliminating the entire urban affairs department, which would require separate legislative action, roemer did not cite specifically what state programs he wanted to eliminate, but he said some state institutions may have to be closed
tax increases and borrowing alone, without budget cuts, will not solve the financial problem and will hamper efforts to attract new business and industry to louisiana, roemer warned
more borrowing or new taxes are not now the answer,'' he said. ``we will need to do both eventually. but each action must be carefully thought out and precisely planned.''
roemer said his administration already had taken steps to save $214 million through such steps as better utilization of state office space, reducing the number of state vehicles by a third, limiting bond issues for major construction projects and the elimination of positions held by political appointees
the regular legislative session will concern itself with plans to pay off the long-term debt, an overhaul of the state's tax system, a balanced budget for 1987-88, education and environmental changes and a plan to diversify the state's economy, roemer said
the ability to attract new business to louisiana will depend upon ``our willingness to make tough decisions,'' the governor said
i did not expect nor did i ask for this perilous economic situation. but i am prepared to lead us through these tough times in such a way that we protect essential services and we avoid having to make these choices over and over and over again. it will not be easy,'' he said
after the house and senate convened shortly after 5 p.m., administration-backed bills aimed at slashing state spending and reorganizing government were introduced in both chambers
in the house, legislation was put forth to give roemer the temporary authority he wants to cut spending
there was also a proposal for a statewide lottery to pay off bonds that would be used to finance the state's accumulated budget deficit. once the deficit was paid off, further proceeds would go to education, health care and local governments, according to the bill. roemer has voiced opposition to a lottery
also referred to a senate committee were bills to transfer the functions of some agencies to other departments, reduce the interest rate on some refunds and payments being delayed by the governor in order to save cash, and abolish most special funds in the state treasury
officials of the inter american press association praised the united states on monday for progress in press freedom, but criticized pentagon restrictions on coverage of some events
a panamanian publisher attending iapa's mid-year meeting said drug traffickers have ``hijacked'' his country and there will be no press freedom there until gen. manuel antonio noriega leaves power
gilberto arias of the newspaper extra said the army closed the three independent daily newspapers and major radio and television stations ``when they refused to be muzzled.'' the newspapers are extra, la prensa and el siglo
iapa represents more than 1,300 newspapers in the united states and latin america. a special report on press freedom in the hemisphere is scheduled for release thursday
anthony day of the los angeles times reported advances in congress and the supreme court for the cause of free expression in the united states
but day criticized pentagon restrictions on news coverage of u.s. military operations in the persian gulf and honduras. he is vice president for the united states of the iapa freedom of the press committee
day told the press freedom committee that news coverage has been limited in the gulf and last week, when the united states sent 3,200 soldiers to honduras, the pentagon sent its national media pool of 10 correspondents with them
such pool coverage, though on occasion necessary for swift and sudden operations, is most unsatisfactory for long-term coverage, as in the persian gulf,'' he said
he described as a step in the right direction a new law that restricts the government's right to refuse entry to foreigners ``because of any past, current or expected beliefs or associations, which, if engaged in by a u.s. citizen in the united states, would be protected under the constitution of the united states.''
according to day, iapa sought the congressional action after the immigration and naturalization service refused entry to patricia lara, a reporter for el tiempo in bogota. the government contended she was a member of the leftist m-19 guerrillas, which she denied
day said the new law represents progress but the government still may use reasons of foreign policy or national security to deny entry to people linked to terrorist actions or activities
i myself fear that the government might use these exceptions to keep people arbitrarily out of the country,'' he said. ``it seems to me that patricia lara could still be denied admission under the law.''
another problem with the law is that it applies only for the remainder of the reagan administration, he said. day said iapa, mainly through the efforts of edward seaton of seaton newspapers in manhattan, kan., took the lead in pressing for legislation and should try to strengthen and extend it
day applauded a supreme court ruling in february guaranteeing ``parodists, caricaturists and other amusing rascals'' the same first amendment protections ``as the more sober-sided members of the press have,'' in its ruling on the rev. jerry falwell's damage suit against hustler magazine
the magazine published a phony advertisement depicting falwell, leader of the moral majority, in what the court described as a ``drunken incestuous rendezvous with his mother.'' it said public figures have many ways of protecting themselves against vitriolic criticism and tasteless parodies without suing their critics
so we in the united states are in debt to hustler magazine,'' day said. ``as a matter of fact, the supreme court decision is welcome financially as well as morally. its decision greatly inhibits the filing of libel suits.''
arias told the committee ``journalists work under constant threats'' in panama, where ``there is no freedom of the press and there won't be until the dicatorship of gen. noriega ends.''
several foreign journalists have been detained or refused entry to panama, where noriega is the power behind the civilian government as chief of the 15,000 defense forces
noriega has been indicted on drug charges in florida, the united states has cut off the flow of cash to his country and the reagan administration is trying to force him into exile
panama has been hijacked by drug traffickers'' who are capable of ``shutting down the canal at any moment,'' arias said
for a dictatorship accused of drug trafficking, hostile to humanity, hostile to all democratic and civilized forces, it is not difficult to sink a ship at the entrance of the panama canal.''
he and other speakers said much of the threat to the press in latin america is linked to the region's drug traffic
a state board delayed a decision monday on whether to parole former black panther johnny spain, who earlier this month was freed after 21 years in prison for murder
the full state board of prison terms voted unanimously to have one of its smaller, three-member panels reconsider parole of the ``san quentin six'' member, even though he was released from vacaville state prison march 10 on court orders that required $350,000 bail
spain, who lives in san francisco and is preparing to go to work as an electrician, a trade he learned behind bars, had been in prison since december 1966 on a conviction of murdering a man he was trying to rob in los angeles
in 1976, he became the only prisoner convicted of murder in an august 1971 bloodbath at san quentin prison _ the worst in state prison history _ that took the lives of militant leader george jackson, two other prisoners and three guards
the san quentin conviction was overturned in 1986, and a new trial ordered, a ruling the state is appealing
in february, a three-member panel voted 2-1 to grant parole in 1989 on the 1966 murder charge. the dissenting member, however, asked the full board to review the decision
earlier this month, however, a superior court judge in los angeles, citing technical irregularities in earlier parole hearings, ordered spain released on parole immediately
that ruling cleared the way for spain's release on bail pending the state's appeal of the order for a new trial in the san quentin case
the parole board's chief legal counsel, william cashdollar, said the new hearing would take place within 45 days, in effect canceling the february ruling to grant parole in 1989
cashdollar refused to provide any further details of their reasoning during monday's closed board hearing and said the board was ``complying fully with court orders but also continuing to comply with the statutes that establish our responsibilities'' regarding parole of inmates
it's a unique situation,'' cashdollar said. ``most of the individuals are in custody when we are making our determinations.''
spain's attorney, dennis riordan, criticized what he called the board's decision ``to reconsider whether he should have any parole date at all.''
riordan said the board would have to obtain a court order to enforce any move to return spain to prison between now and the time his parole is reconsidered, a move that riordan said he would fight
they've never been confronted by this situation before and they are confused by it,'' he said
board of prison terms spokeswoman phyllis scott said all options regarding spain's immediate future would be discussed with the state attorney general's office, including the possibility that it would seek to return him to prison
assistant attorney general alan ashby refused to comment on the case
vice president george bush indicated monday he supported president reagan's veto of a major civil rights bill, even as the house and senate were poised to override the president's action
the legislation ... is imperfect and the imperfections should be corrected,'' the vice president, who is seeking the republican presidential nomination, said in remarks to a group of black supporters in washington
until now, the vice president had avoided direct comment on whether he supported reagan's veto. but, as he campaigned in hartford, conn., he told reporters who asked him about it: ``i'm not going to start differing with the president now.''
i'm not going to start doing now what i haven't been doing for seven years, finding differences with the president, for whom i have great respect,'' he told the group in washington, which applauded enthusiastically his remarks about the bill
the civil rights restoration act passed both chambers earlier this year by large margins. both supporters and opponents of the measure said there was little chance the veto would be sustained
the measure would forbid the distribution of federal funds to entire institutions, state and local government agencies and many corporations if any part of them practices discrimination
it was prompted by a 1984 supreme court ruling that civil rights laws applied only to a specific program or activity receiving federal aid. under the decision, for example, the government could not cut off money to a college if the discrimination occurred in a department that did not receive such aid
supporters of the measure say it restores civil rights laws to the way they were interpreted before the court challenge mounted by tiny grove city college in pennsylvania
bush criticized the measure, but added: ``having said that, however, the federal government must require that organizations that get tax dollars comply with our civil rights laws.''
he said in hartford that he believed the president should have line-item veto powers so he could ``take some of the extremes'' out of a piece of legislation
the reagan administration has called for an alternative bill similar to an earlier republican plan voted down in congress, which would grant religious schools and organizations as well as corporations more exemptions from civil rights laws
earlier monday, bush picked up endorsements from gov. thomas h. kean and new jersey's county republican chairmen, a gain that one chairman said was ``like winning the state's presidential primary.''
we republicans have had a spirited campaign. we've heard good ideas, from jack kemp, from bob dole, from pete du pont, from al haig and from pat robertson. now it's time for our party to come together,'' said kean with bush by his side
george bush is our leader, and with the republican vision of a stronger america that offers opportunity to all regardless of color or creed, we can not only retain the presidency, but send (house speaker) jim wright to the back benches for the rest of this century,'' kean said
the popular governor abandoned his neutrality one week after bush won the illinois primary, taking a commanding lead for the republican nomination
new jersey's 21 county republican chairmen, who had been waiting for kean to act, followed the governor's lead and voted to endorse bush at a breakfast meeting monday
kean also campaigned monday with the vice president in connecticut, which holds its presidential primary next tuesday
in bloomfield, conn., the vice president, whose father was a u.s. senator from conecticut and whose brother and mother still live in greenwich, said: ``i don't want to be beaten in this state.''
we're taking nothing for granted. there's no arrogance factor, no overconfidence certainly,'' bush said
bush was also asked about a possible pardon for former national security adviser john poindexter and former white house aide oliver north, who have been indicted in connection with the iran-contra affair
pardon imputes guilt, it seems to me, a pardon for something. that has not been established,'' the vice president said. ``the system has to work; it will work.''
in new jersey, assemblyman richard kamin, the morris county gop chairman, said the endorsements were ``like winning the state's presidential primary,'' almost assuring that bush will win new jersey's 64 republican delegates. the state's primary is june 7
it is significant to have them at this point, when you have your opponent still vowing to go on,'' kamin said
in his endorsement speech, kean cited two themes he has embraced as governor: the need to improve education and the need for republicans to practice the ``politics of inclusion'' by reaching out to blacks and others not usually in the party's fold
the governor said bush ``wants to be the education president.'' and he said bush ``doesn't just talk about expanding the republican party; he has been doing it for more than 20 years.''
a grand jury has added drug and weapons charges to the indictment against an attorney charged with murder in the beating death of a 6-year-old girl he had illegally adopted, a prosecutor said monday
officers found heroin, cocaine and marijuana in joel steinberg's greenwich village apartment on nov. 2 when they discovered lisa steinberg comatose and brain dead, manhattan district attorney robert morgenthau said
the apartment also contained scales, crack pipes and drug recipe cards for cocaine and heroin derivatives along with a .45-caliber revolver and bullets for another weapon, morgenthau said
the child's death touched off a nationwide debate on child abuse and the role of school and welfare officials in trying to prevent it
a nine-count indictment, which supersedes a november indictment, also charges that steinberg abused the girl during the two months before her death, the prosecutor said. the original indictment charged him with endangering the welfare of a child on nov. 2
the new abuse charge is a felony. the weapons, drug and drug-paraphernalia possession charges are misdemeanors
steinberg has been held without bail in protective custody at rikers island. his longtime companion, hedda nussbaum, remains at columbia-presbyterian hospital, where she has been undergoing psychiatric treatment
after the girl's death, ms. nussbaum, an author and former children's book editor, was treated for a broken nose, injured eye and other injuries apparently stemming from a beating
she was charged by police in connection with lisa's death but has not been indicted. prosecutors said they would let her receive treatment before she decides whether to testify before a grand jury
lisa's biological mother, an unwed teen-ager, has testified she gave her newborn daughter to steinberg to arrange an adoption. the lawyer has admitted during a family court hearing that he kept the child without legally adopting her. name of village to sand lake, sted nelson village, in 2nd graf, add background in 6th graf</note>
ralph boerman is the lucky winner of an election in which candidates and voters stayed away in droves
boerman, bob vandenberg and earl thomas got exactly one write-in vote apiece in the coolly contested march 14 election in sand lake, a northern kent county village of about 200 people
on monday, three kent county employees gathered around a box to see if boerman, vandenberg or thomas would be the next village trustee
vandenberg's and thomas' proxies drew slips marked ``not elected.'' boerman's proxy drew the slip marked ``elected'' and boerman, who like the other candidates didn't attend the draw-off, became the new trustee of the village north of grand rapids
the 22-year-old winner, who has never held elective office, confessed monday he's got a lot to learn about his new job. he isn't sure how many people are on the board of trustees, what it does or how much he gets paid
i guess it just helps run (nelson) township and decides what happens,'' boerman said, referring to the township in which sand lake is contained. ``i really don't know but i will find out, the hard way.''
election law requires tie votes to be resolved by a drawing
vandenberg, 51, just resigned as the village president, a post he held for six years. thomas, 40, is a former village clerk. bill</note>
democrats albert gore jr. and richard gephardt campaigned in the glow of popular non-candidates monday _ gore with mario cuomo and gephardt with lee iacocca _ but came away without endorsements. republican george bush touted his endorsement by new jersey gov. thomas h. kean
bush, meanwhile, gave out another kind of endorsement _ lending his support to president reagan's veto of a major civil rights bill. congress was poised to override the veto on tuesday
the legislation ... is imperfect and the imperfections should be corrected,'' he told a group of black supporters in washington. ``i'm not going to start doing now what i haven't been doing for seven years, finding differences with the president, for whom i have great respect.''
bush said, however, that he supported the idea that the federal government should require that organizations that get tax dollars comply with civil rights laws
officials in puerto rico, meanwhile, continued to tally the results of sunday's primaries, in which bush rolled up another victory over bob dole and jesse jackson and michael dukakis added to their democratic totals
while bush attended a new jersey rally with kean, republican rival dole said in wisconsin that that was the state where he was trying to ``get back in the race.''
democratic candidates were focusing on michigan, where saturday's caucuses are the next big event after weekend contests in kansas, texas and puerto rico that helped dukakis and jackson
gephardt and gore won kind words but no endorsement in meetings with chrysler corp. chairman iacocca and new york gov. cuomo
cuomo, the most prominent democratic non-candidate, described his meeting with gore as ``excellent'' and ``interesting'' _ but then said: ``senator gore said nothing that i haven't heard him say before.''
the endorsements don't mean a great deal. the truth is, i didn't even need to see al gore,'' said cuomo. ``it's nice of him to come by.''
cuomo called the democratic field a ``confused picture'' and said he was ``now accelerating the process of trying to determine how best to be useful to the democratic party.''
gephardt appeared with iacocca, who also has been mentioned at times as a possible presidential candidate, outside the chrysler corp. headquarters in highland park, mich., as gephardt tried to revive his flagging candidacy by stressing his tough trade policies in the auto-producing state
iacocca said, ``dick gephardt's a good friend of mine and he knows what he's talking about on trade.'' but he made no endorsement and said he also was looking forward to meeting with other presidential candidates
beyond michigan, wisconsin's primary 10 days later was shaping up as a further democratic battleground, two weeks before the big new york primary april 19
gore began running television ads in wisconsin in hopes of making it the state where he demonstrates appeal outside the south. sen. paul simon, who won in his home state last week, was making a minimal effort in michigan but intended to run ads in wisconsin
connecticut holds its primary one week earlier, march 29, and dukakis was considered the leader, although gore would like to demonstrate some strength in the massachusetts governor's backyard
jackson campaigned in colorado, where caucuses are april 4, and in michigan on monday
republican dole, also looking to wisconsin, talked with farmers in the northwest part of the state and renewed his call for bush to debate him
earlier, in green bay, dole accused the reagan administration of not doing a good job of making its case for aid to the contras, who are battling nicaragua's sandinista regime
if you took a poll in wisconsin, i think a majority would be opposed to contra aid,'' he said. ``but if you asked the same people if they think the soviets should have a base in this hemisphere, they would say `no' by a wide margin.''
kean's endorsement came as bush added to a seemingly insurmountable lead in delegates
bush picked up the 14 delegates at stake in puerto rico's primary sunday, boosting his total to 788. that's nearly 70 percent of the 1,139 he needs to win at the national convention in new orleans this summer. dole had 178. former television evangelist pat robertson had 17
bush won in puerto rico with an overwhelming 98 percent of the vote in a primary system that in both parties was caught up in local disputes and issues such as the divisive question of statehood for the u.s. territory
the 51 democratic delegates from puerto rico all ran as uncommitted, and the candidates promised major efforts to woo them in coming weeks
jackson won the non-binding preference poll among puerto rico democrats. dukakis ran second and simon third
dukakis won the kansas caucuses on saturday, picking up 16 delegates. but jackson ran a strong second and won 14 delegates
in texas, jackson appeared to do better, splitting the delegates there in county conventions that were the next step in allocating at-large delegates for the state. that gave jackson a one-delegate edge over dukakis in the texas national delegate count _ including both the primary and caucus results _ but more complete returns could change that
in total delegates, dukakis clung to a small lead over jackson. the figures were: dukakis 526.5, jackson 508.55, gore 362.8, simon 171.5 and gephardt 154. to nominate, 2,082 delegates are needed
there are 138 delegates to be decided in michigan's caucuses. a weekend poll by the detroit news had dukakis with 33 percent and jackson 30 percent _ a virtual tie. gephardt was far behind in third place. proposing cease-fire; subs grafs 11-15 `at sapoa ...' with 5 grafs with first day of talks ending, details. picks up 15th graf pvs bgng, sending four ...</note>
nicaragua withdrew its soldiers from the honduran border monday and declared an end to fighting while it holds truce talks with contra rebels, according to reports from all sides
both nicaragua and the contras proposed cease-fires in talks monday
the border region remained tense, with honduran patrols on the lookout for any booby traps left behind by the sandinistas
president jose azcona hoyo said the 3,200 u.s. troops sent to honduras last week, after the nicaraguan army was accused of sending 2,000 men across the border in pursuit of contras, may not be needed any longer
the worst is over and there is peace now in the border region,'' col. reynald andino flores, commander of the honduran army's 101st infantry brigade, said by telephone from his headquarters in southern honduras
we are remaining on a state of alert to be ready for anything that may happen,'' he added, and soldiers are ``constantly patrolling the area.''
flores and other officers, some of whom insisted on anonymity for security reasons, said the sandinistas penetrated an area of about 20 square miles inside olancho province while chasing the u.s.-supported rebels in a two-week offensive to evict the contras from nicaragua
about 200 border incidents have been reported in olancho since the contras began fighting the leftist sandinista government in 1981
president daniel ortega and the nicaraguan government have denied sandinista soldiers crossed the border
the contras maintain camps in an area called bocay, which includes territory on both sides of the border. nicaragua claims the camps, which the contras use to store supplies and to stage raids inside nicaragua, are in nicaraguan land but the rebels say they are in honduras
at nicaragua's request, a u.n. fact-finding team will leave for nicaragua tuesday to investigate the border violence, the united nations announced in a statement. it said observations will be limited to the nicaragua side, since no permission was received from honduras to go there
at sapoa, a town on the costa rican border, representatives of the sandinista government and contras held their first direct talks monday on nicaraguan soil
at the conclusion of the first day of talks, both sides said they presented cease-fire proposals and agreed to stop fighting through the three-day negotiations
neither side seeks a military victory over the other,'' said alfredo cesar, head of the rebel delegation
cesar told reporters the contras proposed a 30-day cease-fire, continuous talks to reach a truce, a total amnesty and guarantees of free expression to lead toward reconciliation. he called the talks, which were behind closed doors, ``a step ahead.''
defense minister humberto ortega, leader of the government delegation, said he proposed an ``immediate and definitive cease-fire.'' he did not elaborate
sending four battalions of the 82nd airborne division and 7th light infantry to honduras brought the u.s. military presence in honduras to more than 6,000 men. they are engaged in joint exercises with the hondurans, but away from the border combat area
u.s. and honduran units have held joint exercises every few months for the last five years
some of the american troops practiced military maneuvers at an airstrip only 20 miles from the nicaraguan border on sunday. a u.s. army transport helicopter crashed during an exercise farther from the border, injuring all 10 u.s. soldiers aboard, pentagon spokesmen said in washington
the uh-1 huey helicopter crashed monday afternoon near juticalpa, honduras, said maj. gary hovatter, spokesman for the american forces sent to honduras last week
last thursday and saturday, honduran jets bombed sandinista positions in the bocay region, 145 miles east of tegucigalpa. one honduran officer said the planes were sent because the nicaraguans ``were not moving out fast enough.''
he said the honduran military had strengthened patrols along the ill-defined 500-mile frontier with nicaragua and honduran jets were conducting daily observation flights
azcona said sunday that, ``if there are no more incidents, the americans will leave.'' on monday, he told the associated press: ``honduras does not desire war but our armed forces are remaining on a state of alert and conducting at least two air reconnaissance flights daily.''
when the soldiers were sent to honduras last week, u.s. officials said they would be here about 10 days
a honduran military source said monday there were ``very few nicaraguan soldiers in our territory. our air reconnaissance carried out this morning showed it.''
in washington, the focus turned to a renewed debate over u.s. aid to the contras. the reagan administration indicated support for a new $48 million proposal advanced by a bipartisan group of senators
it would include funds to pay for delivery of up to $2.5 million in previously authorized military aid
a down-and-out man who left his lean-to shack in chicago in january to begin a new life in new mexico headed back to chicago on monday for another new start and perhaps marriage
harold thomas boarded the bus to chicago after quitting the job he had been given by a couple who read of his plight and offered him a home in this farming and ranching community of about 11,000 people
it was just a place to stay and a meal,'' thomas said of the home he was given by roy gilman, 75, and his wife ethel, 68. ``i felt like a robot.''
he said, however, that his big reason for leaving was, ``the girl i was going with in chicago wants to get married.''
he said the gilmans were nice people and had placed $300 in a bank for him, but that they told him they could not afford to pay him for his work
a man can't live with just room and board. after three months with room and board, you know, i want to have a family and stuff.''
thomas said he was going to try to find a place to stay, and see if his brother might help him
i think he's going to be happier with his people,'' mrs. gilman said monday night
he seemed very happy here,'' she said. ``it seemed like he thought a lot of us. we thought a lot of him. it started out nice and ended nice.''
thomas, 35, arrived in portales on jan. 17 after the gilmans read about him in an ap story published in the portales news-tribune. they contacted the ap bureau in chicago and said if thomas was willing to work, they'd provide him with a home and a job
the gilmans' son, ralph, said thomas didn't give any notice he was quitting, just telling him monday morning that he was homesick and was ready to go
before gaining national attention, thomas wore ill-fitting clothes and ate in soup kitchens. he and another man endured subzero temperatures in a rotted wood and canvas shack on the banks of the chicago river because they said they felt safer there than in city-run shelters
by the time thomas boarded a bus for the 27-hour journey to new mexico, people had donated clothes, luggage and spending money
his new home was an 8-foot-by-30-foot trailer in the junkyard where he worked eight hours a day, six days a week, tearing apart old cars and rebuilding engines. the other day was spent working in the fields at a church-run orphanage, where the gilmans had volunteered his service. one injury, details; picks up 3rd graf pvs, `there was ...' minor editing thruout to trim and conform.</note>
shipping executives said iranian gunboats attacked a norwegian-operated tanker in the persian gulf early tuesday, three days after an iraqi attack on a norwegian ship left 54 seamen missing and presumed dead
three rockets hit the the 380,534-ton havglint, a liquified pertroleum gas carrier that was carrying ammonia from saudi arabia, a shipping source said on condition of anonymity. the ship flies the singapore flag but is operated by the oslo-based company havtor, shipping executives said
at least one person was injured in the latest attack 12 miles northwest of dubai, said the executives, speaking on condition of anonymity
the executives said the havglint was leaking chemicals that could pose be a pollution problem
it was the seventh shipping attack since friday, when iran, in apparent reprisal for the resumption of iraqi strikes against its oil lifeline, ended a five-week hiatus in assaults on commercial shipping in the gulf
on monday, iran attacked and set ablaze a spanish freighter and a liberian tanker
there was no word on casualties aboard the 10,168-ton spanish refrigerator ship iberian reefer, which was ``burning fiercely'' at dusk, hours after it was attacked in the strait of hormuz, maritime salvage experts said
salvage tugboats went to the scene. there was no word on casualties
earlier, shipping executives said at least one iranian gunboat fired rocket-propelled grenades at the 61,762-ton liberian-registered fumi, setting its engine room ablaze and blasting holes in one of its tanks
the japanese-managed tanker, carrying saudi arabian oil, was on its way out of the gulf. shipping executives said salvage tugboats helped the fumi's crew extinguish the blaze
spain called the attack on the iberian reefer ``an act of aggression'' and summoned teheran's ambassador to spain to the foreign ministry for an explanation
the maritime insurance firm, lloyd's of london, said 37 ships have been damaged in attacks by iraq and iran this year, more than twice as many as in the first 2{ months of 1987, which was the worst year for shipping since the gulf war began in 1980. the figure did not include the attack on the havglint
a norwegian foreign ministry spokesman told the associated press that 54 crewmen were presumed dead after iraqi jets bombed two iranian tankers at the kharg island oil terminal in the northern gulf on saturday
most of the crew were iranians or asians, although a swedish officer was among the missing
if the norwegian report is correct, it would be the highest casualty toll in any attack by either side in the 4-year-old ``tanker war.''
christen puntervold, spokesman for the norwegian shipping association in oslo, said only four of 29 crewmen aboard the 253,837-ton sanandaj were known to have survived, and all 29 aboard the second tanker, the 316,379-ton avaj, were missing
both ships are owned by the iran's national iranian tanker co
a senior official of the bahrain government suggested it was time for a joint ``declaration'' that no interference with shipping was tolerable
information minister tariq al-moayyed told nbc news that foreign forces should ``reach a declaration ... that they will not allow interference with freedom of shipping in the gulf.''
the iraqi attacks are aimed at disrupting iran's oil exports, through which it finances the war, and forcing tehran to accept a peace proposal put forth by the united nations
iraq, meanwhile, fired a long-range missile into tehran on monday in the 105th such attack in three weeks. iran said 14 civilians, including two young girls, were killed in the explosion
the missile attack followed an unabated 24-hour artillery and rocket barrage on basra, iraq's second-largest city and its only outlet to the gulf
the official iraqi news agency, also monitored in nicosia, reported ``heavy casualties'' in basra
both sides have fired nearly 250 missiles into each other's main cities and border towns since feb. 29, reportedly killing hundreds of civilians
iran said that scores of kurdish children, aged two to 10, were being treated in tehran hospitals for injuries they sustained when iraqi troops dropped outlawed chemical bombs in a border region last week
iran had said 5,000 kurds were killed and 4,000 wounded when iraqi planes dropped chemical bombs on the town of halabja and adjacent villages after their capture in a land offensive
a tank loaded with sulfuric acid tumbled off the back of a truck monday, spilling six tons of the chemical onto a street in the volga river city of ulyanovsk, the tass news agency said
the six tons of acid poured out onto the asphalt, but specialists neutralized it with soda and none of the acid got into ulyanovsk's sewer system or ground water, tass said
the agency said no injuries were reported in the accident in the city of more than 480,000 people, about 500 miles east of moscow
it said an investigation was under way
tass blamed negligent workers at the kontaktor plant for failing to make certain the tank was securely fastened
vladimir i. lenin, founder of the soviet state, was born in the city in 1870, when it was called simbursk. lenin's real name was ulyanov, and soviet authorities renamed the city in his honor following his death in 1924. case</head>
authorities are investigating whether a former federal prosecutor manufactured threats against herself and a magistrate during the extradition case of two sikhs accused of terrorism in india, the u.s. attorney said monday
a search of former prosecutor judy russell's house revealed similar threatening messages in a travel bag, said u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr
an fbi laboratory analysis concluded that typewritten characters on envelopes containing the threats matched those on the prosecutor's 1983 application to the u.s. attorney's office, alito said. the typewriter matching the print also was found in her house, he said
ms. russell was in charge of handling the sikhs' case as an assistant u.s. attorney until leaving the office last summer to enter private practice. she received a temporary appointment as a special assistant after that, so she could continue to handle the case
she had submitted sealed information to u.s. magistrate ronald j. hedges during the weeklong hearing about the extradition in february. alito revealed monday that they consisted of three typewritten envelopes containing the messages and one handwritten envelope, all purportedly mailed to her newark law office
one of the letters addressed to ms. russell said: ``don't get dead. don't go to court.'' hedges also received a threatening letter, two weeks before the extradition hearing, alito said
the revelations that ms. russell was under investigation came during a court session requested by alito to ``correct and supplement'' the record regarding the threats
robert j. fettweis, ms. russell's attorney and former colleague in the u.s. attorney's office, said she was in a private hospital. he would not comment on any aspect of the case or the nature of her illness
alito said ms. russell had not been charged. the justice department's department of public integrity was handling the investigation, he said
the extradition hearings took place feb. 1-5 under extraordinary security, including sharpshooters on rooftops, which federal officials said was prompted by ``intelligence'' received by investigators
hedges ordered that the men, ranjit singh gill, 25, and sukhminder singh, 26, could be extradited. that ruling was being appealed
alito said the revelation about ms. russell's alleged involvement in the threats had no affect on the outcome of the extradition case, but said he would seek a new hearing ``only because we want to avoid any appearance of impropriety.''
the indian government charges that singh plotted the revenge assassination of a retired general who led the bloody 1984 assault against sikh militants occupying the sikhs' holiest shrine, the golden temple in amritsar
gill was charged in the killing of a parliament member
singh's attorney, ronald kuby, called the affair ``clearly the most astounding thing i've heard.'' he has accused the indian government of being behind the ``threats'' to poison the atmosphere against the two sikhs
president jose azcona hoyo said nicaraguan troops are retreating from honduran territory and the 3,200 u.s. soldiers on an emergency mission in honduras probably won't be needed much longer
some of the american soldiers practiced military maneuvers at a honduran airstrip only 20 miles from the nicaraguan border on sunday
in nicaragua, the government said direct cease-fire talks between sandinista and contra rebel officials would take place as scheduled today, despite the fighting along the nicaragua-honduras border
the reagan administration is indicating support for a new congressional plan to send military aid to the contra rebels, but congressional leaders say its survival depends on this week's peace talks in nicaragua
it should go forward,'' said secretary of state george shultz, offering the administration's first comment on the proposal by a group of senators
shultz, commenting sunday on nbc-tv's ``meet the press,'' said the $48 million package was ``a little low on money'' but under study by the administration
the rightist opposition won the mayoralty of san salvador in an upset that appeared to indicate a big win over the governing christian democrats in legislative and municipal elections
the announcement of the mayoralty victory by the republican nationalist alliance came about midnight sunday during a news conference attended by members of the central elections council and the two main candidates for mayor
armando calderon sol, the candidate of the rightist alliance, known by the acronym arena, repeated the claim of victory he had made two hours after polls closed at 5 p.m. on sunday
the defense minister said the shooting death of an israeli soldier, the first to be killed in four months of anti-occupation rioting, may indicate that palestinian rioters are beginning to arm themselves with guns
the reserve soldier, sgt. moshe katz, was killed sunday in bethlehem while on guard duty at a government building near a palestinian refugee campe. he was shot in the head at close range by a pistol-wielding assailant
in another development, israeli arab leaders decided to hold a general strike later this month despite warnings it could increase tensions with israel's jewish community and lead to violent clashes with security forces
advocates of spending limits for senate campaigns are regrouping for another battle, pursuing a new route after republicans talked the last attempt to death less than a month ago
the push is being led by sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., who is the chief sponsor of a 19-word resolution that he hopes will become the 27th amendment to the u.s. constitution
hollings is proposing the amendment as an alternative to legislation that was stymied by a 53-hour republican filibuster late last month
many owners of small businesses in massachusetts question how much gov. michael s. dukakis' proposed universal health care program will cost, and are sure they will be the ones who will pay the price
i can really see the laundromat business going right down the drain, and the same with the car wash,'' said joe shaulis, an entrepreneur who counts cleaning cars and clothes among his enterprises
dukakis' first-in-the-nation health proposal, in final negotiations in the legislature, would provide guaranteed health insurance to every massachusetts resident by 1992
the plan would require employers to offer coverage to their workers within four years or begin paying an unemployment surcharge to fund state-pooled insurance for the uninsured
corruption is so widespread here that crooked guards may be watching crooks who may have been arrested by crooked cops, defended by crooked lawyers or sentenced by crooked judges, longtime observers say
the only thing in the last 10 years that hasn't been crooked is both the da's and the u.s. attorney's office,'' former district attorney edward rendell said
various investigations in the nation's fifth-largest city, where the constitution was written 201 years ago, have resulted in convictions or charges against judges, police, defense lawyers and prison guards, the latest target of prosecutors. am-news digest: tegucigalpa, honduras _ central america; panama city, panama _ panama; washington _ us-soviet; london _ irish-assess; washington _ us-israel-media; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham-legislature; undated _ political rdp; san salvador, el salvador _ salvador; jerusalem _ israel. ^by the associated press</note>
ira gunmen killed a policeman monday at a checkpoint in londonderry, the 10th victim in two weeks of heightening tension and sectarian violence
britain announced a massive manhunt in west belfast's roman catholic ghettos for the killers of two british soldiers caught in an ira funeral procession
northern ireland secretary tom king said in london that the royal ulster constabulary has launched an immediate review of its new policy of keeping a low profile at irish republican army funerals. the policy was aimed at avoiding clashes between police and supporters of the outlawed ira
iranian gunboats attacked and set ablaze a spanish freighter and a liberian tanker in the persian gulf on monday, two days after an iraqi attack on a norweigan vessel left 54 seamen missing and presumed dead
there have been six maritime attacks since friday when iran, in apparent reprisal for the resumption of iraqi strikes against its oil lifeline, ended a five-week hiatus in assaults on commercial shipping in the oil-rich waterway
there was no word on casualties aboard the 10,168-ton spanish refrigerator ship iberian reefer, which was ``burning fiercely'' at dusk, hours after it was attacked in the strait of hormuz, maritime salvage experts said
scientists have redesigned a potent natural poison so that it seeks out and kills cancer cells in the test tube, signaling a possible new route for fighting some tumors, a scientist said monday
the poison, so strong that a dose the size of a salt grain can kill a person, may be harnessed for fighting breast cancers that have spread elsewhere in the body, and some lung and brain tumors, said ira pastan of the national cancer institute
the strategy takes advantage of the fact that some cancer cells display on their surface certain kinds of protein structures called receptors. specific substances bind to each kind of receptor before they enter the cell
the supreme court agreed monday to decide whether abused children may sue public officials for failing to protect them from their parents
the justices said they will hear an appeal on behalf of a wisconsin boy who suffered serious and permanent brain damage from beatings by his father. social workers and officials are accused of gross negligence in ignoring evidence the boy was being brutally victimized
the court's study of the case, expected to yield a ruling sometime in 1989, comes amid growing concern nationwide over child abuse
an old generation is remembering the vietnam war and a new generation is curious, stirring a revival of the controversial era in books and movies. now comes a new publication, a slick magazine simply named vietnam, whose premiere issue goes on sale tuesday
our timing could not have been better because right now, look at all the vietnam movies that have come out,'' said publisher gregg r. oehler in a telephone interview from leesburg, va., where the magazine is published by empire press. ``look at all the major emphasis now on video, on books. it's vietnam. everyone now is talking about vietnam.''
oehler said 150,000 copies of the first issue were printed, including 50,000 for subscribers and 100,000 for newsstand sales across the united states and in 16 other countries. the magazine, a quarterly, sells for $2.95 a copy on newsstands and for $9.95 for the four issues by subscription
the latest squabble between prosecutors and defense attornyes isn't about cases, tactics or money. it's about being able to bypass new security procedures at the dirksen federal building, and it's headed for _ where else? _ the bench
complaints from the public have been few, but the security system brought the entire u.s. district court system here to a screeching halt one afternoon and prompted 39 attorneys _ including several of chicago's best-known defenders _ to petition the district's 21 judges for the same exemptions granted to prosecutors and building employees. a decision is expected thursday
the u.s. marshal's office said the procedures were in response to a growing number of threats against the federal judiciary nationwide and an increase in terrorism trials. they follow recent trials of members of the el rukn street gang and the puerto rican independence group, faln, on terrorism-related charges
want to buy a million-dollar mansion with hardwood floors, chandeliers and a spiral staircase? a firm here will build you one on its assembly line and ship it to you in pieces on flatbed trucks
it's really an evolutionary thing for home building,'' said george oswald, treasurer of techno craft inc., a 3-year-old, privately held company
each two-story luxury home built by techno craft, which began production last august, has hardwood floors, a spiral staircase, chandeliers, a fireplace, jacuzzi, bidet and imported tiles. options include a steam room, sauna and an elevator
cunningham, 35, started the techno craft in 1985 when another company he heads had trouble finding an adequate supply of upscale housing in the new york metropolitan area
a dozen french archaeologists are racing against a swarm of bulldozers in this coastal village, trying to save precious history before it is churned to pieces by construction of the tunnel under the english channel
in reality, the race already is lost. according to the building schedule, only six months remain for the historians to save what they can from sites containing vestiges of paleolithic, neolithic, bronze age, iron age, gallo-roman, merovingian and medieval cultures
sites that normally would take years to excavate are being dug and studied in two months. the meticulous preparation through library and archives research is being put off until later. the focus is entirely on the ground, soon to be churned and destroyed
we know what we can't do,'' said jean-claude routier, chief of one crew working at a site on a chalk hill containing the remains of an 11th century church and an earlier burial ground. ``we select. we are starting to get used to the pressure.''
a colleague, jean-pierre jorrand, uncovering a nearby gallo-roman site, said ``we stress recovering knowledge over artifacts.''
president francois mitterrand of france and prime minister margaret thatcher of britain signed an accord in january 1986 for the construction of a rail tunnel for trains to carry freight, motor vehicles and passengers in both directions. it is scheduled for completion by 1993 at an estimated cost of about $8 billion, making it the largest privately financed building project ever attempted
though completion is still five years away, by september the earthmovers will have torn into the entire 2,200-acre area that will be the train terminal on the french side
the $442,000 budget for the archaeological excavations is provided jointly by the french culture ministry, the anglo-french eurotunnel building consortium, the state-run french railroad and local and regional governments
it's difficult for an archaeologist to work so fast,'' says luc vallin, conservator of antiquities and prehistory in the nord-pas de calais region of northern france as well as field director here. ``it's really rescue archaeology.''
the historians started working on an archaeological report in the autumn of 1985, before the tunnel accord was signed. the report was completed in march 1986, but archaeological work was delayed while a financing agreement was worked out
prospecting for potential digging sites began, with money advanced by eurotunnel, in september 1986, even before the budget agreement was reached. aerial surveys were made. mechanical shovels dug swaths across the ground in areas of potential archaeological value
twenty sites were selected
some excavation began in june 1987, but work really didn't get moving strongly until december
at one site, if we could have excavated it completely, we could have reconstructed entire gaullish houses,'' said vallin. ``as it was, we had to content ourselves with what could be saved.''
archaeologists know very little about the gallo-roman era in this region, roughly from boulogne to the belgian border. rural life in the medieval period also is a subject of great interest
perhaps it's in the medieval period that we are finding the most exciting material, and in protohistory,'' the bronze and iron ages, vallin said
the biggest problem, apart from time, is personnel
at some sites, we could have used 20 people for a year instead of three for two months,'' vallin said
relations with the tunnel builders have been fairly good, even if they sometimes push a little hard. the archaeologists and the construction men meet once a week to discuss schedules
the vast range of history covered by the digs requires a wide range of talent. most of the archaeologists are contract workers hired for a limited time, usually according to their speciality
from an educational point of view, i am a prehistorian,'' vallin said. ``but i have learned a lot about the roman and medieval periods.''
sitting on the chalk hill surveying the remains of a medieval church and nearby structures, crew chief routier was preparing to move on after 2{ months at the site
it would be interesting to dig up all the graves to study the methods of the period,'' he said. ``it's all going to disappear with the bulldozers.''
even so, vallin and the others said, without the tunnel project, it's likely the sites would not have been tapped at all because of lack of funding
it is the very picture of adventure, the climber planting a flag in triumph atop an icy himalayan peak. what isn't generally known, however, is that a mountain of paperwork has to be scaled first
mountain climbing in nepal, for all its risk and romance, also means conquering an array of permits, payments, insurance forms, and wills for sherpa guides. and then comes patience, for it can take years to get it all done
anyone who wants to climb the famed mount everest, for example, may have to wait six or seven years to get a nepalese government permit because the world's highest peak also is nepal's most desired challenge. then there are the expenses and 58 pages of rules set down by nepal's government
probably 80 percent of the effort is getting to the bottom of the mountain (to start the climb),'' says steve langley, a canadian leading a six-week expedition up 22,479-foot mount ama dablam, 10 miles southwest of everest
langley, a 40-year-old computer consultant from calgary, alberta, first applied to climb the mountain in 1982
we arrived here without the permit,'' he said. ``it was finally granted officially three weeks ago.''
murari p. khatiwada of nepal's mountaineering division says the long wait is due to the growing number of people who want to ascend 122 of the 1,310 peaks nepal grants permits for
ten years ago we had 20 expeditions throughout the year. now we have more than 100,'' said khatiwada
he explained that amounted to 800 to 1,000 climbers, not including the guides and porters, usually from the nimble sherpa tribe, who accompany foreign mountaineers
for this reason, khatiwada said, nearly all nepal's mountains are booked through 1990 and applications for some peaks are being accepted for the year 2000
he said it was vital to limit the number of climbers to protect nepal's environment
a mountain is fragile,'' he explained. ``it cannot bear the burden of too many people.''
just as frustrating as the wait for climbers are the government regulations, which get down to such details as how many socks, shoes and umbrellas must be supplied to guides and porters. they also list fees for the peaks. all that is just the beginning of an expedition's expenses
the permit to climb everest's 29,028 feet costs $2,547. for any other peak above 26,400 feet, the fee is $2,038. for mount ama dablam, it costs $1,528
langley's team of himself, four other canadians and an american has budgeted $24,000 for the climb, and he said ``we're doing it on the cheap.''
all his people are experienced and already have most of the needed equipment. the american climber, tom dickey, 31, of boulder, colo., has worked as a trekking guide in nepal
but the team is taking along a liaison officer, required by the government but paid by the expedition; a chief sherpa; an assistant, and 12 porters. salaries for all are specified in the government rules, along with the equipment to be provided them
langley said the actual gear is rarely given the sherpas, most of whom have equipment from earlier climbs, and a cash payment is usually negotiated in lieu of equipment
the daily salary, in the scheme of things, is peanuts,'' said langley
he said the pay to the government liaison officer, for example, is $2 a day. his equipment allowance comes to the equivalent of $800
other expenses include $1,000 for an agency to help ease the way through the nepalese bureaucracy, $350 for required insurance for climbers and sherpas, and the cost of getting climbers and their equipment to nepal
each man on langley's team is putting up $4,000 to make the climb, although expeditions often seek funds from mountaineering societies, philanthropists or companies wanting publicity for their products
peter hill, an englishman also leading an expedition up ama dablam, said he wrote 400 letters seeking backing without success
to get money these days for a peak, it's got to be unclimbed or it's got to be everest,'' he complained
but hill, 26, ran into a stroke of luck. his father happened upon a newspaper ad for a bank, perpetual unit trust, picturing its symbol _ the peak of ama dablam
dickey, the colorado climber, noted that mountaineers can avoid all the preliminary trouble by climbing europe's alps or the andes in south america, where no permits are needed
nevertheless, he said, ``i'm in on an everest expedition in 1990.''
although communist rebels threaten to attack u.s. businesses in the philippines, one american company is growing pineapples on a substantial chunk of mindanao island and showing little fear in doing it
it's a very open company and a very open society,'' said brian carew, field operations manager of the philippine packing corp., local subsidiary of rjr reynolds, which now owns the del monte brand of products. ``i feel safer here than in new york.''
communist rebels, who operate near this giant plantation some 500 miles southeast of manila, have threatened to attack american interests in retaliation for u.s. support of philippines governments that have been fighting the insurgents for 19 years
this past november the rival dole-philippines inc., considered abandoning its fruit plantation in mindanao's south cotabato province after raids by communist rebels resulted in more than $250,000 worth of property and equipment damage
the del monte plantation, in bukidnon province, has no fencing and only a small security force
in december, communist new people's army guerrillas raided a military camp in the bukidnon town of don carlos and made off with a machine gun, more than 20 automatic assault rifles, grenades and thousands of rounds of ammunition
carew, a native of dorchester, mass., said communist bands occasionally pass through the western side of the plantation but have not attacked. he said del monte does not pay the rebels protection money
since del monte began operations in the philippines in 1926, its holdings have grown from about 9,880 acres to more than 61,750 acres around the towns of impasugong, sumilao, libona and manolo fortich
one-third of the land is leased from the government's national development corp. for about $16 an acre a year. the rest is leased from local farmers
company officials said in interviews with the associated press that del monte employs about 10,600 workers, including about 100 at company headquarters in manila. most workers come from bukidnon and neighboring misamis oriental province
the subsidiary had gross sales of $110 million last year and net income of $20.7 million. it earned $78.8 million in hard currency for the philippines and paid the philippines peso equivalent of $21 million in taxes
company officials estimate that about 60,000 people in the area depend on the plantation
at camp philipps, the largest of the subsidiary's seven camps, workers's quarters are simple but adequate. a large social hall dominates the main road, next to a cooperative store where workers buy most of their daily needs
speak english'' signs are posted on the walls of the camp's vocational school for boys
children of management officials, including carew's 12-year-old daughter, jessica, attend the del monte school up to seventh grade. the school teaches 20 to 25 children, about three-fourths of them filipino
private secondary schools and colleges are subsidized by the comany and tuition fees are comparatively low
officials said the average daily salary is 105 pesos ($5.25), nearly double the mandated minimum wage. medical treatment is free. housing, including electricity and water, is free for some 2,000 senior employees while others get housing allowances
brian haycox, the philippines company president, said del monte believes in above average worker benefits because ``we can't run our business, manage it and address all the issues facing us today unless we have good human resource development.''
the company does not allow visiting journalists to interview workers unless accompanied by an official
i don't apologize to anybody about what we do because we do it well,'' carew told a group of visiting reporters
the company came in for criticism this past october in report by a swiss mission that visited in february 1987. the mission, made up of the migros cooperative society, swiss aid, helbetas, swiss lenten fund and bread for brethren, said many workers complained of harassment and intimidation by lower- and middle-grade supervisors and of unjustified promotions
the overriding feeling is one of fear of losing the job,'' the report said. ``mistrust of the company is widespread.''
it added that workers showed ``little confidence'' in their unions, the associated labor union and the workers alliance of trade unions, which it said are perceived as pro-management
but worker activity against the company has been limited
some workers have been picketing the company's cannery in nearby gugo, and a company bus was set afire early this year
the swiss mission report also criticized the company's policy of leasing land from local farmers, charging the leases are couched in language the farmers can't understand
adrian pabayo, the company's public relations manager, defended the policy
there is enough land available here not being used,'' he said
three years after he was swept to office in a landslide, prime minister rajiv gandhi has become the target of a vociferous opposition campaign for his ouster
anti-government rallies have been drawing thousands of slogan-shouting demonstrators to new delhi. parliament has been disrupted by angry walk-outs. general strikes have closed businesses and schools
we think he is vulnerable,'' said prakash karat of the marxist communist party of india, which has helped organize some of the agitation. ``if he dares to call a mid-term poll (snap election), the opposition has a good chance of winning.''
in karat's eyes, the 43-year-old prime minister has brought the problems on himself. he cited charges of corruption, rising sikh separatist violence in punjab state and mounting economic problems
gandhi has so far rejected calls for a snap election, and aides and some independent analysts say the opposition parties are too much in disarray to beat him anyway
the handful of factions are united only in their anti-gandhi fervor and often tend to compete more with each other. no overall leader has emerged from among the dissidents
the indian press, alive to rumors that gandhi may indeed call an election, has begun talking about his ``tina factor,'' an acronym for ``there is no alternative.'' supporters and detractors alike say tina may ensure that gandhi not only weathers the political storm but emerges with a second, five-year term
a poll of more than 10,000 voters conducted in february for india today, a biweekly news magazine, indicated that if parliament elections were held now, gandhi's congress party would win 64 percent of the seats
that would be down from the 77 percent congress won in december 1984, when gandhi came to power on a wave of sympathy two months after his mother and predecessor, indira gandhi, was assassinated by two sikh bodyguards. but it's more than enough to form a government in india's multiparty system
rajiv gandhi's congress benefits from the tina factor precisely because the opposition parties show no signs of coming together,'' india today concluded
ashis nandy, a political analyst at the center for the study of developing societies, doesn't agree. regardless of what opinion polls show, he said, the opposition could defeat gandhi
the indian electorate traditionally either rewards a regime for ruling well or punishes it for ruling badly,'' nandy added. ``although rajiv gandhi may still be personally honest, he looks tainted, looks inefficient. the voters do not feel good about him.''
just who would lead an opposition charge nationally remains in question. the strongest contender is v.p. singh, who was gandhi's finance minister and then defense minister before being ousted from the congress party on grounds of anti-party activity
singh now assails gandhi as ``a total failure.'' he and a dozen other congress dissidents have been trying to forge alliances with other opposition groups. no common front has emerged, in part because leftist groups like the communist party refuse to ally themselves with right-wing, hindu-dominated parties like the bharatiya janata party
gandhi enjoyed a honeymoon, of sorts, during his first two years in office. an airline pilot before moving into politics, he promised to modernize india and was nicknamed ``mr. clean'' for his pledge to bring honest government to the 800 million indians
with the congress-dominated parliament behind him, gandhi liberalized industrial policy, modified the tax system to encourage private investment and increased funding for education and health
last year, the honeymoon ended. first came the disclosure that gandhi's finance ministry had hired an american detective agency to investigate the illegal overseas bank accounts of indians, a controversial move in a nation wary of foreign influence
next came the announcement that the government was investigating alleged kickbacks paid on contracts for swedish artillery and west german submarines
opposition leaders and several powerful newspapers seized the corruption issue and hammered away with allegations that some of the bribes went to gandhi or his allies in the congress party
none of the charges were proved, but gandhi was forced to go to parliament and deny personal involvement
at the same time, domestic problems mounted
_the annual monsoon rains failed, plunging two-thirds of the nation into drought
_attacks by sikh extremists in punjab rose dramatically, leaving more than 1,000 people dead by the end of 1987
_an indian-sponsored peace accord in nearby sri lanka was signed but shortly collapsed. although gandhi has sent more than 50,000 troops to the island to put down a tamil separatist rebellion, the opposition has not focused on the issue
last year there was a tremendous amount of uncertainty,'' said a gandhi aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``we weathered it. since then, a lot of high temperatures have come down.''
today is monday, march 28, the 88th day of 1988. there are 278 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 28th, 1979, the worst u.s. commercial nuclear accident occurred inside the no. 2 reactor at pennsylvania's three mile island power plant. a cooling system malfunctioned, damaging the reactor's core and leaking radioactivity
on this date:
in 1797, nathaniel briggs of new hampshire patented a washing machine
in 1834, the u.s. senate voted to censure president andrew jackson for the removal of federal deposits from the bank of the united states
in 1930, the names of the turkish cities of constantinople and angora were changed to istanbul and ankara
in 1939, the spanish civil war ended as madrid fell to the forces of francisco franco
in 1941, novelist and critic virginia woolf died in lewes, england
in 1942, during world war ii, british naval forces raided the nazi-occupied french port of st. nazaire
in 1943, composer sergei rachmaninoff died in beverly hills, calif
in 1953, athlete jim thorpe died in lomita, calif
in 1969, the 34th president of the united states, dwight d. eisenhower, died in washington at the age of 78
in 1977, ``rocky'' won the academy award for best picture of 1976. awards for best actor and best actress went to the late peter finch and to faye dunaway, for ``network.''
in 1982, voters in el salvador went to the polls for a constituent assembly election that would result in victory for the christian democrats, led by president jose napoleon duarte
ten years ago: president jimmy carter began a five-nation tour as he arrived in caracas, venezuela, where he delighted residents by speaking in fluent spanish
five years ago: in argentina, unionized workers demanding higher wages began a 24-hour general strike, paralyzing the country's industry, commerce and transportation
one year ago: maria von trapp, whose life inspired the rodgers and hammerstein musical ``the sound of music,'' died in morrisville, vt., at age 82
today's birthdays: former secretary of state edmund muskie is 74. actor freddie bartholomew is 64. former national security adviser zbigniew brzezinski is 60. senator frank murkowski (republican from alaska) is 55. actor ken howard is 44. country singer reba mcentire is 33
thought for today: ``just as houses are made of stones, so is science made of facts; but a pile of stones is not a house and a collection of facts is not necessarily science.'' -- jules henri poincare, french mathematician (1854-1912)
today is tuesday, march 29, the 89th day of 1988. there are 277 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 29, 1973, the last united states troops left south vietnam, ending america's direct involvement in the vietnam war
on this date:
in 1638, swedish colonists settled in present-day delaware
in 1790, the 10th president of the united states, john tyler, was born in charles city county, va
in 1812, the first white house wedding took place when lucy payne washington, sister-in-law of president james madison, married supreme court justice thomas todd
in 1867, the british parliament passed the north america act to create the dominion of canada, effective july 1
in 1882, the knights of columbus was chartered in connecticut
in 1932, a well-known vaudeville comedian made his radio debut with the words, ``ladies and gentlemen, this is jack benny talking. there will be a slight pause while you say, `who cares?'''
in 1943, world war ii rationing of meat, butter and cheese began
in 1951, julius and ethel rosenberg were convicted of espionage charges. they were executed in june 1953
in 1971, army lt. william l. calley jr. was convicted of murdering at least 22 vietnamese civilians in the my lai massacre. calley ended up spending three years under house arrest
in 1971, a jury in los angeles recommended the death penalty for charles manson and three female followers for the 1969 tate-la bianca murders. the sentences were eventually commuted
in 1974, eight ohio national guardsmen were indicted on charges stemming from the deaths of four students at kent state university. the guardsmen were acquitted the following november
in 1982, ``chariots of fire'' received the academy award for best picture of 1981. henry fonda and katharine hepburn received best actor and best actress honors for ``on golden pond.''
ten years ago: president jimmy carter arrived in brazil, where he told the country's president, general ernesto geisel, that all nations had to recognize their shortcomings in human rights
five years ago: artificial heart recipient barney clark was eulogized in federal way, wash., as a ``selfless pioneer.'' clark, the first man with a permanent artificial heart, lived 112 days with the device before his death march 23
one year ago: israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir was re-elected chairman of the right-wing herut party, the largest party in the likud bloc governing israel as part of a coalition
today's birthdays: former u.s. senator eugene mccarthy is 72. singer pearl bailey is 70. actress eileen heckart is 69. billy carter is 51. senator larry pressler, r-s.d., is 46. comedian eric idle is 45. singer bobby kimbal is 41. actor bud cort is 38. gymnast kurt thomas is 32
thought for today: ``the world has achieved brilliance without conscience. ours is a world of nuclear giants and ethical infants.'' -- general omar n. bradley (1893-1981)
today is wednesday, march 30, the 90th day of 1988. there are 276 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 30, 1867, u.s. secretary of state william h. seward reached agreement with russia to purchase the territory of alaska for $7.2 million. the deal was roundly ridiculed in the united states as ``seward's folly.''
on this date:
in 1822, florida became a u.s. territory
in 1842, dr. crawford w. long of jefferson, ga., first used ether as an anesthetic during a minor operation
in 1858, hyman l. lipman of philadelphia patented a pencil with an attached eraser
in 1870, the 15th amendment to the constitution, giving black men the right to vote, was declared in effect
in 1870, texas was readmitted into the union
in 1909, the queensboro bridge opened, linking the new york city boroughs of manhattan and queens
in 1945, the soviet union invaded austria during world war ii
in 1964, john glenn withdrew from the ohio race for u.s. senate because of injuries suffered in a fall
in 1973, ellsworth bunker resigned as u.s. ambassador to south vietnam, and was succeeded by graham a. martin
in 1981, president reagan and three other men were shot and wounded by john w. hinckley jr. outside a washington hotel
in 1982, the space shuttle ``columbia'' ended its third test flight with a smooth landing at white sands missile range in new mexico with astronauts jack r. lousma and c. gordon fullerton aboard
in 1984, president reagan formally ended u.s. participation in the multinational peacekeeping force in lebanon
in 1986, actor james cagney died at his farm his stanfordville, n.y., at age 86
ten years ago: during his latin american tour, president jimmy carter held a news conference in brasilia, brazil, telling reporters he was confident israeli prime minister menachem begin could negotiate peace with his arab neighbors
five years ago: a jury in santa monica, calif., decided that groucho marx's companion, erin fleming, had defrauded the late comedian, and awarded nearly $500,000 to the executor of marx's estate. the amount was later reduced to $221,000
one year ago: the movie ``platoon'' won four oscars, including best picture, at the academy awards ceremonies in los angeles. paul newman was named best actor for ``the color of money,'' and the best actress award went to marlee matlin for ``children of a lesser god.''
today's birthdays: singer frankie laine is 75. former presidential aide mcgeorge bundy is 69. actor john astin is 58. tv personality peter marshall is 58. actor warren beatty is 51. singer eric clapton is 43
thought for today: ``over and over again mediocrity is promoted because real worth isn't to be found.'' -- kathleen norris, american author (1880-1960)
today is thursday, march 31, the 91st day of 1988. there are 275 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
twenty years ago, on march 31, 1968, president lyndon b. johnson stunned the country with a surprise announcement at the end of a broadcast address on the vietnam war, telling the audience, ``i shall not seek, and i will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your president.''
on this date:
in 1831, quebec and montreal were incorporated as cities
in 1870, thomas peterson mundy cast a ballot in a municipal election in perth amboy, n.j., becoming the first black to vote following ratification of the 15th amendment
in 1880, wabash, ind., became the first town to be completely illuminated with electrical lighting
in 1889, the eiffel tower, in paris, was officially opened to the public
in 1917, the united states took possession of the virgin islands from denmark
in 1923, the first dance marathon in the united states, held in new york city, ended with alma cummings setting a world record of 27 hours on her feet
in 1932, ford motor co. publicly unveiled its v-8 engine
in 1933, during the great depression, congress authorized the civilian conservation corps
in 1943, the rodgers and hammerstein musical ``oklahoma!'' opened on broadway
in 1949, newfoundland entered confederation as canada's 10th province
in 1953, the united nations security council nominated dag hammarskjold of sweden to become secretary-general
in 1976, the new jersey supreme court ruled that karen anne quinlan, in a coma for almost a year, could be disconnected from her respirator. quinlan, who remained in a coma, died in june 1985
in 1980, former track and field star jesse owens, hero of the 1936 berlin olympics, died in tucson, ariz., of lung cancer at the age of 66
in 1986, 167 people died when a mexicana airlines boeing 727 crashed in a remote mountainous region of mexico in that country's worst aviation disaster
ten years ago: president jimmy carter arrived in nigeria on the first official visit by an american president to black africa
five years ago: some 5,000 people died when a major earthquake struck southern colombia, devastating the mountain city of popayan
one year ago: the judge in the ``baby m'' case in hackensack, n.j., awarded custody of the girl born under a surrogate-motherhood contract to her natural father, william stern, instead of her biological mother, mary beth whitehead
today's birthdays: radio and tv personality henry morgan is 73. actor richard kiley is 66. actor william daniels is 61. labor leader cesar chavez is 61. former hockey star gordie howe is 60. actress shirley jones is 54. actor richard chamberlain is 53. musician herb alpert is 53. senator patrick leahy, d-vt., is 48. actor christopher walken is 45. comedian gabe kaplan is 43
thought for today: ``the most important thing about spaceship earth -- an instruction book didn't come with it.'' -- r. buckminster fuller, american architect and author (1895-1983)
today is friday, april 1, the 92nd day of 1988. there are 274 days left in the year. this is april fool's day
today's highlight in history:
on april 1, 1945, american forces launched the invasion of okinawa during world war ii
on this date:
in 1789, the u.s. house of representatives held its first full meeting, in new york city. frederick muhlenberg of pennsylvania was elected the first house speaker
in 1853, cincinnati became the first u.s. city to pay its firefighters a regular salary
in 1873, composer sergei rachmaninoff was born in novgorod province, russia
in 1918, the royal air force was established in britain
in 1933, nazi germany began its persecution of jews with a boycott on jewish-owned businesses
in 1939, the united states recognized the franco government in spain following the end of the spanish civil war
in 1960, the first weather satellite, ``tiros-one,'' was launched from cape canaveral, fla
in 1963, most of new york city's daily newspapers resumed publishing after settlement was reached in a 114-day strike
in 1977, the u.s. senate followed the example of the house by adopting, 86-9, a stringent code of ethics requiring full financial disclosure and limits on outside income
in 1979, iran proclaimed an islamic republic, following the fall of the shah
in 1984, motown recording star marvin gaye was shot to death by his father, marvin gay sr., in los angeles
ten years ago: in a speech delivered in lagos, nigeria, president jimmy carter warned against cuban military meddling in africa, and denounced white racism
five years ago: tens of thousands of anti-nuclear demonstrators linked arms in a 14-mile human chain spanning three key defense installations in rural england, including the greenham common u.s. air base
one year ago: in his first major speech on the aids epidemic, president reagan told a meeting of doctors in philadelphia, ``we've declared aids public health enemy number one.''
today's birthdays: actor toshiro mifune is 68. author william manchester is 66. actor george grizzard is 60. actress jane powell is 59. actor gordon jump is 56. actress debbie reynolds is 56. actor don hastings is 54. actress ali macgraw is 50. david eisenhower is 41
thought for today: ``never give a man up until he has failed at something he likes.'' -- lewis edward lawes, american criminologist and onetime warden of sing sing prison (1883-1947)
today is saturday, april 2, the 93rd day of 1988. there are 273 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 2, 1917, saying, ``the world must be made safe for democracy,'' president woodrow wilson asked congress to declare war against germany
on this date:
in 1513, spanish explorer juan ponce de leon landed in florida
in 1792, congress authorized establishment of the u.s. mint
in 1805, storyteller hans christian andersen was born in odense, denmark
in 1834, frederic auguste bartholdi, the sculptor who created the statue of liberty, was born in colmar, france
in 1860, the first italian parliament met at turin
in 1865, confederate president jefferson davis and most of his cabinet fled the confederate capital of richmond, va
in 1872, samuel f.b. morse, the developer of the electric telegraph, died in new york
in 1932, aviator charles a. lindbergh and dr. john f. condon turned over $50,000 to an unidentified man in a bronx, n.y., cemetery as ransom for lindbergh's kidnapped son
in 1956, the soap operas ``as the world turns'' and ``the edge of night'' premiered on cbs television
in 1974, french president georges pompidou died in paris
in 1982, several thousand troops from argentina seized the disputed falkland islands from britain. britain would seize them back by the following june
in 1986, four americans were killed when a bomb exploded aboard a twa jetliner that was en route from rome to athens, greece
in 1986, alabama gov. george c. wallace announced he was retiring from public life
ten years ago: president jimmy carter told reporters during his visit to nigeria that the united states and britain were trying to bring all sides in the rhodesia dispute together in an effort to arrange a peaceful transition to black majority rule
five years ago: soviet foreign minister andrei gromyko issued a stinging rejection of president reagan's proposal for reducing medium-range missiles in europe, telling a news conference in moscow the plan was ``unacceptable on all counts.''
one year ago: the u.s. senate, rejecting a plea from president reagan, overrode his veto of an $88 billion highway and mass transit bill that the president had denounced as containing ``pork-barrel'' items
today's birthdays: actor buddy ebsen is 80. producer irene mayer selznick is 78. actor sir alec guinness is 74. the archbishop of chicago, cardinal joseph bernardin, is 60. actress sharon acker is 53. singer emmylou harris is 40. actress debralee scott is 35. actor ron palillo is 34
thought for today: ``birth, ancestry and that which you yourself have not achieved can hardly be called your own.'' -- greek proverb
today is sunday, march 27, the 87th day of 1988. there are 279 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 27, 1977, 582 people were killed in aviation's worst disaster when a klm boeing 747, attempting to take off, crashed into a pan am 747 on a runway on the canary island of tenerife
on this date:
in 1512, spanish explorer juan ponce de leon sighted florida
in 1625, charles i, king of england, scotland and ireland, ascended the throne upon the death of james i
in 1794, president george washington and congress authorized creation of the u.s. navy
in 1836, the first mormon temple was dedicated, in kirtland, ohio
in 1860, m.l. byrn of new york city patented a corkscrew
in 1884, the first long-distance telephone call was made, between boston and new york
in 1917, the seattle metropolitans became the first u.s. team to win the stanley cup, defeating the montreal canadiens
in 1945, general dwight d. eisenhower declared that german defenses on the western front had been broken
in 1958, nikita khrushchev became soviet premier in addition to first secretary of the communist party
in 1964, alaska was rocked by an earthquake that killed more than 100 people
in 1968, soviet cosmonaut yuri gagarin, the first man to orbit the earth, died in a plane crash
ten years ago: thousands of u.s. miners returned to work for the first time in 112 days, ending the nationwide soft coal strike that began december 6
five years ago: an angry crowd shouting ``go home!'' forced chicago mayoral candidate harold washington to cut short a campaign appearance with former vice president walter f. mondale in the city's north side
one year ago: the marine corps charged that sergeant clayton j. lonetree, a marine guard, had escorted soviet agents through the u-s embassy in moscow -- an accusation that was later dropped, although lonetree was convicted of espionage
today's birthdays: former british prime minister james callaghan is 76. singer snooky lanson is 74. former secretary of state cyrus r. vance is 71. singer sarah vaughan is 64. newspaper columnist anthony lewis is 61. dance company director arthur mitchell is 54. actor michael york is 46
thought for today: ``an optimist is a man who starts a crossword puzzle with a fountain pen.'' -- anonymous
police have restored order in tibetan streets following the second bloody pro-independence protest in five months, but china's policy toward the rugged area remains in disorder with signs of backstage wrangling
on the one side are officials who argue for leniency, noting that the chinese earned the hatred of tibetans during the 1960s and 1970s by virtually outlawing buddhism, the center of most tibetans' lives
the panchen lama, the highest-ranking tibetan religious leader in china, is among these. an official news report after a protest march 5 quoted him as saying china must ``further improve regional autonomy ... and heal the wounds caused by the ultra-leftist line.''
he promised ``even more lenient and flexible policies'' from beijing, whose rule he supports
on the other side are those who believe beijing's relative leniency since 1980 is to blame for the unrest and that only a tough crackdown will ensure it is not repeated
it is necessary to exercise dictatorship over such separatists,'' the director of united front's tibet department, zheng ying, was quoted as saying. the united front is an organization that seeks to coordinate relations between the governing communist party and other parties, which are few
other reports have quoted unidentified officials as declaring that the government ``has exercised too much restraint.''
so far, neither side appears to have won out. sketchy reports from foreign travelers to tibet's capital, lhasa, indicate widespread arrests but the monasteries do not appear to be under direct police control, as they were after demonstratons last year
no foreign journalists have been allowed in lhasa since march 5
piecing together official accounts and those of foreign witnesses, this picture emerges of what happened that day:
hundreds of monks had gathered outside the 1,300-year-old jokhang temple in tibet's capital, lhasa, for the conclusion of a 10-day prayer festival. one monk stood up suddenly and called for tibetan independence
as police dragged him away, other monks took up the chant and stoned the officers. more than 12 hours of violence followed, during which thousands of tibetans stoned police from behind makeshift barricades and burned chinese restaurants. police set off tear gas and stormed the jokhang
according to official accounts, one policeman was killed and more than 30 hospitalized. western travelers in lhasa said tibetans reported 21 tibetans and three policemen killed
in its duration and scope, the protest appeared much larger than the attack by thousands of tibetans oct. 1 on a police station in lhasa. foreign witnesses reported at least 14 people killed then
the new violence makes it clear the violence oct. 1 was not an isolated incident, the result of momentarily high emotions, but rather an expression of tibetan determination to shake off 37 years of chinese communist rule
it thus makes more difficult beijing's task of charting a policy most likely to keep the peace
those who favor conciliation and greater autonomy and development aid for tibetans hope to gain time for a gradual cultural assimilation under the gentle pressure of chinese schools, television and other influences
but those opposed to liberal policies argue that relaxation has fostered rebellion by allowing tibet's buddhist monasteries to reopen and enroll new candidates
the monasteries have become hotbeds of religious-inspired nationalism, with most monks praying for the return of the dalai lama, tibet's former temporal and spiritual leader now in exile in india
the dalai lama, regarded as a reincarnation of tibet's protector god, fled in 1959 during a failed uprising against chinese rule. the dalai lama is central to tibetan buddhism, which in turn is central to tibetans' cultural identity
the clashes oct. 1 and march 5 began when monks shouted independence slogans, and the youngest monks generally led the violence
a harsh crackdown on the monasteries might crush this source of nationalism _ or encourage more martyrdom
it also could trigger concern in china's other minority areas about the depth of beijing's commitment to their own local autonomy. most of china's strategic border regions are populated by minorities
notable in the aftermath of the protest was the lack of any significant u.s. response. after the oct. 1 clash, the u.s. senate adopted a resolution urging greater respect for human rights in tibet. the resolution prompted angry protests from china of what it called interference in its internal affairs
this time, foreign minister wu xueqian of china was in the united states but u.s. officials did not mention tibet in public
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz raised the issue in private talks with wu but it was not allowed to disturb the visit's overall atmosphere of friendliness. instead, the reagan administration lifted a freeze on expanding sales of high-technology goods to china. the freeze was imposed last year to protest chinese missile sales to iran
china's liberal policies in tibet created the conditions that sparked bloody riots in lhasa in october and early march, according to american tibet scholars and u.s. officials
in an ironic twist, the observers say, beijing's attempts to improve the lot of the tibetan people have caused a crisis of higher expectations, prompting tibetans to seek faster change from a recalcitrant beijing
these observers predict that rioting in the province's capital, lhasa, on march 5 will prompt an iron-fisted crackdown and the return of hardline chinese rule to the ``roof of the world.''
such a crackdown will postpone again any possibility of resolving china's main minority problem, ensuring renewed suffering for tibetans
tibetans are grabbing for a mile when the chinese are offering them an inch,'' said a state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``we see little possibility for resolution.''
after (the disturbances march 5) a military response is the only way,'' said tom grunfeld, a tibetan expert and professor at the state university of new york's empire state college in manhattan. ``it's part of the sad equation in tibet.''
china has claimed sovereignty over the himalayan region since the 13th century. but many tibetans view the chinese as an occupying force and yearn for independence
in 1950 the chinese red army entered tibet and beijing promised tibetan leaders a measure of autonomy. it failed to deliver
nine years later, tibetans rebelled. the chinese army cracked down and the dalai lama, tibet's temporal and spiritual leader, fled to india
in 1966, conditions further deteriorated with the onset of china's ultra-leftist cultural revolution
atheist chinese red guards, charging that tibet was backward and feudalistic, attempted to destroy its buddhist culture. of tibet's 3,000 temples only a handful survived. thousands of monks and religious pilgrims were slaughtered
grunfeld said his interviews with refugees gave no indications of sustained unrest among the tibetan people from 1959 to 1976
the chinese clamped a very tight lid on tibet. any protest was crushed immediately.''
conditions in tibet began to improve after the end of the cultural revolution with the death of chairman mao tse-tung in 1976
hu yaobang, the former communist party boss, went to lhasa and issued a public apology for the excesses of the cultural revolution
for the first time since 1959, tibetans were allowed to travel from one county to the next without government permission
hospitals were built, the tibetan language was allowed back in the schools and taxes were cut or eliminated. china opened its border with nepal, allowing renewed contact with the tibetan exile community
with an eye to a profitable tourist trade, the chinese also began repairing some of the monasteries destroyed by the red guards. a prohibition on buddhist proselytzing was lifted and young monks appeared again in the temples
in 1980, representatives of the dalai lama began negotiations with the chinese to set conditions for his return to china. negotiations broke off two years later because the chinese insisted that he live in beijing and he wanted to live in lhasa
the chinese are pumping millions of dollars into the region and there are only 3 million people there,'' grunfeld said. ``things are looking up, especially in the cities.''
emboldened by reforms, tibetans staged pro-independence demonstrations in september and october last year and again march 5 and 6
the demonstrations were led by monks, tibet's traditional soldiers, who grunfeld said, don't fit the western idea of ``a contemplative individual making cheese and wine.''
the observers said china's reforms prompted the riots because they allowed tibetans to congregate more freely without fear of instant repression. the reforms also allowed contact with tibetans abroad. and by opening tibet to western tourists, the chinese provided the monks with an international stage for their protests
the success of the reforms also played a hand
the reforms have created among some tibetan refugees a sense of desperation,'' said the state department official. ``it's like they said, `we've got to act now or we'll never be able to do it again.'''
many tibetans claim the reforms are insidious, aimed at turning tibet into a living museum to boost china's tourism industry
they also claim their land is being overrun by hordes of chinese, sent in from beijing to sinicize the remote region
grunfeld says the truth of that allegation depends on how one defines tibet
tibet's current boundaries correspond to its traditional political influence. but tibetan activists define tibet as the area of its traditional cultural influence which includes large tracts of qinghai, sichuan and yunnan provinces
grunfeld said thousands of chinese settlers are moving to those three provinces but few are going to tibet
but he added that the region cannot lure enough competent chinese officials to manage it
it's a dumping ground for incompetents. the chinese can't get anyone to go there.''
blacks' most obvious gains in the two decades since martin luther king's assassination have come in politics. from an era in which people had to march, and sometimes die, to win blacks the right to vote, the united states today is listening seriously to a black presidential candidate and counts thousands of black elected officials, including the mayors of 17 of its largest cities. but as the second story of three assessing black progress in america reports, it is one of its smallest towns, bolton, miss., that is considered a model of political advancement
the final major area of untapped power for the negro is in the political arena.''
_ martin luther king jr
its decaying store fronts, tar-paper roofs and rusty railroad tracks suggest bolton is just another town time forgot
but each day, a sign of how much times have changed appears when a tall, slender black man drives up to city hall. the street is named after martin luther king jr., and the man is the mayor
lawrence butler, a man once barred from the ballot box, now presides over this ragged rural hamlet some call a model of black political progress in america
no blacks were allowed to vote in bolton municipal elections until 1969. today, its mayor and four of five council members are black. change, indeed, but butler says blacks still haven't reached the mountaintop
i know we ain't where we used to be,'' he said. ``lord, we ain't where we ought to be. sometimes, i question myself, where are we?''
in the 15 years since it elected its first black mayor, bolton, population 650, has built a new city hall and community center, paved streets, built houses, bought land for an industrial park and acquired an ambulance and fire and garbage trucks
what bolton represents since it got black leadership is certainly progress, for blacks, even for whites,'' said linda williams, senior political analyst at the joint center for political studies in washington
bolton is a prime example of ``how blacks deprived in a segregated system ... can take political power, turn a town around and make it more responsive to the needs of black citizens,'' said attorney frank parker
parker spearheaded many legal fights on behalf of elected blacks seeking to take office in bolton. courts and judges intervened, federal pollwatchers came to town and death threats were made before it all came about
hundreds of other communities in all corners of the united states have made white-to-black political transitions in the 20 years since king's assassination. some of the biggest change has come in the south, home to more than half of the u.s. black population
blacks are running towns they marched through in the '60s, fighting for the right to vote. the number of southern black elected officials has increased by 55 times since 1965, williams said
mississippi, where civil rights leader medgar evers was slain in front of his house, where riots erupted when james meredith tried to enter college and the late gov. ross barnett, surrounded by a cadre of state troopers, turned him away, has 548 black elected officials _ tops in the nation
mississippi has changed in many ways. bolton is part of the metamorphosis
the no. 1 progress is getting rid of the fear,'' said butler, who picked cotton as a child and once picketed a whites-only pool with a sign that urged, ``don't blow your cool. let us in the pool.''
used to be you had a fear of somebody coming up to you and ... accusing you of anything,'' he said. ``you might have a confrontation with a white and there was no such thing as winning.''
butler never doubted blacks could manage bolton. he just didn't think it would happen
i figured whites would have died before they let us have the right to vote,'' he said. ``some did. and blacks did, too.''
black officeholders here, he said, have given folks ``a certain sense of pride and understanding. blacks know there's somebody here on a day-to-day basis fighting for them.''
still, black leadership has not made poor people richer, or two societies one
butler estimates blacks' annual income in bolton at about $4,500 _ about a third that of whites. he said about 25 percent of blacks are jobless
although blacks and whites live together, they attend separate churches and social functions, and white children attend private schools
i would love to paint you a peaches-and-cream story,'' said bennie thompson, the town's first black mayor, now a member of the hinds county board of supervisors
i want to tell you i stand by my fence and drink coffee (with my white) neighbor. i can't tell you that. it's not reality.''
everybody gets along,'' said doug beard, the sole white council member. ``(but) i think both feel better with their own peers.''
in bolton, politics brings neither power nor prestige. the mayor and council are part-time posts. there are no big salaries, no high-profile jobs
and there's little to lure outsiders, particularly with jackson 16 miles away. a cotton gin is virtually the only industry, and the main drag is a row of crumbling, century-old stores
still, bolton was important enough to cause a lot of kicking and screaming when blacks, about 60 percent of the population, wanted a say in government
it was a long, tough fight _ harder and tougher than any i've ever seen in mississippi,'' said parker, now at the lawyers' committee for civil rights under law in washington, d.c
the whites perceived their town as their plantation. it was theirs to run.''
the fight began in the late '60s. thompson, a local college graduate who marched in mississippi with king, felt blacks had been ignored long enough
it wasn't an attempt to take over,'' he said. ``all we wanted to do is help develop the community.'' blacks, including thompson, sought three of five aldermanic seats
after fights over registration procedures, and complaints filed with federal authorities, the blacks won. the losers sued, alleging voter irregularities. the blacks prevailed in appeals court
but after the mayor repeatedly vetoed the black aldermen's proposals, thompson ran for mayor in 1973 on an all-black slate. that winning slate also was sued _ unsuccessfully
this town has generated more voting litigation than any i know of in mississippi to keep blacks from taking office,'' parker said
that was just the beginning. when thompson took office, the police department quit, the county repossessed the garbage truck and the lease on the garbage dump was revoked. thompson said he found that town records were kept on a school notepad, water bill monies were stored in a lard can and town employees were paid from the general store, which was then reimbursed
being black, we couldn't afford to operate the system like our counterparts,'' he explained, because it would make them vulnerable to corruption charges. ``the system would have destroyed us. what kinds of checks and balances do you have putting money in a lard can?''
to make matters worse, bolton lacked the basics. fires, for example, were fought with a pickup truck with a loose wheel and a pump on the back
so thompson launched a letter-writing campaign, asking foundations and cities for help. it came: a fire truck, donated for one dollar, from new york city; a garbage truck from southfield, mich.; an ambulance from marshalltown, iowa, and a planner from the national council of churches who developed a town hall, fire station, park and day-care center
gravel streets in the black neighborhoods were paved, sewer and water improvements were made. a $1.1 million, 40-unit, subsidized housing development was built for low-income and elderly residents in the middle of the white part of town, drawing angry opposition
we have shown that black elected officials can bring a community from virtual obscurity into the 20th century _ from the standpoint of municipal services, human and social needs,'' said thompson, who says he has received death threats over the years. ``but we also created hope that things can be better. there was no hope. there was nothing.''
some disagree. while beard concedes some improvements have been made, ``the overall appearance of the city is much worse,'' he said. ``business is worse because people don't like coming to an area (that looks) deplorable.''
thompson stepped down in 1979 to become a board member in the county _ one of the first two blacks. butler, who moved to bolton as a teen-ager, has been mayor since, running unopposed in 1985
parker says whites ``have basically deserted the political process.''
beard says they don't seek office for ``the same reason blacks are not runnning in bolton. people just don't care, to be honest.''
thompson says they do, and black leadership has changed bolton
there are young people in our community who've never seen anybody in authority except somebody who's black. they're good role models,'' he said. ``black elected officials clearly represent a new awakening. ..
we can't run this community like our white predecessors. we want things to be accessible to everybody.''
sharon cohen is the ap midwest regional reporter, based in chicago. ^with laserphoto</head>
they are a new breed of leaders, protesters turned politicians, outsiders turned insiders, the powerless become powerful
blacks are reshaping politics across america, calling the shots today in towns where they risked beatings, cattle prods, jail and even death a generation ago as they fought for the right to vote
nationwide, almost 6,700 blacks held elected office last year, more than four times that of 1970, according to the joint center for political studies, a black-oriented think tank in washiks now lead four of the nation's six largest cities _ tom bradley in los angeles, eugene sawyer in chicago, wilson goode in philadelphia and coleman young in ngton
blacdetroit. thirteen other big cities have black mayors, including marion barry of washington, d.c., and andrew young of atlanta
blacks have more than doubled their ranks in congress in 20 years. and jesse jackson, a one-time lieutenant of martin luther king jr., is making surprising inroads among white voters in his second white house bid
twenty years ago, it would have been unthinkable,'' said u.s. rep. john lewis of georgia, a veteran civil rights activist.ch some manufacturers of distilled spirits avoid a significant share of the $12.50-a-gallon liquor tax by mixing some products with a grape-based alcohol. this is expected to raise $360 million over five years
the committee's bill does nothing about a 1986 law, also aimed at tax evaders, that requires about 82,000 state, city and county government units to pay taxes of 9.1 cents a gallon on their gasoline and apply later for a refund. that provision took effect jan. 1
black power was to me a black version of ethnic american politics,'' said charles hamilton, a columbia university political science professor and co-author with carmichael of ``black power _ the politics of liberation in america.''
we're talking about no more than what italians have done, what the irish have done,'' he said. ``before we almost had to assimilate in order to achieve. i saw that as wrong. it denied one's heritage.''
black power gave birth to a new sense of self-worth
what the black power movement was all about was you've got to shed the negative image,'' morris said. ``that's why you got (the phrase) `black is beautiful.' there was a profound evaluation of black people, of who they are.''
it was a repudiation of the notion blacks had to judge their own beauty and importance by white standards,'' he added
new styles and customs emerged, emphasizing black roots: afro-american names, mushrooming afro hairdos and loose-fitting, boldly patterned dashikis
one symbol _ the clenched fist _ stirred anger, and sometimes fear. at the 1968 mexico city olympics, just six months after king's assassination, sprinters tommie smith and john carlos, the gold and bronze medal winners in the 200-meter dash, raised black-gloved fists high overhead as the national anthem was played. for what they termed a display of black unity and protest of black poverty, the two athletes were suspended by the u.s. olympic committee
the symbols and words of black power shocked many whites, even some who marched in civil rights demonstrations
some ``found it extremely threatening,'' said douglas mcadam, associate sociology professor at the university of arizona. to them, ``it smacked of reverse racism _ no longer equality, but black power, black domination.''
mcadam has written a book chronicling how financial contributions dropped when groups such as the student non-violent coordinating committee, a civil rights organization, shifted focus from the fight for equality to more incendiary urgings
the movement also divided blacks. king, who preached non-violent tactics, said the slogan carried the wrong connotations and was potentially destructive
separatism wasn't the answer, he argued, because blacks and whites needed each other. ``there is no salvation for the negro through isolation,'' king wrote in his book, ``where do we go from here: chaos or community?''
he thought it was too divisive, too difficult to explain,'' hamilton said. ``he was right.''
other black leaders and groups, including the naacp, also opposed the black power term, creating friction as two movements competed for center stage
the civil rights movement was overrun,'' walters said. ``many of its leaders would not join black power. ... more fundamentally, it took away the allegiance of the people.''
but academics also note that black leaders eventually supported many of the movement's goals. king, in particular, embraced the psychological need for black power and the importance of black economic strength
after his assassination, the movement took new forms as some of its causes became mainstream
once blacks got the vote and began to elect more (blacks), people began to believe they at least had channels,'' said linda williams, senior political analyst at the joint center for political studies
the black power movement also weakened as radicals were jailed and the government cracked down; the fbi conducted a secret campaign of ``dirty tricks'' involving faked panther documents and letters, informants and infiltrators
it was surprising to me the movement was destroyed so completely,'' said newton, panther co-founder. newton today believes any gains made by the black power movement have been wiped out
black unemployment is very high,'' he said. ``police actions are as belligerent as ever. overt racism is on the rampage as if there never was a movement.''
with the hindsight of 20 years, some criticize black power as merely words without a program. others say it left a strong legacy
academics point to the growth of black-owned businesses, newspapers and radio stations, as well as greater numbers of black journalists and literature and arts programs
others cite the thousands of black officeholders and jesse jackson's strong presidential bid. ``black power today is being carried out in the electoral arena,'' jennings sai
universities offer hundreds of black studies programs, and hamilton credits the movement for the formation of such groups as the congressional black caucus
still, the movement has not given all blacks power
in economics, there have been a lot of gains, but they've been concentrated in the black middle class,'' said clayborne carson, a stanford university history professor and editor of the martin luther king papers project
the group left out is the poor,'' he said. ``the irony is that's who black power was supposed to help the most.''
sharon cohen is the ap midwest regional reporter, based in chicago
here is a rundown of some 1960s black activists and where they are today:
_ h. rap brown, who said ``violence is as american as apple pie,'' is now a devout muslim known as jamil abdullah al-amin. he runs a convenience store in atlanta
_ huey p. newton, who helped found the black panthers, lives in oakland, calif., and says he lectures around the country about ``political philosophies'' and ``the realities of the 1960s.'' he also said he is writing his memoirs
_ eldridge cleaver, one-time panther information minister and author of the acclaimed ``soul on ice,'' lives in berkeley, calif. a mormon and conservative republican, cleaver recently told ebony magazine he lectures to conservative groups and makes and sells ceramic objects
in 1986, cleaver unsuccessfully sought the republican nomination for the u.s. senate in california
cleaver fled the country for several years in the late 1960s after a shootout between the panthers and the police. he told ebony that after spending time in china, algeria and north vietnam he ended his advocacy of communism and ``developed an understanding and respect for free enterprise and the democratic political system.''
_ stokely carmichael, a former chairman of the student non-violent coordinating committee, whose chant of ``black power'' became a slogan for a movement, is now known as kwame toure and travels between guinea and the united states, said charles hamilton, a political science professor at columbia university. hamilton and carmichael wrote a book together
toure is a full-time organizer for the all-african peoples revolutionary party, working toward pan-african socialist principles, hamilton said. pan-africanism is the unity of all people of african descent
_ bobby seale, who also helped organize the panthers, is working for temple university in philadelphia as a community liaison for the department of african american studies and a recruiter for students for the college of arts and sciences
_ marion barry, first chairman of sncc, is mayor of washington, d.c
barry once dressed in dashikis and urged blacks not to celebrate the apollo moon landing because ``white america's money and technology'' had not reached the inner city
a former chemistry teacher, barry went to washington for sncc and worked as a fund-raiser. he later ran a job-training program, pride inc., and served on the washington school board and city council
_ john lewis, also a one-time sncc chairman, is a georgia congressman. a former member of the atlanta city council, lewis was among those leading a line of 600 marchers to the edmund pettus bridge in selma, ala., where officers clubbed, tear-gassed and bull-whipped blacks trying to march to montgomery in march 1965. ^agencies and radio out</note> ^from ap newsfeatures</note> photo and 1 illustration

editor's note _ to be or not to be metric is perhaps our longest national debate. a 1975 attempt to speed things along missed by a mile. but 62 percent of fortune 1,000 companies now make something that's metric. if the meter has wedged a foot in the back door of the nation, can the kilogram be far behind?
___ ^by sid moody</note>
whatever became of the indy 804.5 and the rest of the metric system?
the whole thing went away and died,'' says ray lloyd of the scale manufacturers association
he meant the 1975 act of congress which was to have consigned pounds, inches, rods, furlongs, picas, acres, gills, gallons, miles per hour and their myriad cousins to the trash bin for a brave new world of metrics. officially, three bureaucrats, a secretary and a $250,000 budget inside the huge department of commerce in washington are what remain of that vision of a metric america
but inch by inch the meter has wedged a foot in the back door of the nation
oh, a miss is still as good as a mile. lovers still love, a bushel and a peck, not a liter and a stere
but almost all american cars are built to metric measure. booze and wine come by the liter. skis, film, pharmaceuticals are in millimeters and grams. edwin moses runs the 400-meter hurdles. almost all grade-schoolers learn some metrics. ``star wars,'' when and if, will be metric, as the pentagon honorably discharges the old measurements inherited from great britain where a yard was the distance from henry i's nose to the tip of his middle finger
sixty-two percent of the fortune 1,000 companies make something that's metric. thirty-four percent of their new products are. in five or six years probably all packaged goods on supermarket shelves will be labeled gram-liters as well as pound-ounces. most significantly, an omnibus trade bill to be voted on this spring by congress contains a provision requiring 42 agencies of the federal government to basically go metric by september 30, 1993. that includes the department of defense, the biggest buyer of them all. in hearings last summer, no organized constituency opposed the metric portion of the bill
ask anyone who knows a hand (four inches) from a hectare: will america ever be metric? the invariable answer: inevitably. when? nobody can say. congress is charged by the constitution with regulating weights and measures. congress is congress. and old habits are old habits
in the metric conversion act of 1975, congress declared it the policy of the united states to ``coordinate and plan ... the voluntary (stress added) conversion to the metric system.''
this bold pronouncement, toothless as a professional hockey player, was akin to telling the nation's 4-year-olds: ``eat your broccoli because it's good for you, but you can stick to ice cream if you want.'' americans, by and large, preferred vanilla
to be or not to be metric is called america's longest debate. congress almost adopted the meter in 1896. but the nation's largest trading partner, britain and its empire, were pound-inches. the united states went along
inch-pounds led and lead the world because of the standards and technology that support them,'' says charles wilson, director of engineering for the industrial fastener institute
by the 1960s, however, american industry was expanding overseas into a largely metric world. in 1969 the united states exported $14 billion in measure-sensitive products and imported only $6 billion. but by 1975 it was estimated the nation would suffer a $600 million loss in foreign business because it was not metric
in 1971 the national bureau of standards, whose official yard and pound are based on metric measure, completed a three-year study of metrication. two years later general motors announced it would make metric cars. the 1975 act originally set a 10-year schedule for conversion. heavy lobbying, particularly by trade unions and small businesses, struck this out. while the act set up a 17-member metric board, it was only empowered to ``publicize,'' ``encourage,'' ``consult,'' ``assist.''
how can you do something if it's not mandated?'' asks metric hard-liner louis sokol, past president of the private u.s. metric association. ``we don't make speed limits or the income tax voluntary. the metric board just became a debating society.''
we missed an opportunity 13 years ago,'' gerald underwood concedes. his office of metric programs _ that four-person operation at the commerce department _ is what survives of the metric board that once had 100 employees and a $3 million annual budget. ronald reagan cut off its funds in 1982
metrication should have been presented in terms of trade instead of conformance,'' says underwood. ``focused on the pocketbook instead of the agony of converting the housewife's recipe book. but i believe in free enterprise rather than government dictate.''
we felt the enormity of the problem of conversion was completely underestimated,'' says bob woods, research director for the international brotherhood of electrical workers
machinists and carpenters would have to buy new tools. they'd be fired for mismeasuring. above all, foreign metric goods would pour in
of course, that's what happened anyway,'' says sokol
just what metric conversion nationally might cost seems impossible to calculate. one unattributed estimate was $25 billion over 30 years. the pentagon has said it would cost the defense industry $18 billion, three-fourths of that in the first 10 years. the steel industry had a figure of $2 billion in 1973 but said actuality was ``nothing close'' to the original estimate
the ford motor company started with a metrication department which became a section, then a group and then me,'' says george baumgartner, whose job as metric planner was done away with last year. ``the cost was negligible. everything is now metric except the speedometer and tire rims. our biggest problem is how to spell liter. l-i-t-r-e?''
gm found the accounting costs for conversion cost more than conversion itself,'' says sokol. the pharmaceutical industry, which converted in the 1950s, said the cost was lower than expected and produced savings through fewer mistakes, easier employee training and improved records
small businesses, on the other hand, don't have the economies of scale
machine tools can cost $2 million,'' says wilson of the fastener institute. ``changing dies is very expensive, so you want to make as many items as you can without having to tear the machine up to make another size. the u.s. uses 200 billion fasteners a year. it would cost billions to stock dual sizes.''
john deere, where underwood was head of standards, spent one-third the value of its shelf parts on annual inventory. ``part of that cost is insurance, space, heat, light. standardization reduces these costs. we used to have about 70 screw sizes. metrication reduced that to 12 or 15, which meant economies in buying in bulk, number of bins and errors
for the nation it's almost impossible to figure a cost. but we figure each $1 billion in manufacturing means 30,000 jobs. anything that metrication does to improve our international trade is then part of that equation.''
to purists, the late 1970s were the ``golden years'' of metrication. interstate highway signs announced distances in miles-kilometers. schools blossomed with colorful conversion posters. shell oil spent $2 million converting 16,000 gas stations. sunrise, fla., said it would go entirely metric to celebrate the bicentennial
motorists immediately began ``screaming their heads off,'' says the federal highway administration. in 1978 congress took the signs down. shell soon found metric gas pumps confused drivers and converted back to gallons. when the national geographic society started using metrics on maps and stories, some 70 readers said the magazine had gone pinko and canceled their subscriptions
metric zealots ``just kind of gave up and went looking for other crusades,'' says valerie antoine, executive director of the u.s. metric association
metericians hoped the schools would incubate a metric america. ``but when the rest of society didn't keep pace, teachers said `hey, we got left out on a limb,''' says leroy negus, associate in mathematics at the n.y. state department of education
california said all its textbooks would be metric by 1985. they aren't. but almost all schools in the country include some metric instruction. october 10 _ get it? 10-10 _ still kicks off national metric week
the effort is to get children to think metric as well as know it, to know right off that 28 degrees celsius is hot outside without multiplying nine-fifths plus 32 to get fahrenheit
kent ashworth of educational testing service, the princeton, n.j., organization that gives scholastic aptitude tests, says a survey of 13-year-olds showed those who use metrics ``often'' outside class more than doubled _ 16 percent to 34 percent _ between 1978 and 1982
but in a 1981 test given internationally, american students finished near the bottom in measurement skills
children are taught both systems,'' says sokol. ``they are knowledgeable in both and proficient in neither.''
as a ninth-grader wrote the late commerce secretary malcolm baldridge: ``if you ask me it's confusing using both (systems) when our nation could choose one ... please keep this letter in consideration and remember all of the confused kids in this country.''
sokol worries, too, about adult education. why did some newspapers convert the 70- and 80-meter ski jump results at the recent calgary winter olympics to feet? why, when president reagan clunked 14-pound congressional bills on the dais in his recent state of the union address, didn't he call them 6.2-kilogram bills? ``what a wasted opportunity,'' bemoans sokol
the united states stands alone with burma as the only non-metric holdouts in a kilogram world. canada said in 1970 it would go metric and did. its metric commission disbanded in 1985. ``no problems,'' says francois broeur of the ministry of consumer and corporate affairs
he probably didn't talk to larae willson, an american housewife in thunder bay, ont. ``liters schmeeters. i just tell the man to fill up the tank. i follow my butcher from safeway to safeway because he'll sell me meat in pounds.''
she admits to carrying a pound-kilo pocket converter. ``you gotta eat.''
britain decided to go metric in 1972. highway signs are still in miles _ too costly to change _ and a pint of bitter mild is a pint of bitter mild
australia set a 10-year timetable and converted in eight. japan started metrication in 1921 and made it compulsory in 1951, saying sayonara to the 11.93-inch shaku and 8.267-pound kan
in the united states, the meter's foreign birth is ``undoubtedly a factor'' in resistance to it, underwood acknowledged. ``but there is an enormous explosion of technology in the world. it's taking place everywhere, not just america. the upshot is international collaboration, and the language of that collaboration is metric.''
measurement uncertainties can have immediate effects. there was confusion at first over just what radiation units the russians were using to assess radiation levels at chernobyl. a canadian plane crashed when it ran out of fuel after a refill mix-up. more critical at a time of america's huge trade deficit is the fact that 10 percent of the nation's gross national product derives from foreign commerce, two-thirds of that being measure-sensitive products
if the 1975 metric act had no incisors and the university of michigan survey research center says only 40 percent of americans can name even one metric unit, there is nonetheless a considerable metric component in u.s. life
sixty-five to 68 percent of supermarket goods are prepackaged and 70 percent of that has metric labels,'' says george carlton, chairman of the food and grocery coordinating committee on metrication. ``the no. 2 can is standard worldwide. the consumer knows how many kids a no. 2 can will feed. the rubber hits the road when the housewife meets the retailer at the meat counter and pays 2.205 times as much for a kilo of hamburger than she paid for a pound.''
but wine went metric in 1978 and hard liquor in 1980. soft drinks have gone to two-liter bottles with no reading on the richter scale
if a commodity is desired, it doesn't matter if it's packaged in swahili,'' says al navas, president of the national metric council in washington. ``metric transition is going to come about product by product.''
cars are easy because new models are always being introduced. machine-like drill presses are adjustable by definition. many small businesses will make whatever their customers want
some think american industry will be predominantly metric by the turn of the century. wilson thinks it will take 75 years
market forces will probably be more determining than the government
metrics never elected a senator,'' says navas. ``it isn't liberal-conservative or republican-democrat. it's apolitical. i was on a radio talk show in detroit recently, and they cut me off after 25 minutes. no one was calling in to protest metrics.''
probably the bell cow in metric transition will be the pentagon with its 300,000 suppliers in the defense industry and 15 million contracts a year. the army's multibillion-dollar lhx helicopter will be metric. so will ``star wars.''
last september the defense department said its policy was to use metric ``in all of its activities consistent with security . . . technical, logistical and safety requirements.'' any deviation has to be cleared by senior officials. fourteen percent of defense standards are already metric
partially this is the result of the u.s. alliance in an otherwise metric nato. ``but we're talking about the equipment we'll be fighting with into the 21st century,'' says air force col. thomas mansperger, pentagon metric coordinating officer. ``we base it on what we see our future needs will be and what kind of world we're going to work in.''
a metric world. ^agencies and radio out</note>
the metric system was born in the french revolution, which also tried _ and failed _ to create the 10-day week
the intent was to give the citizen a fairer shake with weights and measures than the honesty of a merchant's thumb on the scale. the paris academy of sciences decided to base the system on a constant physical dimension, in this case, one ten-millionth of the arc from the north pole to the equator on a meridian passing through paris. that unit was to be called a meter, from the greek word metron for ``measure.''
the liter was to be the volume of a cube one-tenth meter on a side. the gram: the weight of pure water at a certain temperature in a cube one-hundredth of a meter on a side. all variations of these basic measurements were to be to the base 10 to simplify their use in arithmetic
almost at once the meter was in hot water. surveyors measuring the distance on the meridian from dunkirk to barcelona used white flags as markers. white was the color of the monarchists who were soon to see their king beheaded. the surveyors kept having to talk their way out of jail, explaining they were just inventing the metric system, not showing support for louis xvi
the paris assembly adopted their work in 1791. thomas jefferson proposed a similar decimal system a few years later when he was secretary of state
the french made metrics mandatory in 1840. the u.s. congress declared the system legal in 1866. in 1875 the treaty of the meter was signed by the united states and 16 other nations creating an international bureau of weights and measures near paris
since 1893 the american yard and pound have been based on the meter and kilogram. but the united states has yet to officially convert to metrics. it and burma are the only nations in the world not to have done so. ^agencies and radio out</note> ^from ap newsfeatures</note> photos. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ some of the old color is returning to miami beach, the art deco treasure-trove that had fallen on hard times. now, affluent young people are rediscovering the district, lured by refurbished buildings with their pastel-painted accents and distinctive, geometric designs
a painstaking facelift of the historic but seedy southern tip of miami beach appears to be more than skin deep
city officials are working to ensure the project's success and younger, more affluent tenants keep moving in
not long ago, investors remained leery of the run-down area, uncertain whether it could be turned around by refurbishing historic buildings that were crumbling around the edges and cloaked in layers 
when the city began spurring renovation, inspectors forced landlords to upgrade apartments and limit the number of residents per dwelling, according to jud kurlancheek, director of planning. that, along with new interest by young professionals, drove up prices
while the city doesn't keep track of the ethnicity of its residents, kurlancheek says the post-world war ii eastern european immigrants who retired to miami beach from new york and chicago weren't replaced. generally, he says, the advent of condominiums and planned retirement communities elsewhere in south florida curtailed miami beach's image as a retirement haven
the reaction among those who have stayed has been mixed. some complain that they've been priced out of their homes, while others welcome the revitalization
for saul gross, a new yorker who began investing in the area three years ago, when many were still unconvinced of the district's potential, the payoff has been big
everybody told me i was crazy at the time,'' says gross, president of the beach-based streamline development co. ``it turns out i have 175 apartments and 165 of those leased in the past year at higher rents than anybody ever thought.''
gross' holdings now include 11 apartment buildings and 25,000 square feet of commercial property being renovated on washington avenue, which cuts through the heart of the district with an area of about a square mile
out-of-town investors in particular have taken more of an interest in the district, acquiring a number of the 800 or so art deco structures. local investors have not been as quick to jump in
some say that could soon be changing
chuck lennon, executive director of the builders association of south florida, says local builders are geared more to large, planned developments on virgin tracts of land. as less land becomes available, builders are likely to turn more readily to refurbishing projects, he says
city officials are doing their part to lure local investors. recently, they staged a two-day seminar for members of the powerful latin builders association to promote investment possibilities on the beach
to protect and promote one of its most popular sections, the city recently passed an amendment to its historic preservation ordinance that gives officials the option of imposing a permanent moratorium on demolition of significant buildings
the initial 1982 ordinance only provided for a six-month delay in demolition, little more than ``a delaying factor, or cooling-off'' period to try and convince buyers of historic buildings not to raze them, singer says
a 10-month project will begin in march to enhance pedestrian traffic on ocean drive, where deco hotels fronting the ocean have become a symbol of the rebirth. sidewalks will be widened to 15 feet, three times their current width, and ocean-side lummus park will be spruced up
stuart rogel, director of economic and community development, says he recognizes the art deco district as ``a source of pride and reason for attracting people to our city, whether they come to visit or live in the buildings. ... it's an important area for the city.''
although only about 10 percent of the deco-style buildings have been renovated, progress has picked up in recent years, says richard hoberman, president of the miami design preservation league
in the past two years, more than half the properties on ocean (drive) and collins (avenue) have changed hands,'' hoberman says
the direction of things six years ago was that everything was on the decline,'' says denis russ, executive director of the miami beach development corp., a private, non-profit group. ``now there is occurring here the development of a neighborhood fabric.''
younger, more affluent tenants are moving into the refurbished apartments, which now rent for up to $850 for a two-bedroom unit, ms. meyers says. the average vacancy rate of redone buildings is about 10 percent, a significant drop from a high of 30 percent among buildings not yet renovated
meanwhile, apartment buildings in need of upgrading, which five years ago sold for about $12,000 a unit, now command up to $20,000, ms. meyers says. hotels that used to sell for about $6,000 a room, are going for up to $20,000, especially along the ocean
we are experiencing a change, a revitalization, a recycling and this will be a continuing phenomenom,'' russ says. ``i think it's not measured in weeks or seasons, but years. it won't reach the peak of its happening for another 10 years.''
ms. meyers says the increased activity is snowballing
we're not yet out of the woods,'' she says, ``but if the pattern continues, we'll see tremendous change in three years.'' ^agencies and radio out</note> ^with bc-apn--art deco</note>
a new generation has discovered ``america's riviera,'' replacing the glitz and glamour that faded decades ago with rock music clubs, quaint restaurants and neighborhood bars
instead of frank sinatra, sammy davis jr., jerry lewis or others who frequented miami beach in the '50s and '60s, recent visitors saw mick taylor and ron wood, rolling stones past and present, at woody's on the beach. others heard stephen stills and savoy brown at the china club, where doobie brothers jammed with steely dan, and where rocker david bowie, tennis star vitas gerulaitis and former beatles' producer george martin were among the crowd
the night life plays a great role in the revitalization of the entire community,'' says mayor alex daoud, 44, a miami beach native who can recall passing clark gable, gary cooper and kirk douglas on the streets of his youth
one of the largest concerns people have is: `where can i go at night?' when i was growing up here, entertainment was very expensive. now we have more affordable entertainment, and also family-oriented entertainment.''
in less than five years, nearly 20 music clubs and restaurants have sprung up in formerly rundown hotels, some deserted, others occupied by the elderly poor or mariel cuban refugees
the first time david giles, a british-born investment consultant, walked into the future site of woody's, ``there were six guys on the floor doing crack cocaine. it was absolutely derelict.''
months later, giles, 37, welcomed 600 people who paid $100 to $150 each to attend a new year's eve opening featuring the music of wood, a minority investor in a european ownership group assembled by giles
i still don't know if it will sustain itself, but the area appears to have turned a corner,'' says giles, who plans to expand his club into a beach club with sauna, exercise facilities and a gallery showcasing wood's artwork
jud kurlancheek, city director of planning and zoning, says the night life is ``a magnet for things that happen. it gets people to come here, and they look around and decide they'd like to live here.''
unlike in suburbia, where entertainment follows residential development, the reverse appears true in urban areas, kurlancheek says
in the art deco district undergoing restoration as a national historic area, the first wave brought upscale restaurants such as the european-style cafe the strand, and trendy music clubs such as china club, woody's, club nu and the tropics international. now, the neighborhood is adding the trappings of a settled-in professional community: a sushi restaurant, chummy neighborhood bars, an art deco-style burger king and, soon, domino's pizza, mcdonald's and wendy's fast-food restaurants
the average age of miami beach's 100,000 people dropped from 66 in 1980 to 54 in 1985 and is projected to be under 50 by 1980, says kurlancheek
young people are happy to live blocks from the beach,'' says jeffrey cohen, a partner in the china club. ``the weather has always been the finest on the continent and now, with the resurgence of the young people, it's like a rediscovery.''
the shift in entertainment tastes and the onset of jet travel to the caribbean and other competing resorts spelled the end to miami beach's heyday in the '60s, beach veterans say. the south beach area was hitting bottom by the time thousands of jobless cubans from the 1980 mariel boatlift crowded in with the elderly eastern european immigrants who couldn't afford the condominium retirement communities springing up in south florida
two efforts to gain legalization of casino gambling failed. finally, developers stopped looking for the ``quick fix'' and instead concentrated on more lasting solutions such as widening the eroded beach from 15 feet in places to 300, adding a boardwalk and reviving interest in preserving art deco styles. at the same time, tougher zoning ordinances forced landlords to make costly improvements. the higher rents that resulted helped chase away many of those responsible for raising the crime rates
many involved in the night life comeback are people in their 30s and 40s who have been interested in miami beach redevelopment for years. woody graber, a buffalo-born publicist who's been working for redevelopment and art deco preservation since 1979, says he's finally confident
people are finally realizing the potential. it's sort of like helping people find a buried treasure,'' graber says. ``this isn't going to die; there's too much going on for it to die now.'' photo.)</note>

editor's note _ cruise ships are notorious for their food. not the quality, the quantity. elaborate meals are served several times a day, right up to the midnight buffet. the head chef of one such ship, who's in charge of getting all that food to the table, shows what goes on in the galley
the problem of the latter-day galley slaves in a storm at sea was posed by the poet-passenger rudyard kipling, who often hung over the rail in a heaving sea:
when the cabin portholes are dark and green
because of the seas outside,
when the ship goes wop (with a wiggle between)
and the steward falls into the soup tureen,
and the trunks begin to slide..
why, then you will know (if you haven't guessed)
you're 50 north and 40 west.''
that would be well off newfoundland. gerd tschampel has survived several howling storms in even more northern latitudes, like off spitzbergen and norway's north cape, without falling into the soup tureen
as head chef on the 10,000-ton west german liner mv berlin, now sailing off brazil, gerd knows that in a really big blow, more accidents happen in the kitchen than anywhere else on board
we have a saying about storms at sea,'' he says. ``if something is falling, don't stop it. don't try to catch it. get out of the way. better to lose the soup or the sauce than suffer a scald.''
on the relatively calm equator it was near time for the first dinner seating. gerd was moving down the line, as they call the row of hissing pots and pans, sampling the various dishes with a large serving spoon
this is usually the only meal i have time to take,'' he said between slurps that occasionally provoked a sprinkle of salt or paprika from the palm of his hand. ``a taste of this and a sip of that, which means i am really eating all the time. thank god, from the beginning i have been a good sailor with no worries about rough weather.''
for gerd, just turned 35, the beginning was when his cousin came to their home in windsbach, northern bavaria, with armloads of exotic souvenirs from all over the world
junk mostly, i suppose, like i collect now,'' gerd laughed, ``but i was l6 years old then and he was a chef on the kungsholm, traveling everywhere. i made up my mind to someday roam the globe like him behind a stove.''
he apprenticed at a small hotel in ansbach, near nuremberg, with a gourmet dining room frequented by american air force personnel from a nearby base. going to catering school three weeks a year and passing certification tests, as is required in west germany, gerd rose to the rank of sous-chef
his dream became a reality via a classified ad in a restaurant trade paper. the german liner berlin was looking for qualified kitchen help
i applied for third cook, the lowest rank. a month later i was looking out a porthole at jakarta,'' gerd recalls. ``my cousin meanwhile was chef on the ferry from kiel to goteborg. his wife said, `enough.'''
three years later, gerd, now head chef, has learned to cope with the biggest difference between cooking on land and at sea. ``at the hotel, if you forget something, you pick up the telephone. out here, you forget something, forget it. you have nothing.''
fresh fruit and vegetables are always a problem for the growing number of cruise ships of many flags that spend the winter in the tropics
the other day we were in martinique,'' gerd says, shaking his head over his menu-planning clipboard. ``you think caribbean ports could supply all the melons, fish and shrimp you need. then you telex ahead for 900 kilos of something and they can only come up with 200 kilos. right now we have too many tomatoes and not enough cucumbers. you learn to be versatile.''
the following morning, the berlin would dock at belem, 90 miles up the amazon, where gerd expected five tons of food to be winched aboard, ``if the agent can locate it.'' some supplies would be flown out from west germany where weeks before christmas the ship had left its home port of neustadt, near hamburg, with enough food in its freezers to last three months
the other big difference about cooking at sea,'' says gerd, dipping his spoon into an enormous tray of red snapper simmering in almond butter, ``is that everything is served all at once, not like in a restaurant where orders may come hours apart. ''
to feed 450 passengers and 200 crew members, gerd supervises a staff of 26 that includes a sous-chef, a bread baker, four butchers, two pastry chefs and assorted specialists at meat, fish, soups, sauces, salads and ice cream-making
eating is a round-the-clock pastime for passengers. breakfast starts at 7 a.m. in the dining salon or at poolside. hot bouillon at 10. lunch is at noon in the dining room or on the lido deck. afternoon tea with rich pastry is at 4. there are two dinner sittings, at 6 and 8, then an elaborate midnight buffet
when people, sometimes even the captain and the doctor, complain to me about getting too thick, too fat, i tell them, look, i only do the cooking. you must do the eating,'' says the lean and lanky chef
gerd's day is divided into two shifts. he shows up in the gleaming tile and steel galley at 6 a.m., takes a break at noon for a few hours, then is back on the line at 5 or so. ``in this job, '' he says, sampling the just-made kiwi fruit ice cream with hazelnut sauce, ``you know when you start but you never know when you finish. sometimes it is midnight.''
menus are planned two days ahead, after a nervous look at the larder
on a cruise ship, the chef learns to pace himself, so that each day is better than the last,'' gerd says. the progression is from venison and filet mignon to boeuf wellington and lobster, from pate de foie gras to smoked salmon to caviar. it all builds to the captain's farewell banquet, when the lamps are dimmed and the waiters come marching in behind the ship's orchestra with flaming baked alaska held proudly on high
then in ritual rich as king neptune's court at the crossing of the equator, the captain gives his little speech and introduces his officers and the cruise staff. but the loudest applause always rings out for the chef
since the berlin flies the west german flag, the menu at lunch usually features a regional specialty like gefuellte kalbsbrust heidelberg, stuffed breast of veal, or kaiserschmarren, luscious tyrolean pancakes. the six-course dinner, from pate and soup to cheese board and exotic pastry, invariably offers a choice of three entrees
the cuisine is continental, but menu choices do not seem to vary regardless of whether german, french or americans predominate the passenger list. with some 400 guests studying his daily delectations, gerd can predict ``within 20 or 30 portions'' which of the three entrees will be the most in demand
that way, we don't waste much food,'' he says. ``also, the weather is a factor. people eat less here in the tropics. on the chilly north cape run, they never stop eating.''
in the pecking order at sea, gerd is entitled to wear an officer's uniform with three stripes on the sleeve, the equivalent rank of first mate or first engineer. but he prefers a white apron and the toque blanche, the tall chef's hat that crowns his profession and always brings down the house
in germany,'' he mused over a steaming cauldron of crab and spinach soup, ``cooking is still a respected profession, but young people don't want it. the hours are too long, the work too hard, and you're never off on weekends, christmas or easter. every cruise i am breaking in four or five new cooks. they stay for two or three years, and then the wife or the girlfriend says enough. well, you can't blame them. the sea is for dreamers.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ camel caravans still wend across the sahara desert in northern niger as they have done for centuries, but droughts in this decade have wiped out most livestock herds, putting an end to the wandering of the nomadic tuaregs. in villages such as agadez, many have been reduced to hawking jewelry to tourists or scratching a meager garden out of the sand
the evening call to prayer from a medieval minaret echoes through the sand streets to a market stall next to the sultan's palace where abdou amadou sells nomad souvenirs and dreams of hondas
the souvenirs are mere remnants of a fabulous desert culture that once flourished in agadez, then a bustling crossroad of the great trans-saharan trade
the village is now an impoverished outpost in the landlocked west african nation of niger, one of the poorest and most anonymous countries on earth. but agadez manages to survive, living off the legacy of the sahara's golden age
abdou, 16, is watching the shop while his grandfather prays on a straw mat outside in the street. two tourists browse through the sabers, jewelry and camel saddles hanging on the wall
it's nomad,'' abdou says, pointing to a bracelet. ``it's silver. i'll make you a good price.''
as the tourists walk away, abdou says in french, ``i want to sell enough to buy a honda someday and do a motorcross. it would be marvelous.'' his grandfather returns and, speaking quietly in tamanjek, tells abdou to get back to work
tamanjek is the language of the tuareg nomads, who for a thousand years lived and wandered in the once-borderless sahara desert that is now northern niger
crafts and caravans, as well as tourism, are essential structural supports for the economy of northern niger, a country with a population of about 7 million and an average per capita income of $270 a year
the caravan route to timbuktu originated in agadez and was followed by arabs, turks and egyptians. the wealthy traders of the medieval world, including a few europeans, kept agents in agadez to expedite the flow of goods south to black africa and north to the mediterranean ports
the gateway to the sahara, agadez linked europe and africa, white world and black; the route came to symbolize the mystery of africa
throughout the middle ages and continuing until two centuries ago, huge caravans crisscrossed the desert waste. sometimes lines of up to 40,000 camels stretched to the shimmering horizon. tuareg nomads, proud and independent, served as escorts, camel handlers and guides across the unmarked sand. nomad craftsmen made saddles, sabers and other gear for the trail while other tuaregs bred camels to replace those lost to exhaustion and thirst
crossing the desert was a complicated and dangerous business. tens of thousands of human and animal skeletons lie buried beneath the sand. whole convoys died from lack of water or heat or fell victim to bandits. black africans perished on the forced march north to slavery or were worked to death more slowly in the desert salt pits
the pits not far from agadez, near the libyan border, are still being worked, although not by slaves, and the transport still is handled in the cool winter months by camel caravans. scores of caravans carry salt to feed the livestock of farmers in the more fertile south. to the north they return with millet, dates and wheat
caravans appear suddenly from behind dunes like an illustration from arabian nights or frames from a hollywood foreign legion film. the camels glide across the top of dunes, tied in a line, their hooves trailing plumes of sand. beside them walk the nomads in robes that billow like sails in the wind. from their belts swing curved, carved sabers, symbols of the tuaregs' warrior past
the caravan trade still feeds some families, but many tuaregs in agadez have been reduced to hawking jewelry to tourists or scratching a meager garden out of the sand. droughts in this decade have wiped out most herds, putting an end to the nomad's wandering and livelihood. government policies that encourage the nomads to settle down have accelerated the change to a sedentary life
the descendant of a line that dates at least to the 10th century, sultan ibrahim spent one recent morning negotiating movie rights to film a caravan
the sultan reclined on a carpet by an open fire in the dark palace, slowly spinning a silver cylinder of snuff in his hand. across from him on lawn chairs sat a reporter and producer from the british broadcasting co., nervously negotiating
they explained their plan to an old, white-robed interpreter who translated it from french for the sultan and his retinue. the sultan's black eyes, the only part of his head not concealed by an abundant turban, revealed nothing but inscrutable reserve
after a while he raised his hand and discussion of details ceased between the bbc and a barefoot caravaner. he approved 30 camels and agreed to outfit the caravan for a reasonable price _ and agreed to be interviewed on camera for the trade route film
thirty camels can go now without danger,'' the sultan says. ``it is no longer necessary to travel in large groups for protection.''
the danger facing agadez these days, he says, is not other men, but nature
it is getting drier, the water table is falling and we have not had a good rain in two years,'' he says. ``it is difficult to say exactly what is happening
we have enough water for the moment for our 30,000 people and there is enough fodder, but any further loss of pasture and there will be no livestock left. i don't know about will happen to the people.''
the spread of the sahara is the biggest problem in agadez, in the region, in all of niger. desertification and the environment was the top priority listed by the new government when it took over in november. the new chief of state is ali seibou, the third man to lead niger since it gained independence from france three decades ago
col. seibou, leader of the nigerien military, took over nov. 17 from president seyna kountche, who died in a paris hospital of a brain tumor. seibou immediately was chosen to head the seven-man ruling supreme military council
already known for his leadership in efficiently distributing food throughout niger during the 1984 famine, seibou increased his popularity by releasing about 200 political prisoners and reducing police presence in niamey, the capital. articles mildly critical of the government began appearing in the press. the atmosphere seemed looser, people said
the transition of power was especially smooth when compared to other west african nations, where violent coups d'etat often mark the change in government. niger's reputation for stability has been strengthened in international circles, including the united states
international affairs, even national ones, receive little attention in agadez, where there are only a couple of television sets and one plane a week lands on the sand-swept airstrip near town. tradition is what matters
even the way of saying hello on the street is rooted in the sahara's golden age. the tuareg have a complicated and courteous way of greeting each other, exchanging several phrases before conversation begins. softly spoken, ritualistic phrases, which everyone knows by heart, sometimes go on for a minute or more
salum alaikum,'' they begin. peace to you
alaikum wa salam.'' peace to you too
yak lo bas.'' no evil to you
lo bas.'' no evil
lo bas. hamdullah.'' no evil, thanks to god
as the phrases continue, the men look each other over. the ritual was useful for sizing up a stranger on the desert, identifying his tribe
abdou, sporting a georgia historical society t-shirt given to him by a foreign friend, thinks the greeting is old-fashioned. but he respects the ancient traditions, knowing that this is what brings the tourists to his grandfather's shop
you want to go see the camel market outside town?'' he asks a visitor. ``i can borrow my brother's motorcycle and take you there.''
here are some facts and figures on niger:
the land: located on the southern edge of the sahara, between libya and nigeria, niger is a landlocked nation of 490,000 square miles (the size of texas and california combined), most of it uninhabited desert
more than a century of french colonial rule ended peacefully on aug. 8, 1960. the nigeriens adopted a constitution three months later that was suspended following a military coup in 1974
the people: the population, estimated at 7 million, is largely made up of three ethnic groups. the hausa, who also constitute the major ethnic group of northern nigeria, represent half the total population and the djerma-songhai, a quarter. most are concentrated in the southern, more fertile, part of the country. the rest of the nigeriens are nomadic or seminomadic peoples wandering the deserts of the north, including the tuareg, fulani, kanouri and toubou. each ethnic group has its own language and customs but the hausa language is the one most widely spoken. ninety-eight percent of the population is moslem. the birthrate is one of the world's highest, increasing at 3.4 percent per year. the average life expectancy is 45
the economy: despite the development of uranium mining in recent years, niger remains a very poor country, 97 percent covered in sand. uranium output peaked in 1981 and declined after prices fell owing to worldwide cuts in nuclear power programs. the falling uranium prices caused the rate of economic growth to plummet from 12 percent in 1979 to 4.2 percent in 1985
niger's gross national product per head declined, in real terms, by an average of 1.6 percent annually between 1960 and 1981. per capita income in 1987 was estimated at $270 a year. the decline in the economy combined with an exploding population and recurring drought. niger is thought to be the country that was most severely affected by the 1984 drought and resulting food shortages
about 90 percent of niger's work force is employed in some form of agriculture or herding. the principal food crops are millet and sorghum. the main cash crops are peanuts, cotton and cowpeas
history: the british were the first to explore the upper reaches of the niger river, beginning with the scotsman mungo park, who disappeared there in 1806. but it was the french who colonized it between 1891 and 1911. the country was not fully ``pacified'' until much later and there were a number of resistance movements which challenged colonial power, the most serious being the siege of agadez by tuareg nomad warriors in 1916-17
its colonial history and development paralleled that of other french west african territories, administered from paris through the governor general at dakar, senegal, and governors in the individual territories. the country gained independence in 1960, but remained staunchly pro-french
the constitution adopted in 1960 was suspended in april 1974 following a coup in which seyni kountche ousted hamani diori, who had served since independence but was accused of corruption, particularly with regard to the distribution of food aid
in november 1987, kountche died in a paris hospital following a long illness and was immediately replaced by his chief aide and the head of the 4,000-man nigerien military, ali seibou
the country has been ruled since 1974 by a supreme military council and all basic powers have been vested in it. political parties are banned. a cabinet, composed of both civilians and military personnel, administers the country. the government has promised to reinstate a constitution and parliament
niger pursues a neutral, moderate foreign policy and maintains friendly relations with both east and west. photo.)</note>
british actress jane seymour says she found much to admire in wallis simpson, the american divorcee who became the duchess of windsor, the woman the english loved to hate
she was the woman who stole their king,'' says seymour, who portrays simpson in the cbs movie, ``the woman he loved.''
they hated her. she was a naive american who didn't understand the monarchy or how it worked or what it stood for. she thought david could make her his queen.''
instead, david, already king edward viii but not yet crowned, was forced to abdicate in 1936 to marry wallis. they became the duke and duchess of windsor and lived the rest of their lives in exile
the two-hour movie, which cbs will televise on sunday, also stars anthony andrews as david, olivia de havilland as wallis' aunt bessie, julie harris as her mother, lucy gutteridge as another woman who saw herself as david's queen, robert hardy as winston churchill and phyllis calvert as queen mary
i've never heard anyone say a good word about her,'' seymour says. ``other than that, she gave great dinner parties. but i liked her. she had a sense of humor, a straightforwardness. she was definitely attentive to her husband and, although she was no beauty, she had style and elegance. i certainly wouldn't trust her with my husband
it's boring to play a perfect person. but to play a woman who was not liked and to find something about her that is likeable is fascinating.''
seymour says she saw david as a weak man who never really wanted to be king. wallis simpson fulfilled some of his needs
rumor has it that wallis learned to do sexual tricks when she lived in china,'' she says. ``the king had a few problems in that area and she fixed them.''
when wallis first met david, he was the prince of wales and she was married to american businessman ernest simpson. the flirtation turned to romance, and simpson's marriage to divorce. her plan was to marry david and become queen, but the british prime minister and royal family forbade his marriage as king to a twice-divorced woman
the woman he loved'' takes a different and less political approach than the british-made miniseries ``edward and mrs. simpson,'' which ran on pbs several years ago
english newspapers became heavily involved with the making of ``the woman he loved'' and seymour says one paper seemed to give royal status to her role-playing. the times published seymour's picture as the duchess at david's funeral. it went on the court circular page, a serious chronicle of royal events
i tried to play her in various shades of gray,'' seymour says. ``i play her the way i believe she was thinking at the time. she was manipulating things. she had a great plan and it didn't work. i purposely don't play her sympathetically.''
parts of the movie were filmed in western england, where seymour owns a 15th-century estate outside the old roman spa city of bath. she stayed at her home, st. catherine's court, during that time
seymour divides her time between england, where she is still a citizen, and this country, where she has lived for the past 10 years. she and her husband, american businessman david flynn, have two children, katie, 5, born here, and sean, 2, born in england
she works mostly in american television and films, having shed her english accent in order to play american roles
seymour was on her way to spain to play opera star maria callas in the abc miniseries ``onassis: the richest man in the world.'' the four-hour miniseries, which tells of the romance between callas and greek magnate aristotle onassis (raul julia), will be televised in early may
she has already completed her role as natalie jastrow henry in ``war and remembrance,'' the 30-hour miniseries being readied for abc next season. so far she has starred in 10 american miniseries
this seems to be my `duchess and diva' period,'' she says with a laugh. ``i seem to be getting some great roles now. it's very exciting. i'm like a chameleon, changing the way i look, the way i sound, the kind of roles i play.''
she took over the role played by ali macgraw in ``the winds of war,'' the first of author herman wouk's two massive novels on world war ii
for her role as maria callas she had to learn to sing several arias. she also worked with dialect coach robert easton for her roles as wallis simpson and maria callas
next, she goes to london for a role in the cbs miniseries ``jack the ripper.'' she plays the romantic interest to michael caine, who stars as scotland yard inspector frederick abberline. armand assante also stars as an american actor playing ``dr. jekyll and mr. hyde'' on the london stage at the time of jack the ripper's reign of terror. photo.)</note>
liliane montevecchi is a french singer-dancer whose cabaret show, ``on the boulevard,'' opened in february and keeps getting extended at the tiny off-broadway kaufman theater
whether she will let it extend into the summer, she can't say. ``i don't make plans. i do whatever pleases me
i'm like a cork on the ocean and just let it ride,'' she says in french- accented english, her words punctuated by a hearty laugh
her father was italian, her mother french. she grew up in paris. she was the star of the folies bergere for 10 years. minus the feathers of the folies, she's doing her first one-woman show
in ``on the boulevard,'' she wears a black long-sleeved, mini-skirted dress, accenting her gamine face, svelte figure and shapely legs. after intermission, for a ``boulevard stroll,'' she belts on a very french-looking trench coat. she bought it for $25 in a salvation army store near the manhattan apartment where she's staying. this ``cork on the ocean'' doesn't keep a permanent apartment in paris or new york
the songs in the show, sung mostly in english, aren't all french. but the singer, whose name is pronounced montevekky, makes ``it might as well be spring'' sound as french as ``autumn leaves.''
critic clive barnes called her ``an american-styled, but never americanized, impression of a reality that is itself so brilliant, so telling and so touching that it becomes a new and lovely reality in its own right.''
tommy tune, who chose miss montevecchi for ``nine'' on broadway, planned ``on the boulevard'' with her, but his name isn't in the program. she says, ``he did it for me as a friend. the critics were so good he should have the recognition he deserves. i asked him and he said, `now that you're well on your way, do what you want.' it is so brilliantly pulled together in that little theater, not an easy theater to work with
the first time we came to the theater and sat there, he said, `i see you higher.' we didn't know how yet. a boulevard was not even thought of.'' they eventually decided on a raised, diagonal walkway across the tiny stage
we were there, moved around, thought aloud, did boo-boos. it was being unafraid to do things that are not good, then clean it up. i always rehearse in a black leotard; i can see where the body goes. we started with a leotard covered with diamonds i had from a long time ago, for the show. it was too much.''
they didn't try for a single mood, like nostalgia. ``we should have variety,'' she says. ``alive, alive, alive. and true. you cannot cheat the public. they don't know why but they feel when it is true. the public is very intelligent, you see.''
miss montevecchi thinks her singing has improved. ``life makes you different, the sorrow, joy, people you lose. the songs are closer to my heart and i'm not afraid any more. tommy and i say we are finished to be afraid. now we attack!
tommy decided no more hats or glittering gowns. i attack with pleasure. i feel very comfortable with that. i took a risk, i guess. if one doesn't take a risk, one stays in a rut.''
tune first saw and heard the 5-foot-6-inch dancer-singer during auditions for broadway's ``nine,'' which he directed
she had played in atlantic city for 18 months, on contracts renewed in three-month increments. from atlantic city, she went to hollywood, where she once had a seven-year mgm contract, to try to re-enter films
i didn't get a thing, not even a radio spot. i can't wait. i try and if it doesn't work, i disappear. i decided to go back to paris. i stopped here, to visit a friend, and called my agent. he said, `it's funny you called. tomorrow there's an audition for a play which requires accents
i went there. i was not prepared at all. i didn't have a pianist. i sang `la vie en rose.' tommy liked me. he didn't have a part for me but he wanted me in the show. why not have me play the part of a producer originally written for a man? because of me, the cast, except for raul julia, became all women
the timing of things is incredible.''
in paris, at age 9, miss montevecchi started ballet lessons, sent by a mother who had wanted to be a ballerina. ``she didn't push me too hard. i loved it. i still love it today. i go to ballet class every day. it is my drug, my equilibrium, my love, what makes me breathe.''
roland petit saw miss montevecchi dance as a teen-ager, hired her for his ballet company and three months later, when she was 18, named her prima ballerina. she stayed three years before a screen test took her to hollywood, where she attended school with kindergarteners to learn english
after hollywood came ``la plume de ma tante,'' on broadway and on tour; a play in europe, and 10 years of starring in the folies bergere, in new york, where it flopped, las vegas and paris. she wasn't topless, miss montevecchi says. ``ballet is a very proper thing and i always kept this. and i was the star of it, in 17 enormous costumes a night, with huge, huge feathers, from catherine of russia to a tango queen.''
her mother died last year in paris. miss montevecchi says, ``i spent five months in paris; i had to do things. i came back here with her little dog that i bought her 12 years ago. i do this show for her. she made me do it, in my heart and mind.''
as an angry young man in the 1960s, jackie ntuane spent more than three years in prison for his political activism
as a prosperous insurance executive today, he says his focus is on economic independence
ntuane is part of a growing black south african middle class, which has found opportunities in the business world even while locked out of national politics
this emerging business class, though still small, sees black economic development as the neglected partner of black political advancement. both are viewed as necessary ingredients in dismantling apartheid, the government's policies of racial segregation
economics and politics are part of the same struggle for blacks,'' said ntuane, who manages a 50-member branch office for the old mutual insurance company
blacks must succeed in both areas if they are to take control of their own lives,'' added ntuane, who was imprisoned for belonging to the outlawed pan africanist congress
the south african economy, by far the largest and most advanced in africa, requires an ever increasing number of middle-class professionals. blacks have begun to fill that demand, and some clear signs of black economic progress are emerging:
_black households earned an average of 406 rand ($203) a month in 1986, more than double the figure in 1981 and nearly six times higher than in 1975, according to market research africa, a private firm. however, black households still earn less than 20 percent of the average white family income
_the new lesedi city shopping mall, east of johannesburg, has more than 50 black-run businesses and is the largest shopping complex yet built in a black area
_black taxi drivers, banding together in a nationwide association, over the past decade have taken away a huge portion of black commuter ridership from white-owned bus companies
_shareworld, a disneyland-style amusement park in soweto, opened several months ago and is believed the largest enterprise in the country controlled by black shareholders. a total of 880 black investors hold 60 percent of the stock
there are success stories, but they remain the exception,'' said gabriel mokgoko, spokesman for the national african federated chamber of commerce. ``blacks still are not part of the economic mainstream.''
the middle class remains a small fraction of the country's 26 million blacks. blacks make up about 75 percent of the population, but only 5 percent of the executives and managers. black businesses account for only 1 percent of south africa's gross national product, according to black enterprise magazine
black businesses face obstacles on several fronts, including hostility from their own community, where many younger blacks see the business world as an extension of apartheid and white domination
capitalism has become a discredited system to hundreds of thousands of (black) south africans,'' the editors of black enterprise wrote recently. ``to many of our younger students and graduates, even its name is an anathema (and) earns thinly disguised ridicule and contempt.''
dr. nthato motlana, a prominent anti-apartheid activist, said blacks have become increasingly hostile to business and have failed to perceive black buying power as a political weapon
the attitude of young black activists and the unions is most unfortunate,'' he said recently. ``this message must go out to the political activists _ blacks need to make money too. blacks have no political power, but they should translate their consumer power into economic power.''
a long-held theory in the white business establishment is that apartheid will wither as the economy develops and blacks are drawn into the middle class
business has proved less resistent to blacks than most other fields, and the workplace is the most frequent point of multiracial interaction in a country where neighborhoods and public schools remain segregated
but black leaders say white business has done far less than it could to assist blacks
white business climbed on the back of the apartheid political system years ago and that's where it remains today,'' said mokgoko. ``business pays lip service to racial reform, but they have never exercised their power to help dismantle apartheid or assist blacks economically.''
blacks are the largest consumers of most basic necessities, such as food and clothing, yet most black businesses are relatively small operations limited to black townships
south africa has no nationwide black-owned chains, and only one of the more than 500 companies listed on the johannesburg stock exchange (a group of six bakeries) is run by blacks
blacks have no credible representation in any of the major economic sectors such as mining, agriculture, manufacturing, the financial institutions, even retailing,'' reuel khoza, the black managing director of shareworld, wrote recently in leadership magazine
by whatever index we use, black economic activity is so insignificant as to be almost non-existent,'' khoza wrote
economic life in soweto, the huge township outside johannesburg, is typical of many black areas. most shops are mom-and-pop operations and a substantial informal business sector of street vendors exists
but the township of an estimated 2.5 million people has no large, central business district or shopping area. soweto residents are more likely to shop at white-owned businesses in johannesburg than in their neighborhoods
by far the largest industry in soweto is shebeens, illegal bars _ an estimated 4,000 of them, outnumbering all other businesses combined
black businessmen say the townships will remain underdeveloped until bankers become willing to invest in black areas. south africa has more than 50 banks, but only one, the african bank, is black-run and makes most of its loans to the black community
regulation and statute have reduced us to a nation of small-time merchants running essentially one-man operations,'' khoza wrote
our political spirit has never been crushed, but our assault on the economic edifice of apartheid has been lamentable,'' he added. ``in the economic field, we must create a mythology of competence, of high motivation and high ideals in pursuit of economic liberation.''
every workday morning and evening, the road between johannesburg and soweto is lined with vans taking blacks to and from their jobs
known as ``combis,'' the vans are privately owned taxis that have contributed to one of the country's leading black business success stories
an estimated 100,000 combis operate nationwide, and almost all are run by blacks for blacks
the black taxi industry is a clear example of the black entrepreneurial flair that exists in south africa when it is allowed to flourish,'' said james chapman, a white who is spokesman for the southern african bus and taxi association (sabta)
for decades, most urban blacks were at the mercy of inefficient and inconvenient train and bus systems for their daily trips from the outlying townships into the cities where they worked
when black taxi drivers began appearing in the late 1970s, they faced a range of restrictions, including limits on the number of passengers and the requirement that those in each ride be of the same race
but sabta, a co-operative with 45,000 members, successfully fought regulatory curbs and has become an increasingly powerful force in the transport industry since its formation in 1979
sabta has an annual budget of more than 60 million rand ($30 million), runs 16 gas and service stations for members, and arranges discounts on parts and repairs. the organization also has persuaded the toyota and nissan automotive plants in south africa to modify their vans to better accommodate the needs of taxi drivers
seventy percent of the association's members own only one or two taxi vans, but most are doing well financially, sabta says
successful black taxi drivers in urban areas earn as much as 1,000 rand ($500) a month, making them among the highest-earning black group in the country, said godfrey ntlatleng, the association's vice president. the average monthly income for a black household in south africa is 406 rand ($203)
i had to work a lot of 16-hour days, but i always wanted to be my own boss,'' said ntlatleng, who started with one taxi and now oversees a fleet of several combis
to join sabta, members pay an annual 100-rand ($50) fee, and become part of the local association that sets rates and handles administrative functions. the current fare for the trip between johannesburg and soweto costs the equivalent of 60 cents and most vans carry 10 or 15 passengers
sabta's membership and resources have been expanding rapidly, although the organization failed last year in an attempt to takeover the nation's largest bus system, putco, for 150 million rand ($75 million)
it was a temporary setback,'' said chapman. ``but we've proven we're a force to be reckoned with.''
the sweeping capitalist revolution in britain is prime minister margaret thatcher's
but her top treasury official, chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, is the architect of the astounding turnaround in britain's economy _ the world's fifth largest
once an economic laughing stock, plagued by strikes, high interest rates and inflation that coined the phrase ``the british disease,'' britain is in its seventh consecutive year of economic growth and expanding faster than most of its major trading partners
at a projected 3 percent in 1988, britain's growth will outstrip the united states' 2.3 percent and west germany's 1.7 percent, and stand second only to japan's 4.2 percent
the base lending rate is down from a peak of 16 percent in 1981 to 8.5 percent. the annual inflation rate has been reined in from 18 percent in 1980 to 4 percent last year
now, with a budget unveiled march 15 that will radically reform the tax structure, lawson's accomplishments as the main architect of mrs. thatcher's economic policies rank him as one of britain's boldest and most respected chancellors
i think you can certainly say that, certainly in the postwar period,'' said ian harwood, a chief economist at the london investment firm warburg securities
he compares well with other chancellors,'' said diane coyoe, a british economist with the private forecasting firm dri europe. ``he's been a very hands-on chancellor so he has to get a lot of the credit for it.''
she added: ``he will certainly be well remembered.''
lawson's opponents in the socialistic labor party disagree. they shouted down his budget speech when he announced big tax cuts for high earners, and one was expelled from the house of commons for calling his strategy ``an utter obscenity.''
lawson's fifth budget marked his zenith with the nine-year-old conservative government's biggest tax reform
reducing the income tax categories from six to two, he slashed the rate for britain's highest income earners from 60 percent to 40, and set a basic rate of 25 percent, the lowest since 1938
in a testament to the government's tight fiscal spending policies, 1987-88 produced the first budget surplus in almost 20 years
rich man's budget,'' stormed the opposition laborites, but a large conservative majority in the house of commons assures its passage
lawson proudly predicted another year of healthy and non-inflationary economic growth, despite the october stock markets' crash, and repeated his common boast:
the british economy is stronger than at any time since the war. we have followed the right policies and stuck to them.''
the government's critics say that if this is a success story, the price is too high
they say the poor, the unemployed and the sick have been abandoned by fiscal spending policies short on social conscience. mrs. thatcher argues that only a strong economy can protect the weak
the critics also maintain that unemployment, at a rate of 9.1 percent, is too high. lawson notes it was above 11 percent 18 months ago
economists also worry about the trade deficit, which is expected to triple to $7.4 billion in 1988
britain's surplus in oil trade, which was $7.4 billion in 1987, equal to the expected trade deficit, disguises the real extent of the country's trade imbalance, the critics say
they also contend that falling oil prices played a significant part in slowing the growth rate from 4.5 percent last year to the projected 3 percent
lawson's critics also say manufacturing output hasn't fully recovered from the recession of the early 1980s. it will grow by 5.5 percent in 1988, lawson said. but the government's most recent manufacturing output index stood at 113.5 in january, still below its record 116.8 in june 1974
in addition, the labor unrest that mrs. thatcher had curbed with laws limiting union power has picked up with a variety of strikes in recent months
but the government says 3.39 million work days were lost to strikes last year, up from a 34-year low of 1.92 million in 1986, but much lower than the 1970s average
lawson, like mrs. thatcher, doesn't waver from his agenda, which has the prime minister's almost unqualified endorsement
he has held his own opinions and followed them,'' ms. coyoe said
his relationship with mrs. thatcher is not always harmonious, however. just before budget day, they disagreed over how much the government should intervene to stem the increase in the value of the british pound against other major currencies
mrs. thatcher stood by her free-market convictions, while lawson feared that without intervention, a strong pound would hurt britain's exports and corporate profits
short, boyish-faced, chubby, with a shock of black hair and a tart sense of humor, lawson is the son of a jewish latvian immigrant who became a london tea merchant
lawson graduated from oxford university in economics, politics and philosophy, and was a journalist before being elected to parliament in 1974. in 1979 he became a junior treasury minister in mrs. thatcher's first government
he became chancellor in 1983, the first trained economist to hold the post since 1951, and began as a monetarist, vowing to extinguish inflation by controlling the growth in britain's money supply and government borrowing
today he is a supply-sider who advocates tax cuts and restrained fiscal spending. supply-side economists believe increasing the money available for investment will boost productivity
lawson lives with his second wife and two young children at 11 downing st., next door to the thatchers at no. 10
despite being credited with a large part in winning mrs. thatcher her third consecutive term of office, lawson's political future is uncertain. critics say the chancellor is not sociable enough to garner support to lead the party in the unlikely event that the unflagging mrs. thatcher would step down
i think he would make a very good prime minister,'' harwood said. ``whether he would have a chance is another question.''
the british press has speculated that after five years in the thatcher cabinet, lawson is tired and frustrated, and might take a lucrative job in the city, london's financial district
lawson says that while his tax reform is complete, it is too soon to say whether he will be presenting next year's budget
the shabby 64-room motel where martin luther king jr. died is closed, emptied of its last stubborn resident, surrounded by a chain-link fence 8 feet high and awaiting renovation. the slums are as full as ever
dr. king was about the business of poor people at the time of his death, and today there are more poor black people in memphis than there were then,'' said maxine smith, executive secretary of the local naacp
king was shot to death at the lorraine motel on april 4, 1968, and civil rights leaders say the 20th anniversary of his assassination should remind the nation that the battles he fought remain unwon
the attention of the country should be on memphis,'' said james e. smith, director of local 1733 of the american federation of state, county and municipal employees
king was in memphis to support striking city garbage men when he was slain. on april 3, the union will sponsor a memorial service at the mason temple, where he delivered one of his most famous speeches
i've been to the mountain top,'' king told his followers the night before his death. ``i may not get there with you, but i want you to know tonight that we as a people will get to the promised land.''
a ``poor-people's pilgrimage'' through mississippi, alabama and georgia will begin april 4 in memphis with a wreath-laying ceremony at the lorraine
a program of speeches and music to be staged at a downtown theater april 4 will be the first event the city has ever sponsored in king's honor
i think anybody who is familiar with memphis politics, memphis society, would have thought you were crazy if you said five or 10 years ago that memphis was going to sponsor an official city tribute to dr. king,'' said the rev. kenneth whalum jr., chairman of a commission appointed by mayor richard hackett to coordinate the city program
it speaks volumes about the progress we have made,'' whalum said
the city and county governments have put up $2.2 million each to match $4.4 million from the state for a civil rights museum at the lorraine, and museum supporters say it indicates memphis is less worried about being identified as the city where king was killed
there had to be time for people to realize that the impact of the movement and dr. king was not a passing moment,'' said d'army bailey, a prime mover behind the project. ``the lorraine didn't become less important over the years. it became more important.''
the city must recognize it has a special place in history because king was killed here, he said
it is a remarkable challenge that we have to continually answer to show we are making some progress toward racial and economic justice,'' bailey said. ``there is essentially a white memphis and a black memphis, but i don't see that most other american cities are any different. i think we are trying here.''
despite progress, however, other community leaders say racial and economic divisions in memphis are still sharp
we have a long way to go in healing the wounds of king's assassination and in addressing racial polarization,'' said willie herenton, superintendent of memphis schools. he said conditions for the hard-core poor had changed little in two decades
there's a lot of hopelessness and despair,'' he said
jacqueline smith, 37, who was forcibly evicted from the lorraine on march 2 after living there nine years, remains camped out on the sidewalk in protest. the former lorraine chambermaid and waitress thinks the motel should be converted to a shelter for the homeless
i'm trying to help the people who live in this area,'' she said as she was being evicted. ``we're being forced out'' of the neighborhood
the u.s. census bureau says memphis' population of 558,000 in 1968 was about 40 percent black. in 1987 the population was estimated at 652,000 and 50 percent black
in 1970, the median income for blacks in memphis was about half that of whites, and a 1987 report on local poverty by the shelby county mayor's office says that margin has not lessened
almost half of the black families in memphis live in poverty, the report says, and 79 percent of the children in city schools live near or below the poverty level. seventy-eight percent of the 107,000 students in the schools are black
if you look at the percentage of property ownership and things like that, where the money is, blacks are still mainly on the outside,'' said charles crawford, a history professor at memphis state university
but king's assassination in this city permanently changed the city's racial attitudes
there was a feeling of real shock that it had happened and, maybe like (president john) kennedy's assassination in dallas, that it had happened here,'' crawford said. ``it brought about a much more sudden acceptance of the necessity of integration.''
after king's death, blacks greatly increased their involvement in city politics, crawford said, and white politicians began taking them more seriously
in 1967, the city's registered voters broke down to 152,562 whites and 78,655 blacks. now, 181,539 whites, 175,395 blacks and 14,180 others are registered
three of the 13 city council members are black, the same as 20 years ago, and four members of the 11-member shelby county commission are black. photos. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ like thomas chippendale, 18th century cabinetmaker and woodworking artist before him, wendell castle is both a sculptor who makes furniture and a furniture craftsman who makes sculpture. experts say he's currently acknowledged to be the only major artist working in furniture
wendell castle, the kingpin of art furniture in the united states, takes delight in creating pieces that sometimes defy definition
his work, whether it's a chair with a wooden suit coat draped over it or a cabinet that appears destined to topple over, always seems to have a ``fooled you again'' quality
the 55-year-old artist has found an interesting niche between the art and furniture worlds
for example, a ladder-like, impractical sculpture contains a tiny, working cabinet. a beautifully crafted table has an open book and eyeglasses carved out of wood sitting atop the delicate inlay
he can turn wood into wrinkled sheets and cabinets into spectacular sculpture
castle, trying to explain his career recently to an acquaintance who is an attorney, told him, ``i make art furniture.''
in this case, that statement didn't help matters,'' castle recalls. ``so i said, `it's sort of halfway between being furniture and sculpture
that is exactly what i do, but whether that description means anything to a lawyer, i don't know.''
castle is a sculptor who makes furniture, a furniture craftsman who makes sculpture
his creations sell for anywhere from $8,000 to $130,000. they have been shown in art galleries and on the pages of woodworking magazines
his two most important commissions recently have been designing the 500,000th steinway piano and a 19-foot tall clock sculpture in downtown toronto
castle, a slender, bearded man who wears half-glasses when he delicately trims blocks of wood on a band saw, doesn't mind being a man without a label. in fact, he prefers it
i sort of bounce back and forth,'' he says. ``whenever i get real close to one or stay close to one for very long, it bothers me. staying in the middle is more difficult, but there's where i really want to be.''
in the art world, castle is well known as the only major artist working in furniture, a field that has a rich history dating back to the renaissance, says art historian penelope hunter-stiebel
probably the ``most recognizable artist of this type'' is thomas chippendale, the 18th century english cabinetmaker, says hunter-steibel, a former curator at metropolitan museum of art in new york, who acquired a castle loveseat for the museum. ``there's been lots of cabinetmakers, but only a few artists. wendell castle is one of the few.''
in the furniture world, castle's name is a ``household word'' among woodworkers and furniture designers, says paul bertorelli, a senior editor at taunton press, publisher of ``fine woodworking'' magazine
castle graduated from the university of kansas with an undergraduate degree in industrial design and a master's degree in sculpture
he painted abstract expressionist art before coming to the rochester institute of technology in 1962 and starting his innovative career that took him to brockport state college in 1970 and then to his own furniture design school in 1980
during that time he's created some of the world's strangest-looking chairs, desks, clocks and book shelves. he's tackling a musical instrument for the first time
i've never even made a guitar. i've been interested in building a piano for maybe 10 years,'' he says. castle was approached by the smithsonian institution about building a piano in the 1970s, but the project fell through
castle was given the prestigious commission of designing the 500,000th steinway model d grand piano last summer and submitted 10 designs to steinway &amp; sons
all of the designs were somewhat conservative, at least by castle's standards
there wouldn't be any point in reinventing the piano,'' he says. ``and since the steinway model d is the standard concert instrument in the world i didn't think it would be smart to deviate from it too much.''
the 100,000th steinway is in the smithsonian and the 200,000th, presented to president franklin d. roosevelt in 1938, is in the east room of the white house
castle's design uses dark ebony and striped indian ebony wood to create an elegant, angular shape with large boxy legs
the names of the more than 1,000 steinway artists, such as vladimir horowitz and van cliburn, who chose to play steinways professionally, will be etched into the dark ebony
in his workshop, castle gently brushes the sawdust from the dark, unfinished wood as he explains how moving the rear leg on his design dramatically changed the piano's sound
the rear leg, he says, is always found on the edge of the piano so it won't affect the vibrations that produce the instrument's sounds
but i don't like the look of that, so we're going to do a little bit of extra work so we can put the leg here,'' castle said pointing to an area in the middle of the piano
the change will require the construction of a bridge-like device that will keep the leg from actually touching the underside of the center of the piano
the piano will be unveiled june 2 at a gala celebration in carnegie hall in new york and will then begin a tour of the world's great concert halls, says steinway spokesman leo spellman
a day earlier, castle's huge clock, made out of bronze and stainless steel, will be unveiled at the corner of bloor and yonge streets, one of downtown toronto's busiest intersections
both works will mark a milestone of sorts for castle
i've wanted to make a stronger statement publicly. i've wanted to make big pieces,'' castle says. ``that's one of the problems with furniture. a sculptor can make a monument _ an important public piece. well, what's an important piece of furniture. i don't know what that is.''
a federal judge dealt a severe blow to campeau corp. in the battle for control of federated department stores inc., ruling that federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense could remain in effect
at the same time on friday, u.s. district judge leonard sand delayed a decision on when campeau's $6.2 billion cash tender offer for federated should be allowed to expire
sand denied a request from r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. to force campeau's offer to remain open until march 30, but he ruled the bid must remain in effect at least until next friday
president reagan named treasury secretary james a. baker iii to head a working group to coordinate recommendations for altering the government's regulation of financial markets
the group was appointed friday under a presidential order after nicholas f. brady, head of reagan's task force on the oct. 19 stock market crash, told congress a repeat of that event could occur unless the government's regulatory authorities are put under one roof
the sec has blamed trading in stock index futures for worsening the october crash, which saw the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fall more than 500 points in one day
a white house commission said the government should turn over to private businesses the operation of prisons, air traffic control facilities, mail delivery and scores of other services
agencies now providing those services ``have become muscle-bound to the point of paralysis,'' the panel's chairman, david f. linowes, told reporters friday after presenting president reagan with what he called the first ``independent, exhaustive analysis'' of the privatization issue
international paper co. said it planned to begin discussions with union representatives aimed at resolving bitter labor disputes at several plants around the country
officials for the company and the international paperworkers international union said friday they had agreed to meet with intermediaries within the next several weeks
the meetings are intended to defuse the hostility between management and labor and set up a framework for pursuing the company's labor problems on a local level, the company said
roper corp. accepted a sweetened $470 million buyout offer from whirlpool corp., which filed suit charging that general electric corp. tried to ``sabotage'' the deal with a competing bid
roper said its board reviewed both offers before recommending whirlpool's $50-a-share cash tender offer to shareholders on friday
the bid tops the $37.50-a-share whirlpool offer made last month, which prompted a bidding war for the augusta, ga.-based maker of garden equipment and cooking ranges
illegal aliens are driving down wages and job conditions for low-income native americans and legal immigrants but also are indirectly enhancing job opportunities for some higher-skilled workers, congressional investigators say in a new report
hurt most by the tide of illegal workers sweeping border, farm and some metropolitan areas are native and legally documented immigrant crop pickers, janitors and food processing workers, the general accounting office said friday
pillsbury co.'s report of a larger-than-expected quarterly loss ended a two-day run-up in its stock price that was spurred by takeover speculation, but analysts said the company remained vulnerable
i don't think anything has really changed,'' craig carver of dain bosworth inc. said friday. ``i think this company is still a very strong takeover possibility even though the stock has traded down somewhat.''
in active trading on the new york stock exchange, pillsbury closed down $2.50 a share at $42.87{
the senate finance committee approved a ``taxpayer bill of rights'' that would require the internal revenue service to waive any penalty resulting from erroneous written advice from the irs
the watered-down bill approved friday is designed to respond to what sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, called ``a bully mentality'' among some irs officials. the future of the legislation, sponsored chiefly by sen. david pryor, d-ark., is uncertain. the reagan administration opposes several parts of it, as do some members of the house ways and means committee
bridgestone corp. of japan plans to create the most-technologically advanced tire company in the world when it purchases firestone tire &amp; rubber co., bridgestone president akira yeiri said
firestone's board of directors recommended that shareholders accept bridgestone's offer to purchase firestone's 32 million outstanding shares for $80 a share. bridgestone was spurred to make the $2.6 billion offer thursday because of an unsolicited offer from italian tiremaker pirelli spa
less than a week before insider trader ivan f. boesky was to start serving a federal prison term, officials declined to discuss his whereabouts and there were indications he might already be in custody
the mystery friday of the ex-financier's location came against a background of death threats made against him, raising the possibility that he might have sought federal protection prior to his scheduled surrender date of march 24
boesky, the central figure in wall street's biggest insider trading scandal, was sentenced to a three-year prison term for securities fraud
a federal judge has set a january court date in polaroid corp.'s $5.7 billion patent infringement claim against eastman kodak co
judge rya zobel on friday set a jan. 9, 1989, trial date in the 12-year-old case and ordered pre-trial evidence be presented to the court on july 27
in 1985, zobel ruled that kodak had infringed on seven of about 150 polaroid patents on instant cameras and film
polaroid claims $3.2 billion in lost camera and film sales and seeks an additional $2.5 billion for lost opportunities to develop and market new products
the stock market managed a meager advance friday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 1.33 points to 2,087.37, stretching its gain for the week to 52.39 points
bond prices dropped in active trading, pressured by resurgent anxiety about inflation
the dollar held its ground against other foreign currencies, while gold moved higher
on other markets, oil futures moved higher for the fourth consecutive day, wheat was higher while corn and soybeans declined
koppers co.'s board of directors will consider a sweetened buyout offer totaling about $1.5 billion from a group led by british investor brian beazer and the firm shearson lehman hutton inc., the company says
the new offer disclosed sunday of $56 for each of koppers' roughly 27.2 million common shares outstanding tops the group's initial $45 a share offer that koppers rejected as inadequate last week
koppers stock rose 12{ cents to $53.75 a share friday in new york stock exchange composite trading
charles r. pullin, koppers chairman, said that in addition to considering the sweetened offer the construction materials and chemical company would continue exploring ways to enhance shareholder values
in rejecting the investor group's initial offer, koppers' board authorized management to examine defensive alterantives that might include a recapitalization plan under which shareholders would receive a substantial dividend payment while retaining equity in the company
pullin also reiterated a disclosure made last week in a securities and exchange commission filing that koppers was engaged in discussions with third parties regarding the possible sale of the company's construction materials and services businesses
the dollar fell in light trading in europe today in the absence of any market-moving news. gold prices rose
foreign exchange dealers said they expected the trading session to remain lackluster throughout much of the european day because of a lack of input from tokyo, where markets are closed for a holiday
traders said that in absence of news, some dealers were taking minor short-dollar positions _ or agreeing to sell dollars they don't yet own _ in expectations of a further slide in the dollar in the short term
we see the dollar coming down a bit, especially since it failed to take out 1.70 (west german marks) after the (u.s.) trade figures came out,'' said a senior dealer at a major u.s. bank in frankfurt
the commerce department reported thursday the u.s. merchandise trade deficit widened to $12.4 billion in january from $12.2 billion in december. the markets had been expecting a deficit of $12.8 billion
the dollar was quoted at 127.35 yen in london, compared with 128.35 yen in tokyo on friday
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late friday's rates, included: 1.6898 west german marks, down from 1.6950; 1.3970 swiss francs, down from 1.4010; 5.7440 french francs, down from 5.7480; 1.8983 dutch guilders, down from 1.9010; 1,250.75 italian lire, down from 1,252.50; and 1.2470 canadian dollars, down from 1.2495
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8300, compared with $1.8235 late friday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $445.80 dollars a troy ounce, compared with late friday's $443.25. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $446.50
in zurich, the noon bid price was $446.35, up from $445 late friday
earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at $448.26 bid, up 36 cents from saturday
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.37 a troy ounce, up from late friday's $6.31
alexander m. lewyt, an inventor who developed a vacuum cleaner designed to operate without interfering with tv or radio reception, has died at age 79
lewyt died on friday
born in new york, lewyt was the son of an austrian immigrant who ran a gadget shop
he held patents on scores of inventions
when he learned of undertakers' difficulty in fastening neckties on corpses, the teen-age lewyt devised a new kind of bow tie that clipped on. he sold 50,000 of them. it was unclear whether he ever patented the concept
he was best known for the compact lewyt vacuum cleaner, which had no dust bag and was designed not to cause interference
in the first eight years after his vacuum cleaner was introduced after world war ii, lewyt corp. sold 2 million of them. during the war, lewyt corp. did a multi-million dollar business making such things as radar antennas and popcorn poppers
lewyt sold his interest in the company to the budd corp. in the 1950s
stocks fell in early active trading today, eroding gains of the previous week
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 19.23 points to 2,068.14 as of 10 a.m. est
among broader market barometers, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 1.16 to 151.49. the american stock exchange market value index fell 1.07 to 298.04
losing issues outnumbered gainers by more than a 5-to-3 margin on the nyse, with 558 down, 300 up and 386 unchanged. volume totaled 21.48 million after the first half hour
on friday, the dow jones industrials managed a 1.33-point advance to 2,087.37, its second straight post-crash high, but the broader market was mixed
losers outpaced gainers by 8-to-7 on the nyse, with 807 down, 716 up and 461 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 245.75 million shares, against 211.92 million the previous session
nestle sa, the giant swiss food products group, plans to appoint paul volcker, former chairman of the u.s. federal reserve, to its board of directors, the company has announced
shareholders will be asked to elect volcker and swiss industrialist stephan schmidheiny to nestle's board at the company's general meeting on may 19, the company said friday
volcker, who last year elected not to accept another term at the u.s. central bank, earlier this month was named chairman of the new york investment banking firm james d. wolfensohn inc. and as a professor at princeton university
during his eight years as chairman of the fed, volcker gained an international reputation, which combined with the widespread connections made during from his tenure as fed chairman has made him much sought-after by private business
west germany said monday it will sell its remaining shares in volkswagen ag, returning to its twice-delayed plans to privatize the government's stake in the giant car company
the government will sell its 16 percent volkswagen stake at 238 marks, or $140, a share beginning thursday, according to a statement by the finance ministry. the price set by the finance ministry is a slight discount from volkswagen's current cost of 240 marks a share
the government owns 4.8 million shares in the company, and expects to make some 1.14 billion marks on the deal, the ministry said
the shares will be sold through a consortium of 75 west german and foreign banks led by dresdner bank, deutsche bank, commerzbank and others
west germany announced plans to sell its volkswagen stake more than a year ago, but the move has been delayed twice in recent months
the sale was delayed last summer after volkswagen was hit by a scandal in the company's foreign exchange division that cost millions of marks
plans to reschedule the sale for late in the year were shelved shortly after the oct. 19 stock market crash that sent share prices plummeting around the world
analysts say the government is going ahead with the transaction now because it is faced with a wider-than-expected federal budget deficit in 1988
stocks fell broadly this morning, pressured by another dose of post-crash anxiety and declining bond prices
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which hit the highest level since the oct. 19 collapse twice last week and flirted with the 2,100-point barrier, fell 20.89 points to 2,066.48 by 11 a.m. on wall street
there are very nervous people out there,'' said hank striefler, vice president on the trading floor at shearson lehman hutton inc. ``everybody is concerned. by reaching 2,100, that's sort of a top for the dow at the moment.''
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 1.34 to 151.31. on the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 1.39 to 297.72
declining issues outnumbered gainers by nearly 3-to-1 on the nyse, with 954 down, 344 up and 440 unchanged. volume totaled 46.6 million shares after the first 90 minutes of trading
brokers said some of the selling pressure came from slumping prices in the bond market, a sensitive barometer of inflation and interest rates. evidence of economic strength that emerged from government reports last week suggested that inflation could intensify, eroding the value of fixed-income investments
among the most prominent losing blue-chips, ibm fell } to 113{, dupont fell 1{ to 87\, philip morris fell 1] to 92} and merck fell 1] to 158}
takeover action buoyed some notable issues. koppers rose 3\ to 57 following another takeover offer of $56 a share from beazer plc. american standard rose ~ to 76} after kelso said it would consider an increase in its $78-a-share offer to thwart counter-offers from rival black &amp; decker
on friday, the dow jones industrials managed a 1.33-point advance to 2,087.37, its second straight post-crash high, but the broader market was mixed
losers outpaced gainers by 8-to-7 on the nyse, with 807 down, 716 up and 461 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 245.75 million shares, against 211.92 million the previous session
the supreme court agreed today to hear a reagan administration appeal aimed at allowing some creditors to collect more money from debtors who declare bankruptcy
the court said it will review a decision denying the government's claim for some interest payments on taxes owed by a bankrupt company
the case stems from a reorganization petition filed by ron pair enterprises before a bankruptcy judge in detroit in 1984
the government said the company owed it $53,278 in taxes, penalties and interest accrued prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition
the company agreed to pay the amount, but refused to pay additional interest accrued after the bankruptcy filing
the government said the company should pay the post-filing interest because the collateral _ tax liens on company property _ securing the debt owed the government exceeded the amount of the original debt
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against the government in september. the appeals court said the bankruptcy code, revised by congress in 1978, does not clearly provide for such payments. they previously had been disallowed by courts
justice department lawyers said the appeals court ruling could prove costly to the government
they said the internal revenue service filed secured claims in bankruptcy proceedings totaling more than $730 million from 1982 through 1986, including $186 million in 1986 alone
the government lawyers said state and local governments and private creditors also are affected by the appeals court ruling
the case is u.s. vs. ron pair, 87-1043. pickup.</note>
general electric co. today boosted its bid for roper corp. to $507 million and filed lawsuits seeking to block roper from merging with whirlpool corp
ge, which sweetened its bid by $9 a share, announced the new $54-a-share tender offer today
the offer betters whirlpool's second tender bid for roper, made last week, which amounts to $50 a share, or about $470 million. ge's latest bid expires april 1, unless extended
whirlpool's initial $37.50-a-share offer prompted the bidding war for augusta, ga.-based roper. on march 6, ge entered the fray by offering to pay $45 a share for roper's 9.4 million outstanding shares
after jumping $5.75 a share on friday, roper stock had risen another $2.625 a share on the new york stock exchange by midday
ge's lawsuit, filed in delaware state court, is the second wave of legal action in the battle for the augusta, ga.-based appliance and lawn equipment maker
on friday, whirlpool filed suit charging that ge tried to ``sabotage the definitive merger agreement whirlpool reached with roper's board of directors last month
moving aggressively, ge today alleged that the roper board made no effort to ``test the price'' before agreeing to merge with whirlpool on feb. 29. ge charged that roper concealed ge's interest in the company when it advised shareholders to tender to whirlpool
ge contends that it had expressed ``prior interest in acquiring roper and had asked to be informed if roper became available for acquisition.''
the suit was filed against the roper board and names whirlpool as a defendant
in a separate lawsuit filed in u.s. district court in delaware, ge charged that both whirlpool and roper failed to adequately disclose terms of their merger agreement under securities and exchange commission laws
ge said in a statement earlier that it would ``vigorously defend itself'' against whirlpool's charges that ge tried to ``sabotage'' the whirlpool-roper merger agreement. ge seeks to transfer that suit from u.s. district court in grand rapids, mich., to federal court in delaware
in its lawsuit, whirlpool charged that ge intentionally sought to block whirlpool's merger with roper
whirlpool alleged that the head of ge's appliance business personally tried to persuade roper to break its contract with whirlpool. the suit said ge ``intentionally, maliciously and unjustifiedly engaged in a continuing course of conduct to sabotage'' the deal
ge said in a statement today the suit ``grossly misstated the facts and was totally without legal merit.'' ge noted that its offer was made directly to shareholders who ``are not bound by the acquisition agreement between whirlpool and the roper board.''
whirlpool said its suit is ``similar in theory'' to pennzoil co.'s billion-dollar legal battle with texaco inc. over texaco's acquisition of getty oil co. texaco agreed to settle the suit for $3 billion after pennzoil won a $10.3 billion judgment against the oil giant on charges that texaco prompted getty to back out of an agreement with pennzoil
roper has been supportive of whirlpool's efforts. last week roper chief executive officer robert cook said the company ``has a strong desire to see this combination successfully completed.''
analysts say a roper-whirlpool merger will move whirlpool ahead of ge as the nation's leading appliance maker. whirlpool has said it would expand roper from a maker of cooking ranges into a producer and marketer of a full line of appliances
roper reported net income of $24 million on sales of $703 million in fiscal 1987
the supreme court today let stand a ruling that makes it easier for investors to sue their brokers over the collapse in 1984 of a $3 billion oil and natural gas investment fund
the court, without comment, rejected appeals by three brokerage firms seeking to force investors who lost money in the fund to sue individually rather than as a group
the case stems from the collapse of the petro-lewis fund, in which some 180,000 people purchased securities and limited partnerships from 1970 to 1984. the average initial investment by a limited partner was $8,600
petro-lewis' financial problems began when a supply glut caused oil and gas prices to plummet in the early 1980s
the fund revealed in february 1984 that its condition was critical, cutting partnership distribution by as much as 50 percent and selling up to one-third of its reserves
that prompted numerous lawsuits against petro-lewis, and also against brokers who helped market the fund
some investors settled with petro-lewis, which set up a $23.5 million fund to handle the claims. but that agreement did not preclude investors from suing their brokers
the investors said the brokerage houses and individual brokers ``knowingly or recklessly participated with petro-lewis in disseminating misleading information'' about the financial condition of the funds
at issue in the case acted on today is whether the investors can maintain ``class action'' suits that permit them to apportion the costs of fighting the case and divide up any court award
robinson-humphrey co., shearson lehman hutton inc. and painewebber inc. appealed a ruling by the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta favoring the investors
the appeals court said investors who claimed they were defrauded are arguing a common theory
they allege ``that the petro-lewis shares, which were not traded on the open market, could not have been marketed but for the defendants' fraud,'' the appeals court said
the appeals court rejected the brokers' argument that because investors relied on information given them orally by different brokers their claims should be tried separately
the complaints alleged that the defendant brokerage firms and individual officers engaged in a common course of conduct to misrepresent ... the financial condition of petro-lewis,'' the appeals court said. ``these claims involve common issues that clearly overwhelm the individual issues that may be present.''
it would be repetitive, wasteful and an unnecessary burden on the courts to require separate trials, the appeals court added
the cases are robinson humphrey vs. sanders, 87-835, and painewebber vs. parker, 87-836
grain and soybean futures prices opened mostly higher today on the chicago board of trade in reaction to reports of real and rumored grain purchases by the soviet union
on friday, the agriculture department targeted the soviet union for 1 million metric tons of u.s. wheat under the export enhancement program
the usda also announced late friday that the soviets had bought 500,000 metric tons of u.s. corn
rumors early today that the soviet union had purchased some south american soybean meal helped boost soybean futures, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
that's not as friendly as if they'd bought u.s. meal but if the rumors are correct, it shows that russia is in the market for meal again,'' lespinasse said
in early trading, wheat was } cent to 2 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.01 a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 1} cents higher with march at $1.99 a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to 1} cents higher with march at $1.95} a bushel; soybeans were 5{ cents to 7\ cents higher with march at $6.27 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .27 cent lower to .37 cent higher with april at 73.50 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .15 cent to .27 cent lower with march at 81.85 cents a pound; hogs were .50 cent lower to .10 cent higher with april at 45.70 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .15 cent lower to .55 cent higher with march at 55.65 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures closed mostly higher on friday
stocks fell broadly this morning in a spate of selling that reflected what brokers called another dose of post-crash anxiety, but volume slowed considerably after the first hour of trading
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which hit the highest level since the oct. 19 collapse twice last week and flirted with the 2,100-point barrier, fell 23.38 points to 2,063.99 by noon on wall street
there are very nervous people out there,'' said hank striefler, vice president on the trading floor at shearson lehman hutton inc. ``everybody is concerned. by reaching 2,100, that's sort of a top for the dow at the moment.''
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 1.34 to 151.31. on the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 1.39 to 297.72
losing issues outnumbered gainers by about 5-to-3 on the nyse, with 1,001 down, 394 up and 422 unchanged. volume totaled 65 million shares in the morning session, less than half the 140.41 million shares traded friday morning
brokers said some of the selling pressure came from slumping prices in the bond market, a sensitive barometer of inflation and interest rates. evidence of economic strength that emerged from government reports last week suggested that inflation could intensify, eroding the value of fixed-income investments
among the most prominent losing blue-chips, ibm fell } to 113{, dupont fell 1| to 87[, philip morris fell 1] to 92} and merck fell 1| to 158{
takeover action buoyed some notable issues. koppers rose 3 to 56} following another takeover offer of $56 a share from beazer plc. american standard rose { to 76| after kelso said it would consider an increase in its $78-a-share offer to thwart counter-offers from rival black &amp; decker
claire molloy sits in her wheelchair mulling the possible purchase of a knit jogging suit that just happens to be in lilac, currently her favorite color
what i really need are lilac sneakers,'' said the 65-year-old resident of the bartley manor nursing home before tossing the jogging suit back on the rack
she and other residents were choosing their spring wardrobes over coffee and doughnuts in the nursing home's sunny recreation room
the at-home shopping service is made available by silverthreads inc., an audubon, n.j.-based company that specializes in health-care apparel
silverthreads actually is a traveling store that sets up shop in nursing homes in delaware, maryland, new jersey, pennsylvania, virginia and west virginia. its mail-order catalog serves other customers, many of whom are cared for at home by their families
silverthreads president martin misiaszek, who started the firm 10 years ago, said the company tries to provide its elderly customers with everyday apparel such as nightgowns and dresses as well as specialized apparel such as washable shoes for patients who may be incontinent
what we try to do is bring a clothing store to a nursing home,'' said misiaszek, who has a degree in health-care management
silverthreads treats its customers, most of whom are over 85 years old, with respect and understanding, he said
we all like to see what we're going to purchase, whether it has two pockets or a belt. these people are no different,'' he said
while on the road, silverthreads packs its inventory, racks, bins and mirrors in a 20-foot truck. it's driven by misiaszek's younger brother, bob, the company's vice president
silverthreads' most popular lines are shirts, dresses and night clothes that close in the back, and mens' pants with snaps on the sides, he said
these are for people who can't dress themselves so nurses can dress them,'' bob misiaszek said. ``it's a big help for nurses aides.''
other speciality items include terry-cloth bibs with velcro snaps, flannel and corduroy lap wraps that tie around a wheelchair patient's waist and cushy non-skid slippers for patients with foot disorders
we try to have clothes that allow people to retain their self-esteem,'' bob misiaszek said while straightening a bin filled with dainty women's underwear and frilly nightgowns
prices are range from $24 for cotton dresses with front zippers to $16 for a two-piece jumpsuit
the prices are reasonable. we've been looking around and the prices here are better than a department store,'' said jerry schultz of pine beach, n.j
he and his wife, jean, were shopping for new clothes for his 91-year-old mother, amelia schultz
this is ideal,'' he said. ``we can't take mother out to the store and she should like what she's wearing.''
silverthreads also will put on fashion shows at the request of nursing homes. the shows are a boost for patients and staff alike, said betty maxwell, the recreation director at bartley manor
it's great. they can try them on right afterwards,'' she said as some residents and their families clustered around racks of dresses, slacks and other items
the misiaszeks say annual sales are a family secret. they also say silverthreads provides more than a shopping service
it's really rewarding to see i'm making a difference. it really has a lot of painful moments,'' martin misiaszek said. ``but i love it. i wouldn't do anything else except win the lottery.''
mrs. molloy never found her lilac sneakers, although there were plenty in other colors
nooooo,'' she said. ``gotta be lilac.''
she settled for a pair of pale yellow slacks, then decided to browse a bit longer because ``i might find something else that strikes my fancy. they have things here that we can really use.''
unionists at the beijing no. 1 machine tool plant recently decided the factory manager had not been duly rewarded for his hard work, and voted to increase his annual bonus
that was one example, boasted zheng lanjun, head of the 7,200-member union, of how unions in socialist china strive to serve, rather than confront, the system
but that cozy relationship, under the firm guidance of the communist party, is changing
china's bold economic reforms, including giving factory bosses the authority to hire and fire workers, have forced unions to redefine their role, and even infused them with a touch of militancy
with party approval, unions are becoming more democratic, less subservient to the party and more vocal on such issues as wages and worker safety
the reforms have brought prosperity to the country and benefits to workers,'' shen zuying, spokesman for the all-china federation of trade unions, said in an interview. ``but they have also created new tasks for the unions as protectors of workers' interests.''
shen related how a union in wuhan, central china, recently fought back when the manager fired six workers for breaking factory rules. it managed to get five reinstated, he said
in the northeast city of tianjin, workers at a factory exercised their new-found power to oversee company operations by casting a no-confidence vote against the factory manager. he was reassigned to the plant's library
the government has sanctioned a more assertive union movement to balance the growing power of factory managers under reforms that make industry more competitive and end lifetime employment guarantees
beijing is giving factory heads greater freedom and responsibility over profits and losses, and promoting job contracts that tie wages to performance. few workers ever get fired, but for the first time, employees face discipline and possible dismissal for loafing on the job
communist party chief zhao ziyang has called on unions to wake up to the new realities, and play a greater ``supervisory role'' over the activities of their now powerful bosses
for a long time, trade unions were only involved in trifles, distributing film tickets or relief aid to needy workers,'' the official xinhua news agency said. ``they played a small role in political issues.''
that wasn't all the unions' fault. the all-china federation of trade unions, made up of 15 union groupings with a membership of 90 million, or 90 percent of chinese factory workers, dates back to 1926. but since the communists came to power in 1949 and proclaimed the dictatorship of the proletariat, the unions have been relegated to carrying out the party line on the factory floor
in the 1950s, unions were accused of ``syndicalism,'' or trying to dominate the government, and unions were disbanded during the ultra-leftist 1966-76 cultural revolution
the right of workers to strike was deleted from the 1982 constitution
the leaders didn't think it was necessary,'' said the acftu's shen. ``we are socialists, and the country's interests and those of workers are the same.''
he added, however, that strikes are not illegal, and that if a strike is found to be justified, ``we should support it.'' such cases, he said, have been very rare
instead, unions are focusing on gaining a greater say in factory decisions
workers in many plants nominate and elect their union representatives, called workers' congresses. the congresses, or their leaders, must in turn be consulted by the factory manager before major decisions are made, particularly on personnel matters
party officials are supposed to let the unions run their own day-to-day affairs, although they still hold seats on union committees and are expected to guide the ideological thinking of workers
in the past, the party interfered too much in our activities,'' shen said
the union at the beijing no. 1 machine tool plant, besides organizing badminton tournaments and calligraphy classes, is increasingly called on to mediate worker disputes, zheng said
he related how the union was the arbiter when a woman caught stealing was fired, and when a man who lost both legs in an accident was unhappy with management's compensation of a new apartment, television and refrigerator. in both cases, the union came down on the side of management
but the union also has demanded that the factory do something about its unsanitary dining hall, and is pushing for the factory to provide physical examinations more frequently than the current once every four years
the trade union should support the director in exercising his rights, and at the same time protect the rights of workers,'' zheng said
the acftu's monopoly over organized labor is not likely to change. in 1981, some young people tried to establish independent unions modeled after poland's solidarity, but they were quickly suppressed
although union membership is technically voluntary, almost everybody joins. zheng said the 100 non-union workers in the 7,300-worker plant are new employees who haven't put their applications in yet
but the acftu's shen noted that the reforms also have created 20 million private businessmen and 80 million workers in small rural factories who are largely unorganized. these groups, he said, may be the union movement's next big challenge
bell resources ltd. on monday withdrew its takeover offer for bell group ltd. following a bid for bell resources by two investors
the investors, sir ronald brierley's industrial equity ltd. and kerry packer's consolidated press holdings ltd., are jointly offering 900 million australian dollars, the equivalent of $665 million, for bell resources
their offer, made last thursday, was conditioned on bell resources ending its offer for bell group. the companies are the main listed concerns operated by australian financier robert holmes a court
bell resources said the takeover offer was ``a material change in circumstances'' that should be considered by the company and its shareholders although bell resources considered the price inadequate
brierley and packer were offering 1.50 australian dollars a share for bell resources. the company's stock closed at 1.57 australian dollars in trading in sydney monday, indicating the market expects the bid to be raised
on feb. 29, bell resources offered one of its own shares plus 1 australian dollar cash for each bell group share
the bid was seen by many analysts as a move to simplify holmes a court's corporate structure after the october stock market crash, to put togther bell resource's cash and investments with bell group's industrial operations, and therefore to reduce bell group's heavy borrowings
the move would give holmes a court cash. he owns 45 percent of bell group, which in owns about 40 percent of bell resources
the takeover bid was criticized as too generous for bell group shares and so to the disadvantage of bell resources shareholders
investment in plant and equipment by u.s. business is likely to increase about 8.8 percent this year but only 0.5 percent in 1989, according to a survey released monday
manufacturers are likely to lead the way this year with a 12.5 percent increase in investment, but trail in 1989 with a 2.9 percent decrease, data resources inc. of lexington, mass., said
the larger non-manufacturing sector is expected to be more stable, with a 6.6 percent increase this year and a 2.7 percent increase in 1989, the survey said, based on answers from 457 companies
companies were more optimistic about 1988 than in a previous survey conducted just before the october stock market crash, when they predicted overall investment in plant and equipment would rise 6.2 percent, according to data resources, a unit of mcgraw-hill inc
many economists say the stock market crash cooled off the economy at a time when it was in danger of overheating and falling into recession. some are now pushing back the date of an expected recession to 1989
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken monday by the supreme court in some business-related cases:

dalkon shield

the court refused to let the dalkon shield's maker set up a $15 million emergency fund to help women who say the contraceptive device left them infertile
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that blocks creation of the fund pending the outcome of bankruptcy proceedings for a.h. robins, which manufactures the device
in a related case, the court refused to review a ruling that at least temporarily barred some dalkon shield users from suing aetna casualty &amp; surety co., which insures a.h. robins for liability claims
the cases are mabey vs. official committee of equity security holders, 87-1267, and oberg vs. aetna, 87-1208

equal time

the court rejected a constitutional attack on a federal law requiring broadcasters to give equal time to opposing candidates for public office
the justices, without comment, turned down the appeal of a sacramento, calif., television reporter kept off the air while he ran for a non-salaried town council seat
the case is branch vs. fcc, 87-628

age bias

the court, agreeing to decide an important issue for all lawsuits alleging age bias in employment, said it will study the case of a laid-off pennsylvania man
the justices agreed to decide whether eugene f. brieck's lawsuit against his former employer, harbison-walker refractories, should proceed to a jury trial
the case is harbison-walker vs. brieck, 87-271

government contracts

the court agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts, setting the stage for a new ruling on the boundaries between congressional and presidential powers
the court said it will hear reagan administration arguments challenging the comptroller general's role in administering the 1984 competition in contracting act
the case is army corps of engineers vs. ameron, 87-163

sales tax

the court agreed to decide whether states may impose sales taxes on most books, newspapers and magazines while exempting religious publications
the justices said they will review a texas court ruling that said such a tax neither violates equal-protection rights nor breeches the constitutionally required separation of church and state
the case is texas monthly vs. bullock, 87-1245

cable rates

the court refused to let states and local governments regulate the prices most of the nation's cable television operators charge for basic service
the court, without comment, rejected arguments that the deregulation effected in 1986 by congress and the federal communications commission left subscribers vulnerable to illegal monopoly pricing

the case is connecticut vs. fcc, 87-671

the court agreed to examine the power of labor unions to fire elected officials for disagreeing with union policies
the court said it will consider killing a lawsuit by a los angeles area union business representative who said he was fired illegally by the sheet metal workers' international association
the case is sheet metal workers vs. lynn, 86-1940

superfund

the court agreed to consider shielding states from having to help pay for cleaning up hazardous waste sites when the federal government sues businesses under the so-called superfund law
the court said it will hear arguments by pennsylvania officials that exposing states to such liability could saddle them with $100 billion in clean-up costs
the case is pennsylvania vs. union gas, 87-1241

rico

the court agreed to consider making it easier for people to use a federal anti-racketeering law to sue businesses
the court said it will hear an appeal by phone customers in minnesota who have accused northwestern bell telephone co. of trying to bribe state public utility officials
the phone subscribers sued the company under a law known as the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act (rico)
the case is h.j. inc. vs. northwestern bell, 87-1252
kelso &amp; co. expects to decide by the end of this month whether to sweeten its $2.5 billion tender offer for american standard inc. to fend off rival bidder black &amp; decker corp., according to a report published monday
american standard, a new york-based plumbing and air conditioning company, on thursday accepted kelso's $78-a-share offer. but the following day, black &amp; decker raised its bid for american standard to $77 a share from $73
the kelso offer began monday and was scheduled to expire at 12:01 a.m. est april 1. black &amp; decker extended its offer to expire on the same day
despite the fact that kelso's bid is about $30 million higher, black &amp; decker has maintained that its proposal is better ``in light of the timing and probability of payment.''
black &amp; decker, a towson, md.-based tool and appliance maker, is hoping to benefit from nervous arbitrageurs who hold a majority of american standard's stock and worry that kelso might not be able to come up with the financing to complete the transaction
tendering their shares to black &amp; decker still would ensure a premium price for american standard's stock, which by late afternoon monday traded at $76.50 a share, up 87.5 cents, on the new york stock exchange
kelso, however, said it was willing to raise its bid to win over shareholders, according to monday's editions of the wall street journal
we didn't come this far to be deterred by this kind of response,'' joseph schuchert, kelso's managing partner, told the newspaper. ``we'll tender at $78 and see what they do. if it's necessary to bump our tender offer, that's what we'll do.''
he said kelso was unlikely to act until march 31
kelso officials did not return numerous telephone calls from the associated press on monday
kelso specializes in leveraged buyouts involving employee stock ownership plans, or esops, a concept it pioneered about 30 years ago
in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired largely through borrowed money repaid from the target company's profits or sale of assets. esops also are financed mostly with borrowed funds, but equity is divided among all of the company's workers, not just a few investors
kelso said it planned to finance the american standard acquisition through a $250 million investment and several bank loans
stocks fell today in a spate of selling that reflected another dose of post-crash anxiety and falling prices in the bond market, a warning signal of higher interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which hit the highest level since the oct. 19 collapse twice last week and flirted with the 2,100-point barrier, fell 21.89 points to 2,065.48 by 3 p.m. on wall street
there are very nervous people out there,'' said hank striefler, vice president on the trading floor at shearson lehman hutton inc. ``everybody is concerned. by reaching 2,100, that's sort of a top for the dow at the moment.''
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 1.39 to 151.26. on the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 1.61 to 297.50
losing issues outnumbered gainers by more than 2-to-1 on the nyse, with 1,106 down, 427 up and 419 unchanged. volume totaled 107.07 million shares with an hour left, a considerably slower pace than in the two previous sessions
brokers said some of the selling pressure came from slumping prices in the bond market, a sensitive barometer of inflation and interest rates
evidence of economic strength that emerged from government reports last week suggested that inflation could intensify, eroding the value of fixed-income investments and dampening hope of an easier monetary policy by the federal reserve
among the most prominent losing blue-chips, ibm fell } to 113{, dupont fell 1 to 87}, philip morris fell 1] to 92} and merck fell 1| to 158{
takeover action buoyed some notable issues. koppers rose 3} to 57{ following another offer of $56 a share from beazer plc. pillsbury rose | to 43| on persistent speculation about unannounced offers for the company. federated department stores, target of rival takeover offers from r.h. macy and campeau, rose | to 66~
the supreme court agreed monday, in a case brought by phone customers in minnesota, to consider making it easier for people to use a federal anti-racketeering law to sue businesses
the court also agreed to hear a reagan administration appeal aimed at allowing some creditors to collect more money from debtors who declare bankruptcy
the justices also agreed to study the case of a laid-off pennsylvania man in a matter that could decide an important issue for lawsuits alleging age bias in employment
in another case, the court refused to let states and local governments regulate the prices which most of the nation's cable television operators charge for basic service
in the anti-racketeering case, the court said it will hear an appeal by phone customers in minnesota who have accused northwestern bell telephone co. of trying to bribe state public utility officials
the phone subcribers sued the company under a law known as the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act (rico)
they said the company beginning in 1980 tried illegally to win rate increases by offering gifts, employment offers, tickets to sporting and cultural events and other favors to members of the minnesota public utilities commission
the suit was thrown out by a federal judge and that ruling was upheld last september by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals
the appeals court said the phone users failed to allege a continuing pattern of racketeering activity required to make a case under the rico act
the supreme court is being asked to choose among various theories of how difficult it should be to maintain such a lawsuit
in the bankruptcy case, the court said it will review a decision denying the government's claim for some interest payments on taxes owed by a bankrupt company
the case stems from a reorganization petition filed by ron pair enterprises before a bankruptcy judge in detroit in 1984
the government said the company owed $53,278 in taxes, penalties and interest accrued prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition
the company agreed to pay the amount, but refused to pay additional interest accrued after the bankruptcy filing
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against the government in september. justice department lawyers said the appeals court ruling could prove costly to the government
in the age discrimination case, the justices agreed to decide whether eugene f. brieck's lawsuit against his former employer, harbison-walker refractories, should proceed to a jury trial
in july 1982, several employees of harbison-walker's iron and steel marketing support group were laid off, including brieck. he then was 55
brieck sued harbison-walker in pittsburgh in 1984, contending that he was laid off and not recalled to work because of his age
u.s. district judge gerald j. weber threw out brieck's suit, but the 3rd u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated brieck's suit last june 19
in the cable tv case, the court, without comment, rejected arguments that the deregulation effected in 1986 by congress and the federal communications commission left subscribers vulnerable to illegal monopoly pricing
most of the nation's 7,800 cable tv operators provide both basic and ``premium'' services. for an extra monthly fee, subscribers receive channels offering exclusive sports and movie programming
prior to 1984, the fcc allowed local communities to regulate the rates charged for basic cable service but not for premium service rates
congress in 1984 enacted the cable communications policy act, which lets local authorities regulate basic cable rates only in the absence of ``effective competition.''
defining ``effective competition'' was left up to the fcc, and the commission's definition paved the way for the deregulation of basic-service rates charged by more than 90 percent of all cable operators
the appeal acted on monday was filed by lawyers for connecticut, new york city, the national league of cities and the american civil liberties union
lawyers for the commission and the cable operators association urged the justices to reject the appeal
in other cases, the court:
_agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts. at issue is the proper boundary between presidential and congressional power
_refused to let the dalkon shield's maker set up a $15 million emergency fund to help women who say the contraceptive device left them infertile. the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that blocks creation of the fund pending the outcome of bankruptcy proceedings for a.h. robins co. inc., which manufactures the device
_agreed to decide whether an airline may be forced to reinstate workers when their strike ends, making necessary the layoffs of trainees and employees who crossed the picket lines. the court said it will study an appeal by trans world airlines in a dispute stemming from a 1986 strike by flight attendants
_let stand a ruling that makes it easier for investors to sue their brokers over the collapse in 1984 of a $3 billion oil and natural gas investment fund
_agreed to decide in a case from texas whether states may impose sales taxes on most books, newspapers and magazines while exempting religious publications
steel production rose to 1.991 million tons in the week ended march 19, an increase of 1.2 percent from the previous week's 1.967 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported monday
the industry's production amounted to 92.7 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 91.6 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 21.726 million net tons, an increase of 34.8 percent from the 16.115 million net tons in the previous year. the steel operations of usx corp., the nation's largest steel producer, were shut down by a strike during the first month of 1987
production so far this year used 89.7 percent of capacity, compared with 67.0 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended march 19: northeast coast, 277,000; pittsburgh, 203,000; youngstown, 131,000; lake erie, 164,000; detroit, 159,000; chicago, 553,000; midwest, 176,000; southern, 225,000; and western, 103,000
a new york real estate firm on monday announced plans to erect europe's tallest building _ a 53-story, 838-foot office tower _ on sprawling fairgrounds in this west german city
tishman speyer properties said the project, which it valued at $375 million, will be financed by citibank
the skyscraper, with its 920,000 square feet of office space, will surpass the palac kultury of warsaw, poland, as europe's tallest building. the palac kultury, has 42 stories and is 790 feet tall
frankfurt mayor wolfram brueck said the building is expected to be completed by 1991
tishman speyer president jerry speyer, appearing at a press conference with the mayor, said his company already has received rental inquiries about the building
frankfurt, west germany's flourishing banking and finance center, has been expanding in recent years. new office buildings have sprouted up in the city's center, and decaying downtown neighborhoods have been renovated
the fairgrounds are not far from the city's downtown shopping area, its main train station and banking district
tishman speyer manages a portfolio of properties valued at $4 billion, the company said in a statement. the company currently has $1 billion worth of projects under development, including the beijing american express center, an office and apartment complex in china
corn and soybean futures prices closed higher monday on the chicago board of trade, while wheat prices fell
soybean futures gained as much as 7\ cents a bushel. prices rose early on rumors of new soviet buying and got a boost later in the day when the south american agricultural newsletter safras y mercado dropped its brazilian soybean crop estimate by 400,000 metric tons due to dry weather in an important soybean region
wheat futures retreated on profit-taking by traders who had purchased contracts after the agriculture department's announcement late friday that it had targeted the soviet union for 1 million metric tons of wheat under the export enhancement program
at the close, wheat was 2 cents lower to { cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.97\ a bushel; corn was 2\ cents to 3{ cents higher with march at $2.01\ a bushel; oats were 5 cents lower to { cent higher with march at $1.91 a bushel; soybeans were 5 cents to 7\ cents higher with march at $6.27 a bushel
the number of working oil and gas rigs in the united states declined by three this week to total 943, baker hughes inc. announced
this week's decrease was much smaller from the previous week, when the count lost 32 rigs to total 946. a year ago, the count totaled 784, baker hughes said monday
the rig count reflects the number of rigs actively exploring for oil as of last friday, not the number of rigs producing oil
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker company, tallies the number of working rigs and the count is the widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
the rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in december 1981, which was the height of the oil boom. but oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986 and the rig count went with it, dropping to 663 _ the lowest since hughes began compiling figures
among the major oil producing states, wyoming lost six rigs and texas was down by five this week. ohio's count was down by three, while north dakota and and pennsylvania each lost two rigs
states posting increases included new mexico and kansas, each of which gained four rigs. colorado's and california's counts were each up by two. oklahoma gained one rig, while louisiana lost one rig
british petroleum co. plc has been ordered to pay $1.36 million in fines for violating health and safety laws in connection with two refinery blasts that killed three men and seriously injured two others, the government said monday
the fine was the highest ever levied under the health and safety at work act enacted in 1974, officials said
high court judge lord allanbridge said he imposed ``substanial'' fines because ``there were obvious hazards to the safety and lives of employees and others'' at the refinery near falkirk in central scotland where the explosions occurred nine days apart in march 1987
the company pleaded guilty to two charges of breaking the health and safety act
after the ruling, the government's chief inspector for factories, david eves, said the explosions showed ``the ever present potential for serious incidents must not be underestimated.''
he said in a statement that ``these incidents .... cost the lives of three men, as well as a great deal of human suffering and the loss to the management of the company of millions of pounds in lost production and plant repairs.''
company officials were not available for comment monday evening
the judge fined the company 250,000 pounds ($455,000) for the first explosion, which was heard 20 miles away and hurled a three-ton steel plate more than half a mile
the first blast occurred when workers from two subcontractors began taking apart a section of machinery that had not been drained of flammable gases and liquids
liquid began leaking out and then exploded, killing james bruce, 40, and philip mellon, 35, and seriously injuring ian taylor and allan bissett. the fire took two days to put out
in the second incident, bp was fined 500,000 pounds ($910,000) for disconnecting a safety alarm at another unit where an explosion and fire killed george spiers, 52
the west german and french finance ministers praised the first meeting of their bilateral economic council monday and pledged to boost cooperation on monetary issues
the ministers said they did not talk about proposals for a european central bank during their landmark meeting, but agreed to meet again before the summer, in paris
gerhard stoltenberg, the west german finance minister, said monday's meeting reviewed economic developments in the two nations, analyzed budget and tax plans and began examining ways of boosting cooperation in monetary policy
french finance minister edouard balladur also praised the session, and said he was pleased with franco-german economic cooperation, particularly the close contact between the two nations' central banks
i am especially happy about the excellent cooperation that has existed between the bundesbank and the banque de france,'' he told reporters after the three-hour session
the franco-german economic council was established in january as a way of better coordinating policy between the two neighboring nations
the council is to meet four times a year, and comprise the nations' finance and economics ministers and the heads of the two central banks
west germany's central bank president, karl otto poehl, is known to have been skeptical about the council because of fears that it may infringe upon his bundesbank's independence
but poehl praised monday's session, and said the council would help europe achieve its goal of a barrier-free internal market by 1992
both stoltenberg and balladur said the council would work to better coordinate 1988 budgets in both nations, and concentrate on seeking ways of achieving economic growth. agreement in court</head> bid and closing stock price; picks up 5th graf pvs: ge's two ...</note>
general electric co. launched a double-pronged attack monday in its bid for roper corp. by boosting its tender offer to $507 million and filing lawsuits challenging roper's agreement to merge with whirlpool corp
ge's latest bid, up $9 a share to $54 for roper's outstanding stock, surpasses the $50-a-share sweetened bid whirlpool made last week for the appliance and lawn equipment maker
in the second wave of lawsuits filed in the hotly contested bid for augusta, ga.-based roper, ge charged that roper's board failed to act in the best interest of shareholders and, together with whirlpool, violated federal disclosure laws
in a statement issued after the stock market closed, roper said it is reviewing ge's new tender offer and plans to hold a board meeting later in the week to determine the company's position on the sweetened bid
roper rose $2.50 a share in composite new york stock exchange trading to close at $55.50 a share. roper jumped $5.75 a share on friday
ge's two lawsuits, filed in separate courts in delaware, counter a suit filed friday in which whirlpool accused ge of trying to ``sabotage'' the definitive merger agreement whirlpool reached with roper's board of directors on feb. 29
ge said in court papers it contacted robert cook, roper's president and chief executive officer, about a possible acquisition in november but was turned down
three months later, roper's board authorized a $37.50-a-share merger with whirlpool after whirlpool threatened to mount a hostile takeover bid, papers filed in delaware state court showed
ge, which entered into the fray march 6 with a $45-a-share offer, charged that roper failed to ``test the price'' before agreeing to merge with whirlpool. ge also charged that roper concealed ge's interest in the company when it advised shareholders to tender to whirlpool
in an attempt to ``lock up'' its agreement with whirlpool, roper gave the benton harbor, mich.-based company an option to purchase 1.6 million newly issued shares for $37.50 if the deal fell through, a move ge charged would make any subsequent roper acquisition more expensive. ge is seeking to block the issue and transfer of those shares
in a separate suit filed in u.s. district court in delaware, ge charged that both whirlpool and roper failed to adequately disclose terms of their merger agreement under securities and exchange commission laws and neglected to mention ge's interest in roper
whirlpool, which threw the battle into the courtroom on friday, alleged in its suit that a ge executive personally tried to persuade roper to break its contract with whirlpool. the suit said ge ``intentionally, maliciously and unjustifiedly engaged in a continuing course of conduct to sabotage'' the deal
part of whirlpool's lawsuit seeks $117 million in damages, or the difference between its $50-a-share offer and original offer
ge vowed to ``vigorously defend itself'' against the charges and seeks to transfer the suit from u.s. district court in grand rapids, mich., to federal court in delaware
whirlpool said its suit is ``similar in theory'' to pennzoil co.'s legal battle with texaco inc. over texaco's acquisition of getty oil co
texaco agreed to settle the suit for $3 billion after pennzoil won a $10.3 billion judgment against the oil giant on charges that texaco prompted getty to back out of an agreement with pennzoil
roper has been supportive of whirlpool's efforts. in endorsing whirlpool's sweetened bid last week, roper's cook said the company ``has a strong desire to see this combination successfully completed.'' he had no further comment when contacted monday
analysts say a roper-whirlpool merger would move whirlpool ahead of ge as the nation's leading appliance maker. whirlpool has said it would expand roper from a maker of cooking ranges into a producer and marketer of a full line of appliances
but the acquisition of roper would help ge secure its position in the gas stove market and enhance its supplier relationship with sears, roebuck &amp; co
long limited to electric ranges, ge decided a year ago to widen its market share by selling gas stoves. since then ge has purchased gas stoves from four companies, including roper, said ge spokesman jack batty from the company's headquarters in fairfield, conn
in addition, analysts estimate that roughly two-thirds of roper's sales come from its agreement to supply sears with its kitchen appliance and lawn equipment products
roper reported net income of $24 million on sales of $703 million in fiscal 1987
stocks stumbled monday over inflation fears and lingering post-crash anxiety among large institutional investors, resulting in the slowest trading volume this year
the buying interest in the equity market disappeared here today,'' said ronald b. doran, manager of institutional trading at the first albany corp. brokerage. ``the institutional investors are doing little of anything.''
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which hit the highest level since the oct. 19 collapse twice last week, dropped sharply at the opening and never recovered, closing at 2,067.14, down 20.23. broader market indices also fell
volume on the new york stock exchange fell to 128.83 million shares, slightly more than half the friday volume of 245.75 million shares and the lowest level since a 111.58 million-share day dec. 29
much of the trading was confined to stocks of companies targeted in rumored or actual acquisitions
beyond takeover deals, nothing is happening,'' said lawrence wachtel, a wall street analyst at prudential bache securities co. ``to a degree, the market is absent of ideas.''
brokers said falling prices in the bond market contributed to the selling mood by signaling higher inflation and interest rates. this provided many investors with an excuse to cash in stocks that had gained recently
the reluctance of market participants to commit themselves to stocks for more than a short time reflected an underlying anxiety that has persisted since the october collapse
there are very nervous people out there,'' said hank striefler, vice president on the trading floor at shearson lehman hutton inc
losing issues outnumbered gainers by more than a 2-to-1 margin in composite new york stock exchange trading, with 1,042 down, 502 up and 444 unchanged
among the most notable blue-chip losers, goodyear fell 1~ to 63~, dupont fell 1[ to 87{, woolworth fell 1[ to 47, alcoa fell 1[ to 45| and philip morris fell 1[ to 93
takeover activity boosted several prominent stocks. roper gained 2{ to 55{, reflecting a heightened battle for the appliance maker by general electric and whirlpool. koppers jumped 3} to 57{ after a group led by beazer plc sweetened its offer for the construction company from $45 per share to $56
kansas city southern jumped 8} to 55 after an investor group offered $60 a share for the railroad and financial services concern
conflicting news about oil prices reverberated through petroleum stocks, which ended mixed. kerr mcgee fell 1[ to 37], chevron droped { to 46~, and occidental petroleum rose 2 to 29
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 150.02 million shares
as measured by the wilshire 5000 equity index, the value of all u.s. stocks fell by $20.25 billion monday to $2.661 trillion, off 0.76 percent from friday
the nyse index of all listed issues fell 1.18 to 151.47
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 2.60 to 312.04, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index fell 2.38 to 268.74
at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.93 to 298.18. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market fell 3.01 to 378.57
the dollar fell against all major currencies except the canadian dollar in quiet trading monday, mirroring a selloff in both the stock and bond markets
gold prices jumped as much as $5 a troy ounce in active trading, spurred by a rally in oil prices. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $449.45 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $444 an ounce late friday
gold prices moved in concert with crude oil futures prices, which pierced the $17-a-barrel level before sliding back late in the trading session on the new york mercantile exchange
currency dealers said the dollar moved in a narrow trading range throughout the day. trading was quieter than usual because a national holiday in japan kept financial institutions closed
the dollar continued to give back ground after gaining last week on a better-than-expected government report that put the u.s. trade deficit for january at $12.4 billion
a selloff in the stock market, which saw the dow jones average of 30 industrials drop 20.23 points to 2,067.14, and lower bond prices ``took a little momentum away from the upside of the dollar,'' said ronald holzer, chief currency dealer at harris trust and savings bank in chicago
traders also said the strengthening japanese yen took its toll on the dollar. ``people are talking a lot about strong economic growth in japan,'' said james mcgroarty, vice president at discount corp. he said the speculation about japanese growth has heated up interest in buying the yen
in london, the dollar was quoted at 126.85 yen late monday compared with 128.35 yen in tokyo late friday. later in new york, the dollar closed at 126.92 yen, down from 128.00 yen on friday
one british pound cost $1.8285 late monday in london, slightly more expensive than late friday's $1.8235. in new york, it cost $1.8297 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.8240 late friday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late friday, included: 1.6894 west german marks, down from 1.69575; 1.3986 swiss francs, down from 1.4040; 5.7545 french francs, down from 5.7590; 1,249.00 italian lire, down from 1.255.50, and 1.24905 canadian dollars, up from $1.24885
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late friday, included: 1.6880 west german marks, down from 1.6950; 1.3970 swiss francs, down from 1.4010; 5.7380 french francs, down from 5.7480; 1.8970 dutch guilders, down from 1.9010; 1,249.25 italian lire, down from 1,252.50, and 1.2494 canadian dollars, down from 1.2495
on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $450.20 a troy ounce, up from $445.20 on friday, in reaction to higher oil prices and the specter of inflation. but as sentiment in the oil market became bearish later in the session, gold prices began to recede
in london, gold jumped $6.25 an ounce to a late bid price of $449.50. in zurich, switzerland, the metal was up $5.50 an ounce to a late bid of $450.50. earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at $448.26 bid, up 36 cents from saturday's late bid
silver bullion prices rose in london to a late bid price of $6.47 a troy ounce from friday's $6.31. on new york's comex, silver closed at $6.447 a troy ounce, up from $6.365 an ounce on friday
bank of new york co. said monday it was beginning a $1.08 billion tender offer for irving bank corp. after having received approval to make the bid from the securities and exchange commission
the sec approved the registration statement on friday, allowing bank of new york to issue its prospectus, bank of new york spokesman owen brady said
irving spokesman david santos dismissed the development as ``pretty much a non-event.''
bank of new york began its hostile attempt to acquire irving last september, a struggle that has been widely followed by bankers because unfriendly takeovers are unusual in the banking industry. its tender offer expires at midnight on april 15
irving's board last week amended its anti-takeover plan to make it harder for a slate of new irving directors to scuttle rights if they win a proxy fight at irving's annual meeting april 21
bank of new york already has nominated a 16-director slate to compete with irving's slate at the meeting. the bank said it would fight irving's amended anti-takeover plan in the courts
platinum futures prices surged above $500 a troy ounce monday, helped by early gains in oil prices and a generally positive economic outlook
oil prices settled mixed, however. on other markets, gold and silver futures advanced; soybean futures were sharply higher while the grains were mixed; livestock and meat futures were mixed; and stock-index futures retreated
the contract for april delivery of platinum settled $6.90 higher at $504.20 on the new york mercantile exchange. the move marked only the second time since jan. 20 that the april platinum contract has finished above the psychologically important $500 barrier
analysts said gains monday in all the precious metals _ platinum, gold, silver and palladium _ were driven primarily by a sharp increase in crude oil futures prices early in the day
but when oil prices later fell steeply, the metals gave up only some of their gains, indicating other supportive factors were at work
the weak dollar, increased u.s. auto sales and the generally positive tone of recent economic data are all bullish for metals prices, said jacques luben, executive director of investments for the platinum guild international
it seems as though the consensus is that interest rates will remain relatively low for the remainder of the year, we may see higher inflation and we probably won't see a recession this year,'' luben said
monday's performance was ``a reassuring vote of confidence for the metals'' but the next few sessions will show just how deep that confidence runs, said jack barbanel, director of futures trading for gruntal &amp; co. in new york
we're either at the early stage of some new buying momentum or we're seeing an upside correction in a downside metals market,'' he said
on new york's commodity exchange, gold settled $4.90 to $7.20 higher with april at $449.20 a troy ounce; silver was 8 cents to 10.3 cents higher with march at $6.447 a troy ounce
crude oil's early jump above $17 a barrel on the new york mercantile exchange was triggered partly by speculation that opec president rilwanu lukman would announce a meeting of opec's pricing committee at a tuesday news conference, said nauman barakat, an analyst with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
but prices came tumbling down later in the session when saudi arabia's king fahd confirmed the country was ``offering discounts, quite indiscriminately, to almost everybody,'' barakat said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 9 cents lower to 8 cents higher with april at $16.49 a barrel; heating oil was .12 cent lower to .35 cent higher with april at 45.40 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was unchanged to .12 cent higher with april at 46.11 cents a gallon
soybean and corn futures settled sharply higher on the chicago board of trade while wheat prices fell
soybean futures rose early in the session on rumors of new soviet buying and got a boost later in the day when the agricultural newsletter safras y mercado dropped its brazilian soybean crop estimate by 400,000 metric tons due to dry weather, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
wheat settled 2} cents lower to { cent higher with march at $2.96\ a bushel; corn was 2{ cents to 4} cents higher with march at $2.01{ a bushel; oats were 5{ cents lower to { cent higher with march at $1.90{ a bushel; soybeans were 6 cents to 10 cents higher with march at $6.30 a bushel
frozen pork belly futures settled sharply lower on the chicago mercantile exchange while livestock futures were mixed
the drop in pork belly futures was largely due to expectations, later confirmed, of a sharp increase in bellies in cold storage. the usda announced after the close that nearly 67 million pounds of pork bellies were stored in the nation's freezers on feb. 29, compared to 34.7 million pounds a year ago
sharply lower cash hog prices weighed on the livestock futures, said walter kowalski, an analyst in chicago with lind-waldock &amp; co
live cattle settled .12 cent lower to .50 cent higher with april at 73.65 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .15 cent lower to .10 cent higher with march at 82.70 cents a pound; hogs were .65 cent lower to .10 cent higher with april at 45.55 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to 1.70 cents lower with march at 54.10 cents a pound
stock-index futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.7 points lower at 270.60
batus inc. took its campaign for farmers group inc. to the company's shareholders monday, soliciting proxies to support reconsideration of its bid for one of the nation's largest insurers
batus said the non-binding resolution will be introduced at farmers' annual stockholders' meeting may 20 at the company's los angeles headquarters
on march 10, farmers' board unanimously rejected a hostile takeover offer of $63 a share, or $4.4 billion, and called upon its shareholders to do the same. the offer was described as being substantially less than the company is worth
the board, which has refused to enter into negotiations, also announced it was exploring a variety of alternatives to the batus bid, including restructuring or consolidating with another company
farmers said it has had discussions with an unidentified third party about a possible leveraged buyout to counter the offer from batus, the u.s. subsidiary of british bat industries plc
farmers group shares fell to $62.50, down $1.12{, in active over-the-counter trading monday
in seeking the proxies, batus said its resolution would give stockholders an opportunity to express their support for the merger, at no less than $63 a share, and would encourage the directors to pursue such a sale
in case a higher bidder emerged, the resolution recommends that farmers' directors ``consider in good faith whether to negotiate with such a bidder.''
batus' latest maneuver ``was no surprise,'' said tom welch, director of corporate investments for farmers. ``we have been expecting it.'' he declined further comment
batus spokesman wilson wyatt jr. said the solicitation was being handled by the carter organization in new york
wyatt also said batus does not intend to oppose or take any position with respect to the election of farmers' nominees to the board
wyatt said that batus, based in louisville, owns 696,000 shares of farmers' stock, of which there were 68,916,614 shares outstanding as of oct. 31, 1987
earlier this month, a federal judge in nevada ordered farmers to place batus' negotiation proposal in the proxy cards being sent to shareholders for the meeting
the case was heard in nevada because farmers is incorporated there
batus, which owns a diversified group of businesses including retailers saks fifth avenue and marshall field's, began the bidding in january with a $60 per share offer for farmers
farmers is the nation's third-largest home and auto insurer after state farm and allstate and the seventh-largest property and casualty insurer
some analysts have said batus needs to raise its offer by $5 to $20 a share if it expects to acquire farmers, which has about $11 billion in assets, mostly in insurance
the wall street journal reported monday that state insurance regulators and legislators had raised questions that could hinder the batus bid
officials of the texas state board of insurance have questioned the company's ability to service the debt required to accomplish the deal
in ohio, the state house of representatives has approved a resolution expressing its concern about how the takeover might affect farmers' policyholders and employees in that state
a spokesman for batus' british parent told the journal that it was responding to the questions from the texas authorities and believes it meets all the legal requirements to control insurance companies in texas and ohio
before its purchase of farmers can be completed, batus must get approval from insurance regulators in nine states. regulators in several states, including idaho, illinois and kansas, have asked the company for more information, the journal said. industries</head>
an investment group that owns an 11 percent stake in kansas city southern industries inc. said monday it was offering $60 a share, or about $594 million, for the rest of the railroad concern's common stock
kansas city southern, which also has interests in financial services, said its board would consider the all-cash proposal soon at a special meeting
the company has nearly 11.1 million shares outstanding, and the investment group led by howard kaskel claims it controls about 1.2 million shares
in trading on the new york stock exchange, kansas city southern jumped $8.75 a share to $55
kaskel outlined the merger proposal in a letter to landon h. rowland, president and chief executive of kansas city southern, and requested an opportunity to negotiate ``all aspects of the offer, including price.''
he said completing the proposal was subject to reaching a definitive agreement, approval by the requisite number of directors and stockholders and satisfaction of all regulatory requirements
but he warned that if the company's board rejected or failed to act on the offer by april 4, ``we will be forced to commence a proxy contest to elect directors who will actively pursue and encourage the maximization of stockholder values.,''
kaskel said he had made various proposals to company management over the past eight months on ways to maximize shareholder values
unfortunately, you have rejected each of my suggestions,'' kaskel wrote
in addition, he said he found it ``dismaying'' that the board erected obstacles ``designed to entrench itself and to prevent stockholders from realizing a full return on their investment.''
among these steps, kaskel cited the recent issuance of about 1.4 million shares, or almost 15 percent of the company's then-outstanding common stock, to employee stock ownership plans at $49 a share
this could only have been motivated by the board's desire to place substantial voting power in its hands as a means of opposing'' proposals that may be brought before its shareholders, the letter said
kaskel also cited kansas city southern's continued efforts to acquire the southern pacific railroad despite southern pacific's ``binding agreement for its sale to the denver rio grande.''
responding to the offer, rowland said in a statement from company headquarters in kansas city that the company had received a merger proposal from kaskel and that it would be considered by the company's board ``at a special meeting to be held shortly.''
he said the company would have no further comment until the board of directors had an opportunity to study the proposal
kansas city southern owns the kansas city southern railroad which operates on about 1,500 miles of track in missouri, arkansas, oklahoma, kansas, louisiana and texas
it also owns 87 percent of dst systems inc., a kansas city-based concern that provides data systems and record-keeping services for mutual funds, insurance companies and other financial services providers
the company also owns 80 percent of janus capital corp., a denver-based concern that provides investment advice and had about $915 million in funds under management at the end of february, according to kansas city southern's vice president and secretary, albert mauro
for the fiscal year ended dec. 31, kansas city southern reported a profit of $17.7 million, or $1.82 a share, on revenue of $507.6 million
trw inc. said monday it has reached an agreement to buy chilton corp. from borg-warner corp. for about $360 million
chilton operates consumer credit reporting, accounts receivable management and related businesses. chilton, headquartered in dallas, is a wholly owned subsidiary of borg-warner, based in chicago
chilton will become a part of trw information systems group, which provides information and information processing services to the financial services industry. trw information systems is located in long beach, calif
chilton has an excellent reputation. combining its resources with those of trw will provide consumers and the consumer information market with better and more efficient service,'' said richard d.c. whilden, trw executive vice president and general manager of trw information systems group
chilton president van smith said the combination enhances the companies ability to provide new products and services
borg-warner's products and services include automotive components, chemicals and plastics and protective services. the cleveland-based trw provides high technology products and services for the space and defense, automotive, and information systems markets
u.s. bankruptcy judge howard c. buschman iii heard testimony monday in a court battle over three missing zeros on a financial document that could cost prudential insurance co. of america millions of dollars
prudential is trying to establish that a mortgage lien it holds is for $92,885,000, even though a document records its value as only $92,885 because of a clerical error
the lien is on eight ships once owned by united states lines, a shipping company whose assets are being sold off to satisfy creditors under bankruptcy court supervision
the hearing before buschman lasted past the normal close of business hours monday and lawyers for the various parties could not be reached by telephone for comment. february</head>
the federal government chalked up a $23.9 billion deficit in its february spending after posting a rare budget surplus in january, the treasury department reported monday
meanwhile, stock prices fell in the slowest trading of the year, while the dollar followed suit and oil prices were mixed
the treasury's latest monthly report on the government's spending and revenues followed a $16.1 billion surplus in january which had occurred because social security checks that month were mailed early and counted in the december spending figures
so far this fiscal year, the government has run up a five-month deficit of $89.7 billion, 4.9 percent lower than the red ink incurred in the same period a year earlier
the reagan administration is projecting a deficit of $146.7 billion for the fiscal year ending sept. 30, down 2.4 percent from the $150.4 billion deficit in 1987
but many forecasters believe the small improvement will not be realized because they think the administration has used overly optimistic projections about the economy
on wall street, inflation fears and lingering post-crash anxiety sent stocks tumbling across the board, with the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropping sharply at the opening and remaining down throughout the trading session
the closely watched indicator closed at 2,067.14, down 20.23 points. broader market indices also fell
trading was also quiet on world currency markets. the dollar fell against all major currencies except the canadian dollar, mirroring the stock market selloff and a decline in bond prices
gold prices jumped as much as $5 a troy ounce in active trading, spurred by a rally in oil prices. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $449.45 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $444 an ounce late friday
gold prices moved in concert with crude oil futures prices, which pierced the $17-a-barrel level before sliding back in late trading, following a statement by saudi king fahd on prices and production
in remarks carried by the official saudi press agency, fahd suggested that cheating on production quotas and prices by some members of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries encouraged further weakness in prices
that punctured a rally on the new york mercantile exchange, where contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed at $16.49 per 42-gallon barrel, down 9 cents from friday. they had been up as much as 45 cents during the day
among refined products for april, wholesale heating oil closed 0.35 cent higher at 45.40 cents a gallon, after having touched 46.70 cents a gallon earlier. unleaded gasoline gave up a 1.41-cent gain to close 0.12 cent higher at 46.11 cents a gallon
campbell soup co. is replacing the red-and-white labels on ``cooking soups'' used primarily as recipe ingredients, but plans to keep the familiar 90-year-old design on its eating soups, the company said monday
the new labels will feature color photographs of meals that can be made from recipes using campbell's 16 varieties of cooking soups, according to company spokesman kevin lowery
the recipe for the pictured meal will be printed on the underside of the label along with another recipe and a cookbook offer
the traditional red-and-white label was born in 1898, when a campbell executive was so inspired by the colors in cornell university's new football team uniforms that he ordered the change from the previous orange-and-black label, lowery said
the red-and-white label went on to win the gold medallion for excellence at the 1900 paris exposition and was immortalized in pop art by the late andy warhol
cooking soups, such as chicken broth, cream of mushroom and tomato, constitute one-third of campbell's market
campbell initially will use the new labels on cans produced and sold in nine western states, where the company will judge consumer reaction
the company indicated the change, the product of one year's research, could help consumers by saving shopping time and aiding menu planning
borg-warner corp. has sold its credit-reporting subsidiary, chilton corp., to trw inc. for about $360 million in cash, the companies announced monday
borg-warner said it sold dallas-based chilton, which it acquired in march 1986 for $252 million, to help pay off debt incurred in its 1987 leveraged buyout
borg-warner went private last year in the buyout led by a merrill lynch &amp; co. unit and must pay off $1.7 billion in debts by the end of 1988. the buyout, which was engineered to avert a hostile takeover by gaf corp., left borg-warner with total debt of more than $4 billion
trw chairman ruben f. mettler said in a statement issued in cleveland that the acquisition fits into trw's previously announced strategy of increasing its presence in the commercial information systems business
the sale of chilton leaves borg-warner with interests in chemicals and plastics, automotive parts and security and armored guard services. borg-warner already has divested itself of other assets, including its bwac inc. finance unit and its industrial products group, to pay off debt incurred in the buyout
