chez ramirez strike settled. pickup 5th pvs: `in azua ...' deletes grafs 9-10 pvs: `unrest began ...' to conform</note>
president joaquin balaguer said thursday he will call out the army if necessary to quell disturbances that cost three lives in two days
balaguer also asked for his entire cabinet's resignation, saying it had to be ``restructured to respond to the present circumstances.''
in the central and northeastern provinces, police battled demonstrators who blocked the main avenues in the cities and threw rocks at police and commercial establishments
late thursday, authorities said a 72-hour strike had ended in east-central sanchez ramirez province, where protests started 11 years ago. peasants there demonstrated against alleged cyanide and sulfur contamination of rivers from a state-owned gold mine
earlier, company officials denied any contamination existed but said that up to 130 families would be moved to a farm inside the province away from the mine
the protests, which grew to include other issues, have been the worst since balaguer took office 1{ years ago in this caribbean island nation of more than 6.5 million people
in azua, 75 miles west of the capital city of santo domingo, protesters detonated homemade bombs and burned tires in some areas, but police said most of the town was under control
a 15-year-old newspaper vendor shot in azua on wednesday was reported to have died. two other people were killed wednesday
more than a dozen people have been reported wounded by gunfire and an undetermined number have been arrested in the eight provinces affected by the unrest
much of the country's commercial activity has been paralyzed and schools remained closed
the protests spread to other parts of the country, where residents demanded capital improvements and government action to control inflation estimated at about 30 percent annually
balaguer went on television to deliver his message from the national palace shortly after midnight wednesday. he said the government would tolerate public protests as long as they were peaceful but would not accept acts of vandalism and violence
if the circumstances demand it ... we will confront these demonstrations and use all the military and physical power the state has to stop them,'' he said
he added, however, that his government would not repeat the events in 1984, when soldiers shot and killed almost 100 people demonstrating against price increases
we won't have a slaughter like the one april 23, 24 and 25, 1984,'' he said
there was no word on whether the cabinet had submitted its resignation and no replacements were announced
mayor art agnos on friday said the city faces a whopping $172 million budget deficit next year that will require layoffs, ``painful'' cuts in service and possibly tax increases and fare hikes
this is the worst budget crisis in the modern history of san francisco,'' declared agnos, who was inaugurated in january
to close this kind of gap, we have to consider big cuts _ things like closing hospital wards, clinics and mental health programs, freezing city employee pay, shutting branch libraries and cutting back bus runs,'' he said
agnos, flanked by his fiscal advisers, said at a news conference that the latest, revised budget analysis indicates the city faces a $172.4 million deficit, nearly $100 million more than was forecast in november
at the same time we were contemplating these kinds of painful service cuts, we could be asking citizens to put up with higher muni fares, parking rate hikes, added business levies and increased fees for city services,'' agnos said
the mayor said the $172.4 million deficit is the equivalent of more than 5,000 city jobs. he offered no specific targets in regard to layoffs
the more than doubling of the deficit was blamed largely on an estimated drop in revenue of $28 million; $40 million in judgments against the city from employee litigation, and rising costs of employee health benefits and other programs
there is no easy way out of this problem,'' the mayor said. ``everyone in this city is going to have to bear some pain to get our fiscal house back in order.''
agnos stopped short of blaming his predecessor, dianne feinstein, for the financial crisis but said the city's surplus of $150 million in 1982-83 ``has dropped to ground zero.''
vietnam has accused china of landing troops on two coral reefs of a south china sea archipelago claimed by both countries, according to a vietnamese newspaper report made available saturday
the communist party newspaper, nhan dan, said chinese military forces had landed on chu thap and chau vien, two coral reefs in the truong sa, or spratly archipelago
the situation in the truong sa archipelago and the eastern sea as a whole is becoming dangerously tense due to the chinese authorities' brazen violations of vietnam's territorial sovereignty there,'' the newspaper said in a front page article friday
on feb. 20, vietnam charged that four chinese warships ``provoked and obstructed'' operations of its cargo vessels jan. 31 off the spratly group. beijing has denied the accusation
the latest vietnamese report gave no further details of the alleged chinese troop landings
several countries claim the spratly group as well as the paracels, an archipelgo called hoang sa by the vietnamese. large oil deposits are said to be located in the vicinity
china stations troops in the paracels while vietnam holds a few islands in the spratlies. but claims on parts or all of the two chains have also been made by malaysia, the philippines and taiwan
china and vietnam fought a bloody border war in 1979 and have since accused each other of frontier violations
the vatican revealed its financial statement for the first time in history thursday, disclosing that the administrative headquarters for the world's 840 million roman catholics ran an operating deficit of $56.7 million in 1986, the washington post reported in friday's editions
the statement was made public by the washington-based national conference of catholic bishops, ending centuries of secrecy
cardinal john krol said a 15-man council of cardinals on which he sits decided last october to release the information in the hope such openness would stimulate the faithful to contribute more to the church
the deficit was met by taking $32 million from peter's pence, the vatican's annual worldwide collection intended for charitable purposes, and $24.7 million more from the fund's reserve, the post said
the peter's pence collection for the first nine months of 1987 totaled $35.8 million, an increase attributed at least in part to repeated pleas for help, the newspaper said
the document revealed that vatican expenses in 1986 totaled nearly $114 million, with the largest chunk, $58 million, spent for personnel. that included $50.6 million for the vatican's 2,395 employees and $7.3 million for pension payments to 885 retirees
other major expenses included $11.7 million for publishing, $11 million in expenditures related to investments, $10.4 million for equipment and operating costs of vatican radio and $9.7 million for administrative expenses ranging from stationery to the costs of worldwide synods of bishops
operating income comes from investments, publishing, endowments and vatican radio's sale of tapes of papal speeches and radio programs
we need complete accounting,'' krol told u.s. bishops at their annual meeting here last fall. ``it's the only way to go.''
krol retird last month as head of the philadelphia archdiocese but continues to head special fund-raising efforts for the church
here are facts and figures on panama:
the land _ panama is an s-shaped isthmus that links central america and south america. it is bordered on the west by costa rica and on the east by colombia. with 29,208 square miles, it is a little larger than west virginia
the people _ the country has about 2.2 million people, 70 percent of them a mixture of spanish and indian descendants. fourteen percent are west indian, 10 percent are caucasian and 6 percent are indian. spanish is the official language but english is widely spoken. the predominant religion is roman catholicism
the government _ the government is headed by president eric arturo delvalle, a civilian who previously was first vice president. he became president on sept. 28, 1985, after nicolas ardito barletta resigned under pressure from the military after 11 months as the country's first democratically elected president in 16 years
although delvalle is president, there has been little question that gen. manuel antonio noriega, the armed forces chief, runs the country
noriega inherited command of the military from gen. omar torrijos, who seized power in 1968 and died in a plane crash in 1981
the reagan administration called for noriega to resign after u.s. grand juries indicted him and others on drug trafficking charges on feb. 5. however, there had been u.s. pressure for him to leave for some time
in june, noriega's former second-in-command sparked the country's most serious unrest in years when he publicly accused noriega of election fraud, drug trafficking and the assassination of a political opponent
noriega denied the charges
the canal _ the 51-mile panama canal, connecting the atlantic and pacific oceans, was built by the united states from 1904 to 1914 on territory leased from panama
treaties signed by then-president jimmy carter and torrijos in 1977 transfer control of the canal and its defense to panama on dec. 31, 1999
the 10-mile-wide canal zone was turned over to panama after the treaties went into effect in 1979
the economy _ panama is a leading international financial center, with more than 120 banks holding roughly $30 billion in assets
u.s. officials have complained that the secret bank accounts the country offers have helped make panama a haven for laundering illegal drug money
the country's main crops are bananas, pineapples, cocoa, corn, coconuts and sugar
the official currency is the u.s. dollar, but it is called the balboa. picks up 8th graf pvs, `the cause ...'</note>
an army helicopter caught fire and crashed in a pasture thursday, killing nine soldiers and seriously burning nine, authorities said
two soldiers fell 35 feet after leaping from the burning twin-rotor ch-47d chinook as it hurtled toward the ground about 50 miles from fort worth, said state department of public safety sgt. robert rankin. one of the soldiers died
the other soldier said that a fire had broken out at the back of the helicopter based at fort sill, okla., and that those aboard had tried to move to the front to get away from the flames, according to rankin
we do have some witnesses who said they saw parts falling off back toward chico (several miles away), and some of the witnesses said it was on fire before impact,'' he said
nine soldiers were killed and nine injured, said fort hood spokesman lt. col. michael miller. eighteen people were aboard, said rick brink, a fort sill spokesman. the injured were listed in serious and critical condition
many of the soldiers suffered third-degree burns, some over their entire bodies; others were wrapped in body bags after firefighters extinguished the grass fire, authorities said
seven soldiers died at the scene of the afternoon crash, which sparked a grass fire, said lt. brad schuldt of carswell air force base. another soldier died at parkland memorial hospital, said administrator paula sears
a ninth soldier died at bridgeport hospital, said justice of the peace dawayne kennedy
the cause of the crash was not immediately known. a team of investigators from fort rucker, ala., was en route thursday night, said col. herbert blanks
in 1985, the army grounded its entire fleet of 63 of the giant ch-47d helicopters after an accident in honduras injured eight soldiers. the order was lifted after a month and a half
wendell berry, a farmer, said he saw the copter skid about 75 yards before breaking apart in flames thursday. he said he tried to fight the flames with a fire extinguisher and helped douse burning bodies scattered about the wreckage
we put a lot of fire (on people) out,'' berry said. ``we couldn't do very much but get 'em out of the way. we actually could do very little. nobody could really do anything.''
one was up walking around, the rest were out on ground. i cut the pilot or the assistant pilot. i cut his seatbelt loose,'' he added. ``he was wanting me to cut him out of there and i did that. he was conscious talking to me.''
the copter was returning to fort sill from fort hood in central texas with five soldiers from fort sill and 12 from fort hood aboard, said capt. tim vane of fort hood. the chinook can carry more than 33 combat-equipped soldiers
winford mcdaniel, supervisor of a rock-crushing business two miles from the crash site, said a large part fell from the copter and landed near the plant
it looks like an exhaust pipe,'' he said. ``it's a round piece about three feet long and three feet across.''
i was driving west of chico and saw smoke coming out of the helicopter and knew it was going to crash,'' said james st. john. ``i drove out there and it had already crashed. i seen it when it was going down, but not when it crashed.''
the ch-47d is a modernized version of the earlier models of the chinook, which for years has been a part of the army inventory
in the honduras accident, a transmission bearing failed on a ch-47d taxiing to a refueling depot. the failure caused one of the copter's main rotors to stop turning; the other rotor began hitting it and the helicopter tore itself apart
the chinooks's main rotors mesh as they turn, and therefore must be synchronized
eight soldiers were killed in april 1986 when a ch-47 and another helicopter collided at hunter army airfield in georgia
israeli analysts say riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip began spontaneously 11 weeks ago, but the plo and islamic groups are playing an increasing role in the unrest
president reagan said at a news conference wednesday that ``terrorists'' and ``outsiders'' were behind much of the violence
yasser arafat, chief of the palestine liberation organization, said in an interview with swedish television earlier this month that he planned and controlled the palestinian uprising
all indications point to a spontaneous beginning of riots dec. 8, when an army truck killed four palestinians outside the jabaliya refugee camp in the gaza strip
the accident occurred the day after an israeli was fatally stabbed in gaza city, and rumors swept the camp that the truck hit the arabs on purpose
israel's u.n. ambassador benyamin netanyahu told reporters the rumor was helped along by a plo broadcast on baghdad radio
jabaliya residents held an overnight march and the first casualties were recorded dec. 9: two arabs killed and 18 wounded by israeli soldiers
journalists on the scene discover that many clashes are started by such local incidents as army arrest raids or the funerals of arabs shot during protests
ohers begin after announcements from the loudspeakers of mosques, usually untrue, that say jewish settlers are headed for villages or towns on vigilante rampages
brig. gen. arieh shalev, military governor of the west bank in 1974-76, said control of the protests was split among several groups: arafat's mainstream plo, syrian-backed palestinian groups and local islamic fundamentalist organizations
they use leaflets, radio broadcasts from iraq and syria, and orders relayed by telephone to activists in the west bank and gaza, he said in an interview
shalev said the plo had strong influence as a symbol but its organizational structure was weak in the territories, partly because of an army crackdown that has jailed nearly 2,000 activists since december
as a result, he said, local groups would follow plo directives only if they were deemed reasonable
if they ordered people to stop working at jobs in israel altogether, people would not pay attention because they have no alternative,'' the general said
reporters sometimes have seen highly organized local responses by palestinians
at gaza city's shifa hospital in december, community leaders met in the director's office to plan strategy while youths piled up stones in the courtyard. demonstrators handed reporters printed lists of grievances
in jerusalem, journalists saw arab medical teams arrive from neighboring areas as youths set up makeshift barricades and prepared to attack soldiers with stones
amnon linn, chairman of a parliamentary subcommittee on the west bank and gaza strip, said 80 percent of the riots now result from plo leaflets
they call on people to revolt and kill anyone who makes an attempt to negotiate with israel or has any relations with israeli authorities,'' said linn, former head of the labor party's arab department
nahum barnea, editor of the leftist magazine koteret rashit, said: ``the plo was suprised by the start of the riots. it was not initiated by the plo.''
barnea said in an interview the plo stepped in later with directives for commercial strikes and boycotts
he said plo influence sometimes helped restrain young arabs from escalating the violence with knives, guns and bombs, so ``in a way it is a positive sign. the plo has never before had the power to control events.''
col. yoni, an israeli commander in the west bank whose full name could not be used in keeping with army regulations, told a reporter last week: ``most of the disturbances are now deliberate attacks on soldiers.''
the army has reported attacks in the past week that indicate palestinians may be moving up from stones to knives and other deadly weaspons
a military vehicle was ambushed tuesday night in the gaza strip by arabs who exploded a roadside bomb and opened fire with guns. no one was hurt
gen. manuel antonio noriega is a shrewd, tough politician who has shown he can hold on tightly to his position as the de facto ruler of panama
supporters call noriega, in english, ``the man,'' a takeoff on his initials. critics call him, in spanish, ``cara de pina'' or ``pineapple face,'' because of his pocked and jowly visage
the united states calls him a fugitive from justice, a man who put himself and his country up for sale to drug traffickers and made millions of dollars in the process
indictments returned by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., on feb. 5 accuse noriega of using his position as the commander of the defense forces to permit colombian drug traffickers to make panama a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states
noriega was born into poverty and raised by foster parents from the age of 5
details of noriega's early life are scarce and even his birthday is in dispute. his official biography lists his age as 50, but high school records put it at 54
after attending a military college in peru on a scholarship, noriega entered the panamanian national guard in 1962 as a lieutenant. he quickly became acquainted with a rising young officer named omar torrijos
torrijos took power in panama in a 1968 coup and less than a year later named noriega, then an obscure major in charge of the country's northernmost province, as his chief of intelligence with the rank of lieutenant colonel
in his new position, noriega began collecting dossiers on everyone who counted in panama, friends and enemies alike. he also had jurisdiction over the country's customs and immigration departments, long a source of funds for the military
when torrijos died in an unexplained airplane crash in 1981, noriega was well placed to shoulder his way to the top command ahead of several more senior officers. it took him two years
panama has been rocked by protests since last june, when noriega's recently retired second in command publicly charged the general with drug trafficking, electoral fraud and the assassination of a political opponent
noriega also has been accused of having his finger in a wide variety of other enterprises, some legal and others operating on the fringes of the law. they are said to include duty free liquor stores, maritime services, banks, gambling casinos, newspapers, a television station and 12 radio stations. artists</head>
united artists pictures has filed a $5.6 million lawsuit against screaming comedian sam kinison, claiming he ``acted with despicable conduct'' when he allegedly breached an obligation to appear in a film
ua's suit, filed thursday in superior court, contends that kinison refused to appear as the title character in the film ``atuk'' after he developed the movie
the lawsuit, which seeks $4.6 million in actual damages and $1 million in punitive damages, say kinison's representatives told the studio that he had approved approved the screenplay and would appear in the film
however, the comic, who has appeared on nbc's ``late night with david letterman'' and had his own cable television special, began demanding revisions in the screenplay, the suit states
when the studio failed to meet his demands, the suit says kinison said he ``would walk through his role during the filming of the picture and thereby deliberately give an uninspired and substandard performance.''
a message seeking comment was left thursday night for kinison at the comedy store, a sunset boulevard nightclub where he frequently appears
ua also announced thursday that it is cancelling production of ``atuk,'' which began filming in new york on feb. 16. 02-26 0495</first> quotes from teen-ager; picks up 9th graf pvs, `wendell berry ...'; adds byline.</note>
the first people to reach the cow pasture where an army helicopter crashed thursday described the scene as a ``war zone'' that smelled of burning oil and flesh
nine soldiers died and nine were injured when the ch-47d chinook went down northeast of chico, officials said
two men who raced to the helicopter when they saw it puff smoke and descend onto a neighbor's field said they pulled one pilot from the wreckage and doused flames on the soldiers
jack souther, a 54-year-old pipeline worker, said he used a small fire extinguisher he carries in his pickup truck to put out the flames on at least six soldiers
i couldn't fight any fire with it,'' souther said. ``the only thing i could do was put the fires out on the bodies. i went from body to body trying to put them out.''
souther said two teen-agers arrived at the crash just before he and his son-in-law, john karch, did
one of the teen-agers, dale christopher, 17, said he told one of the victims that he was lucky. ``he said `what do you mean?' and i said `man, there's people scattered everywhere,''' christopher said
christopher said the smell of the burning metal, oil and flesh was overwhelming. ``it was the smell of death,'' he said
wendell berry, 53, who lives a half-mile from the crash and arrived just after souther and karch, said he cut the seat belt from a pilot who was trapped in the cockpit. ``he was conscious and talking to me,'' berry said
volunteer firefighters who were dousing a grass fire west of chico responded to the crash, said firefighter blane rice
souther said the victims were scattered in all directions from the helicopter, but that most were caught in a fire in front of the wreckage
it was a war zone. bodies were scattered everywhere. there was just a couple of bodies out of the fire area,'' souther said
he said that after they doused the fires on the victims, they made them lie where they were until firefighters and medical personnel arrived
i know it was probably hot laying there. but i think it was better that they stayed still,'' souther said
berry said he saw the crash but his view was partially blocked by trees. ``he slid about 75 yards before he blew up,'' he said. ``between my eyesight and the copter was a tree.''
souther said he and karch could tell by the way the craft was flying that it would crash. ``you could see it puffing smoke. i told my son-in-law, `let's go. that thing is going down,''' souther said
nbc said it will introduce three new television shows next month and shift several current programs in the first phase of a mid-season programming change
the new series are ``in the heat of the night,'' based on the 1967 academy award-winning motion picture, ``aaron's way'' and the returning ``bronx zoo.''
carroll o'connor and howard e. rollins star in the new version of ``in the heat of the night,'' which tells the story of the grudging cooperation between a southern white sheriff and a northern black detective
the two-hour preview of the series will be presented on sunday, march 6. the regular series will make its debut on tuesday, march 15, in the 9-10 p.m. est time slot behind ``matlock.''
aaron's way,'' starring merlin olsen as an amish farmer who moves from his pennsylvania home to california's wine country, will have a two-hour preview wednesday, march 9. the series will begin at 8-9 p.m. est on wednesday, march 16
the bronx zoo,'' starring edward asner as a tough high school principal, will have its premiere telecast on wednesday, march 30, at 10-11 p.m. est
in other changes announced thursday by brandon tartikoff, president of nbc entertainment, ``hunter,'' currently telecast on tuesdays, will move to 10-11 p.m. est saturday on march 12. it will replace ``j.j. starbuck,'' which will return at a later date
a year in the life'' will move back one hour to 10-11 p.m. est from march 9-23, returning to its regular time slot of 9-10 p.m. est on april 6
highway to heaven'' will move back one hour to 9-10 p.m. est wednesday from march 16-30, then return at a later date
st. elsewhere'' will be telecast on wednesday, march 2, then leave the air until a later date. this is the final season for ``st. elsewhere.''
there is an old cowboy saying that daylight-saving time is like making a blanket longer by cutting off one end and sewing it on the other
some colorado lawmakers, however, are trying for the second time in two years to shift the state to year-round daylight-saving time to ease metropolitan denver's air pollution problem, said to be the nation's worst
sen. bill schroeder, the republican sponsor of the measure, wants to keep the state on daylight-saving time from the end of october to the first part of april, when it normally reverts to mountain standard time
schroeder said the measure, which cleared the state senate by an 18-15 vote on monday and now goes to the house of representatives, would give colorado an extra hour of daylight in the winter. that would mean another hour for polluting auto emissions, which often are trapped at ground level by a warmer layer of air, to escape into the upper atmosphere, he said
don barbarick, a meteorologist with the colorado health department, sees year-round daylight-saving time in colorado as a way to put denver air pollution ``in step with mother nature.''
denver is on an arid, high plain a few miles east of the rockies, and is noted for its dry climate and cool nights, a perfect setting for shifting afternoon rush-house traffic back an hour, barbarick said
schroeder said studies have shown that if there were daylight-saving time, there would be a 7 percent reduction in violations of federal air pollution standards in metropolitan denver
if the proposal passes the legislature, is signed into law by gov. roy romer and authorized by congress, colorado would become the first state to adopt such a time variance
arizona stays on standard time year-round, and counties in indiana can elect to remain on eastern standard time continually, but no other state has embraced daylight-saving time on a year-round basis. because no state has made such a time change, congress would have to pass a resolution authorizing it
the proposal pits urbanites who must deal with denver's air pollution problem against rural and small-town coloradans. opponents say schoolchildren would have to rise long before daylight to get to school on time
we shouldn't have little kids standing around in the dark waiting for buses,'' said sen. al meiklejohn, who champions educational issues. ``there are going to be some major disruptions. this is not a good idea.''
schroeder, however, says school districts may reschedule classroom hours around actual daylight hours if they wish
last year, one resolution supporting a time shift died in the colorado house and another cleared the house but died in the senate
opponents say too much is made of denver's problems, and they point to this year's two-month switch to oxygenated fuels as an example of urban problems spilling into rural areas
oxygen-rich additives make gasoline burn cleaner, with less carbon monoxide emissions, but fuel refiners and distributors said it would have been too complicated to supply the special fuel just to metropolitan areas
since the fuel switch, there have been loud complaints from rural senators. republican sen. ray powers said some of his constituents have complained that oxygenated fuels make their chainsaws sputter
barbarick said the time change is no cure-all for air pollution
some days it won't work for you at all,'' he said. ``but it's getting in step with mother nature. it's an an attempt to get in step with something that happens nearly every day (during the winter).''
the white house is scrambling to untangle some of president reagan's news conference answers, offering details, emphasis and elaboration but no retractions
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater was hit with a barrage of questions at his regular press briefing thursday about what the president meant on several subjects during his nationally televised news conference the night before
fitzwater avoided saying that reagan had misspoken on any subject. but he played down reagan's comment that outsiders were stirring up trouble in israeli-occupied territories, and he also said an apparent contradiction with secretary of state george shultz on iran arms sales was a matter of ``interpretation.''
reagan had been asked at the news conference about violence in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip, and the beatings and shootings of palestinians by israeli forces
he replied that ``there is every evidence to believe that these riots are not just spontaneous and home-grown. ... we have had intimations that there have been certain people suspected of being terrorists, outsiders coming in, not only with weapons, but stirring up and encouraging the trouble in those areas.''
shultz, en route to the middle east, gave a decidedly different slant, blaming the unrest on longtime israeli occupation of the territories
its fundamental origins are essentially indigenous,'' he told reporters aboard his plane
shultz said intelligence material showed ``a mixed picture'' with ``interaction with outside force.'' but he added, ``there is an underlying problem consisting of a large number of people in occupation who haven't had the basic rights of governance.''
in his news conference answer, reagan did not mention the israeli occupation, saying merely that the united states wants ``a solution representing justice for all.''
fitzwater said the comments of reagan and shultz ``are totally consistent as far as we're concerned.''
he added, ``the president said the same thing (as shultz) ... that they were partly influenced by outside sources.''
reagan, however, did not use the word ``partly.''
when it was noted that the president had made no mention of ``indigenous'' origins of the problem, the spokesman replied: ``no, he didn't use those words, but that's clear.''
fitzwater said he could not elaborate on the identity of any outside forces or quantify the extent of their involvement
reagan also raised questions wednesday night by saying shultz and former defense secretary caspar w. weinberger had not objected to the secret sale of arms to iran on the grounds that it was an arms-for-hostages deal
shultz and weinberger have said otherwise, and their statements have been supported by the iran-contra report issued by congress
shultz said wednesday night he had testified ``endlessly'' on the subject and ``i am not going to go over it any more.''
fitzwater said he did not feel that reagan's statement needed any reconciliation with the record on shultz's comments. ``these are all matters of interpretation,'' he said. ``i'm not going to go into that. i don't have anything to add.''
asked whether reagan regretted having said the kidnappers of marine lt. col. william higgins in lebanon ``would have a hard time getting secrets'' from him, fitzwater declined to comment. ``i don't want to say anything that might inflame the situation,'' he said
fitzwater said he could not elaborate on reagan's remark that there is ``a great division even among the (black) people who are being oppressed (in white-ruled south africa)
it is a tribal policy more than it is a racial policy, and that is one of the most difficult parts here,'' reagan said wednesday night
asked to explain, fitzwater said, ``i don't remember that specific reference. i don't have any elaboration on that.''
on another matter, reagan had told reporters that the question of soviet participation in an international trade organization was ``being reviewed,'' not mentioning that his administration staunchly opposes its participation
fitzwater said the president was saying the matter was under review ``in the sense that we review it every year as part of that (annual national security) report, but the conclusion of that review is that their economy is not compatible'' with membership in the group, known as the general agreement on tariffs and trade
asked if he agreed that reagan had failed to make the point about the united states opposing soviet participation, fitzwater drew laughter by saying, ``i would say the president expressed it with great clarity.'' says</head>
the reagan administration has made ``no secret deals'' on afghanistan and will arm guerrillas there ``until that support is no longer needed'' to gain permanent withdrawal of soviet troops, a senior official told congress
we will not abandon the afghan resistance,'' robert peck, deputy assistant seceretary of state, said thursday in testimony before the house foreign affairs subcommittee on asian and pacific affairs
peck also welcomed a statement by resistance leaders that they would agree to an interim government consisting of some afghans currently in kabul, possibly non-communist members of the kremlin's client government
peck denied charges by some resistance leaders and conservative members of congress that the administration has agreed to a deal that would cut off aid at the beginning of a soviet withdrawal, possibly allowing the red army or the afghan regime to slaughter the insurgents
a proposed u.n. agreement to end the afghan war contains provisions the administration understands would bar the kremlin from arming its clients in kabul or waging offensive operations against the guerrillas, peck said
continued military aid or offensive operations by the soviets in afghanistan would violate provisions of the u.n.-sponsored accord guaranteeing ``non-interference and non-intervention,'' he said
soviet officials have said they expect u.s. aid to end 60 days after an agreement is signed, but have not said when they would stop aiding kabul
it is a matter on which we are not completely satisfied, and we intend to pressure them,'' peck said
but the administration would oppose any congressional resolution calling for the president to continue military aid to the guerrillas until the departure of the last of the estimated 120,000 soviet soldiers from afghanistan, peck said. rep. david dreier, r-calif., and sen. steve symms, r-idaho, are preparing such resolutions, congressional aides said
the president wishes not to have his hands tied,'' peck said. ``we will continue our assistance to the afghan resistance until that support is no longer needed. but the question of when to cut off aid is one that should be left to the president.''
peck denied that administration officials agreed in december 1985, without president reagan's knowledge, to abide by the u.n. agreement before final details were worked out
there have been no secret deals,'' peck said. ``no deals at all.''
the united nations-sponsored talks, in which pakistan is representing the guerrillas and the kabul regime is representing the soviets, are to resume next wednesday. kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said that if the talks produce an accord, soviet troops will start leaving by may 15 and be gone within 10 months
pakistani officials, who originally demanded soviet withdrawal over three months, now say eight months is acceptable, but they want the parties to agree on the formation of an interim government
soviet negotiators have accused pakistan of introducing new demands at the last minute, a charge echoed by rep. stephen j. solarz, subcommittee chairman
it may not be possible to fashion such a government, in which case it would be a tragedy if, as a consequence of such a condition, we ended up without an interim government but with the continued presence of soviet forces in afghanistan,'' said solarz, d-n.y
it does seem somewhat incongruous that after having pushed the soviets for eight years to get out of afghanistan, pakistan at the 11th hour introduced new conditions that may make such a withdrawal more difficult,'' solarz said
the pakistani demand is neither unreasonable nor likely to prevent a soviet withdrawal, and may be discussed _ if not resolved _ in negotiations seperate from the u.n. talks in geneva, peck said
resolution seemed closer, he said, following a statement this week by resistance leaders in peshawar, pakistan, that they would take part in a 28-member cabinet, seven of whose ministers could be moslems now in kabul. the formula, he said, appears to open to door to moderates within the communist-dominated government
we are delighted that they have now produced a detailed alliance proposal,'' peck said. ``we await a response from the other side.'' the race</head>
bob dole wants to believe that the key southern test in the republican presidential race will occur not on super tuesday, but next august in new orleans
that's a strategy heavily dependent on a strong assist from pat robertson, who has the potential to muddy the outcome on march 8, when 20 states, most of them southern and border states, will hold republican primaries or caucuses
i've got a feeling we may be headed all the way to new orleans,'' the kansas senator says at every campaign stop in the south, referring to the republican national convention next august
dole may just be whistling ``dixie'' as he tries to negotiate an electoral minefield that appears to favor vice president george bush
there were two key events. the first was new hampshire where a dole victory would have completely altered the picture in the south where bush has a strong organization and benefits from president reagan's popularity
but the kansas senator, a big winner in iowa, fell short in new hampshire and had to devise a strategy based on the assumption that bush will be the big popular vote winner on super tuesday
the next test that could change the current outlook for march 8 is the south carolina republican primary that occurs three days before super tuesday
the name of the game now is delegates,'' was the cry from dole aides
eddie mahe, a republican political consultant not involved with any presidential campaign, agreed with that approach
if i was advising any of these people, i would say, `don't worry about the next day's headline (about who carried the popular vote in how many super tuesday states), worry about the following day's delegate-count story, that's the story that counts,''' he said
it's going to be relatively difficult for the bush forces to come out with much more than a bare majority at best, the other delegates being split between robertson and dole,'' said dole adviser david keene, as the dole entourage flew south after his victories in the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses on tuesday
within 24 hours, however, keene and donald devine, another senior campaign adviser, were fired in a dispute with campaign manager william brock, the former tennessee senator and secretary of labor
but the strategy outlined by keene still appeared to offer the clearest hope for dole to survive until the campaign moves back to the midwest where he has trounced bush in three states
bush and former television evangelist robertson look like the most formidable competitors in the south, an assessment dole and his advisers do not dispute
in addition to the southern and border states voting on super tuesday, the schedule includes balloting in massachusetts, rhode island, nevada, oklahoma and washington
keene named north carolina, oklahoma, missouri, washington and ``possibly florida'' as the states dole had the best chance to win on super tuesday. that's not a very long list
but most states elect their delegates by congressional districts and can be viewed as a series of district elections. that means it is possible that while bush would easily carry the popular vote, his rivals would carry a lot of districts and their delegates
south carolina stands alone on march 5 and it is open to every registered voter. in addition, the democrats don't hold caucuses until a week later, so there is no democratic contest to distract voters from the gop primary
mahe said a lot of republicans don't see a lot of difference between bush and dole and also are very concerned about the possibility of robertson emerging as the nominee
a robertson victory in south carolina could have a major impact on those voters
people who genuinely have a sense of concern, whether they should or they shouldn't about pat robertson, who saw george bush lose again to pat robertson in south carolina where he had the governor going for him, seemingly everything going for him, they might say, well, maybe we ought to go with bob dole,'' said mahe
the same logic says that a bush victory in south carolina could open the gates for a big super tuesday win for the vice president
dole has south carolina sen. strom thurmond on his side and also supports legislation to limit textile imports, a popular stand in a state where 45 percent of the jobs are in the textile industry. bush opposes the bill
dole has a similar advantage on a highly visible issue in louisiana where the kansan supports an oil import fee while bush opposes it. glen beauerman, dole's campaign manager in louisiana, said surveys say 70 percent of people in the oil and gas producing state support an import fee
but it's the robertson factor rather than issues that could keep bush from harvesting enough super tuesday delegates to make him unstoppable
up and down east texas pat robertson is a real threat in a lot of districts,'' said mahe. ``but there's enough bush-type people in those districts for george to win all of them if they turn out and vote. they have not been turning out in very good numbers.''
the political establishment is astonished over how easily republican presidential hopeful pat robertson has sown the wind without reaping the whirlwind
political experts say a string of controversial pronouncements that would have damaged most politicians has only strengthened robertson's ties with his natural following, conservative christian fundamentalists
my guess is that pat is deliberately playing to his south carolina constituency,'' says university of virginia sociologist jeffrey hadden, a robertson biographer. ``he doesn't care if folks in new york or chicago or los angeles think he's crazy at this point. if he can get the press bashing him a bit, it would help ignite his followers.''
but republican consultant ed mahe disagrees: ``i can't believe this reflects any kind of strategy. what we have here is a talk-show host here who doesn't understand the power of talk; after all, when you're a talk-show host you toss these things out and who cares.''
even ronald reagan, who has often stood corrected, ridiculed robertson's claim that his christian broadcasting network had information about the location of hostages in the middle east
isn't it strange that no one in our administration was ever apprised of that?'' asked the president at his news conference wednesday
robertson bounced back, saying he could not understand the big flap. ``i used that as a throwaway line,'' he said
he also complained wednesday in the atlanta constitution that he's being put under undue scrutiny
the press of the nation is holding me to an incredible standard of conduct,'' he said. ``they want me every time i open my mouth to be accompanied by a press aide, a lawyer and a librarian with at least a thousand volumes to back up every word i've said.''
just as robertson's campaign has weathered the hostage crisis this week, it weathered the missile crisis earlier this month _ when robertson claimed there were soviet missiles in cuba
the pentagon denied it, the white house denied it, even fidel castro denied it. robertson shrugged off the outcry, saying he hoped those doing the denying were right
robertson also suggested he saw the sinister hand of vice president george bush behind the timing of the disclosures of sexual misbehavior by a fellow fundamentalist preacher, jimmy swaggart. and he accused television anchorman tom brokaw of engaging in ``religious bigotry'' when he referred to robertson, a former television evangelist, as a former television evangelist
stephen hess, a brookings institution student of the press and politics, says robertson's ability to weather attacks on his credibility _ ``the teflon factor'' _ exists because the press has been easy on him
the media gets tough on people when they become important,'' he says
adds larry sabato, a political scientist at the university of virginia who has followed robertson for decades: ``the other republican candidates are hesitant to attack him. even bush his done so gingerly. the republicans know they need his constituency in the fall; they know these people are easily offended and will stay permanently offended.''
moreover, he says, reporters, with few evangelical christians in their ranks, are shy about attacking robertson: ``they know they're subject to a charge of cultural bias.''
at first he was getting a good press,'' says hess. ``there was a surprise about robertson. we expected elmer gantry and instead we got robert young.''
the more the press challenges robertson, the more his natural constituency _ christian fundamentalists _ rallies around, says anson shupe, an indiana sociologist and co-author with hadden of a forthcoming book, ``televangelism: power and politics in god's country.''
he's playing to a different audience,'' says shupe. ``there is a real conspiratorial, paranoid theme running through fundamental christianity. they see the world almost as a conspiracy against christians. what to someone else may look like a way-out statement plays a lot better with his following and may even help him.''
but, says shupe, robertson's unproven statements will isolate robertson from mainstream voters. ``ultimately this could be his upending,'' he says. a0529, sent feb. 25 for thursday pms, are asked to also use the following:
</note>
the associated press erroneously reported feb. 25 that pat robertson's campaign asked the south dakota secretary of state's office for a recount of republican votes in tuesday's presidential primary
gordie howie, the candidate's south dakota field director, said robertson's campaign sought information about a possible recount but had not made a request. porcupine caribou herd. ^by lee byrd</note>
the senate energy committee approved 11-8 on thursday a bill that could open up for drilling a potentially oil-rich section of the arctic national wildlife refuge in northeastern alaska
the measure, bitterly contested by environmentalists but eyed by industry as an oil bonanza rivaling the development of prudoe bay, would authorize the interior department to open up 1.5 million acres on the coastal plain of the refuge, which totals 19 million acres
the energy committee's approval followed a lengthy series of mark-up sessions in which various amendments designed to weaken or kill the legislation were turned back
a day earlier, the committee rejected 10-4 an attempt by sen. wyche fowler, d-ga., to force oil companies to prove that exploratory drilling would not prove incompatible with the region's primary purpose as a fish and game refuge
the interior department has estimated that there is a one in five chance that the northern tip of the refuge contains economically recoverable oil. if there is any, the department says, it's 50-50 whether the amount totals more than 3.2 billion barrels, and a 5 percent chance that it totals 9 billion barrels
prudhoe bay contained a little more than 9 billion barrels when it was tapped in 1975. it's now at peak production, 1.8 million barrels a day, and inevitably will start to decline soon
the united states uses about 6.2 billion barrels a year, so 3.2 billion barrels would represent about 188 days' worth
the energy department calls the interior estimates conservative, and the oil industry says the coastal area offers the best drilling prospect left in the united states. the region is within 65 to 100 miles of the alaska pipeline, so extensive work would not be required to bring the oil to market
the bill, backed principally by chairman bennett johnston, d-la., and frank murkowski, r-alaska, faces a difficult floor fight in the senate and even more uncertain chances in the house, where interior chairman morris udall, d-ariz., is a staunch opponent of disturbing the arctic refuge
environmental groups such as the sierra club, the wilderness society and the natural resources defense council are particularly disturbed about the potential effect of oil development on a herd of 180,000 porcupine caribou, whose calving grounds fall within the prime oil area
sen. bill bradley, d-n.j., told the senate committee that ``what is at stake is far more than the well-publicized porcupine (area) caribou (herd). the coastal plain is also vital to polar bears, grizzly bears, wolverines, and muskoxen, the survivors of the ice age. millions of swans, snow geese, northern pintail and other water fowl spend their summers on this stretch of the arctic coast.'' there</head>
midnight was fast approaching as the twin-engine plane flew at treetop level, its lights and radio turned off, into a combat zone in darkest angola
with the small air strip illuminated only by kerosene lanterns set down moments before, the plane landed at the stroke of midnight and out stepped, of all people, former virginia gov. charles s. robb
since leaving office in 1985, robb has become an adventurer of sorts, traveling to many a third world hot spot while attempting at the same time to encourage fellow democrats at home to embrace his cautiously hawkish foreign policy views
robb clearly feels uncomfortable with the ``isolationist'' sentiments of some party leaders and he has been imploring democratic candidates to pursue a more ``traditionalist'' approach to international issues
he would support any party candidate who gets the nomination but in a field dominated by liberals, it is not surprising that robb finds sen. albert gore of tennessee the most ideologically congenial of the lot
robb himself is considered by some a possible candidate for national office one day, but for now his principal short-term ambition is election in november to the virginia senate seat being vacated by paul trible, a republican
if miles traveled are a qualification for election, robb should win in a landslide
he has been within earshot of hostile fire in iraq and along the afghan-pakistan border. his other wanderings seem like a travel agent's dream: japan, korea, the philippines, the soviet union, india, oman, bahrain, kuwait, saudi arabia, israel, nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, panama, australia, new zealand, argentina, chile, brazil, zaire, ivory coast all of western europe and scandinavia. this is a partial list
to understand the stakes involved in a particular area, robb said in a recent interview, there is no substitute for actually being there. no amount of reading or discussion, he said, could prepare him for the visual impact of the israeli-held golan heights and the degree to which israelis in the valley below would be vulnerable if it were returned to its historic owner, syria
to hear robb tell it, few experiences were more rewarding than his visit last fall to angola where the soviet-backed government has been challenged for more than a decade by anti-communist rebels who receive u.s. backing
at the time, the leader of the unita rebel group, jonas savimbi, was directing a military operation in mavinga. a unita pilot flew robb there, shutting off the lights and radio, lest the flight be detected by loyalist forces manning anti-aircraft equipment
robb discussed military tactics with savimbi, drawing on his own combat experience two decades ago in vietnam where he volunteered for service as a young marine officer after marrying lynda johnson, daughter of president lyndon johnson
robb spent five hours with savimbi before flying out in the pre-dawn darkness
his most memorable angolan experience was in jamba, the unita headquarters and stronghold in southeastern angola. there he saw hospitals with operating rooms, a plant where captured soviet tanks were being rebuilt, and a ``most remarkable'' education system involving thousands of children
a prime robb interest these days is the state of the democratic party, which he believes has lost its way in recent years, partly because of too many comfortable assumptions about the intentions of america's adversaries
i spend a lot of time trying to find ways to nudge our party and our presidential candidates ... to take what for me and for many other democrats would be regarded as a more responsible view on foreign policy,'' he said
robb goes to considerable lengths to avoid use of terms like ``conservative'' and ``liberal,'' preferring such words as ``responsible.''
i try not to put things in an ideological or philosophical context because i don't want to be constrained or restricted by a label,'' he said. ``i go to great lengths to avoid being pigeonholed.''
on central america, robb believes the reagan administration has overemphasized the need for military force while too many democrats underemphasize it. he believes united states should support both the central american peace plan and the nicaraguan contras as well
he said the democratic party has come a long way since 1984, a year when he felt that unswerving support for a nuclear freeze was a politically chic stand within the party but not among the public. in the presidential election that year, the democratic ticket carried one state
we're on more responsible ground now. but we haven't moved as far as we should have if we're going to reoccupy the high ground that the party used to be able to occupy in previous decades,'' robb said
__
editor's note _ george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968. roundup</head>
before republican-hunting capitol police carried gop sen. bob packwood onto the senate floor during filibuster of a campaign finance bill, they found sen. lowell p. weicker jr. sitting quietly in his office
but the connecticut republican, a political heavyweight in more ways than one, was apparently too big for the posse led by senate sergeant-at-arms henry giugni to handle when they entered weicker's office at 12:45 a.m. wednesday
i think henry took a look at the 6-6 and 240 pounds and figured it was a long trip from the capitol rotunda to the senate floor,'' weicker said thursday in a telephone interview. ``i could see the wheels turning
henry came in and indicated that i was arrested, and i told him that was no time of day to arrest anybody and i was comfortably ensconced on my couch and had no intention of moving,'' weicker said
weicker quoted giugni as saying on his way out the door, ``(expletive), i hate this job.''
it was very good natured and there was no hint of confrontation other than there he had been, here he was and here he was going to stay,'' said weicker aide steve snider. ``he and henry giugni know each other very well.''
giugni did not return a series of telephone calls thursday. an aide said he would no longer talk about the bizarre night
packwood, who was hauled off about 45 minutes later, is seven inches shorter and 60 pounds lighter than weicker
the incident occurred when democrats, angered that republicans were trying to filibuster a campaign finance reform bill without having a quorum on the senate floor, ordered giugni to forcibly bring gop members to the chamber. democratic sponsors of the bill have been unable to muster enough votes to end the filibuster
soviet troops headed home from east germany and czechoslovakia taking with them the first nuclear missiles dismantled under the superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range nuclear weapons
the soviet soldiers left two bases in east germany and one garrison in czechoslovakia thursday after a ceremonial send-off highlighted in the communist countries' state-run media
both of moscow's allies lauded the pullout of some shorter-range ss-12 missiles as evidence of the kremlin's sincere intent on peace
czechoslovak radio said the soviet soldiers loaded missiles on a train thursday morning at the railway station at hranice, a garrison town 180 miles southeast of prague
battling driving snow, the soviets loaded 19 missile launchers onto trains and then attended a ceremony at which they received decorations from the czechoslovak ministry of defense, the radio said
the soviet commander of the missile forces said the weapons were to be taken to an unspecified ``liquidation'' site in the soviet union. he said they will not be destroyed until congress ratifies the treaty signed by mikhail gorbachev and president reagan last december in washington
if the agreement is not ratified, the responsible officials will decide about future steps,'' lt. col. vyacheslav granovsky told the state news agency ctk
the arms treaty covers nuclear missiles with ranges of between 300 to 3,100 miles. the ss-12 missiles, known in the warsaw pact as otr-22s, have a range of 300 to 600 miles
western diplomats expressed skepticism about thursday's ceremonies. they said that until the superpower treaty goes into effect there are no formal provisions for verifying how many missiles were withdrawn
until the arms treaty is in place, there is no way of confirming what we are seeing, and what we are being told is actually what it all appears to be,'' said one western diplomat, who spoke on condition he not be identified further
in east germany, western reporters were invited to bases at waren and bischofswerda, where soviet soldiers were sent off with music, speeches by local officials and gifts of flowers and candy from residents
czechoslovak media said about 60 journalists watched the withdrawal from hranice, but no western reporters were invited
granovsky said that 39 ss-12 missiles and 24 mobile launchers had been deployed in czechoslovakia after nato installed pershing 2 and cruise missiles in western europe in 1983. it was the first time such figures were released
nato installed its missiles to counteract soviet ss-20 weapons stationed on soviet territory
czechoslovak television showed film clips of snow-dusted missile launchers being loaded onto rail cars for the ride back to the soviet union
the commander of missile units and artillery, lt. gen. jan krizan, was quoted as saying that hranice, a town of about 12,500 people, was the only place where the ss-12s were deployed
krizan stressed that czechoslovakia has no nuclear weapons of its own
missiles that had been based in the east german town of bischofswerda, about 15 miles east of dresden, also left on a train for the soviet union thursday
western reporters saw a train loaded with about 32 containers leave bischofswerda
a total of five launchers, eight missiles and four practice missiles were stationed at the east german base, but it was not known how many missiles left thursday
at waren, about 90 miles northwest of berlin, there were 22 missiles, nine launchers and seven training rockets, according to information released before the superpower treaty was signed
a u.s. soldier was acquitted of desertion and given a bad conduct discharge for fleeing his west german base to live in the soviet union, shocking prosecutors who had expected him to do prison time
courtroom spectators, mostly military personnel, gasped when presiding judge col. earl pauley ordered pfc. wade e. roberts, 22, of riverside, calif., released from military custody thursday
i feel great!'' roberts said after he was convicted of a lesser charge of being absent without leave and given a bad conduct discharge
roberts, described by a superior as ``the most reprehensible, casual soldier'' in his command but as ``confused'' by his attorneys, said he will live in west germany with his wife, petra neumann, and their 3-month-old son
the military pressed hard for a conviction of desertion during the 1{-day courtmartial at fort dix. that offense carries a maximum penalty of a dishonorable discharge and three years' imprisonment
i'm shocked,'' said capt. daniel shaver, chief military attorney. he said the army expected roberts to be sentenced to the maximum awol penalty of a dishonorable discharge and one year's imprisonment
when the sentence was read, roberts and his attorneys broke into wide grins, and the soldier and his wife embraced and kissed. shaver's jaw dropped, and he stared at the judge
to prove desertion, the army had to demonstrate that when roberts left his base at giessen, west germany, last february, he never intended to return to the army
the prosecution produced a half-dozen witnesses in an effort to show roberts didn't like the army, talked about leaving, didn't get along with his superiors and had disciplinary problems
but roberts' attorneys argued their client fled his unit because was harassed by his superiors for, among other things, dating ms. neumann because she was german
when he took the stand thursday, roberts told how one of his sergeants told him to stay away from german women. roberts said he ``panicked'' because he didn't want to leave ms. neumann, and scaled a fence at the base
when they went to the soviet union, they were put to work on a snake farm, but quickly became disenchanted with soviet life
after getting soviet approval, roberts and his wife flew to frankfurt, west germany, on nov. 4 and was told by a u.s. embassy official to turn himself over to the military the next day. before he could, however, he was arrested by the army
roberts' civilian attorney, ronald kuby, asked for lenient treatment. ``private wade roberts is not cut out for the army. he doesn't need the army. the army doesn't need him,'' kuby said
roberts returned to the philadelphia naval yard brig, where he has been held for the past several months, to pick up his belongings, and went to an undisclosed location with ms. neumann, officials said
the nikkei stock average closed friday at 25,165.18 points, up 64.52 points, on the tokyo stock exchange
the assembly adopted the resolution on a unanimous vote during an emergency session that lasted less than 10 minutes. opposition legislators did not attend the session
more
the reagan administration is proposing that states with approved groundwater protection plans be given discretion to permit use of some pesticides that otherwise would be banned
the proposal was unveiled thursday in the form of a draft strategy released for public comment
groundwater provides drinking water for half the u.s. population and for 97 percent of people living in rural areas. epa says it expects to complete a survey in 1990 on the extent of contamination
epa licenses new pesticides, and is gradually re-licensing all the old ones. as it makes those licensing decisions, it tries to take into account the chemical's ability to leach into groundwater _ which can depend on many things, including soil permeability and application method
epa expects to ban the use of some chemicals in specific states or counties, while allowing use in others. the new strategy is designed to allow states facing such bans to overturn them provided they show that groundwater supplies will not be contaminated significantly
john a. moore, epa's assistant administrator for pesticides and toxic substances, said the agency's ``ability to do something at these levels (counties and below) is not good.''
states with plans could employ geological, land use, crop pattern and water data to justify decisions that would run counter to epa determinations
where found appropriate, epa would consider modifying the federal registration to accommodate the state program,'' the agency said
in making decisions, both epa and the states would use current drinking water standards, where they exist, for chemicals that don't cause cancer. for carcinogens, the agency would permit contamination to a level that would mean a one-in-a-million chance of cancer over a lifetime
if there are no drinking water standards _ only six have been established for pesticides, with another 10 in the pipeline _ then epa would determine the permissible pesticide concentration in groundwater supplies
though several other federally mandated environmental programs are run by states _ one example is strip mine reclamation _ moore acknowledged that ``there are no good models'' of states being allowed to make exceptions to federal rules like what epa is proposing for pesticides
he said epa would ``periodically revisit and reassure ourselves that what the state had put together was being maintained,'' moore said
he singled out california, iowa, illinois, wisconsin and florida as states with active pesticide-groundwater programs, generally combining state agriculture, health and environmental protection departments
moore said he expected cooperation from farmers and their trade groups: ``if there's been one area where i haven't had to convince the user community they should pay attention, this is it. it's their wells and their children drinking the water,'' moore said
pesticide contamination of groundwater is a relatively new issue, and as recently as 10 years ago most government officials and scientists believed it didn't happen. they thought the chemicals didn't last long enough or penetrate far enough down
the first serious contamination cases were reported in new york and california in 1979
two years ago, epa said 19 pesticides had been found in groundwater in 24 states; today, said patrick holden, team leader of the groundwater project in epa's pesticides office, 50 to 60 different chemicals have been found in wells in 30 states. iowa has found pesticides in half the wells serving cities
pesticides are not the only contaminants. fertilizers, waste disposal wells and leaking underground tanks all can contribute substantially
epa plans to adopt a groundwater strategy that would require states to classify supplies, known as aquifers, in a three-tier priority system _ high priority protection, drinking water sources, and water needing little protection
many environmentalists object to the plan, saying it would write off a substantial percentage of groundwater supplies
sen. david durenberger, r-minn., on thursday introduced at least the 10th bill this session calling for minimum federal standards for all aquifers
the senator said he would have to study epa's proposal for the states. an aide, jimmie powell, said that ``to the extent you can manage pesticides for their leaching ability, it could be a reasonable proposal'' to let states make detailed, area-specific management decisions along the lines epa is proposing
but rick hind of the u.s. public interest research group said epa's use of a one-in-a-million standard for carcinogens is ``too soft.'' he also said the drinking water standards for non-carcinogens is based ``partly on the cost of cleaning it up'' and thus inappropriate for a strategy of protecting public health
the assembly's action came after delvalle ordered strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, under u.s. indictment as a drug trafficker, to step down. but the military challenged the order and the man named as new armed forces chief refused to take the job
noriega is regarded as the real power behind the civilian government in panama, headquarters for u.s. military operations in latin america
the national democratic union, 4th graf pvs, a0416
the outlook for u.s. farm exports continues to improve as the soviet union begins a new round of corn purchases
overall, the agriculture department says the value of u.s. agricultural exports will rise to a four-year high of $32.5 billion in the 1988 fiscal year that began oct. 1
spurred by recent heavy sales of grain to the soviet union and china, partly under a special export subsidy program, the new 1988 forecast is up $500 million from $32 billion indicated on dec. 17
steve macdonald of the department's economic research service said the soviet union may account for $1.7 billion of the total export value this year, the most since 1985 when moscow's purchases totaled $2.5 billion. soviet purchases last year were valued at about $700 million
china's u.s. purchases are expected to be around $500 million, more than double the $200 million of 1987, he said
the new export forecast came thursday as the department announced another cash sale of corn to the soviet union, the second in two days
with a shipment value of $32 billion, this year's exports would be up 16 percent from $27.9 billion in 1987 and 24 percent from a decade low of $26.3 billion in 1986. agricultural exports were valued at $31.2 billion in fiscal 1985 and $38 billion in 1984
most of the increase (from the earlier estimate) stems from additional wheat sales under the export enhancement program ,'' the department said. ``since the december forecast, eep offers were announced for 2 million metric tons of wheat to the soviet union and 1.2 million tons to china, among others.''
under the eep arrangement, private exporters get free surplus commodities from the agriculture department as subsidies so they can sell grain and other products overseas at reduced prices
on the basis of actual volume, 1988 exports were indicated at 142.5 million metric tons, up from 141 million forecast in december and 129.2 million tons shipped last year
the u.s. share of the world market, particularly in grains and cotton, is rising,'' officials said in their report. ``relatively low world prices and improved u.s. competitiveness through lower (price support) loan rates, the eep and a lower dollar have reduced production incentives for foreign competitors.''
meanwhile, private exporters reported the sales of 601,600 tons of corn for delivery to the soviet union this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries
on wednesday, the soviets bought 350,000 tons of corn, the first substantial amount since last october. corn sales are not qualified for eep subsidies, however
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 601,600 tons of corn would be about 24 million bushels, having a farm value of around $44 million at recent prices of about $1.82 per bushel
shipments of federally inspected reindeer steaks across the country would be allowed under a proposal being considered by the agriculture department
there is mandatory federal inspection of cattle, hogs, chickens and turkeys at slaughter plants, which allows those carcasses to be shipped across state lines
in addition, regulations permit the voluntary inspection of certain exotic animals slaughtered for human food. those include the american bison, or buffalo, and the cattalo, a cross between cattle and the buffalo
lester m. crawford, head of the department's food safety and inspection service, said thursday producers of exotic animals have asked the inspection list be expanded to include reindeer, elk, deer, antelope and water buffalo
this proposal is a response to their request and could facilitate the sale and export of the carcasses, meat and meat food products from these animals,'' he sad. ``once the animals and products are inspected and passed, they can be sold interstate or exported.''
producers of the animals would pay fees to receive the optional inspection service. crawford said fewer than 2,000 exotic animals are slaughtered annually at the present time and that the slaughter level is not expected to increase much if the exotic list is expanded
by comparison, he said, annual cattle slaughter has been running at more than 32 million head
public comments on the proposal can be sent by april 26 to: linda carey, fsis hearing clerk, room 3168-s, fsis, usda, washington, d.c. 20250
united airlines inc. has paid an $11,000 civil penalty to settle 1987 charges by the agriculture department that it violated federal transportation standards for shipments of live animals
the penalty was assessed by the department in an administrative action stemming from nine shipments of dogs and monkeys in 1985 and 1986. a complaint was filed against united last year by the department's animal and plant health inspection service, which administers the animal welfare act
james w. glosser, acting administrator of the agency, said thursday the complaints alleged that united had accepted dogs in shipping kennels that did not conform to size requirement, and that the airline ``either failed to observe and care for the dogs properly'' or stowed them in cargo space without sufficient ventiliation
two dogs died during shipment and another was killed by highway traffic after it escaped shipment, glosser said. the airline also was cited for having ``allegedly accepted a shipment of 50 monkeys in cages that were not structurally sound'' and had no markings to tell they contained wild animals, he said
glosser said united also consented to an order against future violations of the act and agreed within a year to buy a training film approved by usda and show it to all employees who handle live animal cargoes
michael dukakis, urged by his aides to begin returning campaign fire, says democratic presidential rival richard gephardt ``better watch out'' if he persists with his sharp attacks in the battle for the party's nomination
i've been in negative campaigns before and i can tell you if people want to be negative, i know what to do,'' the massachusetts governor said thursday as he opened a three-day campaign trip through dixie
i hope we don't go down that road,'' he said, adding that negative attacks during the nominating battle would only damage democrats' chances of capturing the white house
dukakis issued his warning one day after gephardt unleashed a stinging attack, the latest in a string that the governor's aides believe may be taking a toll. the missouri congressman said dukakis and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had ``hardly a dime's worth of difference'' on economic issues
gephardt said dukakis' foreign policy experience consisted mostly of ``negotiating with the governor of new hampshire over the use of nuclear power.''
and he summarized dukakis' campaign bitingly, calling him ``the candidate with the most money and the least message.''
gephardt also has attacked dukakis in television commercials
yet with the campaign in an intensive phase leading to the 21 super tuesday primaries and caucuses set for march 8, dukakis so far has declined to respond with anything approaching the vehemence used by gephardt
instead, he has replied with indirect attacks and issued a series of increasingly stern warnings
if people want to get negative, i've had experience with negative campaigns,'' he said at a news conference in boca raton, fla. ``if you've got a record as vulnerable as his is, you'd better watch out, that's all i can say
the massachusetts governor also chided gore and gephardt for ``going at each other'' in a mananer resembling republican presidential rivals george bush and bob dole
i don't think this `prince of darkness' routine is going to sell,'' he said
but some aides say they believe that negative television commercials played a role in gephardt's victory in the south dakota primary on tuesday, a conclusion also reinforced by some public opinion polls
and with the critical southern primaries approaching, the governor is getting advice to respond more sharply to gephardt
we have to knock this negative campaigning out of the box,'' said s. stephen rosenfeld, florida campaign manager for dukakis. ``my own view is that it comes home to roost, but we've got to make it come home to roost (for gephardt) sooner rather than later.''
rosenfeld said he has told dukakis as much and the governor ``made it very clear that it's important to respond.''
but so far, dukakis has passed up every opportunity
when he and gephardt shared a stage to discuss long-term health care before a group of senior citizens, his most biting comment was a mild jab
askdd if he had flip-flopped on the issue, dukakis replied: ``there's the flip-flopper over there. i'm not the flip-flopper.''
a railroad rate case initiated eight years ago by a group of montana farmers may play a pivotal role in the way the interstate commerce commission determines when certain shippers are being overcharged
the case involves ``captive shippers'' who must rely on a single railroad for transporting their goods _ in this case wheat and barley being sent from montana to shipping points along the northwest coast
the icc earlier this month concluded that the burlington northern railroad had overcharged the farmers and directed that the railroad make refunds _ as much as $30 million, according to some estimates _ and use a new method to determine fair rates
the montana ruling, known as the mccarty farms case after one of the farmers, is being appealed by the burlington northern. it may not be settled until it goes to the u.s. supreme court, say both railroad and shipping experts familiar with the case
but if it stands, the case may spawn a new method of determining when captive shippers are being overcharged
the mccarty case is the first attempt to do this in a live case,'' said daniel campbell, the icc's deputy general counsel. ``if we've done it successfully and it's accepted by the courts it has implications for other (captive) shippers.''
in the montana case, the icc sought to establish a shorthand approach to determining whether a shipper is being overcharged by comparing a railroad's revenue to its operating costs
the icc already has used the same method of determining an overcharge in a case involving generators being shipped for westinghouse corp., and shipments of sugar, according to icc officials
but neither the railroads nor groups representing shipping interests are particularly happy about the methods the icc developed in the montana case
it sets up a very nasty test for any future shippers,'' suggested mark cooper, research director for the consumer federation of america, who has studied railroad ratemaking as it applies to captive shippers
cooper said he is concerned that in the montana case the icc decided to use average rates when determining whether the montana farmers were being charged too much
if the same practice is used in other ratemaking cases, shippers who are being charged exceedingly high rates might be denied relief because they are lumped in with other shippers whose rates are lower, suggested cooper
other critics say the montana case exemplifies the problems a shipper faces in challenging railroad rates
the case is an absolute modern horror story,'' maintains robert szabo, the executive director of the consumers union for rail equity. ``it has taken (these farmers) seven years ... and they spent over a million dollars.''
szabo's group, known as cure, has been battling the railroads for years on behalf of primarily coal companies and electric utilities over rates to captive shippers
with the montana case, suggests szabo, the icc has tried to head off continuing criticism in congress that the icc has been moving too slowly to deal with shipper grievances
spokesmen for the association of american railroads declined to comment on the case except to reiterate its position before the icc that it opposed using the new procedure to determine maximum rates and that it did not consider the burlington norther rates excessive
the montana case began in 1980 when richard mccarty, a grain farmer from near plentywood, mont., and a few other farmers filed a class action suit accusing burlington northern of price gouging in shipping crops to west coast markets
a federal judge referred the case to the icc where an administrative law judge ruled in 1981 that the farmers qualified for relief under the staggers act, which deregulated much of the railroad industry in 1980. the icc concluded the case feb. 12
the face had changed and some views were different, but senators might have imagined robert h. bork was back when they held a confirmation hearing for the most controversial judicial nominee before them
bernard siegan, nominee for the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals, spent his confirmation hearing thursday defending what one senator called his ``remarkably extreme views.'' bork did the same during confirmation hearings on his supreme court nomination
and like bork, siegan pledged over and over that he would cast his personal constitutional views aside if confirmed, and follow supreme court precedent
so did bork
the players were the same, too, in the senate judiciary committee hearing room
liberal sens. howard m. metzenbaum, d-ohio, and patrick j. leahy, d-vt., both major opponents of bork, were highly critical of siegan, a 63-year-old professor of constitutional law at the university of san diego
conservative sens. orrin g. hatch, r-utah, and charles grassley, r-iowa, two of bork's most ardent backers, jumped to siegan's defense
and people for the american way, the civil libertian group that ran a controversial anti-bork television spot narrated by gregory peck, promptly issued a news release attacking siegan
siegan, the group said, ``spent the morning distancing himself from his entire body of legal scholarship.''
siegan's views do not always parallel those of bork, but he is just as controversial
he wrote that the supreme court reached the right conclusion in outlawing school segregation but used faulty reasoning. he said prayer in schools could be constitutional, although the supreme court has said otherwise. he gave equal weight to property rights and human rights. and he said the framers of the 14th amendment, which governs due process rights, never intended its scope to be as broad as that defined by the supreme court
leahy _ who conducted the confirmation hearing because committee chairman joseph biden jr., d-del., is recuperating from brain surgery _ said afterward that siegan's almost total lack of experience in the courtroom and his ``remarkably extreme views'' make him ``one of the more difficult ones for the senate to approve.''
the last time you were in federal court i was 12 years old,'' leahy said
asked about siegan's promises to follow supreme court precedent, leahy said, ``there is a feeling there may be a confirmation conversion here, too.''
the senator used the same term during bork's hearing, accusing the nominee of changing many of his controversial positions in order to win confirmation. bork proved to be unconvincing, and the senate rejected his nomination 58-42
in many ways bork would be easier to accept because he had judicial experience and federal court experience,'' leahy said
during the hearing, hatch listed many of siegan's controversial writings, and repeatedly gave the nominee the chance to say he would ``observe the law of the land'' and resign if unable to do so
i hope people will give you a fair shake,'' hatch said
the 9th circuit, on which new supreme court justice anthony kennedy served, covers alaska, arizona, california, hawaii, idaho, montana, nevada, oregon, washington, guam and the northern mariana islands
siegan told the committee: ``there are times i will rule contrary to my own feelings. it would be a direct violation and contrary of my oath to push my position ahead of the supreme court.''
metzenbaum told siegan, ``i'm concerned that if confirmed, you will find a way to implement your views. circuit courts are often the courts of last resort.'' he said there would be a ``great risk'' if the senate confirmed siegan
siegan said his lack of courtroom experience would not be a problem, commenting: ``a circuit court judge is given scholarly duties to see if what the lower court did was right. i have spent 20 years of my life in scholarly activities. even a lawyer with trial experience may not know how to write an opinion.''
the national highway traffic safety board is asking general motors corp. to explain why its engineers withdrew a recommendation that 703,225 cars be recalled because of possible sudden acceleration problems
the center for auto safety, a consumers group often at odds with the automakers and their regulators, contends that the engineers were pressured to change their position. gm has denied the allegation
nhtsa is asking gm to describe the company's product problem evaluation committee in flint, mich., which made the recommendation
a nhtsa letter released thursday also asked gm to state whether the committee memo withdrawing the recall recommendation ``constitutes a legitimate ppec report.''
nhtsa is investigating alleged throttle problems that produce sudden acceleration in the 1986-87 oldsmobile delta 88 and buick lesabre, and the 1987 pontiac bonneville
the agency has received 573 complaints of alleged sudden acceleration in the cars, resulting in reports of 343 accidents, 145 injuries and one death, said joe collins, nhtsa spokesman. none of the reports has been substantiated by the agency, collins said
gm spokesman david hudgens said it was ``preposterous'' to suggest the engineers were pressured
we don't do business that way,'' hudgens said
the automaker was preparing a response to nhtsa, hudgens said. ``in the nhtsa letter and our response, the question of pressure doesn't come up,'' he said
the center for auto safety said the engineers' decision to withdraw their recall recommendation was suspicious because it came just 18 days before gm would have had to tell nhtsa of the recommendation
the timing ``suggests the clear possibility that the gm engineers' change of heart may have been less than voluntary,'' the center said in a petition to nhtsa
nhtsa declined to comment on the gm investigation, citing agency policy
the gm memo, part of the public record of the nhtsa engineering analysis, was in the form of a two-page handwritten note dated oct. 23, 1987, saying, ``withdraw recommendation for lack of data support of a trend or high frequency'' on one page, and, ``withdraw recommendation to conduct field actions on throttle cables on all cars for lack of data to conclude there is a problem'' on the other
the committee on aug. 24, 1987, had recommended a recall. update with white house having no immediate comment on vote to remove delvalle.</note>
the reagan administration on thursday night greeted with caution news that the president of panama has ousted military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said administration officials ``want to reiterate our unqualified support for civilian constitutional rule in panama.''
there is but one legitimate sovereign authority in panama and that is the panamanian people exercising their democratic right to vote and elect their leadership in a free society,'' fitzwater said in a formal statement released not long reports surfaced from panama city saying that president eric arturo delvalle had dismissed noriega
there was no immediate comment from the white house or state department early friday after the panama's legislative assembly removed delvalle and the vice president from office
a senior u.s. official said that as of thursday night, the major unanswered question was whether noriega would attempt to fight his ouster
initial reports indicated that noriega did not intend to go quietly, the official said, citing a television newscast in panama in which a member of the defense forces said that if anyone is removed from power, it should be delvalle
the official, insisting on anonymity, said it was his understanding that col. marcos justine, noriega's designated successor, is almost as tainted by corrupt activities as is noriega
sen. alphonse d'amato, r-n.y., who participated in a congressional investigation of noreiga, said u.s. military intervention might be in order to support panama's civilian government if noriega decides to cling to power or attempts a coup
but he said he has no indication whether the reagan administration might initiate military action against noreiga or act on any request from delvalle
we're not without leverage,'' d'amato said in an interview. ``there are 10,000 u.s. troops under arms in panama'' guarding the panama canal
i am suggesting that there have been times in the past when we have been asked to intervene by a legitimate government,'' d'amato said. ``i don't think we should write off that possibility. that's a very real option.''
at the pentagon, a spokeswoman said the u.s. southern command in panama had issued a ``personnel movement'' alert thursday night as a precaution
capt. nancy laluntas said the command had issued a ``bravo'' alert, which orders american military personnel and dependents to ``decrease their visibility.''
a bravo alert specifies that ``some civil disturbance activity is probable. reduce the amount of time spent in public areas of panama. if you do not live on a defense site or military area of coordination, stay around your residence unless traveling to and from work or conducting personal business in a non-affected area.''
laluntas said there are two higher levels of alert, one which orders travel to be confined to essential business and another which suspends travel
she said the u.s. southern command in panama had received reports of scattered demonstrations in and around panama city
u.s. personnel ... are also being reminded that under the terms of the (panama canal) treaty, we are not to interfere in the internal affairs of panama,'' she said
delvalle's move was applauded on capitol hill, but with some reservation
rep. charles rangel, d-n.y., head of the house select committee on narcotics abuse and control, said he believed the delvalle move was a direct result of noriega's indictment in the united states on drug charges
that was a foreign policy objective, but we used our justice department to do it,'' rangel said. ``that's not the normal way to do things. ... are we going to conduct foreign policy by indictment?''
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., called delvalle's action ``courageous.''
it is constitutional and it deserves the support of freedom-loving people throughout this hemisphere,'' kennedy said. ``there is no doubt about the wishes of the panamanian people: president delvalle must be supported and gen. noreiga must go.''
if gen. noreiga persists in power, he will become an outcast _ now and for all time _ in panama and throughout the world,'' kennedy said
sen. john kerry, d-mass., called the announcement ``very important news'' and said the united states should be prepared to help delvalle
i think we have a number of options,'' said kerry, chairman of a foreign relations subcommittee which held hearings earlier this month on noriega's involvement in drug trafficking
the first (option) for the congress of the united states to immediately move to a full economic embargo of the country. ... hopefully, the business community and others in panama who recognize the impossibility of surviving in that situation and noriega himself will find it impossible for him to govern.''
during a nationally broadcast news conference wednesday night, president reagan, when asked whether the united states would consider dropping the federal indictment if noriega stepped aside, replied:
no, and i'm not going to comment on something of this kind. this man has been indicted by a federal grand jury, and so i'm not going to make any comment of that kind. nor have we made any advances or suggestions of that kind to the government of panama.''
reagan said that ``what we would like to see is a return to democracy and a civilian government in panama, and not this domination by literally a military dictator.''
boredom, peer pressure and bad management create a climate for widespread drug and alcohol use by the nation's railroad workers, two crewmen involved in last year's fatal amtrak crash say
the former conrail workers told the senate commerce committee on thursday of co-workers who consumed as much as a case of beer a day, brought bottles of liquor to work, or used marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines and other drugs
overall, drinking was encouraged on the job, especially when i was hired on,'' said ricky l. gates, who was the engineer of the three connected conrail locomotives that on jan. 4, 1987, collided with a crowded amtrak passenger train
sixteen people were killed and 175 injured in the accident, the worst in amtrak history, which occurred in chase, md
gates, an admitted alcoholic, and brakeman edward w. cromwell have admitted to smoking marijuana in the locomotive cab shortly before the accident
gates was charged with 16 counts of manslaughter but was allowed to plead guilty to just one count in a plea agreement feb. 16
he faces sentencing march 29. cromwell, who testified separately, was prepared to testify in court against gates and was not charged in the disaster
the conrail engines went through a stop signal and into the path of the new york-bound amtrak train. the national transportation safety board has blamed the accident on marijuana use
gates told the panel that he believed 10 percent or 20 percent of rail workers drink or use drugs on duty. cromwell said the figure was more like 40 percent or 50 percent
the two men also said that when they began their railroad careers 14 years ago, as many as 80 percent of their fellow employees used drugs or alcohol during working hours
at times you may be sitting in a caboose for 12 hours without even a wheel turning,'' cromwell said. ``the boredom of the job together with the lack of concern from some supervisors makes it a common thing for some employees to drink or smoke marijuana while on duty.''
gates, 33, said that once ``years ago,'' he was forced to report to work even though he told the official who telephoned him that he was drunk. he said a friend had to drive him to work after he was told that if he did not report, he would be cited for refusin duty
unless a climate is created where it is acceptable to come forward and seek treatment, the employee assistance program (that some railroads have) will not work,'' gates said. ``that climate does not exist in the rail industry.''
daniel w. collins, assistant general secretary of the united transportation union, told the committee that perhaps 10 percent of rail workers on duty or subject to being called in to work are under the influence of drugs or alcohol
he said the estimates that 80 percent of workers used drugs or drank years ago have ``never been true in the history of the industry.''
spokeswoman carol perkins of the american association of railroads said in an interview that rail workers had the same percentage of alcohol or drug use as the rest of society
railroads have improved their policies and are more sensitive to the problem,'' perkins said
the senate has approved a bill that would require several types of drug and alcohol testing for railroad, airline, truck and bus industry workers. the house has yet to approve similar legislation
the most controversial types of testing are examinations of randomly chosen workers
supporters say it is the best way to deter drug and alcohol use. opponents _ led by labor unions and civil liberties groups _ say it could be abused by management officials out to get particular workers, and is an invasion of privacy
the government already has rules allowing some testing of rail workers, but not random tests
state lawmakers say they believe they will be able to approve a holiday to honor slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr. after the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham
i promised the (acting) governor (rose mofford) that after the trial's over that'll be one of the first things we'll try to do,'' senate government committee chairman john mawhinney said thursday
mecham, who rescinded the state's first king holiday in 1987, goes on trial monday in the senate on a 23-count impeachment, accused of concealing a campaign loan, misusing state funds and trying to thwart an investigation
acting gov. mofford supports a federal-style king holiday, and lawmakers narrowed their focus on thursday when the senate rejected a proposal to have voters decide whether to create a paid king holiday
the vote leaves untouched two other measures more acceptable to supporters of the holiday: a straight, federal-style holiday and a ``cafeteria bill'' that would late state workers pick a certain number of holidays froom a list
the state's republican-controlled legislature killed king holiday proposals for a number of years, citing the estimated $3 million cost of a paid holiday for state employees
then, democrat bruce babbitt, about to launch a presidential campaign, decided in 1986 to end his term as governor by bypassing the legislature and creating a paid king holiday through executive proclamation
mecham, babbitt's successor, promptly rescinded the order in 1987, citing an attorney general's advisory opinion that only lawmakers or voters _ not governors _ could declare such holidays
mecham's decision triggered international boycotts of the state by musicians and convention groups, and the house approved a federal-style king holiday last year, only to see the measure die in committee
house democrats and house republicans are offering different reasons for why a vote on the democratic plan to send $30.5 milllion in aid to the nicaraguan contras was postponed until next week
democrats say they wanted time to explain better how the package differs from a rival republican version. republicans sa the democrats feared the package would have lost if had been voted on thursday, as originally scheduled
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said he planned to bring the measure before the chamber for a vote next thursday, and both sides appeared likely to continue to fine-tune their aid packages to pick up votes
too many members have complained that they don't know what's in it,'' wright said thursday
the democratic version includes some $16 million in food, clothing, shelter and medical aid to the rebels fighting nicaragua's leftist sandinista government, and $14 million to set up a medical aid fund for children who are victims of that country's seven-year civil war
current aid to the rebels, which includes authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons and ammunition, ends feb. 29
but the house gop leader, robert michel of illinois, said the scheduled vote this week was postponed because democrats feared they would lose, the republican package would have been approved, ``and that would have aced out the speaker.''
the $36 million republican plan offered somewhat more aid to the rebels, included non-lethal military items like jeeps and radios, and adopted the democratic plan's call for a ``children's survival fund.''
but the primary difference between the two proposals lay in the conditions they set for the next showdown over a military aid proposal that both sides expect president reagan to offer later this year
democrats want to make any future military aid proposal contingent on a finding by the house intelligence committee sometime after june 1 that the two warring sides in nicaragua have not agreed to a cease-fire because the sandinistas did not make good-faith efforts
if such a determination is made, the new aid package would be designed and controlled by the house democratic leadership. there would be no guarantee that the package would be offered, or if it were, that the senate would be forced to act quickly on it
but the gop version would leave the determination of whether to offer a new aid proposal up to reagan, and would contain much stricter rules to make sure the package would be quickly acted on in both the house and the senate. the president could act anytime after april 15, under this version
rep. tony coelho of california, the chief house democratic vote counter, said failure by congress to pass some form of aid would increase pressure for a vote later in the year on more weapons for the contras
the nation's largest airports would have to install new security systems to screen the movements of airport and airline workers, under regulations the government is drafting, the secretary of transportation says
the secretary, james h. burnley iv, told congress on thursday that the proposed regulations should be ready ``reasonably quickly,'' and would take effect after allowing the airports time to install the equipment
under the new system, employees would carry magnetized identification cards similar to automatic teller cards. computer-controlled gates set up throughout the airports would admit only certain workers during specified hours, and could be programmed to bar admission to people who leave their airport jobs
you can de-program a person out, limiting access to certain areas,'' burnley told the senate transportation appropriations subcommittee
he did not mention a cost or say how many airports would be affected. a similar system is already in use at washington dulles international airport
last dec. 7, a fired usair employee boarded a pacific southwest airlines jet after flashing his expired identification card to airport security workers and shot his former boss and the plane's crew in flight. the aircraft, bound to san francisco from los angeles, crashed in central california, killing all 44 people on board
burnley said he ordered the faa to begin writing the new airport security rule before christmas
in other testimony, the secretary said the faa will not be able to meet the congressionally mandated level of 10,450 fully trained air traffic controllers by sept. 30. instead, he projects that 9,932 so-called full-performance level controllers will be at work at that date
he also said his agency is talking with the air force, which plans to reduce its work force because of budget constraints, about hiring air traffic controllers who lose jobs there
he also repeated the reagan administration's refusal to rehire any of the controllers fired after their 1980 strike, saying, ``they not only broke the law, they left the american people very much in the lurch.''
the government plans to have a total of 15,900 air traffic controllers at work by sept. 30, including trainees and supervisors. it usually takes three to four years for a newly hired controller to reach full-performance level
the pilot of an alaska airlines boeing 727 was forced to take evasive action and dive when an unidentified small aircraft passed 100 feet over the jetliner thursday night, officials said
i don't know the exact distance but it was close. he took evasive action. he dove to avoid collision,'' said lou cancelmi, spokesman for alaska airlines said from seattle, wash. ``the pilot took the plane down to get underneath it.''
the pilot filed a a near-collision report with the federal aviation administration following the 6:36 p.m. incident over this community 35 miles east of los angeles, said dick tornquist, an faa officer in los angeles
a pilot files a near-miss report when he fears his aircraft is in jeopardy,'' the faa official said
the incident occurred as the alaska airlines jetliner was departing ontario airport en route to seattle with 62 passengers and seven crew members aboard, cancelmi said
the boeing 727 was flying at 7,000 feet when the unidentified aircraft passed 100 feet overhead, cancelmi said
the plane landed safely in seattle and no injuries were reported, he added. issues</head>
justice department officials have been directed to ``polarize the debate'' on key legal questions this year including aids, which an internal memo says is ``not a civil rights or privacy issue.''
the document says issues such as aids and drugs should be discussed not as questions of individual rights but as ``public health or safety issues.''
the memo was sent monday to various justice department officials under the initials of william bradford reynolds, the counselor to attorney general edwin meese iii. reynolds also is assistant attorney general in charge of the civil rights division
we must polarize the debate,'' it says. ``we must not seek `consensus,' we must confront. of course, we must confront sensibly, in ways designed to win the debate and further our agenda.''
the memo was adopted from a document assembled several months ago by terry eastland, the department's director of public affairs, who said he wrote it to stimulate discussion on how to approach various justice department issues
the contents of the memo were disclosed in thursday editions of the baltimore sun and subsequently confirmed by eastland
the document recommends that the death penalty be defended as necessary for ``deterrence, retribution and incapacitation (i.e. decapitation).''
eastland said the department is not in favor of decapitation as a method of capital punishment, but that he used the word to make ``incapacitation'' seem ``less abstract and professorial.''
the memo says that ``aids is not a civil rights or privacy issue, but one of public health and safety'' and recommends that the department press lawsuits that seek to counter ``the privacy advocates who challenge aids testing.''
regarding obscenity, it says that the department ``must attack the idea that those trafficking'' in it ``have a right to practice their trade.'' it suggests that public health laws, building codes, and health and safety rules be used to attack obscenity, along with laws making sale of obscene items a crime
entitled ``a strategy for the remaining months,'' the document says the drug issue should be confronted by advocating a ``tough approach'' emphasizing strong law enforcement and drug testing, as opposed to ``the soft, easy way that emphasizes drug treatment and rehabilitation.''
the memo supports construction of more prisons instead of alternatives to imprisonment and says that ``to polarize the issue we must attack those by name (such as sen. paul simon) who take the other approach.'' simon is a democratic presidential candidate
george bush's characterization of republican presidential rival bob dole as a supporter of tax increases is unlikely to work as it did in new hampshire because dole is more vigilant now, political and economics analysts say
larry sabato, a university of virginia political scientist, said bush's new hampshire commercial depicting dole as straddling the tax issue succeeded only because the kansas senator ``chose not to respond to it.''
martin anderson, a domestic policy adviser during president reagan's first term, said the vice president damaged dole's chances in new hampshire with the ad raising doubts about the kansas senator's tax intentions. but anderson also said that dole did himself in by refusing to accept pete du pont's debate challenge to sign a no-tax pledge
economist barry bosworth of the liberal-oriented brookings institution said bush's accusations about dole are specious, but said the vice president adroitly played to an issue of great sensitivity to people worried about their pocketbooks
i think dole has learned from that (new hampshire loss) and you probably won't see this happen again,'' bosworth said in an interview
several economists and political analysts were asked whether bush would be able to campaign successfully in the ensuing months as an opponent of tax increases while characterizing dole as a tax-hike proponent
bush has no record. dole has a record which includes both revenue increases, in concert with the (reagan) administration, and deficit reduction,'' said bob mcintyre of the private group, citizens for tax justice
the question of whether bush will be able to score political points out of the tax issue arose in the wake of the vice president's successful use in new hampshire of a television commercial which raised doubts about dole's tax intentions
in the aftermath of his loss in new hampshire, dole acknowledged that he should have responded immediately to bush's ads. and on thursday, dole announced the departure from his campaign staff of consultants david keene and donald devine
a check of the republican presidential candidates' records shows that while bush succeeded in raising doubts in people's minds about dole's stance on taxes, neither man has a record of unqualified opposition to tax hikes
bush, last november, muted his disagreement with a deficit-reduction package in which president reagan and congressional leaders, including dole, signed a compact aimed at slashing the federal deficit by $76 billion over the next two years, in part with $22 billion in tax increases
bush seemed to dissent when he told a crowd in iowa that while he didn't like the tax hikes envisioned in the package, ``i'll support whatever compromise the president makes.''
bush had slipped a month earlier by launching his presidential campaign with an uncompromising pledge to not raises taxes, only to subsequently leave the door slightly ajar
in an oct. 15 interview on cable news network, bush backtracked from the oct. 12 houston promise
what i have said is, if i were convinced that all spending that could possibly be constrained or cut had taken place, then and only then would i consider a tax increase,'' he said. later the same day, when pressed for an explanation, bush replied, ``i'm not going to raise taxes, period.''
the dole campaign promises to perform some political ``truth squad'' work on bush's commercials during the balance of the campaign, and the bush camp continues to deny that it distorted the senator's position on taxes
but with both dole and bush, the record is full of inconsistencies regarding both general tax increases and the question of imposing an import fee on foreign oil
dole supported the sweeping reduction in tax rates in 1981, but helped enact a $98.3 billion tax hike a year later
during the 1980, bush labeled as ``voodoo economics'' reagan's pledge to restore u.s. military might while cutting taxes and balancing the budget. but the record shows no evidence of a bush dissent from tax increases that reagan has signed in the ensuing years
the record shows that dole supported various deficit-reduction tax hike proposals, including the $98.3 billion package, a $50.6 billion program in 1984 and the $22 billion in hikes contained in a plan reagan agreed to last nov. 20 in the wake of the wall street crash
bosworth said that in times of general economic prosperity, candidates for political office score big points by suggesting an opponent would raise taxes
i think dole has probably learned from this (loss in new hampshire),'' he said. ``it appears republicans voted for bush there because he appeared to be more adamant about not raising taxes than dole was.'' up</head>
senate conferees have stripped lamb import quotas and government payments of $365 million to sugar refiners from a proposed trade bill that lawmakers want to have ready for president reagan by easter
also abandoned thursday was a move to end favorable tariff treatment for romania because of the government's anti-jewish policies. critics said foreign policy issues should be kept out of trade bills
removal of those and other politically sensitive provisions represented a major step for the 1,000-page trade bill as lawmakers began to make the tough, long-delayed decisions needed to get it to the president's desk
the trimming was done in a response by senate finance committee conferees to their counterparts on the house ways and means committee. the house conferees on tuesday produced a wide-ranging proposal to iron out differences between the two rival versions of the bill they have passed
the lamb provision was the only product-specific quota in the legislation. sponsored by sen. max baucus, d-mont., it would have clamped on a quota if imports surged over 110 percent of a formula level based on multiyear averages
the house panel moved earlier to drop the lamb provision, which was contained only in the senate bill
the sugar provision would have meant $365 million in payments to sugar refining companies, mainly to three giants of the industry: amstar sugar corp., imperial sugar co. and savannah food and industries inc
under current law, companies may obtain refunds known as drawbacks on any duties they paid on products they imported as long as the products were re-exported within five years of the original imports
the provision, which was in both versions, would have extended the rules to enable refiners who claim drawbacks on cane sugar imported as early as november 1977
critics said customs records were lacking and there would be a problem with customs fraud. proponents said the measure was a refund that would cost taxpayers little and help maintain sugar industry jobs
this shows that we want a very positive, strong trade bill that opens markets but is in no way protectionist,'' senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said thursday
no fewer than 17 joint committees are negotiating over scores of issues contained in the complex bill, which has been three years in the making. it represents a response to huge trade deficits and joblessness at home caused by competition from imports
the measure aims at streamlining the machinery under which the united states retaliates against unfair practices by trading partners and imposes curbs on imported goods that threaten to injure american industry
among the multitude of issues yet to be resolved is the house-passed gephardt amendment, which would require 10 percent annual rollbacks in ``excess and unwarranted'' japanese surpluses in trade with this country
lawmakers are indicating they may wait to tackle that issue until after the march 8 ``super tuesday'' primaries in which the sponsor, rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., is campaigning for the democratic presidential nomination
house ways and means committee chairman dan rostenkowski, d-illinois, has been saying that gephardt will be among the negotiators when a compromise is reached with the senate, which did not include such a measure in its version
the senate panel's response varied little from what the house outlined in its proposal tuesday
it moved to strike from the bill provisions to step up enforcement of customs fraud laws, which critics called unworkable. it went the house one further in eliminating its own proposal to give private citizens the right to file lawsuits against unfair foreign trade practices
i am impressed with the senate counteroffer,'' rostenkowski said in a statement. ``the house made some painful decisions to drop special interest items in favor of a national trade policy. the senate has upped the ante on that approach.''
u.s. officials will visit portugal next week to talk about giving the portuguese surplus american military equipment as a means of offsetting budget cuts in military aid, the state department says
gen. charles brown, chief of the defense security assistance agency, will head the delegation leaving next monday for portugal to talk about what kind of military equipment the united states could provide
the united states has suggested giving portugal surplus equipment to make up for budget cuts that have forced a reduction in aid below levels promised under a 1983 agreement allowing the u.s. military to use bases in portugal
the announcement thursday came a day after portuguese prime minister anibal cavaco silva met with president reagan to complain about the lower aid levels and call for a formal review of the bases agreement
portugal wants the military bases to continue,'' cavaco silva reiterated in a speech on thursday to the national press club, ``and we don't want to reduce the american facilities in portugal.''
our decision is a result of difference in interpretation of our mutual agreement, and we don't want that this point of friction will continue until 1991,'' he said. ``that is the end of this agreement.''
the agreement, an extension of an original pact stemming from 1951, ``is out of date,'' cavaco silva said
state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said u.s. officials were pleased that cavaco silva didn't want a reduction in american military presence in portugal, unlike the insistence of neigboring spanish officials that the united states remove f-16s that had been based in spain
young families with children have suffered the most dramatic income drop since 1970 of any family group in america, while the elderly have seen the sharpest rise, according to a new congressional analysis
the study of family income trends by the congressional budget office found that median income for families with children, in which the head of household was under 25, plummeted 43 percent from 1970 to 1986
for those over 65, including people living alone, income went up more than 50 percent
a republican senator and a democratic congressman independently requested the non-partisan cbo to do a study of family income trends, and each offered his own interpretation of the analysis released thursday
sen. pete domenici, r-n.m., stressed the encouraging cbo finding that overall, american family income has risen 20 percent since 1970. rep. george miller, d-calif., pointed to the plight of low-income families with children
miller also cited cbo's finding that many families increased their incomes over the 16-year period not through higher wages but by adding another wage-earner to the workforce, and with that wage-earner such added costs as child care and commuting
in many families, both parents must now work to maintain the standard of living, which results in increased costs as well as increased income,'' said miller, chairman of the house select committee on children, youth and families
cbo said that the elderly as a group were least buffeted by the swings of the economy, and that rises in their income were due primarily to higher social security payments
among the findings:
_while family income for the elderly grew more than 50 percent, it grew only 26 percent for married couples with children and only 2 percent for single mothers with children. for families head by someone under 25, including those without children, income dropped 20 percent
_income fell 13 percent for low-income single mothers with children, with 20 percent of such families having less than half the cash income needed to live at the poverty level in 1986
_income rose 12 percent to 37 percent for all families with at least one full-time, year-round worker. for families with children and no such worker, it fell 10 percent
domenici, senior republican on the senate budget committee and a member of the national economic commission, said he was not surprised by the negative trends among young and single-parent families. he said any deficit-reduction recommendations would be screened for their impact on those households
however, domenici said cbo might have found more encouraging trends among such families if it had taken into account such non-cash programs as food stamps and the 1986 tax law that took millions of low-income families off the tax rolls
cbo said a lack of family-level data prevented it from including non-cash programs in its analysis. the agency gave similar reasons for not taking into account pre-1981 tax hikes, which reduced disposable income, and said it was impossible to project the net effect of either omission
lawyers for attorney general edwin meese iii say he knew nothing about a plan to use pentagon money to give israel payments to protect a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project
the plan was being promoted by meese's longtime friend, e. robert wallach. wallach's attorney, george g. walker, confirmed the contents of two messages in december 1985 sent by wallach to swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the proposed iraqi project. one contains a reference to meese
wallach was rappaport's attorney
the washington post, which on thursday disclosed the existence of the proposal to use pentagon money, said the december 1985 messages plus another wallach-to-rappaport telex on feb. 3, 1986 show that meese supported the plan and that the late william casey, then cia director, endorsed it
abc news, quoting anonymous sources, reported that under the plan israel would have gotten $400 million in u.s. military aid over four years. the money was to be set aside in a special bank account as construction of the pipeline began, the network said
the attorney general was not involved in any plans to utilize defense department funds for the project, gave no `assurances' about any such plan, and arranged no meeting for that purpose,'' said a statement by nathan lewin, one of meese's lawyers
the attorney general has no recollection of anything being said to him about any such plan,'' lewin added in an interview
meese's involvement with the pipeline project is under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay, who is trying to determine whether the attorney general may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act
that act makes it illegal for u.s. citizens, companies or their agents to offer foreign officials ``anything of value'' to influence them and makes the attorney general responsible for filing civil suits to block such payments
federal investigators also are looking at wallach's failure to register as a foreign agent, the washington times reported today. the newspaper quoted justice department officials, who were not identified, as saying the issue could raise conflict-of-interest problems for meese
it said that when wallach went to work as a paid lobbyist for rappaport, he also was acting as an unpaid personal attorney to meese during his confirmation hearings as attorney general
a dec. 16, 1985, message from wallach to rappaport says that ``i have assurance from my friend that if necessary, he will engage new person on project.'' wallach usually called meese ``my friend.''
but walker said that rather than being a reference to meese, the ``he'' referred to in that portion of the telex is someone else, probably national security staff aide david wigg, who would explain the pipeline project in general terms to the new national security adviser, john poindexter. poindexter had taken over the post from robert mcfarlane on dec. 4, 1985
walker said that in 1985, nsc aide wigg came up with the idea of using pentagon money to make payments to israel to ensure that the israelis would not attack the pipeline
wallach sent a dec. 12, 1985 telegram to rappaport relating that wigg was attempting to determine whether or not pentagon financing for the payments could be provided
wallach said ``the capital dod (department of defense) package'' was to be submitted that day by wigg to mcfarlane, who was wrapping up his government employment
on dec. 16, wallach reported in a message to rappaport that at a meeting that day with casey, who was a friend of rappaport's, wigg and wallach reviewed documents relating to the pentagon budget plan
wallach said that casey ``approved the concept with expression as to it being unique in his experience.'' walker said the language stops short of saying casey endorses the plan, and is simply expressing a view about the unique nature of the payment plan
in a feb. 3, 1986 message obtained by the post, wallach tells rappaport meese will contact poindexter to arrange a meeting for wallach, ``if it is necessary to obtain signature of his (poindexter's) superior.''
lewin said meese has no recollection of arranging a meeting for wallach with poindexter nor does he recall being asked to do so. walker said he didn't have a copy of the feb. 3 message and that wallach didn't remember sending one
lewin's statement said meese ``stands by'' a statement he made feb. 1 that ``the sum and substance'' of his involvement with the iraqi pipeline project consisted of referring wallach to mcfarlane in may 1985, referring then-israeli prime minister shimon peres to mcfarlane in october 1985 and discussing the pipeline briefly with peres
the only other involvement, meese said, was having the justice department office of legal counsel consider a request in october 1985 on the legality of using u.s. aid money to israel to help protect the pipeline from israeli attack
a sept. 25, 1985 memo from wallach to meese says that a portion of up to $700 million that would go to israel from the pipeline would be funneled to the israeli labor party
vice president george bush holds a strong lead over his gop rivals among likely south carolina voters, a poll published by the charlotte observer indicated today
coming three days before march 8, super tuesday, when 20 states hold primaries and caucuses, the south carolina primary has assumed strategic importance in the gop sweepstakes, despite its prize of only 37 delegates
the poll indicated bush had the support of 41 percent of those who said they're likely to vote in the south carolina gop primary. trailing were sen. bob dole with 29 percent, former television evangelist pat robertson, 13 percent, and rep. jack kemp of new york, 4 percent. twelve percent were undecided
the poll also indicated bush had the support of most of the younger voters: 61 percent of those 18-24 backed the vice president, as did 45 percent of those from 25-34. but so did 45 percent of those over 65
however, 45 percent of the likely voters _ and 47 percent of republicans _ said they see little difference between bush and dole
the telephone poll, conducted by the market research division of the newspaper, surveyed 687 registered voters who indicated they're likely to participate in the primary. the margin of error was 3.7 percentage points
meanwhile, a third of those polled said the controversy surrounding television evengelist jimmy swaggart has hurt robertson
and robertson, who is counting on support from democrats eligible to vote in the state's ``open'' gop primary, was trailing dole and bush among democratic voters
half the voters said they would feel uncomfortable with a television evangelist as president. and nearly a third said robertson would be hurt by the swaggart affair. but 56 said they didn't believe it would affect robertson
one of the country's most popular tv evangelists, swaggart stepped down this week after allegations that he had been with a new orleans prostitute
this week, robertson lashed out at bush, suggesting that the vice president's campaign had something to do with the timing of the swaggart revelations _ an implication bush called absurd
at the same time, dole was winning the endorsement of _ and stumping the state with _ the state's most revered republican, sen. strom thurmond
after indications that dole would downplay the state, bush supporters say thurmond's backing has raised his stakes. buses</head>
some 4,700 teen-agers will be ousted from the drivers' seats of school buses in north carolina and south carolina under a ruling issued by the labor department
the department, in an effort to crack down on enforcement of child labor laws, announced thursday that 17-year-olds must stop driving school buses in those states after april 1, said department spokesman bob zachariasiewicz
for the past two decades, the department had granted both states annual exemptions from the child labor laws that enabled them to hire the youths
the decision to end the exemptions reflected a failure of the states to comply with more stringent conditions imposed in december on the employment of 17-year-olds, the department said in a statement
in january, a 4-year-old west columbia, s.c., boy was run over and killed by a 17-year-old bus driver who had a previous speeding ticket. no charges were filed against the driver due to confusion over whether he could have seen the child
deputy secretary of labor dennis whitfield informed the two states' governors of the decision thursday
officials from the two states expressed dismay at the ruling
if this in fact comes to pass, it would cause north carolina some very big problems, and we hope the department of labor will send us some bus drivers to go with their order,'' said jim sughrue, a spokesman for gov. jim martin
south carolina gov. carroll campbell said he ``deeply regret(s) the department of labor has seen fit to withdraw south carolina's exemption of 17-year-old bus drivers prior to the end of the school year
but the department's findings that certain school districts were ignoring its guidelines did not help south carolina's position in this matter,'' the governor added
south carolina has 6,000 school bus drivers, of whom 1,200 are 17 years old, said charlie williams, the south carolina superintendent of education. a total of 1,000 young drivers had been fired by december because of bad driving records
north carolina has 13,000 drivers, of whom 3,500 are 17, zachariasiewicz said. in the 1986-87 school year, there were 14,350 drivers, of whom 5,000 were 16 and 17 years old
the department banned school bus driving by 16-year-olds in december, he said
employment of any drivers under 18 after april 1 would result in assessment of monetary penalties and possible court action, the department said
when the states applied for exemptions for the 1987-88 school year, they were instead given extensions until dec. 31, 1987, while they supplied additional data, zachariasiewicz said
in december, the department extended the exemptions through the 1987-88 school year, but three conditions were imposed for the use of 17-year-old drivers: they had to have been trained and started driving school buses on or before aug. 31, 1987; they could not have received a ticket for a moving violation or been involved in an accident for which they were responsible _ in a car or a bus _ during the 1986-87 school year; and they had to be students or high school graduates
investigations by the department of how the states followed these criteria ``revealed widespread non-compliance, particularly employment of 17-year-olds with moving violations on their driving records as student school bus drivers,'' the department statement said
in south carolina, in 14 of 15 school districts investigated, the department found approximately 200 instances of non-compliance,'' the statement said
north carolina had received exemptions since 1967 while south carolina had received them since 1968. opening, sted unchanged for the week. pickup 2nd graf pvs ``the dollar's...''</note>
stock prices closed higher on the tokyo stock exchange friday, with the market's key index posting its 12th consecutive gain, while the u.s. dollar ended the week at 128.35 yen, unchanged from its opening
the dollar's close was 0.45 yen lower than thursday's closing level of 128.80 yen
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues ended the day at 25,165.18, up 64.52 points or 0.25 percent
currency traders attributed the dollar's opening weakness to disappointment that the revised u.s. fourth-quarter gross national product statistics released thursday didn't exceed 5 percent, as some had hoped. the commerce department said the revised growth rate was 4.5 percent
at a press conference friday in tokyo, finance minister kiichi miyazawa said intervention by central banks was not necessary at this time since yen-dollar exchange rates were stable. his remarks appeared to have little influence in the currency market
the tokyo stock exchange's key index rose today for the 12th consecutive trading day, while the dollar declined against the yen to end the week at 128.35 yen
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues rose 64.52 points, or 0.25 percent, in active trading to finish the day at 25,165.18
the investment environment is better now than before because of declining interest rates and the relatively stable market in new york,'' said a senior researcher at nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage, who spoke on condition of anonymity
analysts also said many japanese companies were revising their forecasts for march because of better business performance
on the foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at 128.35 yen, unchanged from its opening level but down from its 128.80-yen closing thursday. spot turnover totaled $4.5 billion
finance minister kiichi miyazawa told a news conference today that intervention by central banks was not necessary at the present time because of stable yen-dollar exchange rates
the reagan administration is welcoming reports from moscow that a strategic arms agreement could be ready for signing at a may summit, but says it is doubtful such a timetable could be met
we welcome it, if it means the soviets are going to work at the negotiations just as hard as we will,'' an administration official said thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity
and reagan, in an interview thursday with the washington post, expressed hope it could be signed by the end of the year although ``the time is too limited'' to complete work on the treaty by the summit
a senior soviet official in moscow also said thursday he expected a treaty to reduce the superpowers' long-range nuclear weapons stockpile would be ready for signing at the summit meeting, the post said
the official, who was not identified, talked to about 20 foreign reporters at a two-hour meeting. the post was uninvited but said it obtained its account from other reporters
the official also said that reagan will stay in the kremlin during the visit, which should last for about a week and could include other cities besides moscow, according to the account in today's post
the administration is known to completely discount the speculation that reagan would stay in the kremlin
according to administration officials, reagan's expected trip to moscow is likely to mirror in length and style the four-day visit to washington last december by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
the officials said thursday that no dates have been fixed for the president's trip, but that tentative plans continue to be that it will fall sometime from mid- to late-may to early june
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters this week he did not expect a summit date to be set until soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze meets in washington late next month with secretary of state george shultz, who just returned from moscow
gorbachev's visit was confined to washington. in a strict observance of the rule of reciprocity, reagan is expected to remain in moscow
the new york times, in an account of the briefing published in today's editions, said the official indicated the soviet union might drop a key objection to the u.s. development of a space-based missile defense system by permitting the testing of components in space
the discovery of a synthetic peptide that triggers antibodies to neutralize the aids virus in rabbits may eventually help in combating the fatal disease in humans, a chicago researcher says
mark gurney, an assistant professor at the university of chicago, said thursday that the peptides he synthesized imitate part of the hiv virus. the hiv is the virus that causes aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome
the potential is that you could use a peptide to elicit ... the same type of antibodies in man and these would then attack the virus,'' gurney said
peptides are compounds of amino acids, and the ones that gurney made were identical in some ways to a portion of the envelope that surrounds the human immune virus
in the experiments, researchers put the peptides into laboratory rabbits. the immune system of the rabbits produced three antibodies against the peptides
researchers then exposed these antibodies to several strains of the hiv virus in test tubes, and gurney said the hiv virus was neutralized, or prevented from spreading to other cells
the experiment used a peptide that was a chemical mimic of a portion of the hiv envelope that remains unchanged, gurney said. other parts of the virus change frequently
this unchanging portion of the hiv virus does not elicit an antibody response when it is attached to the whole virus for reasons that scientists do not understand, said gurney
he said peptide-antibody response is not well understood now and that experiments in the past have shown that synthetic peptides can trigger undesirable antibodies, only a small number of which will attack the target
until this process is further refined, he said, peptides will not be useful against aids
he said the researchers also are unable to determine precisely how the antibodies created by using the peptide are able to neutralize aids in the test tube
gurney worked on the experiment with david d. ho of the cedars-sinai medical center in los angeles, joan c. kaplan of massachusetts general hospital in boston, and indre e. rackauskas of the university of chicago
a report on the research appears today in science, the journal of the american association for the advancement of science
aids kills by destroying a key part of the human immune system, leaving the body open to infections. aids is spread principally through sexual contact, but also by the shared needles of drug abusers and the use of contaminated blood products in transfusions. infected mothers may also pass the aids virus to their babies while giving birth
as of feb. 15, aids had been diagnosed in 53,814 americans, of whom more than half, or 30,158, have died since 1981, according to the federal centers for disease control. no one is known to have recovered from aids
rock superstar bruce springsteen walked onstage, threw a bouquet of roses into the crowd, stepped up to a microphone and yelled, ``ready for a date?''
nearly 13,000 people, most standing as they would throughout the concert, roared back that they were
springsteen and his 12-piece e street band then went to work, and the boss' nationwide ``tunnel of love'' tour _ his first in nearly 2{ years _ got under way thursday night at the worcester centrum
i'm excited,'' said cynthia swienton of simsbury, conn., standing up in her seat 12 rows from the back of the auditorium. she and her companion, john smedick of torrington, conn., paid $300 for their two tickets
although the concert was sold out, hundreds of people milled around outside before the show began, hoping to buy tickets
according to the worcester telegram newspaper, ticket scalpers' prices were generally between $150 to $225 a ticket, but one unidentified person said he was offered a ticket for $750. tickets were $20 each when first went on sale
ticket scalping is illegal in massachusetts
the crowd was generally orderly outside the centrum, said police lt. paul f. campbell. he said there were a few arrests for unarmed robbery of concert tickets and one man was charged with being a disorderly person after he allegedly spit in the face of a television camerman
police sgt. john r. harrington also said two men, one wielding a crowbar, were arrested for robbing four teen-agers of their tickets before the show began
several celebrities were among the 12,800 people attending the show, including basketball star kevin mchale of the boston celtics and miami steve van zandt, springsteen's lead guitar player until 1981
a lot of the guys (celtics) like springsteen,'' mchale said, taking time to sign autographs while sitting in a middle section of the auditorium. ``the '84 tour, they seemed to be touring a lot of cities that we were playing in. we'd play on one night, they'd come to our game; we'd go to the concert next night. it worked real nice.''
dressed in tight black jeans, black boots, vest and a white shirt buttoned to the neck, springsteen later took off the shirt to reveal a black t-shirt, and his hair was lathered with sweat 3 hours and 25 minutes later
do you want me to get a heart attack? on the first night?'' he asked the crowd before he and the band did a 15-minute encore of such rock favorites as ``devil with a blue dress on,'' ``good golly miss molly'' and ``cc rider.''
he opened the show with ``tunnel of love.''
springsteen, 38, will perform again sunday and monday in worcester before the tour moves on to chapel hill, n.c
although he will have all the functions of president, under panama's constitution solis palma, 71, will have the title minister in charge of the presidency of the republic rather than president
he will fill out the current presidential term, which ends in october 1989. elections are scheduled for may 1989
according to the constitution, selection of a new chief executive goes to the cabinet and the title is changed because the country no longer has a vice president
delvalle was first elected vice president on a ticket with president nicolas ardito barletta and assumed the presidency when ardito barletta stepped down after 11 months in power
panama has been rocked by protests since june, when noriega's recently retired second in command publicly charged the general with illicit activities ranging from drug trafficking to electoral fraud and the assassination of a political opponent
a flight of money from panama followed
today the country is virtually at siege economically by external pressures and tensions,'' delvalle told the nation thursday. ``i have to consider with sadness that many of the successes that had been obtained are vanishing in the past eight months.''
the defense forces have about 15,000 soldiers and police under their command in this nation of 2.2 million people
relations between the united states and panama have deteriorated since the anti-noriega demonstrations broke out last summer
noriega has demanded removal of the southern command, which the pentagon and the white house have rejected, saying american troops are legally in panama and will remain there to protect the canal until it is handed over to panama on dec. 31, 1999
noriega later said he was referring only to the headquarters unit responsible for u.s. strategic military planning. american military sources said that would involve the removal of only about 300 officers and men
during his birthday speech this month, noriega received an ovation when he declared: ``if they want me out, they'll have to kill me.''
the reagan administration looks upon noriega as the main obstacle in its goal of an eventual transition in panama to a truly civilian government
delvalle assumed the presidency in 1985 under circumstances which strongly suggested that noriega forced the ouster of delvalle's predecessor
it was a constitutional succession, but delvalle has been widely perceived as no more than panama's titular head
noriega has maintained that executive authority rests with delvalle and that panama has achieved a full transition to democracy. he says his u.s. critics are campaigning against him with the aim of annulling the panama canal treaties, under which the waterway reverts to panamanian control
u.s. officials said wednesday that delvalle's extensive business interests and family could be threatened if he were to break with noriega. in addition, delvalle's health is said to be tenuous because of a heart operation
however, they said delvalle was increasingly disturbed by his ties to noriega
noriega entered the panamanian national guard in 1962 as a lieutenant after attending a military college in peru on a scholarship. he quickly became acquainted with a rising young officer named omar torrijos
torrijos took power in panama in a 1968 coup. less than a year later he named noriega, then an obscure major in northernmost panama, as his chief of intelligence with the rank of lieutenant colonel
the job put noriega in touch with u.s. intelligence agencies concerned over any potential threats to the panama canal
when torrijos died in an unexplained airplane crash in 1981, noriega began shouldering his way to the top command. he took power in 1983
on an official salary of $60,000 a year, noriega lives in a two-story, colonial-style mansion in an exclusive district of panama city and maintains a fleet of expensive cars. he is reported to own at least a dozen properties, including an apartment in paris and a chateau in the south of france
isolated snow showers lingered in the northeast today and a few light rain showers dampened northern california, but fair weather prevailed across the nation
a weak storm moving across lake ontario was expected to drop 3 to 6 inches of snow on new york state east of the lake, and a snow squall warning was in effect
clouds extended from california to texas and over washington state and oregon. partly cloudy skies prevailed from the great lakes to the middle and northern atlantic coast
today's forecast called for scattered snow showers across eastern upper michigan, the eastern great lakes and upper ohio valley; rain showers over the southern pacific coast and mild weather for most of the nation, with mostly sunny or partly cloudy skies
high temperatures were expected to be in the 50s or 60s across much of the country; the 20s from northern sections of the great lakes through northern and central new england; the 30s and 40s from the eastern dakotas and upper mississippi valley into the ohio valley and the mid-atlantic region; the 70s across southern california and from southern and eastern texas into oklahoma and southwest kansas; and around 80 degrees across the desert southwest
the high for the nation thursday was 88 degrees at palm springs, calif. temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 4 degrees at montpelier, vt., to 68 degrees at phoenix, ariz
other reports:
_east: atlanta 31 fair; boston 24 fair; buffalo 20 fair; charleston, s.c. 37 fair; cincinnati 15 fair; cleveland 22 partly cloudy; detroit 17 fair; miami 52 fair; new york 25 fair; philadelphia 24 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 18 snow; portland, maine 20 partly cloudy; washington 28 partly cloudy
_central: bismarck 35 fair; chicago 22 fair; dallas-fort worth 48 fair; denver 34 fair; des moines 34 fair; indianapolis 20 fair; kansas city 32 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 32 fair; nashville 24 fair; new orleans 47 fair; st. louis 30 fair
_west: albuquerque 50 cloudy; anchorage 37 windy; las vegas 52 partly cloudy; los angeles 61 partly cloudy; phoenix 67 cloudy; salt lake city 31 fair; san diego 58 hazy; san francisco 55 foggy; seattle 45 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 19 partly cloudy; toronto 18 snow. life'</head>
actor jimmy stewart drew cheers and tears at a ceremony honoring him for what first lady nancy reagan described as his ``wonderful life.''
your own story could be an entire museum,'' mrs. reagan told stewart and about 1,000 stewart fans at the thursday night ceremony sponsored by the american museum of the moving image, the nation's first large-scale film and television museum, scheduled to open here in may
the first lady also revealed that she developed a crush on stewart after he visited her family in california and entertained them with his guitar
in my teen-age years i had a huge crush on jimmy,'' she said. ``for a 16-year-old to have jimmy stewart for a weekend was too much. i was overcome. i was gone. you know that crush has grown into a real love
i have a twinge of jealousy for those who had the honor to perform with him,'' the former actress added
colleagues such as kirk douglas, richard dreyfuss, brooke shields and janet leigh spoke about how stewart had become as much a source of inspiration as his movies, which include ``it's a wonderful life,'' ``the spirit of st. louis'' and ``mr. smith goes to washington.''
i doubt you know who you really and truly are mr. stewart,'' dreyfuss said. ``you have taught and trained me as an actor. you have inspired me as a storyteller and you have come to personify a part of this nation, to symbolize the american man who is gentle, ironic, self-depreciating, tough and emotional.''
douglas drew chuckles from the audience at the waldorf-astoria hotel ballroom when he said he was in awe of the 79-year-old man who has ``been an inspiration to all of us young actors.''
stewart spoke briefly, praising the museum
i'm really astounded at what all of you have done here to create and bring to reality all you have done in the american museum of the moving image,'' said stewart, whose wife, gloria, and two daughters also attended
the $11.4 million museum will feature exhibits that explore the art, history and technology of all moving image media
the most moving part of the evening occurred when the audience was shown a segment from ``the tonight show'' in which stewart read a poem about his dog bo
although the poem began with comical recollections of the dog, it ended with a tearful stewart describing how the dog died and how he missed having it beside him
miss shields, who was choked up as she started to speak after watching the film clip from the podium, told the audience she too had a dog named bo
u.s. rep. james a. traficant jr., whose avowed campaign for the democratic presidential nomination has yet to take shape, has failed to make the ballot in two more ohio congressional districts
the problems disclosed thursday brought to four the number of ohio districts in which traficant's name will not be on the ballot. ohio has 21 congressional districts
in the sprawling 6th district of southern ohio, traficant needed 150 signatures, and 159 were submitted. every signature was ruled invalid, said nancy stapleton, director of the warren county board of elections
elections officials in the 2nd district in suburban cincinnati said thursday that traficant did not meet petition requirements there, either. traficant already was off the ballot in two other districts
supporters of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis filed petitions containing more than four times the number of signatures needed to get on the april 19 new york presidential primary ballot
thursday was deadline day for the democratic candidates at the state board of elections and, in addition to dukakis, supporters of tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and illinois sen. paul simon also filed petitions to get their candidates spots on new york's statewide ballot
supporters of jesse jackson and missouri rep. richard gephardt had filed earlier in the week
the only one of the six major democratic candidates not to make the board's 5 p.m. deadline for in-person filing, was former colorado sen. gary hart. new york campaign aides were shooting for the midnight thursday deadline for getting a postmark on their petitions
education secretary william j. bennett responded with a stern ``no'' to a columnist's request that cabinet officers rate vice president george bush as to his presidential timber
bennett took umbrage at a request from dale van atta, co-author of the jack anderson column, who sought the impressions of all 34 present and former reagan cabinet members who have served with bush
calling bush ``a mystery to the voters,'' the columnist asked for instances where bush influenced policy decisions or actions, and warned that a failure to reply ``may send a negative message about mr. bush.''
bennett's wrote back that it was ``nonsense'' to call bush a mystery to the voters. he also said he would not violate the confidentiality of cabinet discussions, or ``the president's injunction to all his cabinet members to stay neutral in the presidential race.''
the democratic presidential race in texas is a tight contest, while the republican field still is dominated by vice president george bush, according to a new poll
the poll, conducted for the dallas morning news and the houston chronicle and published thursday, showed jesse jackson with 19 percent, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 18 percent, rep. richard gephardt with 15 percent and sen. albert gore jr. with 12 percent of the vote in the texas democratic primary. gary hart had 6 percent and paul simon had 5 percent, while 24 percent were unsure
bush had 60 percent of the support in the texas gop primary, according to the poll. his closest competitor was sen. bob dole, with 15 percent
the poll, conducted by the university of houston's center for public policy, had a margin of error 6 percentage points. it surveyed 294 likely gop voters and 301 likely democratic voters
former ku klux klan leader david duke, a democratic presidential candidate, wants to speak to the oklahoma senate but senate president pro tempore bob cullison doubts duke will get the chance
democrat cullison said a man identifying himself as a representative of duke, one of 12 democrats on the oklahoma primary ballot, came to his office this week and asked if the candidate could address the senate next week
the senate leader said he told the man duke could talk if he could get a senate sponsor and there were no objections
cullison said senate rules require unanimous consent requests before a non-senator can address the legislative body. he said such requests are routinely approved, but he did not think that would be the case for duke
michael dukakis, richard gephardt and jesse jackson had substantial leads over albert gore in florida, according to a mason-dixon opinion research poll conducted for florida news organizations
the poll released thursday showed that 23 percent of the democrats questioned were undecided. dukakis had 23 percent, gephardt 18 percent, jackson 17 percent and gore trailed at 10 percent. gary hart was back at 6 percent, and paul simon had 3 percent
on the republican side, george bush had a huge lead over his challengers in florida at 47 percent. bob dole had 20 percent, while pat robertson had 10 percent. jack kemp was at the back with 3 percent, and 20 percent of florida republicans questioned were undecided
the poll was based on random telephone surveys feb. 19-21 of 843 likely florida voters. the poll was considered accurate within plus or minus 4.4 percentage points for democrats and 5.4 percentage points for republicans
share prices fell in early trading on the london stock exchange today after thursday's drop on wall street
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was down 8.8 points at 1,773.6 at 9:45 a.m
when the market officially opened at 9 a.m., the index was down 1.3 points at 1,781.1
dealers said prices started to recover near the official opening on continued confidence in the british economy, but fell back shortly afterwards
the early trend followed losses in new york thursday, where the dow jones industrial average fell 22.38 to 2,017.57, and gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 64.52 to 25,165.18. assembly building, sted of presidential palace as sent. picks up 3rd pvs, `delvalle said...'</note>
education minister manuel solis palma was sworn in as panama's new chief of state early friday to replace president eric arturo delvalle, removed from office after he ordered the country's military strongman to step down
legislative assembly president alberto aleman boyd administered the oath of office to palma solis at the assembly building shortly before 4 a.m. est
delvalle said he rejected his removal, which came after the military challenged his order dismissing noriega and the man named as new chief of the defense forces refused to take the job
noriega, who is under u.s. indictment as a drug trafficker, is regarded as the real power behind the civilian government in panama, headquarters for u.s. military operations in latin america
opposition lawmakers did not attend the 10-minute emergency legislative session during which delvalle and vice president roderick esquivel were removed from office. the actions were by unanimous vote of the 38 members of the 67-seat assembly in attendance
the cabinet, which delvalle said he fired today, then named solis palma chief of state to complete delvalle's term. elections are scheduled for may 1989
at his home, delvalle said he fired all 12 cabinet members and called the resolution ``something legally despicable that only fulfills a formality in the mind of those who want to grasp power at any cost
they will not receive acceptance from any country that takes pride in being democratic, '' delvalle said
in washington, white house spokesman bob hall said the white house would have no comment until morning. an official at the state department also had no immediate comment
the national democratic union, which backs the military, holds 45 seats in the assembly. the rest are held by the democratic alliance of the opposition, none of whose members attended the session
in its resolution, the assembly said delvalle did not follow constitutional procedures and laws of the defense forces in removing noriega
in addition, it said, in announcing his decision, delvalle mentioned the u.s. charges against noriega, showing that ``this conduct of the president occurs with the object of permitting the intervention of the government of the united states in the internal affairs of panama.''
it said delvalle's action damaged national sovereignty and endangered the peace and security of the country, also violating the constitution
it said esquivel had abandoned his post sept. 8, 1987, in violation of the constitution
there was no immediate comment from noriega, who has said he is innocent of all charges against him
delvalle said earlier that col. marcos justines, the chief of staff, would replace noriega as head of the defense forces. thursday night, justines said, ``i reject that order.''
the police chief for the defense forces, flanked by colonels and lieutenant colonels at the forces' central garrison, told panamanian tv no officer would replace noriega
he (delvalle) is going first,'' col. leonidas macias said
none of us wants the (panamanian military) command, the commander stays, and we all stay. the president goes.''
justines, also at the garrison, told television reporters: ``we have been conversing with him (delvalle) constantly, and he knows that our position has been that there is too much american interference in this panamanian affair.''
we are not here denying or refusing this post because it's not our place, because we have a commander _ commander noriega,'' justines added
the government's radio nacional called panamanians to a thursday night rally supporting noriega at a downtown park near the national palace, but apparently few people responded. downtown streets were nearly empty
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater had issued a statement in washington thursday saying,``we understand that president delvalle today dismissed gen. noriega from his position as commander of the panama defense forces.''
at this time, we want to reiterate our unqualified support for civilian constitutional rule in panama.''
washington called for noriega's resignation after u.s. grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., indicted him and others on drug trafficking charges feb. 5
the indictments accuse noriega of using his military position to let colombian drug traffickers use panama as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states. the charges said noriega received a healthy kickback from drug profits
the military command late thursday ordered closure of channel 5 television station, owned by delvalle, said an employee who spoke on condition of anonymity for security reasons
the opposition daily la prensa also was closed by military order, according to its news editor, alfredo jimenez. he said an army officer arrived at the newspaper offices at 7:30 p.m. and ``told me we had 10 minutes to vacate the building.''
pentagon spokeswoman capt. nancy laluntas said in washington that the u.s. southern command in panama received reports of scattered demonstrations in and around panama city. she said the command issued a ``bravo'' alert, which orders american military personnel and dependents to ``decrease their visibility.''
the command, initially created to protect the panama canal, has become the center for u.s. military operations in latin america from fighting rebels to drug smugglers. there are 10,000 u.s. soldiers and 20,000 dependents here
delvalle said in a nationally broadcast message thursday that he asked noriega days ago to step down voluntarily so an investigation could begin of charges that he engaged in illicit activities. he said noriega refused
the president said, ``there is no other alternative but the use of the powers that the constitution gives me, to separate gen. noriega from his high command and to encharge the leadership of the institution to the current chief of staff, col. marcos justines.''
some drivers honked their horns shortly after delvalle made his announcement, and some groups could be seen waving white handkerchiefs. both are signs of protest used by noriega's opponents
later, at his home, delvalle told the associated press, ``i am very calm, because i have had to take a very difficult decision, having to do with a person (noriega) with whom i have worked for nearly two years, with a great deal of respect and consideration
however, his little will to take that decision ... which i suggested to him, obligated me to take it for the health of this country.''
about 10 anti-riot police then arrived and remained on guard
in the evening, about 100 people _ relatives, friends and journalists _ gathered at delvalle's home
earlier thursday, roman catholic archbishop marcos gregorio mcgrath visited delvalle and commented, ``it seems to us that we should give our support to president delvalle. it is a step taken after many consultations.''
delvalle smiled when reporters asked if he feared the military would remove him from office. ``if good judgment doesn't prevail, no president has the force to defy the arms that ... we entrusted to them so that they might take care of us,'' he replied
u.s. ambassador arthur davis showed up for a few minutes. ``my presence here is to show my support to the government, because we always have supported the civilian government and we are going to continue doing so,'' he said
asked if the u.s. government would recognize a replacement for delvalle, davis replied: ``we cannot do that.''
panama has, a0878
panama's president risked challenging the authority of gen. manuel antonio noriega because he heard the ``outcry of the people'' against the military strongman, says a leading panamanian exile
the central american nation's legislative assembly removed president eric arturo delvalle and the vice president from office during an emergency session early today
roberto eisenmann, 50-year-old exiled publisher of panama's leading independent newspaper, la prensa, said earlier that either way the power struggle went, ``noriega will lose.''
i don't think he will find any nation that would recognize his government (in the event of a coup),'' said eisenmann, who said his newspaper was shut down thursday by the military
delvalle's decision to challenge noriega was made after seven weeks of negotiations here between the president and half a dozen opposition leaders, participants in the talks told the miami herald in a story published today
the last stage leading to the decision began in early january, when the then-panamanian consul to new york, jose blandon, met with several opposition leaders in the home of former panamanian ambassador and anti-noriega crusader gabriel lewis galindo in the miami suburb of kendall
blandon had just spent 10 hours with delvalle in new york,'' ricardo arias calderon, president of the christian democratic party, told the herald. ``he told us the president was ready to oust noriega, but that he wanted to do that as of aug. 12.''
that date marked the fifth anniversary of noriega's rise to the helm of panama's defense forces
but the opposition politicians told delvalle that if noriega was given that much time, he would be able to regroup
on feb. 16, the opposition counseled the president to go to washington, convene an emergency session of the organization of american states and announce noriega's dismissal, the herald reported
a week ago wednesday, delvalle met with u.s. assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, whom he informed he would fire noriega, but in panama, not in the united states
the thing that worked on him was the enormous outcry of the people,'' eisenmann told abc's ``nightline'' thursday night. ``there was pressure from his family not to go down the tubes with noriega.''
noriega was indicted three weeks ago in tampa and miami on federal charges of aiding drug smugglers, and has been under pressure to step down as military chief
gilbert mallol, who directs the national civic crusade, a panamanian opposition coalition of 192 organizations, predicted thursday during a visit to miami that delvalle's move would force noriega into seizing power and remove the ``facade of democracy.''
mallol, a 32-year-old engineer, lived here in exile after eluding military police and fleeing panama last summer. his group was accused last august of plotting against noriega, but mallol recently had returned to panama
a prosecutor in noriega's drug case said he knew of no u.s. deal to drop charges in order to encourage delvalle to challenge the military leader
richard gregorie, chief assistant u.s. attorney in florida's southern district, said if noriega were to leave panama, ``we would attempt to extradite him like any other dope dealer.''
the feb. 4 indictments charge noriega and 15 others with taking at least $4.6 million in payoffs to protect shipments of colombian cocaine, launder money, supply drug laboratories and shield drug kingpins
the indictment also alleged that noriega was allied with the medellin cartel, the organization reputed to supply much of the cocaine in the united states, and once enlisted the help of cuban leader fidel castro to mediate a dispute with the cartel over drug money
castro, who was named in the indictment but not charged, angrily denied the any role in an interview with nbc news aired thursday night
if noriega is ever brought to trial and convicted of all charges, he could face up to 145 years in prison and fines of more than $1.1 million
cardinal miguel obando y bravo has proposed that a new round of peace talks between the leftist sandinista government and contra rebels be held in guatemala march 10-12
the roman catholic archbishop of managua, who is mediating efforts to establish a cease-fire, suggested the dates thursday in response to a letter from president daniel ortega
he made no reference to ortega's request for three days of negotiations beginning today and did not explain why he was suggesting different dates
obando y bravo suspended the last round of negotiations feb. 18 in guatemala after presenting a proposal for breaking a deadlock that arose in the talks' first hours
deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco accused the cardinal, nicaragua's catholic leader, of breaking off the talks before the government could deliver its formal, conditional acceptance of the proposal
in his letter, obando y bravo asked ortega if the president's letter of tuesday was ``a rejection of the acceptance in principle that your delegation belatedly gave'' to the proposal
there was no immediate response from the government to the march dates or obando y bravo's letter
the cardinal said representatives of the nicaraguan resistance, the umbrella group for the rebels, told him thursday they ``are willing to continue discussing the proposal the mediator made feb. 18 in guatemala.''
the proposal asks the contras to accept a 30-day truce in exchange for four concessions they have long sought from the government _ changes in the draft law, a complete amnesty, an easing of press restrictions and a reopening of talks with the internal political opposition
the cease-fire effort is part of a regional peace plan signed aug. 7 in guatemala by nicaragua, el salvador, honduras, guatemala and costa rica. it also calls for amnesties, democratic reforms and an end to outside aid to insurgencies fighting in the region
the reagan administration has supported the contras' 6{-year-old insurgency, which has claimed about 40,000 lives. but on feb. 3, the u.s. house of representatives turned down a request for an additional $36.2 million in contra aid
employees at the cities service building downtown have received a memo suggesting that their visits to restrooms be wrapped up in 12 minutes _ or they'll be left in the dark
motion sensors that control lights will be installed in the next few weeks in all restrooms of the building occupied by cities service oil and gas corp
the switches will sense motion when people pass and turn on lights. if no motion is detected for 12 minutes, the sensors will extinguish the lights, according to the company memo
a spokesman said the devices have been tested in one men's room in the building and have been found to be effective in reducing use of electricity
the immigration and naturalization service is singing the praises of its amnesty program with a new spanish record, ``amnistia.''
it's a vehicle to get the word across to all the people who haven't applied to let them know that they really should come out of hiding,'' said the author, ins employee art zuniga
his spanish song will be used in a stepped-up campaign the ins is using to lure applicants to its one-year program offering legal residency to certain aliens as the may 4 deadline approaches
zuniga, 38, who grew up in the lower rio grande valley in a family of farm workers and writes songs for a country-and-western band, said he wrote the song because he understands people who come to this country seeking work
well, my friend, the time has come for those who have lived a long time in the country inhabited by americans,'' he sings in spanish. ``recently, a law was passed. ... this opportunity will not come again in your lifetime.''
two of the valley's most popular spanish stations already have agreed to air the song
a strong earthquake was recorded in the southern indian ocean today but there were no reports of damage, the hong kong royal observatory said
the quake was recorded at 2:30 p.m. and registered a preliminary reading of 6.9 on the richter scale, the observatory said
the epicenter was about 1,110 miles east-southeast of the south african port city of durban, it said. the observatory said it had received no reports of tsunamis, or huge waves generated by earthquakes at sea
the richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. every increase of one number means that the ground motion is 10 times greater
an earthquake registering 7 is capable of widespread, heavy damage in populated areas, but today's quake was centered far from land
a 79-year-old who burst into a board meeting at the retirement home that evicted him and gunned down four former neighbors was in custody today, booked for investigation of attempted murder
apparently, they had a board meeting and one former resident, who was apparently disgruntled, walked into the board room and started shooting'' at the 15 or 16 people gathered there, said police spokesman dee anderson
gunfire from a .22-caliber semiautomatic rifle wounded four people and a fifth person suffered a heart attack in the 11 a.m. attack thursday at the masonic home for the aged, authorities said
the wounded, treated for minor gunshot wounds, were listed in fair condition today at arlington hospital, but the heart attack victim was in critical condition, a hospital spokesman said
the suspect, whose name was not released, had lived at the masonic home for three years, but was evicted in september 1987 for breaking rules, officials said
the man burst into the monthly board meeting with two rifles, one slung around his neck with twine, and opened fire. he fled to a nearby kitchen and surrendered peacefully to police, who booked him on investigative charges of attempted murder
at the arlington villa retirement home, where the suspect has lived since dec. 1, officials expressed shock
he is a good resident, very congenial and sociable,'' said administrator gennie pace
masonic home employees shut out all visitors and referred all questions to board chairman sam hilburn, but refused to say where he could be contacted
a 98-year-old oklahoma law stating that a husband is head of the household and his wife must live where he does is headed toward repeal in the state legislature, but not without debate
the bill to change the 1890 law was approved by the house 67-26 thursday and moves to the senate
i want to bring oklahoma from the 19th century into the 20th century before the 21st century gets here,'' said the bill's sponsor, rep. freddie williams
if the law were enforced, mrs. williams said, an appeals court judge would have to step down from the bench because she lives on one side of the state and and her husband lives on the other
even so, opponents of repeal heatedly argued that the law is based on biblical teachings about the family
i think there should be a difference between a man and a woman, and when we get to where there's not a difference in it, we're going to have all kinds of problems, whether it's war or what it is,'' said rep. bill smith
rep. leonard sullivan contended he had ``never heard any lady'' call for repeal of the law
if it's not broke, don't fix it,'' sullivan said. and ``if it's not being enforced, why worry?''
rep. ken harris, a supporter of the bill, said, ``even having to argue about this bill is a sad, sad commentary.''
mrs. williams and harris pointed out that the law had been declared unconstitutional by a former attorney general
rep. john monks said the attorney general who made the ruling never married and ``never had the responsibility for a family.''
the dollar fell in moderate european trading this morning on indications the u.s. economy is expanding slower than the market expected, dealers said
gold prices were mixed in quiet trading
dealers said economic data released in the past few days showed the american economy slightly less robust than expected, weakening the dollar
the data has made dealers a little more selling oriented,'' said one trader with a u.s. commercial bank in milan
dealers noted the dollar had been moving higher since mid-february, after the report that the u.s. trade deficit narrowed in december for the second consecutive month
but recent economic data disappointed the market, especially thursday's report that the u.s. gross national product grew by 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter, lower than market expectations of a 5 percent rise, dealers said
as a result, traders said, the market feared the u.s. trade gap might not be shrinking quickly enough, eroding sentiment for the dollar
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 128.35 yen, down from 128.80 yen on thursday. later, in london, it was quoted at 128.45 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late thursday's rates:
_ 1.6895 west german marks, down from 1.6945
_ 1.3895 swiss francs, down from 1.3935
_ 5.7165 french francs, down from 5.7315
_ 1.89595 dutch guilders, down from 1.9020
_ 1,244.00 italian lire, down from 1,248.25
_ 1.2649 canadian dollars, down from 1.2650
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7715 from $1.7665 late thursday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $434.20 a troy ounce. at midmorning the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $$432.65. both were up from late thursday's 428.00
in zurich, the bid price was $432.60, down from $433.00 late thursday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose 88 cents to close at a bid 437.23
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.21 a troy ounce, up from thursday's 6.15
she soared west across the atlantic on a celebrated dare 52 years ago, and then fell into obscurity
but decades after flier beryl markham was forgotten, hollywood is showing a renewed interest in the heroine. several movies of her wildly adventurous life are underway or planned, including a four-hour cbs-tv special starring stefanie powers, and at least two feature-length films
in 1986, public television presented the film, ``world without walls: beryl markham's african memoir,'' shortly after her death at the age of 83. the movie reconstructed her life from old film footage and interviews with her gossipy contemporaries in kenya, where she once hunted barefoot with african friends
she represented some kind of magical-like past, something that a woman did but that can't ever be done again because the world in which that took place is gone,'' said george gutekunst, who rediscovered markham's memoirs, ``west with the night,'' and helped get them republished in 1983
the book chronicled her kenyan childhood and historic flight. praised by ernest hemingway as ``bloody wonderful,'' it became a best seller in both britain and the united states when it was republished. ``she's caught the imagination of much of this country and the world since then,'' gutekunst said
gutekunst met markham in kenya before her death. with his partner, albert del masso, he later secured movie rights to the book
in some cities, such as san francisco, fascination with markham approaches cult status, according to berniece green, a new york publicist for cbs, which in january began filming in africa on ``beryl markham: shadow on the sun.''
markham was born in melton mowbray, leicestershire, in england, and was brought to kenya at age 4 by her divorced father, retired british army capt. charles b. clutterbuck, who purchased a farm. she learned to fly and became a bush pilot
by 1936, several planes had successfully crossed the atlantic westward from europe. but all the aircraft had at least two people aboard. markham, in a single-engine percival gull monoplane, departed britain's abingdon royal air force aerodrome on sept. 4, 1936. low fuel forced her to land in a bog in nova scotia. she later received a ticker tape parade in new york, her original goal
she had less than four years of formal education but said her father made her read widely. later, she was given a crash course in literature and music by an oxford-educated aristocrat and professional hunter, denys finch-hatton, the lover of the danish writer karen blixen, whose pen name was isak dinesen. the academy award-winning movie, ``out of africa,'' was based on blixen's life. markham was apparently finch-hatton's last love
markham's poetic account of her childhood and famed flight was largely ignored when first published in 1942. but following its re-release and then her death, the book's sales soared. it has been on the new york times best-sellers list since november 1986, according to north point press
in 1936, markham became the first person to fly solo east-to-west across the atlantic, accepting a challenge from england's lord john carberry. she had grown up in kenya with masai children, become a winning horse trainer and also one of the continent's premier ``bush pilots.''
kenya in the 1920s and '30s was a haven for titled europeans, and markham _ who spent much of her youth hunting wild boar and fending off lions _ lived with them. she took up thoroughbred training to support herself at 17 when her bankrupt father immigrated to peru
cbs' story, based on english journalist james fox's book, ``white mischief,'' will portray markham's three failed marriages, affairs with fliers finch-hatton and tom campbell black and her years in santa barbara, where she taught flying for paramount pictures
actress-producer diane baker of artemis productions, which optioned the movie rights to markham's book from gutekunst and masso, said her company plans to begin filming ``west with the night'' in kenya in june
nelson films plans to film ``the lives of beryl markham'' this fall. it is based on a book by errol trzbinsky to be published next year, according to producer anthony rufus-isaacs, who knew markham in africa
no stars have been named for either film project
lindsay wagner has optioned mary lovell's 1986 biography of markham, ``straight on till morning,'' for a possible leading role for the actress, according to st. martin's press
markham's ``amazing freedom'' in the african outback is what captivates people, said lovell in a telephone interview from her home in england
an accountant who quit her job to travel to kenya to meet markham, lovell found the flier in 1985 living in a tiny house outside nairobi at a track where she had trained some of kenya's greatest race champions
here was a woman who i found had lived the way we all would have if we had the courage,'' she said
a top american wine merchant was killed in a two-car collision near siena, the u.s. consulate said today
louis iacucci, 52, of the new york city borough of queens, was taken wednesday evening to a hospital in siena, where he died four hours later of abdominal injuries, a consulate official said
the official, who spoke on condition her name not be used, quoted a siena police report
iacucci, an authority on italian wines, owned goldstar wine and spirits in forest hills, queens. he was on a trip from grosseto to siena, two wine-producing areas in the province of tuscany. the other driver, an italian, was unhurt, the consulate said
as a lawyer and vice president of w.c. fields productions, everett f. fields has sound economic reasons to be worried about products that make unauthorized use of w.c. fields' name and image
as a grandson, he told state legislators thursday, he finds the merchandising of w.c. fields' legacy to be ``very offensive ... personally.''
fields joined the sons of clark gable and john wayne in supporting a bill that would give them exclusive rights to the commercial use of their dead relatives' names
i think that my father's public image was his most valuable asset,'' said michael wayne, son of the screen star and president of john wayne enterprises. ``the most important thing for us _ the wayne family _ is to control how the john wayne image is used.''
john clark gable, a 26-year-old pickup-truck racer from los angeles, became angry as he cited a greeting card that depicted his late father in an embrace with another man
the guy that (created) that, i'd like to tear his head off,'' gable said following his appearance at the legislative hearing
other examples that were cited at the hearing included a spanish cigarette billboard showing wayne, a heavy smoker who died of lung cancer, smoking a cigarette; albert einstein party favors; a sigmund freud cookbook; and ``dead marilyn,'' a male rock singer who dresses to resemble marilyn monroe
the bill being considered would ban any unauthorized commercial use of the name or image of dead celebrities, but wouldn't prohibit ``accurate'' biographies, news accounts or parodies of stars. proponents said it would simply give heirs the same protection that celebrities enjoy while they are alive
the measure was opposed by representatives of magazine and newspaper publishers, television and radio stations and advertising agencies. the opponents said the measure is unnecessary and it would be difficult to determine which uses of a celebrity's name were legitimate
the problem is, the cure is worse than the disease,'' said richard winfield, a lawyer for time inc
jerome wilson, another attorney representing time, suggested that the heirs of al capone would be able to sue for some of the proceeds of ``the untouchables,'' the movie in which capone was a major figure
similar laws have been enacted in eight states, including california, and have been established by precedent in two others, new jersey and georgia, according to j. thomas mccarthy, a law professor from the university of san francisco who testified at the hearing
mccarthy said there have been no challenges to the constitutionality of the other states' laws, although he said there have been some successful challenges to specific applications of the laws
president roh tae-woo approved a sweeping amnesty today for 1,731 political dissidents and labor activists to demonstrate his determination to build a democratic government
a time bomb was found today in a u.s. government building in the southern city of kwangju and police said radical students planted the device
the bomb was found in the public library of the u.s. information service and people in the building were evacuated while army bomb experts were brought in to defuse the device, u.s. diplomats said. police said the device was faulty
five students armed with homemade bombs and knives briefly seized the service's library in seoul on wednesday and detonated two of the devices before being overpowered by police. nobody was hurt in the attack
roh approved the freeing from prison or restoration of civil rights to the dissidents after meeting with his cabinet for the first time since he was sworn into office thursday. the government said the measure was designed to build public trust
the government wants all the people to join in building democracy,'' said information minister chung han-mo after announcing the measure
the political and labor cases were included in an amnesty for 7,234 people, most of them convicted of ordinary criminal offenses
it was not immediately clear how many of the dissidents were still in prison, but it appeared many have been released in earlier amnesties. those still in prison were to be freed saturday
but several imprisoned prominent dissident leaders, including kim kun-tae and chang ki-pyo, were not to be released because of their role in violent protests, according to korean news reports
opposition groups contend about 1,500 people are being held for political offenses
the amnesty did not affect people still awaiting trial on political charges
the measure restores the civil rights of many prominent dissidents who lost them after serving jail sentences for anti-government activity. loss of civic rights bans citizens from politics
roh's announcement, which had been expected, came after the two main opposition parties agreed to reunite following months of bitter quarreling and present a united front to the new government
officials of the reunification democratic party and the party for peace and democracy announced they had reached agreement on reuniting the parties that split in october
party officials said a convention is scheduled by march 5 to formally reunite the groups. committees representing both sides start work today on ironing out remaining differences, they said
elections for national assembly seats are to take place by april
roh was formally inaugurated thursday as the country's sixth president, succeding chun doo-hwan
in washington, state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said thursday, ``we welcome korea's first peacetime transfer of power in recent times, and congratulate president roh on his inauguration.''
the two opposition parties split after opposition leaders kim young-sam and kim dae-jung failed to reach agreement over who would run for president in elections last december
roh won the election with 36.6 percent of the vote after the two kims split the opposition vote
the opposition claimed after the dec. 16 election that roh had won through massive vote fraud and said they would not recognize his government. but many koreans rejected the fraud claims, instead blaming the two kims for splitting opposition support out of personal ambition
about 1,000 workers went on strike today at south korea's largest ship engine plant, protesting a company decision banning election of a militant union leader, company officials said
officials of hyundai engine and machinery co. said their plant in ulsan, 185 miles southeast of seoul, stopped production following the strike which began early today
hyundai engine is a subsidiary of the hyundai group, one of the largest business conglomerates in south korea
a former firefighter who helped authorities battle a $6.5 million series of fires in two churches and the elementary school he once attended has confessed to setting the blazes, authorities said
okanogan county prosecutor jack burchard planned to file six counts of first-degree arson today against adrian j. howe, 23, who was ordered held on $250,000 bail. each count carries a maximum sentence of life in prison and a $50,000 fine
the fires, which did an estimated $6.5 million damage, began in december when omak north elementary school was hit twice within eight days. two omak churches and a church house also were burned in one week earlier this month
burchard and sheriff jim weed said there was no apparent motive for the fires. investigators have no reason to believe howe, a high school dropout, had any animosity toward his elementary school, burchard said
howe reported the first blaze dec. 6 at the elementary school, helped set up barricades at a dec. 14 fire, and was seen by police at three other blazes, burchard told superior court judge james r. thomas
howe lived in a trailer court across the street from the school in december, then moved to an apartment across from one of the churches before the february fires, burchard said
he was arrested by investigators of a special 12-member arson task force wednesday and confessed to all six fires, burchard told thomas
a lifelong resident of omak in central washington, howe was employed at a lumber mill on the colville indian reservation and fought range fires for the bureau of indian affairs in past summers
friends who knew howe from several bars he frequented described him as a loner who used to get into fights. but they said they didn't believe howe was responsible for the fires
i don't think that he had anything to do with it,'' said brian marbach, a friend for 19 years. ``he'd be the last person i'd ever think would do something like that.''
howe recently had been trying to reconcile with a girlfriend by whom he had a daughter, about 2 years old, marbach said. 02-26 0638</first> 8th graf, `mecham also ....'</note>
gov. evan mecham's impeachment prosecutors, brought together in a shotgun marriage of republican and democratic politics, say they are working well together on the case to remove the governor from office
attorney william french said he didn't expect to be teamed with another lawyer, particularly one he'd never worked with, when house speaker joe lane, a republican, hired him in october to look into allegations against mecham, also a republican
french, 56, was joined by co-counsel paul eckstein, 47, after house minority leader art hamilton insisted that french could not be expected to represent democratic interests because he was hired by the republicans
french, a former u.s. justice department attorney and maricopa county superior court judge, has also been accused of bias because he is a registered democrat who signed a mecham recall petition. he maintains he is largely apolitical
eckstein is managing partner of a law firm that represents arizona's first amendment coalition, a journalism rights advocacy organization. until recently he chaired democrat carolyn warner's campaign against mecham in the may 17 recall election
the two men, who took the arizona bar exam at the same time in 1965, say they will draw on each other's strengths and rely on methodical hard work to prepare for arizona's first gubernatorial impeachment trial monday
mecham was accused by the house of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
mecham also faces a march 22 criminal trial on charges of hiding the $350,000 loan. he has denied any wrongdoing
french said he and eckstein have had no major conflicts
i think we sort of sized each other up to see if we were going to play it straight,'' french said. ``and within a matter of hours i was satisfied that the politics had been left outside of the door.''
their courtroom manner _ french, precise of speech both in word selection and in timing for dramatic impact, and eckstein typically dry as he worked in french's shadow _ has contrasted sharply with the combative, theatrical style often shown by mecham attorney murray miller
but lane noted, ``we have not seen them under any stress situations. it's going to be interesting when it gets really hot'' during the senate trial
both lawyers say they are ready to start the trial and figure they're as well-equipped to handle it as anyone would be. ``there aren't any `impeachment lawyers' around,'' eckstein said
he said he probably will defer to french on some matters because his elder partner was on the case first
french ``does bring the experience of a judge,'' but has a relative lack of experience in politics and dealing with the media, eckstein said
despite the political nature of the trial, eckstein added, ``it's just practicing the law in a careful, workmanlike way.''
we're trying to try it as if you would try it in the courthouse,'' french said. he said the lawyers have had no contact with the 30 senators, who essentially are serving as judges and jurors in the case
french has been receiving state police protection since his law office was damaged in an arson fire a week before he made the report that led to mecham's impeachment
mecham was impeached feb. 5 on a 46-16 house vote, forcing him to temporarily hand over power to secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to remove him from office permanently. functional</head>
a construction worker who underwent a rare procedure in which his severed hand was attached to his abdomen until doctors could sew it back on his arm says the technique might help other people even if it doesn't work for him
after mike thomas' left hand was ripped off when he grabbed a cable in a 70-foot fall from a girder last november, doctors used a vein from his leg to attach the hand to an artery in his abdomen to try to keep the tissue alive
two weeks ago, they put the hand back on his arm
if it doesn't work, at least they know they can put a hand on an abdomen and maybe use the procedure'' to help someone else, thomas, 31, said thursday before leaving university hospital for his home in cleveland, ala
the procedure has been done twice before in yugoslavia, once successfully. hospital spokesman hank black said doctors at the hospital knew of no other such procedure in this country
thomas' doctors said it will be months before he knows whether he has any feeling in the hand, but the worker said that was not what mattered
the hand was a minor detail when i first fell because i was worried about living,'' said thomas, who suffered internal injuries in the fall
i have no feeling in the hand now, but the blood supply is fine,'' he said. ``it will be six months to a year before i know whether i have any feeling.''
thomas said he became accustomed to the hand not being there ``and now i've got to get used to it being back.''
in reattaching the hand, the doctors connected two nerves, with another operation needed to restore a third nerve
one of the physicians, paul sauer, said a therapist will work on the hand twice a week for a few months
i have to keep the hand exercised,'' thomas said, ``and protect my arm like it was a child.'' his bandaged hand is in a sling
he said one of his first priorities was to get some barbecue. later, he said, he wants his doctors to visit blount county so he can ``introduce them to farm life and take them bass fishing.''
another doctor, michael chernofsky, said that thomas and his wife, loretta, had maintained a positive attitude and a sense of humor
he is very lucky to be alive,'' chernofsky said. ``the hand is icing on the cake. he has done extremely well, and we're hopeful things will continue in that trend
we have great hopes for mr. thomas. he promised to take us fishing.''
south african air attacks and heavy artillery fire have killed hundreds of civilians in southern angola over the past week, the angolan defense ministry said today
a statement reported by the official angolan news agency angop said women and children were among several hundred civilians killed by south african strikes around four southern towns. the angop report was monitored in lisbon
south africa's military headquarters, which says its recent bombardments and air strikes have been aimed at military targets, described the angolan claim as ``blatant propaganda.''
angop said three south african mirage war planes were shot down between sunday and wednesday during the attacks in the southern provinces of cunene and cuando cubango. south africa has confirmed the loss of one plane
residential areas close to the towns of cuito cuanavale, onjiva, cuvelai and mulondo were bombed by south african aircraft, inflicting severe material damage along with the casualties, the defense ministry said
it said long-range g-5 artillery pieces also were used to shell angolan army positions around cuito cuanavale, a strategic garrison for the angolan government's offensive against the south african-backed rebel movement unita
south african aircraft on thursday also began bombing the outskirts of the city of lubango, in huila province, north of cunene, the ministry added
the statement said the attacks were part of a south african operation aimed at cutting off supply routes to cuito cuanvale and onjiva, angop reported
angola accuses south africa of engaging in a major military incursion and occupying large areas of southern angola to support unita, the national union for the total liberation of angola
the rebels, also supported by the united states, have been fighting since 1975 to force angola's soviet- and cuban-backed government to share power
south african war planes struck saturday at lubango and onjiva in what it said were angola bases of the south-west african people's organization, a guerrilla organization fighting for the independence of neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia
south africa said the attacks were in retaliation for a bomb the day before, allegedly carried out by swapo, that killed 23 people at a namibian bank
a researcher who conducted some of the earliest studies linking cigarettes to cancer was muffled by his superiors about the time a tobacco company began making donations to his institute, according to a confidential document released in a cigarette liability trial
in the document, a top philip morris co. executive also praised the director of the sloan-kettering institute, a leading medical research center, for expressing ``his doubt that smoking is implicated'' in causing cancer
the opinion of the director, dr. frank horsfall jr., was ``beneficial'' to the industry, according to the nov. 23, 1964, memo, which was released thursday in federal court here
morris decided to contribute $25,000 to the new york cancer research institute nov. 8, 1962, and made $25,000 donations the following two years, according to the memo written by james c. bowling, who was identified in court as an assistant to the company's chairman
substantial contributions'' from five other tobacco companies followed, the memo said
in the fall of 1962, horsfall and other institute officials began subjecting the researcher, ernst wynder, to a ``more rigorous screening procedure before letting him speak in the name of the institute,'' the memo said
this has had a proper and pleasing effect,'' bowling's memo said
wynder, one of the first researchers to demonstrate that smoking leads to tumors on mice, was a leading anti-smoking advocate, the memo said
the memo did not say that horsfall's attitude or wynder's ``screening'' was a reason for the contributions
marc z. edell, an attorney representing antonio cipollone, introduced the document and about a dozen others in an attempt to show that tobacco companies treated early studies of smoking's effect on health as a public relations problem
in addition, edell said the companies performed or sponsored research to deflect charges that smoking caused cancer and other health problems
edell maintains that philip morris co., lorillard inc. and liggett group inc. were liable for the death of cipollone's wife. rose cipollone smoked brands made by the three companies for 40 years before she died at 58 in 1984
edell contends the companies were liable for her disease by failing to do enough research, tell customers what they knew or put a safer product on the market
he introduced the documents thursday while questioning morris' former president and chairman emeritus joseph f. cullman iii for a third day
the tobacco industry viewed itself as waging ``war'' against opponents of smoking who linked cigarettes to health hazards in the 1960s, according to another document
that feb. 12, 1963 memo from the scientific director of a tobacco research group to a public relations official spoke of ``two `fronts' in our war.''
the memo identified those fronts as activity by the american cancer society and britain's royal college of physicians, and a study by the surgeon general, edell said
both the american cancer society and the royal college of physicians were concerned about the health effects of smoking, and the surgeon general published a report citing the dangers of cigarettes in 1964. demands</head>
the president of hampshire college denied agreeing to the demands of students who took over an office to protest alleged indifference to racial issues, while black students at mit submitted a list of demands to officials there
about 50 black graduate students at the massachusetts institute of technology in cambridge surprised president paul gray on thursday with the list at an informal regular session held by the school's head
among the demands were calls for regular meetings between campus minority groups and administrators and for a statement condemning racist graffiti that appeared near the black graduate student lounge more than a year ago
in western massachusetts, meanwhile, more talks were scheduled today between hampshire college president adele simmons and representatives of black, hispanic, inian and other minority students holding a dormitory office
an estimated 40 students took over the dakin house office tuesday to protest what they alleged to be the administration's indifference to their concerns. their demands included the hiring of a racial harassment officer and a policy statement condemning racism
spokesmen for the protesters described thursday's talks as ``active'' but said no decisions were made in the meeting
the administration has agreed in principle. however, further negotiations are necessary before we are satisfied,'' according to a statement read by student sydney deberry, 19
simmons denied agreeing to the students' demands, but said they were justified in feeling frustrated. ``they are right in suggesting we need to move their concerns higher up in our priorities,'' the president said
she said some of the demands, such as a call for a policy on racial harassment, have been in the works for several months. ``the timetable will be moved up a bit because of this,'' she said
in cambridge, the mit students also demanded that gray apologize for his ``self-admitted inadequate performance'' in minority recruitment and appoint a black vice president
when will we get a formal apology from you for admitting your failures?'' asked ron francis, co-chairman of the black graduate student association
gray responded: ``i didn't come here to be harassed.''
the president acknowledged, however, that ``mit needs to take a greater part in enabling pluralism. ... i'm not satisifed in the measured levels of black undergrads here nor am i satisfied in the measured levels of black faculty here.''
he agreed to meet with a smaller group in two to three weeks to discuss the demands
earlier this month, students occupied a building at the university of massachusetts for six days to protest racial violence at that campus. the occupation ended feb. 17 when chancellor joseph d. duffey reached agreeement with protesters on such demands as increased resources for third world programs
a music promoter allegedly bribed radio station employees with cash and cocaine to get his records on the air, according to a federal payola indictment, lawyers said
federal agents arrested ralph tashjian, 39, of san mateo and his wife, valerie, in front of their children at their home thursday, said anthony brooklier, the promoter's los angeles attorney
tashjian allegedly paid nearly $42,000 in cash and gave undisclosed quantities of cocaine to three radio station workers from 1980 to 1985 in exchange for air time for his records, brooklier said. the stations were in fresno and el paso, texas
the indictment handed up by a los angeles federal grand jury thursday was announced by brooklier and david kenner, the tashjians' attorneys, who said their clients are innocent
we absolutely deny any wrongdoing on the tashjians' part,'' brooklier said. ``they were arrested at their home, in front of their children, even though we had offered to surrender them (to authorities).''
the indictment charges tashjian with three counts of payola, one count of conspiracy to distribute cocaine, one count of obstruction of justice and three counts of corporate income-tax fraud, brooklier said
mrs. tashjian was arrested for alleged corporate tax evasion. they both face arraignment today in san francisco, brooklier said
federal prosecutors at the justice department's organized crime strike force in los angeles, which is handling the case, withheld announcement of the indictment
tashjian is an associate of joseph isgro, a los angeles-based record promoter who has been investigated by the grand jury but wasn't named in the indictment
tashjian worked out of isgro's los angeles office, but for his own company, ralph tashjian enterprises inc
the payola investigation began in 1986, with reputed organized crime figure salvatore james pisello, 64, of west hollywood, charged in july with three counts of tax evasion. his case is pending
memphis slim, the blues pianist who wrote ``every day i have the blues'' and helped spread blues music throughout the world, died at the age of 72, hospital official said today
an official at necker hospital in paris, speaking on condition of anonymity, said memphis slim, whose real name was peter chatman, died wednesday. the cause of death was not disclosed
memphis slim was born in memphis, tenn., on sept. 3, 1915, and made his name in chicago in the 1930s
he had lived in europe since 1961, mostly in paris where he played frequently at ``les trois maillets'' and other jazz clubs
he was one of the originals,'' said mike zwerin, a paris-based author on jazz and blues music. ``he took blues to the rest of the world.''
a wake, open to the public, was scheduled monday at the hospital, with funeral services planned later in the week in memphis
memphis slim recorded at least 40 albums during his career on many labels, including ``raining the blues'' and ``the bluesman.''
among his songs were ``wish me well,'' ``mother earth'' and ``beer-drinking woman.''
memphis slim was among the most well-traveled bluesmen, attracting international attention with his performance at the 1959 newport festival
he owned a series of rolls-royce cars, and was known for double-parking them outside paris clubs, where he would stop in for an hour or two
the paris daily le monde said friday that memphis slim's music ``always had powerful expression and irresistable subtlety.''
until the 1970s, memphis slim represented blues to europeans,'' zwerin said. ``he was the only blues man they ever saw.''
many american jazz and blues greats moved to europe in the 1950s and 1960s because their music, although created in america, was more popular in the old world than in the new
memphis slim, however, often returned to the united states to play. he was a regular fixture at the chicago blues festival and other blues gatherings. described in a0500, pm-aids antibody. adds 4 grafs at end with more on research. subs 12th graf pvs, `the results ...,' to recast.</note>
a widely used pair of antibiotics prevented a deadly form of pneumonia in a group of 30 aids patients, while more than half of the patients in a similar untreated group came down with it, researchers reported today
this dramatic success in preventing one of the leading causes of death among aids patients is not a cure for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, but could prolong the lives of aids sufferers, said the study's principal author, dr. margaret fischl of the university of miami school of medicine
any individual that is symptomatic with hiv (the aids virus) should be considered for intervention with low-dose antibiotics to prevent pneumocystis,'' said fischl. ``it's easily available. it's not expensive.''
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia strikes more than half of aids patients, and ``15 percent to 25 percent of individuals will die with it even when it's recognized and treated,'' she said
in a separate development, the anti-aids drug azt was shown to lower virus levels and improve immune systems in more than two-thirds of 18 otherwise healthy aids carriers, according to a study done at the university of amsterdam, the netherlands
and, a university of chicago researcher announced that he had synthesized a peptide _ a compound of amino acids _ that imitates part of the aids virus and triggered antibodies to neutralize the virus in rabbits
fischl prevented pneumocystis with a pair of sulfa drugs called trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole, marketed under a variety of trade names including bactrim and septra. they are used for kidney infections, bladder infections, traveler's diarrhea and, at high doses, for treatment of pneumocystis in aids victims, she said
after three years, pneumocystis had not struck any of the treated group of 30 patients who had kaposi's sarcoma, a skin cancer, but had not had any of the so-called opportunistic infections _ including pneumocystis _ that strike aids patients, fischl reported
in a control group of 30 untreated aids patients, 16 got pneumocystis, she said. a report of the findings appears today in the journal of the american medical association
when the experiment concluded, 42 percent of the treated group was still alive, compared with only 10 percent of the untreated group, fischl said
that was clear evidence that the preventive treatment was prolonging lives, but exactly how long it might prolong life could not be determined, she said
half of the treated patients suffered from side effects, including nausea, vomiting, itching, redness of the skin and fever
the results of the dutch study on azt, reported in the feb. 20 issue of the lancet, a british medical journal, were described as promising. but they fall short of what doctors would need to recommend that healthy aids virus carriers begin taking azt to prevent aids, dr. samuel broder, the director of aids drug testing at the national cancer institute, said thursday
nevertheless, broder said, it suggests that a recently initiated american study of azt in healthy carriers ``needs to proceed urgently.''
it's very important not to rush out and start using azt in a situation in which its use has not been proven,'' broder said. he noted that azt can have life-threatening side effects
the study found that levels of the aids virus ``declined significantly'' in 13 of 18 men who had longstanding aids virus infections but no symptoms of aids
levels of white blood cells called t4 cells _ which are a necessary component of the immune system and are killed by the aids virus _ rose in 14 of the 18 subjects. no serious side effects were observed, said the study's authors: frank de wolf, jan van der noordaa and others from the university of amsterdam, the netherlands
the aim of such studies is ultimately to determine whether azt might prevent or delay the development of aids in healthy carriers, or reduce its severity
based on their results, the dutch team said ``prevention of more serious hiv-related disease may be feasible.'' hiv, or human immunodeficiency virus, is the virus responsible for aids
enlarged lymph nodes are a common sign of aids infection. the researchers reported ``striking regression of lymph node sizes'' in patients given azt, also known as zidovudine or retrovir
as of feb. 18, 1,158 subjects had been enrolled in a nationwide trial of azt in healthy aids carriers in the united states, said sandra hecker, spokeswoman for the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases in bethesda, md., which is coordinating the trial
the study is aiming for about 1,500 volunteers and is expected to last about three years, she said
in the research by university of chicago assistant professor mark gurney, rabbits given the synthetic peptide produced three antibodies against the compound. scientists then exposed these antibodies to several strains of the hiv virus in test tubes, and gurney said the hiv virus was neutralized, or prevented from spreading to other cells
a report on the research appeared today in science, the journal of the american association for the advancement of science
gurney cautioned that the peptide-antibody response is not well understood now and that experiments in the past have shown that synthetic peptides can trigger undesirable antibodies, only a small number of which will attack the target
until this process is further refined, he said, peptides will not be useful against aids. of number of protesters this morning, students outside holding picket signs, transition. subs 13th graf pvs, `those who...' to include first name for ms. rizvi, whose first reference deleted higher up.</note>
demonstrators continued to occupy the university of dayton president's office early today, demanding an end to central intelligence agency recruiting on campus
brother raymond l. fitz, president of the roman catholic school, met with members of the democratic socialists of america and plowshares for peace in the office for about 90 minutes during the night to hear their demands
about 50 members of the groups took over the office shortly after 10 a.m. thursday, but the number had dwindled to 30 by this morning, university spokeswoman valerie galloway elijah said
she said another eight students were outside holding up signs and a few were standing at the end of a stairwell and blocked by university officials from joining the demonstrators
jon wentz, co-chairman of the democratic socialists of america, described thursday night's meeting as ``very positive. brother fitz was very cooperative with us.''
he said they talked about establishing a forum on the cia and that the students demanded a one-year moratorium on any cia recruitment
we seem to be very confident that we will get that moratorium,'' wentz said. ``we're not going to leave until we are guaranteed there is a moratorium.''
fitz said he would have to talk with his vice presidents and faculty before he could commit the school to a moratorium. he also said he was not yet committed to a forum and expected to meet again with the students later today
fitz would not say whether he would order the students removed
william c. schuerman, dean of the school, met with student representatives for about an hour thursday evening
i think we've been very clear that we're offering the students an opportunity to discuss the issues they're raising,'' schuerman said. ``what we're not prepared to do is to meet the demands they've indicated.''
the cia was recruiting at the nearby kennedy union on campus, but a statement issued by the protesters said they did not appear there because they did not want to infringe on the rights of students to interview with the agency
the students had been told they had to leave by 4:30 p.m. thursday or they would face charges. schuerman said they were allowed to stay past that deadline to avoid provoking them
those who remained at st. mary's hall were charged with disruption under the student conduct code and later would be charged with trespassing under the code, spokeswoman teri rizvi said. penalties could range from a token fine to expulsion, she said
the protesters demanded that if university organizations invite the cia to recruit, even off campus, the school should provide a mandatory course for those seeking cia jobs that would detail alleged atrocities committed by the agency
the chief u.s. delegate to the u.n. human rights commission, former cuban political prisoner armando valladares, today rejected cuban allegations that he lied about being mistreated in cuban prisons
they have had a disinformation campaign against me since before i left prison,'' valladares told a news conference
the cuban government wednesday distributed information in geneva, washington and mexico city saying valladares had been a police officer under the batista government and that he had been arrested and jailed in 1961 because he belonged to a terrorist organization
valladares and the u.s. state department deny that he was a police officer, and maintain that he was arrested and sentenced to 30 years in prison for making anti-communist statements
valladares served 22 years of his sentence before being released after the intervention of french president francois mitterrand
since his release, he has spoken out about what he says are human rights violations in cuba, in particular torture and inhumane treatment of prisoners
valladares told the press conference that the cuban government resorted to personal attacks against him because ``they are not able to deny the accusations'' of human rights violations. he spoke in spanish, and his remarks were translated into english
the cuban deputy foreign minister, raul roa kouri, said at a press conference wednesday that valladares was lying when he said he was mistreated in prison
valladares, asked about kouri's statement, showed reporters scars on his hands which he said were from rat bites, and took one reporter's hand and ran it along his head where he said he had a scar from being beaten
the united states on thursday submitted a resolution for the second year in a row attempting to get the commission to examine alleged human rights violations in cuba
this year's resolution appears to be worded more softly than last year's, which was blocked by one vote, and valladares said he was optimistic that it would pass
prime minister yitzhak shamir today urged secretary of state george p. shultz to move slowly on palestinian self-rule in the violence-torn west bank and gaza strip, informed sources said
shamir told shultz at a two-hour meeting that there should be ``a time of testing'' for up to three years before negotiations are held on a final settlement in the occupied territories, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
shultz also met with foreign minister shimon peres, leader of the liberal faction of israel's coalition government and shamir's political rival
shultz is promoting a u.s. plan that calls for negotiations on an overall settlement by december. but the sources said he applied ``no pressure whatsoever'' on shamir
israeli soldiers today killed two more palestinians in anti-israel protests in the occupied territories, bringing the death toll in 11 weeks of violence to 67
a u.s. official said today that some palestinians have accepted invitations to talk with shultz, despite a palestine liberation organization ban and death threats. the meeting was set for tonight in east jerusalem, which israel captured from jordan in the 1967 war
the official said 15 moderates had been invited, and a few had agreed to come although he declined to specify the number or identify invitees. he spoke on condition of anonymity
shamir later told reporters his session with shultz was ``very friendly and thorough'' and said they discussed ``the aspirations of all of us for getting peace.''
he said he hoped that the end result would be some ``positive outcomes.''
i think there are many openings,'' said peres, who has previously endorsed most elements of shultz's proposals. ``i think there is a great deal of work to be done.''
shultz said he agreed and added: ``as always it is a great benefit to come and have a good long bull session about it all and hear your views that have been very helpful.''
shultz scheduled two more sessions with shamir on sunday after he will have been to jordan and syria to assess arab positions
in the talks today, sources said shamir reiterated his objections to an international peace conference that would assign an active role to the soviet union
shultz told reporters on his way here wednesday from washington that soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze have voiced interest in such a conference in their meetings in moscow. but shultz said it was ``not a way to go for substantive results.''
shamir's position would keep alive the 1978 camp david formula, which calls for a five-year period to see if the palestinians and israelis can live side-by-side
negotiations on a final settlement would begin after the third year. the options would include statehood or linking the west bank and gaza to jordan in a confederation
but, egypt, jordan and several other countries have told the united states that they rejected negotiations based on the formula. the accords produced the 1979 peace treaty between egypt and israel
jordanian prime minister zaid rifai, who will meet with shultz in amman on saturday, said ``we are against any project that deals with partial solutions, a dividing approach or projects that deal with palestinian autonomy.''
autonomy would mean self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians who live in the west bank and gaza, but they would not have control over their security or conduct foreign relations, two key attributes of statehood
shamir aide yossi ahimeir said ``one shouldn't make a dramatization out of this one meeting. it's part of a process that will continue in washington when the prime minister goes there'' in mid-march
prominent palestinian moderates had said they would not meet with shultz tonight because the united states had not fulfilled a plo demand to consult with palestinians living outside israeli-held territories
they said this was an indication the americans were really seeking to create an alternative palestinian leadership to the plo
i told (shultz) i regret i cannot accept because the palestinian people have decided that we have to have a delegation reflecting the true composition of the palestinian people,'' said al faj newspaper editor hanna siniora, who met with shultz earlier this month in washington
the california supreme court has rejected an appeal by environmentalists and removed a major obstacle to drilling for oil below scenic bluffs on the southern california coast
occidental petroleum corp., which first applied for a permit 18 years ago, can begin exploratory drilling within a few months, unless another court intervenes
the (supreme) court now is less environmentally concerned than it used to be,'' charged roger diamond, a lawyer who represented residents of the los angeles neighborhood challenging the drilling
the court thursday denied a hearing on an appeal of a ruling last november that upheld the city's 1985 approval of the drilling project. justice stanley mosk, whose son, richard, is one of occidental's lawyers, did not participate in the supreme court action
occidental is obviously very pleased,'' said arthur groman, senior member of the company's board of directors
this field, which we think may be as much as 60 million barrels of oil, is a vital resource of the united states,'' he said
diamond, in claiming the court had less concern about the environment than it used to, noted that the court had blocked another version of the palisades project in 1974
the lawyer, also a board member of the environmental group in the case, said opponents will ask a los angeles judge next week to block the drilling while a challenge to the project's coastal commission permit is pending
opponents suffered another setback monday when a los angeles city council panel voted 3-2 against a proposal by councilman marvin braude, who represents the palisades area, to withdraw city approval of the project. burned shacks</head> 5th graf pvs, `when the ... adds byline.</note>
the treasurer of the united democratic front today became the last leader of south africa's biggest anti-apartheid organization to be silenced by the state
police came to the house of azhar cachalia this morning and served him with an order prohibiting him from speaking to the press and participating in the front's activities
in the east coast city of durban, 14 white women, members of the volunteer civil rights group black sash, were arrested as demonstrations continued against the new restrictions on major black opposition groups
the move against cachalia means that every national executive of the front group, which represents 600 affiliates with 2 million members, is either in jail, in hiding or restricted by the government
at the university of cape town, 2,000 students and staff gathered to protest the new bans. about half marched around the campus carrying banners and singing ``god bless africa,'' which many south african blacks regard as their national anthem
the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches, told the gathering that nationwide protests against the government's clampdown must begin immediately
leaders of churches, which like most white opposition groups were not targeted by the government's restrictions, already have called for protest services in nations across the country on sunday
the battle has only just begun,'' boesak said. ``we have decided we will resist. our commitment starts right now.''
when the government prohibited the front and 17 other opposition groups from political activity on wednesday, it also issued restrictive orders against 18 senior black leaders, including front presidents archie gumede and albertina sisulu
mrs. sisulu is the wife of imprisoned african national congress leader walter sisulu
about half of the front's leadership is underground. many others are in detention without charge, awaiting trial or on trial in connection with treason charges
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
in cape town, at least one person died and five were injured during a clash between rival black factions in a squatter camp near crossroads
the fighting between militant youths and the management committee of the ktc squatter camp, both considered anti-apartheid groups, broke out at 3 a.m. with gunfire and stone-throwing, residents told journalists. by 7 a.m. 20 shacks had been burned
police reported one dead and two injured, but residents in the part of the camp controlled by the youths said four people were treated at a hospital for injuries. the argus newspaper reported two deaths
the fighting in the camp began last month and hundreds of shacks have been burned in the feuding reminiscent of the may-june 1986 battles in the crossroads-area squatter camps
in that violence, 70,000 people lost their homes and scores of people died in battles between conservative ``vigilantes'' and the squatter-camp groups
but this year the fighting is between two groups who had fought together against the ``vigilantes'' in 1986, and appears to involve an attempt by the militant youths to gain more power in the administration of the squatter camp
police reported three blacks were killed in violence in two natal province towns, where feuding between supporters of the united democratic front and the zulu political organization, inkatha, has steadily spread from the townships surrounding the provincial capital, pietermaritzburg
more than 400 blacks have died in the past year in the natal fighting. down yet</head>
a 19-year-old woman who has spent a record 488 days in a small wooden box perched atop a telephone pole says she'll remain three-stories high for another month to raise $100,000 for cancer research
i'm not sure what's in store for me, but i'm getting pretty excited,'' mellissa l. sanders said an hour before overtaking a canadian's record at 2 p.m. thursday
miss sanders of tucson, ariz., climbed the pole oct. 26, 1986. last week, she rode out 75 mph winds in her swaying box
the 42-square-foot box doesn't quite have all the comforts of home, but it's almost as well-equipped. she regularly runs up $300 telephone bills, watches television and has a hair dresser who makes box calls. she bathes in a children's plastic pool
her stunt has required commitment and sacrifice, she said
i gave up a good job, visiting with friends, driving my car, walking around and all kinds of things for this,'' she said
she plans to remain in the box another month, hoping a local radio station's support will help her raise the money necessary to meet her goal
i've only raised $6,000 so far. it still needs to grab people's attention,'' said miss sanders, whose sister, rebecca, is a cancer patient who has been in remission four years
if people see it's for a good cause and take two minutes to put some money in an envelope, i could make my goal,'' she said, ``i've seen telethons do it in about five minutes.''
even if miss sanders has not attained her goal when she descends on march 24, her mother, mauri rose sanders, says her daughter is a winner
i'm proud enough to burst. i feel like we both did it,'' said mrs. sanders, who broke a similar record in 1959 by sitting 211 days, 9 hours and 33 minutes above another indianapolis corner in a publicity stunt
indianapolis radio station wzpl-fm has joined the sanders' effort, and morning disc jockey steve stiles says he expects next month's live broadcasts and other planned activities to put the fund-raiser closer to her target
mellissa's commitment has never wavered, but people weren't paying any attention,'' said stiles, who climbed the pole to visit her thursday afternoon
a new law requiring consent of parents or a judge for an unmarried woman under 18 to have an abortion has been effectively blocked from being enforced this year by a ruling of the state supreme court
the law, sponsored by anti-abortion groups, had been barred from taking effect jan. 1 by a judge's order in response to a lawsuit by doctors and family-planning organizations
on thursday, the high court denied the state's request to lift that order in a unanimous decision
the law would make it a crime for a doctor to perform an abortion on an unmarried woman under 18, living at home, who did not have written consent from one parent. as an alternative, the minor could get a ruling from a judge that the abortion was in her best interest or that she was mature enough to make the decision on her own
many other states have similar laws
the lawsuit, filed by medical and family planning organizations, contends the law violates the right to privacy under the state constitution by restricting minors' ability to decide whether to give birth or have an abortion
some minors would be intimidated into bearing unwanted children and others would be delayed in getting abortions, increasing the medical danger, the suit said
the constitutional dispute is far from resolved and could return to the supreme court at a later date. but lawyers in the case say the next legal action is likely to be at least a year away, either in appellate court proceedings or in a superior court trial
until then, minors ``can continue to obtain the health services, including abortions, that they need without the necessity for consent of a third party,'' said abigail english of the national center for youth law, one of the lawyers who filed suit
state officials say some 34,000 women under 18 had abortions in 1985, the latest figures available. under the old law, which remains in effect, a woman of any age can consent to an abortion as long as her doctor concludes she understands the procedure and is consenting voluntarily
attorney general john van de kamp, who personally supports abortion rights but as the state's top law enforcement officer is the lead defendant in the suit, had a low-key response to the court's action, his office said
we don't see this as a significant ruling on the overall merits of the litigation,'' said deputy attorney general allen ashby, press spokesman for van de kamp, who said the attorney general would proceed with an appeal
the state supreme court has permanently removed six judges and barred two others from completing their elected terms because they took cash gifts ranging from $200 to $500 from a union leader
a year ago, the eight judges were suspended from the bench after the allegations of taking cash surfaced during an fbi racketeering investigation of the roofers union
chief justice robert n.c. nix jr. said taking cash from the union affected the judges' impartiality and ordered that the judges' salaries, roughly $80,000 a year, cease immediately
only one judge denied receiving the cash; the others said they considered the money a gift, not a bribe
the judges had collected their salaries and benefits while the pennsylvania judicial inquiry and review board considered the cases. last august, the board recommended removal from the bench
the pennsylvania supreme court, holding that ``a public trust has been betrayed,'' concurred unanimously thursday in a 43-page opinion
district attorney ronald castille hailed the decision
it is a strong message to judges everywhere that this kind of conduct is totally inappropriate. this is an important first step in rebuilding the citizen's confidence (to) get justice back in city hall,'' he said
mark a. aronchick, a lawyer for common pleas judge mary rose fante cunningham who was permanently removed from the bench, said cunningham was ``just saddened about the whole thing.''
james c. schwartzman, a lawyer for common pleas judge michael wallace who was permanently removed, said the penalty was far too severe
stephen p. gallagher, a lawyer for municipal judge thomas dempsey who was barred from completing his term, said he had not talked with his client, ``but i'm sure he'll be unhappy.''
and charles cunningham, a lawyer for common pleas judge william porter who was barred for the rest of his term, said the court had drawn a ``significant distinction'' with its sentence for porter and dempsey, since they will be allowed to try to return to the bench in the future
the case and other bribery scandals, in which three judges have been convicted, have rocked the philadelphia court system in the past year
six other judges, also suspended last year, are under investigation
the eight judges were accused of accepting $200 to $500 from 1983 to 1985 from stephen traitz jr., former leader of roofers union local 30-30b
traitz and 18 other union members were convicted last year of extortion and bribery. they had been accused of trying to bribe more than 50 public officials
the national collegiate athletic association's drug testing program does not violate a student's privacy rights, a federal judge has ruled
u.s. district judge walter mcgovern's decision thursday also upheld the university of washington's right to enforce the drug test program
on the lawsuit brought by cross country and track athlete betsy o'halloran, 19, mcgovern said, ``the invasion of her privacy interest by the specimen collection procedures of the drug-testing program is outweighed'' by the ncaa's interest in protecting student athletes' health, reducing temptations to use drugs and ensuring fair competitions
i think the decision is correct in all particulars and accurately stated the law,'' said jack kitchin, a lawyer for the ncaa in kansas city, mo
the american civil liberties union, which filed the suit on behalf of o'halloran and another athlete who later joined the case, will likely appeal to the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals, said kathleen taylor of the aclu
it's a defeat in a way,'' o'halloran said. ``but i think we've got a great chance in the 9th circuit. i really don't think his arguments are very good.''
o'halloran initially filed suit against the university for its mandatory drug testing program, and a king county superior court judge ruled in july that the university program was a violation of both state and u.s. constitutional privacy rights
but that oral ruling was never formally entered, and the ncaa was ordered to be a defendant in the case, which was then moved to federal court
last month, the university of washington dropped the mandatory aspect of its drug testing program, revising it so that testing was voluntary and required only for those athletes suspected of drug use
the claim against the university program was then dismissed, with the claim against the ncaa program and the university's participation in it remaining
uw athletes are still required to sign a drug testing consent form required by the ncaa. mike lude, the university's athletic director, said o'halloran would be welcomed back if she complies with the ncaa rules and signs a consent form
i will not do that,'' o'halloran said thursday night
under ncaa rules, students must consent to be tested before regular season competition begins, although the random testing would not occur until post-season playoff time
students who refuse to sign are prohibited from regular season competition
o'halloran asked mcgovern to grant her a preliminary injunction allowing her to compete for the women's track team this spring
but mcgovern denied her request, saying any harm done to her by being barred from competition was outweighed by the potentially greater harm to the ncaa if its ``effective regulation of intercollegiate athletics was to be impaired.''
the shiite moslem amal militia today dismissed its security chief in a rift in the forces searching for kidnapped u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins in south lebanon
ousted security chief mustafa dirani issued a statement that made no mention of his dismissal, but claimed that higgins and other united nations peacekeeping officials in lebanon were paid by nato to gather information about terrorists
amal said in a terse statement that dirani was ``relieved from his responsibility as head of the central security system.'' it did not elaborate
higgins, 43, was abducted feb. 17 near tyre, 50 miles south of beirut. higgins headed an observer group assigned to the united nations interim force in lebanon, a peacekeeping force in south lebanon
the pro-iranian organization of the oppressed on earth claimed it abducted higgins and alleged he was a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the accusation
higgins is one of nine americans among 25 foreigners missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon
regarding the american officer, i would like to stress that we have confirmed information that nato is seeking to confront what it calls terrorism ... by forming security systems specialized in lebanon to gather information in preparation for acts of piracy in the future,'' dirani said
for this purpose, nato uses some u.n. officers and some unifil officers,'' he said in the handwritten statement
dirani criticized amal for seizing members of the fundamentalist iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god, in south lebanon during the dragnet for higgins. amal is fighting the iranian-backed hezbollah for control of south lebanon. tyre is an amal stronghold
we denounce the security arrangements that followed the abduction of the american officer,'' dirani said
amal's military commander in tyre, daoud daoud, has been leading a massive search for higgins. his militiamen have rounded up at least 42 hezbollah members
daoud told reporters today that ``we believe higgins is still in the south.'' he made no comment on dirani's allegations
an amal spokesman in beirut said lebanon's senior shiite cleric, sheik mohammed mehdi shamseddine, is involved ``in a quiet effort to release higgins.'' he refused to elaborate and spoke on condition he not be identified
hezbollah, made up of shiite zealots loyal to iran's ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, is believed to be an umbrella for pro-iranian factions holding most of the 25 missing foreigners
amal, the main shiite militia led by justice minister nabih berri, is more secular and is backed by syria, the main power broker in lebanon. the two shiite factions have been vying for control of south lebanon
the longest held hostage in lebanon is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was seized in west beirut on march 16, 1985. eliminating statement that vatican finances being revealed for first time</note>
the nation's roman catholic bishops, who have been asked to make special efforts to help whittle down the vatican's annual budget deficit, have released new detail on the church's worldwide expenses
the record 1986 deficit of $56.7 million included spending of $114 million and income of $57.3 million, said a statement sent to u.s. bishops for use in making fund-raising appeals in their areas. the statement was released thursday
the picture for 1987 looked better at the time church leaders met in rome to discuss the situation last october, according to an accompanying letter to u.s. bishops from leading cardinals
contributions were up for the first nine months of 1987, totaling $35.8 million compared with $32 million for the same period of 1986, said the letter, which was signed by 10 cardinals, including john krol of philadelphia and john o'connor of new york
the letter spoke of ``a heartening response'' to earlier appeals, but it also said the bishops were ``once more invited to continue their generous efforts to make the faithful aware of the holy see's economic problems.''
the biggest 1986 expense by far was for personnel _ $57.9 million, including $50.6 million to pay the vatican's 2,315 employees and $7.3 million in pension payments to 885 retired people
the vatican statement said the next largest expense was $11.7 million for publishing activities, followed by $11 million for expenses on investments
the investment expenses, including management of vatican investments and interest paid to depositors in vatican accounts, left a net income on investments of $17.8 million when deducted from gross investment income of $28.8 million
other expenses included:
_$10.4 million for vatican radio, including $3.9 million for operating costs and $6.5 million for modernization of equipment
_$9.7 million for administrative expenses, ``from the most elementary ones (stationery and printing supplies) to the most complex (consultencies of all sorts).''
_$9.6 million for depreciation and restoration of endowment funds, to help cover the previous year's deficit and to deal with inflation
_$2.1 million for electricity, water, heating and other utilities
_$1.6 million for maintenance work on office buildings and taxes on rented buildings
as for vatican income, investment income was the largest item at $28.8 million, followed by $17.1 million from publishing activities and lesser amounts from other activities
the vatican has been in the red every year since 1979, when it first made financial details public. the deficit at that time was about $20 million
classes were canceled today for nearly 73,000 pupils in ohio's largest school district after teachers rejected a contract offer and set up picket lines
talks were scheduled to resume at 1 p.m. today, according to federal mediator jack buettner
principals and administrative staff will reopen four high schools monday for 3,600 seniors, superintendent alfred tutela said. teachers had planned to strike thursday, but the district declared a snow day and closed all buildings
school officials and cleveland teachers union members declined to discuss the school board's latest offer, which was made at 6:30 a.m. thursday after two days of negotiations
at a regularly scheduled school board meeting thursday evening, mildred madison, board president, said she believed the board had made a fair offer
more than 100 students and teachers attended the meeting, and many were unhappy over negotiating efforts by school officials
it's the students who really need the education here,'' reubin fitzhugh, a senior at cleveland's aviation high school, told the board. ``you have your education. why can't we have ours?''
the school board reportedly has dropped its demand that a mandatory career ladder system be included in the new contract, leaving wages as the major unresolved issue. a career ladder system would have linked teacher advancement and pay raises to performance evaluations
the school board initially offered a one-time 2 percent bonus payment, with further raises contingent on passage of a tax levy. union president eugene kolach said the board had revised its offer to a 2 percent raise retroactive to september, and another 1 percent raise retroactive to jan. 1. a pay raise in the second year would be linked to a levy approval
beginning cleveland teachers are paid $17,600 a year. the average teacher makes $29,000 annually and the highest paid teacher makes just more than $34,600. of the 5,093 union members, 2,559 are classroom teachers
the last teachers strike in the district lasted 11 weeks in 1979
a soldier of fortune magazine ad, subject of a negligence suit that seeks millions of dollars in damages, does not fall under first amendment protection because the ad represents a commercial form of speech, a federal judge says
u.s. district judge david hittner issued the written opinion thursday, elaborating on a pre-trial decision that refused to dismiss the $22.5 million suit filed against the magazine by the family of a texas woman slain in 1985
in an eight-page decision, hittner cited several federal rulings that allowed negligence suits where commercial speech was the issue
according to the judge, the magazine acknowledges that the ad fell into the realm of commercial speech and to allow dismissal of the suit under first amendment grounds ``would afford to commercial speech a broader protection than that given core speech.''
gary black, 18, and marjorie einmann, 64, are suing the self-styled ``journal for professional adventurers'' for running a classified ad that led to the killing of sandra black, gary black's mother and mrs. einmann's daughter
robert black is on texas' death row for paying john wayne hearn $10,000 to kill his wife at her bryan home in february 1985. hearn is serving three life terms in florida for the black slaying and two others in that state
hearn's ad appeared in four issues of the magazine in late 1984, offering services of former marine and vietnam veterans and weapons specialists with jungle warfare expertise for ``high-risk assignments'' in the united states or overseas
attorneys for the magazine do not dispute that the ad brought hearn and black together, but insist that soldier of fortune publisher robert brown had no way of knowing the ad was for illegal activity. brown has testified he would have halted the classified ads for personal services if he had known they were linked to crimes
brown, publisher and founder of the boulder, colo.-based magazine, was expected to return to the stand today as the trial completed a second week. he was called last week as an adverse witness for the plaintiffs and his attorneys reserved cross-examination until later
a former top editor at the magazine testified thursday he favored elimination of classified ads from the publication because they were journalistically unprofessional
william guthrie, now a free-lance writer living in idaho, said the ads continued despite his objections because brown thought they lent an air of mystique to the publication
certain kinds of classified ads appeared to trivialize the magazine,'' said guthrie, who was executive editor before leaving in 1986. ``if soldier of fortune was trying to look like a legitimate military news magazine, to have ads for brass knuckles and so forth seemed inappropriate.''
guthrie said he was not aware that any of the ads may have been linked to criminal activity
a judge dropped contempt-of-court citations against 34 firefighters, but ordered their union to pay a $25,000 fine for a three-day sickout
the president of the union thursday read a letter of apology to the court for not doing more to comply with a back-to-work order issued on the first day of the sickout that eventually involved 110 firefighters
leo j. miller, the president of local 799 of the international association of firefighters, also promised to ``monitor all sick leave that appears to be excessive'' in the future
later, miller said the apology was not an admission that firefighters had participated in any type of job action. job actions by municipal employees are illegal under rhode island law
superior court judge americo campanella told miller he was fining the union ``in order to impress upon you ... the importance of a court order.''
the 34 firefighters failed to appear before campanella on monday afternoon, after they were served notice by the city to appear in court
city labor lawyer vincent ragosta jr. said he was pleased with the ruling, but said the city will press a civil suit to recover $100,000 spent on overtime during the sickout. the fire department kept its night shift on duty throughout the sickout; no major fires occurred during the three days
the city said the firefighters called in sick _ 50 out of 51 on saturday and all 60 on sunday _ to protest what they believed were unilateral changes made in their contract by the city. the walkout ended tuesday
the city has yet to sign the agreement ratified by the union in december, though it has been honoring wage and benefit increases
the dispute, according to fire chief michael f. moise, concerned the union's insistence that rescue truck crews have the highest level of emergency medical technician training
an honors student was fatally stabbed by two teen-agers after a quarrel over a girl, but before the victim died he was able to warn a brother and call his girlfriend, police reported
after the stabbing he called his girlfriend and said, `i probably won't be seeing you again,''' said madison county sheriff bob churchich
christopher a. mcdonald, 18, also was able to tell his father what had happened and to identify his assailants before he died a short time later wednesday at anderson hospital in maryville, police said. an autopsy found he had been stabbed in the chest and the abdomen
the boy's father, gary mcdonald, said his son had been visited a few days earlier by a girl who apparently was a friend of one of the suspects
the elder mcdonald told police that christopher and his 12-year-old brother were home alone when the quarrel and attack occurred. christopher had been on the first floor and the younger brother was upstairs, he said
they threatened to kill our family, but chris stood up to them, and they stabbed him to death,'' gary mcdonald told the st. louis post-dispatch
the younger brother did not hear the fight, but christopher was able to stagger upstairs and warn him to lock his bedroom door, mcdonald said
he said he was returning home when the suspects' car sped out of the driveway ``and almost hit me.''
alec macdonald, 17, of rural edwardsville, and dennis m. miller, 16, of rural worden, were charged thursday with first-degree murder, home invasion and armed violence, said assistant state's attorney randy massey
authorities refused to say which suspect was believed to have stabbed christopher or whether the weapon had been recovered
outnumbered senate republicans held ranks today, scuttling a last-ditch democratic attempt to force a vote on a divisive campaign finance package that kept lawmakers talking for 53 straight hours
the gop victory, capping a sometimes bitter filibuster that included the parliamentary arrest of sen. robert packwood, r-ore., came as the senate voted 53-41 not to invoke cloture, which would have cut off debate and brought the legislation to a vote the majority democrats would win
the cloture attempt failed because at least 60 senators must agree to force a vote. it was the eighth time since june that majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., had lost a cloture motion on campaign spending
the defeat seemingly doomed any chance of congress passing the democratic plan this year to impose voluntary spending limits for senate campaigns. but byrd left the door ajar
we will revisit the issue in one form or another,'' he said before the vote. ``it's not going to go away.''
acting minority leader alan simpson, r-wyo., said the republicans would be waiting
there will be other proposals like this. when they come up, they will be dealt with like this,'' simpson said
this week's struggle centered on a plan advanced by 52 senators, including republicans robert stafford of vermont and john chafee of rhode island, to attack the escalating cost of campaigns by imposing spending limits
limits for a senate general election race would range from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population. in 1986, the average campaign cost $3 million _ up fivefold from 1976 _ with some big state races topping $10 million per candidate
sen. david boren, d-okla., one of the bill's authors, said that to build a $3 million warchest, a senator must raise $10,000 every week from the time he or she arrives in washington until the end of the six-year term
a candidate observing the limit would be eligible for subsidized mailings, rock-bottom radio and tv ad rates and money from the treasury if the opponent exceeded the limit or the candidate was the target of heavy spending by independent groups
the legislation also takes aim at the increasing role of special-interest political action committees, which in 1986 provided over half the campaign money raised by more than 200 house and senate candidates, most of them incumbents. under the plan, pacs could supply no more than 20 percent of the candidate's spending limit
except for stafford and chafee, republicans are having no part of the proposal, which they say would favor democrats and doom them to continued minority status in heavily democratic states, particularly in the south
sen. warren rudman, r-n.h., calls it ``the incumbent protection act'' because, he said, it would hamper challengers with little name recognition or financial resources
everyone in politics knows that with these limits, what we absolutely say to most challengers is, `you've had it,''' rudman said
democrats rejected this argument, saying that the real question was the public perception of senators scurrying for contributions to fuel increasingly expensive campaigns
we have to spend our time running around the country looking for a handout,'' byrd said. ``how can we blame anyone from perceiving us as corrupt? the system is corrupt and we're trying to reform it
the senate should not be owned by an aristocracy of money,'' he said. ``campaign reform gives the little guy an equal share. ... this business of the golden handshake _ nobody likes it. senators don't want to spend all their time going from fund-raiser to fund-raiser with their hand out begging for money.''
republicans were forced into the filibuster at 2 p.m. tuesday when byrd placed the legislation before the senate. within 12 hours, things turned bitter with the parliamentary arrest of sen. robert packwood, r-ore
acting on the orders of democrats, capitol police pushed into his office and carried him feet-first into the chamber, giving byrd the quorum _ at least 51 present members _ he needed to keep the filibuster going
republicans talked of ``banana republic'' tactics. byrd called them ``crybabies'' and castigated them for deserting the chamber en masse in an effort to abort the talkathon
this was a calculated effort to obstruct the senate from doing its work,'' byrd said. ``i was forced to do it (order arrests) to get a majority of the senate present so the senate could do its business.''
byrd forced the filibuster in an effort to get the gop to negotiate. republicans said they were willing to talk about curbing pac money, but they steadfastly drew the line at spending limits
at the start of the filibuster, byrd said he was ready to keep the senate in continuous session through the end of next week
but by midnight wednesday, he and gop leaders had agreed to end the siege thursday evening, let everyone get a night's sleep and return for today's cloture vote
a top uaw official says he will give local unions permission to strike on a plant-by-plant basis in an attempt to discourage the company from selling its $1 billion parts-making subsidiary
more than 1,000 angry workers massed outside chrysler headquarters in 20-degree temperatures thursday chanting ``strike! strike!'' to protest the proposed sale of acustar inc., which employs 28,000 workers and represents nearly a fifth of chrysler's worldwide operations
you do whatever you need to do _ and you know what to do,'' uaw vice president marc stepp told the demonstrators. the rally followed a special meeting of the 140-delegate chrysler bargaining council representing the company's 49 uaw locals
although the union can't legally call a national strike against chrysler over acustar, stepp said he will give local uaw unions permission to strike on a plant-by-plant basis over unresolved issues such as health-and-safety grievances
a series of local strikes at key chrysler plants could shut down the company nationwide
at least seven chrysler locals have voted to seek strike authorization and one, a key 4,000-worker stamping plant in sterling heights, should receive authorization as early as next week, stepp predicted
stepp said the possible acustar sale, which chrysler chairman lee iacocca confirmed in early february, threatens the jobs of all chrysler workers by weakening their bargaining power and reducing work opportunities within the corporation
the council unanimously passed a resolution calling for suspension of all joint labor-management programs that require trust and cooperation, including special team-concept agreements at six plants, unless chrysler decides not to sell acustar
chrysler has begun implementing the so-called modern operating agreements at plants in huntsville, ala., and in indianapolis and newcastle, ind
local union leaders said they immediately will stop attending labor-management plant meetings
similar agreements, in which workers share tasks as part of a team, have not yet taken effect at plants in detroit; newark, del.; and trenton, n.j., stepp said
chrysler has said it may sell acustar because it doesn't want to invest in the research needed to upgrade some operations. chrysler already buys 70 percent of its parts from outside sources
workers say they are angry at the possible sale because they made concessions and helped iacocca win loan guarantees from the federal government to rescue the company from the verge of bankruptcy at the beginning of the decade
stepp will lead negotiations with chrysler this summer to replace its contract, which expires sept. 14. stepp said chrysler already has made talks more difficult with its announcement last month that it will close its assembly plant in kenosha, wis., by the end of the year
passengers aboard cruise ships that have passed federal sanitation inspections are less likely to suffer diarrhea during their vacations, federal health officials said
travelers ought to be aware that these are very tough inspections, far tougher than the usual restaurant inspections done ashore,'' said dr. vernon houk, director of the national centers for disease control's center for environmental health
but houk cautioned against reading too much into the inspection reports
the individual traveler should not look at a single inspection report and make that the determinant whether he'll travel on that ship or not,'' he said. ``it seems to me the useful question is, `what is the past history of this ship?'''
cdc researchers said thursday that ``ships that consistently have the highest sanitation scores are less likely to have an outbreak of diarrheal disease than ships with lower average scores.''
on the average, for every 10 million passenger-days _ one passenger, sailing one day _ fewer than two of the ships scoring in the top 20 percent reported diarrhea outbreaks between 1975, when the sanitation program began, and 1985
that compares with outbreaks aboard more than eight of the ships scoring in the bottom 20 percent, the cdc said
the cdc considers an outbreak in progress if 3 percent of the passengers and crew are ill. sanitation inspections monitor water quality, food storage and preparation, potential for food contamination, cleanliness and other matters
the cdc has no power to block a ship from sailing, but does distribute the results of its inspections
the agency also said the percentage of ships passing inspection rose dramatically over the program's first decade, while the number of intestinal illness outbreaks among passengers declined
in 1975, cruise ships reported 7.7 outbreaks of diarrhea for every million passenger-days sailed, houk said. by 1985, the figure dropped to 2.7 outbreaks
this has been a cooperative effort between us and the cruise ship industry, and ... (the study) clearly shows it has been working,'' houk said. ``things are going in the right direction.''
u.s. treasury secretary james a. baker iii said today that he called on the government here to speed up appreciation of its currency to help reduce the growing u.s. trade deficit with south korea
baker said he also discussed other trade issues, including the lifting of a ban on imports of u.s. beef, an easing of restrictions on american cigarettes and protection of u.s. intellectual property rights
baker, who visited south korea for president roh tae-woo's inauguration, said in an airport news conference before leaving that his talks with south korean officials were friendly and useful
baker said south korea's currency, the won, was undervalued against the dollar, but did not say how much it should be revalued. a higher value for the won would make south korean products more expensive and less competitive overseas
south korean officials said baker pointed out that the won's appreciation has been slower than that of the japanese yen and taiwanese dollar, which both gained close to 30 percent against the u.s. dollar last year. the won rose only 8.7 percent
finance ministry officials said they told baker that south korea would actively adjust the won's value by taking into account the value of the dollar on international money markets and the impact on domestic industries
local newspapers reported that baker asked for a 15 percent to 20 percent rise in the won and for south korea to open its stock market to foreign investors
baker said that ``problems have developed that need to be addressed in a spirit of cooperation by the two countries.''
he said the u.s. trade deficit with south korea grew 39 percent last year following a 57 percent increase in 1986, and that it was approximately equal to south korea's entire current account surplus, which hit a record $9.78 billion last year
he said the united states should be given more access to the south korean market because while the u.s. market ``is nearly completely open to korean goods, some of our exporters experience serious impediments to their access to the korean market.'' he cited high tariffs, other trade barriers and an undervalued exchange rate. update with fort sill comment on fatalities and injured from that base, id of dead, later hospital conditions for three men. pickup 18th graf `fort hood...'</note>
an army helicopter nosedived into a cow pasture and skidded about 75 feet before it broke apart in a sheet of fire, killing 10 men and seriously burning eight others, authorities and witnesses said
two soldiers leaped about 35 feet to the ground from the burning twin-rotor ch-47d chinook before it crashed about 50 miles from fort worth on thursday, said state department of public safety sgt. robert rankin. one of the soldiers died
the other soldier said that a fire had broken out at the back of the helicopter based at fort sill, okla., and that those aboard had tried to move to the front to get away from the flames, rankin said
residents raced to the scene, pulling casualties away from the raging grass fire sparked by the crash
some of them were just sitting there screaming,'' said 17-year-old dale christopher, a chico high school student who was among the first on the scene. ``and they kept asking us `help us. help us.' and then we'd say `help is on the way.' that's all we could do for them.''
a three-person team of investigators from the army safety center at fort rucker, ala., was investigating the crash today
the chinook ch-47d has a history of problems and the army grounded its entire fleet of 63 of the big transport helicopters for 1{ months in 1985 after an accident in honduras injured eight soldiers
witnesses said the helicopter was tilted forward at a 45-degree angle, puffing smoke and descending rapidly when it crashed about 3:29 p.m., slicing through a power line
all of a sudden a little thin streak of smoke came out of it and there was a small explosion on the right side underneath it,'' said joe haworth, who was working at a nearby plant. ``then it put out a little more smoke and it flew straight for a ways, then parts went to coming out of it.''
the craft skidded about 75 feet before breaking apart in a sheet of fire, said wendell berry sr., 53, who watched the accident from his home a half-mile away
berry cut the seat belt away from a crewman strapped to the remains of the cockpit
there was only one guy still in the helicopter who was either the pilot or the co-pilot, and he was conscious,'' berry said. ``he was so conscious that when i cut his seatbelt he said, `that feels better _ thanks.'''
jack souther, 54, used a small fire extinguisher from his pickup truck to douse burning bodies. ``the only thing i could do was put the fires out on the bodies. i went from body to body trying to put them out,'' he said
the copter, carrying 13 passengers and five crew members, was returning to fort sill from fort hood in central texas, fort sill spokesman rick brink said
fort sill officials said today that two pilots and a flight engineer from the post were among the 10 killed, and that two of the injured were also from fort sill
fort sill spokesman richard brown identified the three dead as staff sgt. raymond t. hill, 31, of new baltimore, mich.; chief warrant officer 4 ronald w. bender, 40, of rockville center, n.y., and chief warrant officer 4 scott j. temple, 43, of irving, texas. bender was the command pilot and temple was a pilot. hill was a flight engineer
of the 10 dead, six died at the scene, one died in parkland hospital in dallas, one died in bridgeport hospital and another died early today at brooke army medical center in san antonio. another soldier was found dead at the crash site after dark thursday
three soldiers remained hospitalized at parkland memorial hospital this morning, one of them in critical condition with skull fractures and lacerations on his thigh, said spokesman tom geddie. a second was in fair condition with a hip fracture and a third was in good condition with a broken leg and cuts on his face
four soldiers who had been initially taken to parkland late thursday were moved to brooke army medical center in san antonio, but one died shortly after arrival, a spokesman said today
fort hood soldiers paul stroud and calvin turner were in serious condition at harris methodist hospital in fort worth early today, said spokeswoman mandy goad
the ch-47d, which has a troop capacity of 44, is a modernized version of earlier models of the chinook, which was used in vietnam
in the honduras accident, a transmission bearing failed on a ch-47d taxiing to a refueling depot. the failure caused one of the copter's main rotors to stop turning; the other rotor began hitting it and the helicopter tore itself apart
the chinook's main rotors mesh as they turn, and therefore must be synchronized. up 3rd graf pvs, a poll</note>
vice president george bush, during a campaign stop here, said the united states should do ``whatever is necessary, including military force'' to protect american interests in panama
bush stopped short of calling for military intervention in panama in the wake of the ouster of president eric arturo delvalle, saying that the united states' past history of intervention in latin american affairs is ``what's hurting us in some areas now.''
he told the south carolina press association: ``we will do whatever is necessary to protect american interests in panama. we've got treaty interests on the (panama) canal. i don't want to rattle any sabers. ..
but we would obviously as the united states, and i would, reserve the right to do whatever is necessary, including military force, to protect america's sacred interest in that region of the world.''
the vice president, given a strong south carolina lead in a poll published today, was heading for atlanta after a day of campaigning thursday in south carolina, whose republican presidential primary is saturday, march 5
a poll by the charlotte observer indicated bush was the favorite in the state's gop contest, with the support of 41 percent of those likely to vote in the primary
sen. bob dole trailed with 29 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 13 percent; and rep. jack kemp had 4 percent. twelve percent were undecided
on thursday, bush seemed to be confidently raising the stakes as he declared, ``south carolina is going to stand alone as the forerunner of who is going to be president, in my view.''
bush traveled by motorcade through the state's northwestern corner, stopping at colleges, technical schools, a high school, popular restaurants and a sidewalk crowd in nearby greenwood
at one of his first stops, bush addressed head-on the issue of the region's major textile industry and the calls by its leaders for limits on foreign imports. textile leaders contend the industry has been damaged by cheap imports and they want legislation imposing limits on foreign products brought into the united states
bush referred to that as a ``pure, all-out'' protectionist policy that may cost three other jobs while saving one. he said existing trade laws are adequate if enforced
that's not the answer,'' bush said. ``the answer is, we can compete if the playing field is level. i will enforce the laws. i will guarantee you that there is every effort made towards fair trade.''
a day earlier rival bob dole campaigned in the state and pledged to support the legislation in the senate _ similar to legislation that president reagan vetoed over textile-state objections two years ago
bush argued that south carolina's economy has been growing and pointed to figures he said show 62,000 new jobs were created in the state last year, including 2,700 in textiles. he contended currency differences with japan are improving and that manufacturing and agricultural imports have climbed recently
we're seeing improvement out there,'' he said
bush cited evidence of economic improvement at most every stop but didn't repeat his opposition to the textile import limits until asked. ``there have got to be some changes before i'd be for it,'' he said
bush rode in his armored limo for most of the day but spent one leg of the trip on a bus with about 40 active supporters from the area
he said that dole's endorsement by sen. strom thurmond ``makes the stakes higher for dole'' in south carolina. thurmond, however, didn't provide enough help to make a difference for his gop primary favorite eight years ago _ texan john connally
bush was accompanied by south carolina gov. carroll a. campbell jr., his state chairman, and national campaign manager lee atwater, a native south carolinian
atwater attached much significance to the state's primary even while arguing bush could withstand a loss here. he said that if robertson fails to beat bush in south carolina he won't win a single state
and atwater said if dole finishes third in south carolina, ``i think he's going to lose every single state on super tuesday'' when 20 states including all the rest of the south hold primaries
the observer's poll, conducted by the newspaper's market research division, surveyed 687 registered voters who indicated they were likely to participate in the primary. the margin of error is 4 percentage points, the newspaper said. to update with gang attack elsewhere.</note>
a member of a street gang opened fire at a member of a rival gang on a crowded city bus, seriously wounding the 15-year-old boy and three other teen-agers, police said
this is every day,'' bystander mary james said at the scene of the shooting spree thursday afternoon. ``i wouldn't mind seeing the national guard around here.''
witnesses aboard the packed southern california rapid transit district bus said two teens on the bus asked passengers if they were members of a rival gang, said police lt. joseph freia
the passengers said they weren't, but one of the two youths pointed to another teen-ager and identified him as a rival gang member, freia said
the youth singled out then pulled a .45-caliber pistol from his waistband and shot the challenger in the chest, said police lt. bruce hagerty
he fired at random and wounded three other 15-year-old boys before he fled on foot into the south central los angeles neighborhood, police said. a search of the neighborhood turned up no suspects, police said
the shooting occurred in an area of the city that is plagued by gang violence and drug dealing. more than 300 gang-related killings occurred in los angeles county last year, many of them in the neighborhoods of south central
on the north side of the city, a man was stabbed in the neck late thursday when he drove his pickup into a residential neighborhood just as a fight between 25 to 50 alleged gang members broke up, said police lt. don brown
a couple of gang members jumped in the back of his truck'' and rode for about half a block, brown said. when the victim stopped his truck, one pulled out a knife and stabbed him in the neck, narrowly missing his jugular vein, officials said. the victim was in stable condition today. no one was arrested
the street violence stirred up political tensions in the city after a 27-year-old long beach woman was gunned down by gangs in the trendy westwood area last month
police chief daryl gates deployed more officers to the area, prompting complaints by residents of the gang-plagued poorer neighborhoods that they don't receive the same attention
earlier this week, county supervisor kenneth hahn suggested national guard troops be called in to quell the epidemic of gang violence. indictments and to move up similar nbc report. pickup 5th graf pvs, `castro said blandon... deletes last graf of pvs, now redundant.</note>
cuban president fidel castro called a panamanian military aide's assertion that castro was an active partner in alleged drug operations with panama's gen. manuel antonio noriega ``lies, all lies.''
in an nbc news interview broadcast thursday, castro sharply denied claims by jose blandon, a former panamanian defense forces aide and the country's former consul general in new york
blandon told a congressional committee two weeks ago that castro was involved in the alleged drug operations with noriega, panama's military strongman. federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., indicted noriega earlier this month in connection with cocaine and marijuana trafficking
nbc also reported thursday that u.s. officials say they have solid evidence that cuban mig fighters and cuban coast guard boats have been involved in escorting and protecting cocaine shipments on their way from colombia to the florida keys via cuba
in a related development, the miami herald reported today that a federal grand jury has returned sealed indictments against 17 people it accuses of using cuba as a way station to smuggle cocaine from colombia to south florida
the indictments describe four cocaine loads totaling 3,800 pounds, two that came through cuba, one through haiti and one through the bahamas, federal law enforcement sources told the paper
the grand jury returned two indictments, one charging five people and another 12. neither accuses cuban officials of wrongdoing, sources told the herald
nbc also reported that the miami grand jury was ready to hand up the indictments
castro said blandon ``has accused noriega of bypassing the blockade (the u.s. trade embargo against cuba), of warning cuba before the invasion of grenada, of being a spy, of drug trafficking, of asking me for advice to return some money, and all those are lies and slander.''
what he says is lies, all lies,'' castro said through an interpreter in the interview taped wednesday in havana
blandon also testified that castro mediated a dispute between noriega and a colombian drug cartel
castro denied he ever talked to noriega about the dispute. ``i have documents on archives that this type of conversation never took place. it's a lie from top to bottom,'' he said
blandon also accused noriega of acting as a double agent
he said that noriega sells cia secrets to us. he has never given u.s. confidential information to us,'' castro said
castro denied that there is drug trafficking of any type in cuba: ``cuba is the cleanest country in the world.''
however, the network reported that colombian pilots have been landing at havana international airport and a nearby cuban air force base with loads of cocaine, which are then shipped into florida
nbc interviewed a colombian pilot who said he was working undercover for the fbi as part of an investigation into the alleged drug operation
a white man sentenced to perform community service work for the naacp after he harassed two blacks was charged in a second alleged racial incident, an assault on a pregnant woman with an hispanic surname, police said
james kalafut jr., 21, was charged thursday with ethnic intimidation, battery and violation of his court-supervised sentence after he allegedly punched a pregnant woman in the stomach and shouted racial slurs at her, police said
a court hearing was scheduled today on the new charges
virginia flores suffered minor injuries but the fetus was not harmed, said a spokesman for holy cross hospital, where she was treated and released
on tuesday, cook county circuit judge stuart nudelman said kalafut had been ``taught to hate blacks'' and sentenced him to perform 200 hours of community service for the national association for the advancement of colored people and one year of court supervision
kalafut had pleaded guilty to ethnic intimidation and aggravated assault for an aug. 16, 1987, incident in which a group of whites _ brandishing baseball bats, hurling bottles and shouting racial slurs _ chased two blacks from a predominantly white neighborhood on the city's southwest side
nudelman issued two warrants for kalafut's arrest after the new incident late wednesday night. ``i feel terrible about it,'' the judge said
i was trying to stop the cycle of hate,'' nudelman said of his decision to sentence kalafut to community service work for the naacp. ``this is very unfortunate.''
ms. flores, said she was ``a white caucasian american'' who had some spanish in her family history
chicago police said that the incident occurred while ms. flores, 27, who is 4{ months pregnant, and kenneth kolokowski, 25, were walking past the kalafut home and having an argument
the couple alleged that kalafut came out of his house, yelled at them and then got into a struggle with kolokowski. kalafut then allegedly punched ms. flores in the stomach and shouted a racial slur at her, police said
the defendant's father, james kalafut sr., 45, then allegedly came out of the house, dressed in pajama bottoms, and exposed himself to the woman, said police sgt. jerry dusek
the elder kalafut also was charged with ethnic intimidation and battery in the alleged incident
barry silver, the younger kalafut's attorney, said he was concerned that his client, sentenced for one racial attack, might have been ``framed'' in the new incident
i don't know what to believe at this point,'' silver said. ``i question the credibility of the persons who filed the charges. but if the charges are true, it's extremely disheartening.''
president reagan was ``just being realistic'' in saying that there isn't enough time to finish work on a u.s.-soviet strategic weapons treaty before his planned summit meeting in moscow, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said today
reagan, in an interview published in today's washington post, also said he believes it is still possible for the treaty to be completed and signed before he leaves office in january
u.s. and soviet negotiatiors had hoped to have the treaty ready for reagan to sign with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev when the two meet in moscow in may or june
fitzwater said the president's statements did not represent any major change in the u.s. position
the president said the same thing that i have said here many times, that secretary (of state george) shultz and others have said, and that is that we are working on a start agreement; if we can get one that will be done in time to sign at the summit, that would be great; but, realistically, it doesn't appear that's likely to happen.''
the president was just being realistic,'' fitzwater said
during a 30-minute oval office interview with the post on thursday, reagan was asked whether he expected to sign the treaty to reduce strategic, or long-range, nuclear weapons by 50 percent during the summit
that would be nice, if it could happen, but i have to tell you that common sense indicates that the time is too limited for us to really think that we could bring a treaty ready for signature to that meeting,'' reagan said
we're not at this moment anticipating that it would be ready for signature then,'' he said
reagan said the negotiations being conducted by representatives of both sides at the strategic arms reductions talks in geneva are far more complex than those that preceded the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, which was signed by the two leaders during the washington summit in december. the inf treaty eliminated short-and intermediate-range missiles from europe. it is awaiting action by the senate
this one is so much more complicated with regard to verification and everything else than the inf treaty, which we were able to bring together. but even that took a few months to do,'' reagan said
i believe with the amount of time that would still be remaining that, if there is sincerity on both sides with regard to getting such an agreement _ and i think there is _ i think that could be done ... before my time expired,'' he said
he reiterated that he would not use the strategic defense initiative _ known as star wars _ as a bargaining chip in negotiations with the soviet union
i have told him (gorbachev) every time. ... if it is that good, we are going to deploy it. we see it as the basis then for eliminating the strategic ballistic missiles on both sides. and i have even told him that i would be willing to see this shared,'' the president said
reagan also said national security adviser lt. gen. colin powell and secretary of state george p. shultz are convinced the soviets want to pull out of afghanistan, where they have been battling u.s.-backed rebels
i think that a large part of that could be the economic situation in the soviet union and the fact that, after going on nine years, it's still a stalemate. so i think that there's reason to believe that they really want out,'' he said
a group of senators back from a tour of nato capitals said they won assurances from reagan on thursday that the strategic arms treaty would not be rushed through simply to have it ready for signing at the moscow summit
i am very concerned that the start agreement not be based on the calendar, the day of the month, that it not be governed by meeting a deadline,'' said senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va
he said he was assured that would not be the case
on monday, during shultz's talks with soviet leaders in moscow, u.s. and soviet negotiators at the start talks in geneva had been directed to prepare within a month three draft agreements for a treaty to reduce long-range nuclear weapons by 30 percent to 50 percent
draft accords on verification, disposing of weapons and exchange of information are to be ready for the next meeting between shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, scheduled for march 22-23 in washington
other issues covered during the post interview included:
_the u.s. budget deficit: ``it's a burden. there's no question about that. but ... not the disaster some people proclaim. ... one of the major factors in our budget right now is the interest. but who gets that interest? and you find out then that a great many institutions, universities, educational institutions of all kinds, that part of their endowment are government bonds. and so a lot of that interest is going to them ... (and) to individual americans.''
_former white house aides michael deaver, convicted of perjury for lying about his lobbying activities, and lyn nofziger, convicted of illegal lobbying, and attorney general edwin meese iii, who is being investigated by an independent counsel: ``of course, i am saddened. ... i found all those individuals to be the very soul of integrity in the more than 20 years that i have known them.''
for three long minutes, air traffic controllers at the denver air route traffic control center were without radar systems to track planes in parts of nine western states, relying instead on manual calculations
the primary computer system used to track air traffic failed at 6:14 p.m. thursday, and controllers were unable to switch to the backup system until 6:17 p.m. because it had been taken apart for maintenance, said lee fryer, a duty officer for the federal aviation administration in seattle
during those three minutes, air traffic controllers had to keep the traffic separated by using manual calculations
a controller who was working during the shutdown said that the equipment failure lasted longer than three minutes. ``three minutes is optimistic on the faa side,'' he said. safety at the center was ``most definitely compromised,'' said the controller, who asked that his name not be used
however, fryer said that a three-minute shutdown was not long enough to cause a safety problem. keeping track of the aircraft ``was not a serious problem,'' he said. lawyers ``making up'' conditions and with report that tawana brawley not talked to own lawyers about case.</note>
gov. mario cuomo today accused lawyers for a black teen-ager who says she was assaulted by six white men of ``making up conditions'' as part of their continuing refusal to have the young woman testify about the case
meanwhile, the teen-ager's aunt was quoted today as saying the girl hadn't even talked about the case with the lawyers representing her
tawana brawley, 16, missing for four days in november, was found wrapped in a plastic garbage bag and covered with feces, with racial insults scrawled on her body. she said she was assaulted by six white men, one of whom flashed a police badge
miss brawley, of wappinger's falls north of new york city, and her family have refused to be questioned further on the advice of attorneys c. vernon mason and alton maddox jr. of new york city, the lawyers who used a similar tactic to get a special prosecutor appointed in the howard beach manslaughter case
cuomo had nothing good to say about those lawyers at an impromptu news conference today
they said they had reasons they could not cooperate. ... it's clear now they don't really,'' cuomo said of the two lawyers. ``these conditions obviously don't mean anything. they keep making up new conditions.''
maddox and mason were on the road this morning and not immediately available for comment on cuomo's statements or today's report in the middletown times herald record newspaper that miss brawley hadn't talked to the lawyers about the case
cuomo said again today that he was willing to meet with miss brawley if it would help push the stalled investigation along. however, he said he would do so only if her lawyers approved and state attorney general robert abrams, cuomo's special prosecutor in the case, said it would be helpful
in her interview with the middletown newspaper, juanita brawley, who helped raise tawana for eight years and who has spent time with her since her attack, said she is the only one who knows enough about the incident to keep the lawyers and the girl's mother informed
i know a few things that no one else knows,'' she said in an interview at her home. she said of maddox: ``he has not talked to tawana. he does not need to talk to tawana.'' she did not elaborate
on thursday, the rev. al sharpton said the brawley family would go to jail before testifying before a grand jury empaneled by abrams
sharpton, a minister from new york city who has said he is advising the family, said cuomo is using ``macho politics'' in trying to compel tawana's testimony
on wednesday, cuomo had called on abrams to ask a grand jury when it convenes monday in poughkeepsie to force miss brawley and her family to cooperate with investigators
someone is going to give him a macho award for beating up on a young girl who has already been abused,'' sharpton said of cuomo
this morning, cuomo said that whatever happened with the grand jury, he thought it was ``very unlikely'' that tawana would be sent to jail even if she continued her refusal to cooperate with abrams' investigation
on thursday, cuomo had told new york city radio station wlib that he can't understand why the brawley family will not cooperate with authorities
i see no reason, no common-sense reason, no difficult-to-understand reason, why there is not cooperation,'' cuomo said. ``at one point you have to ask yourself, why aren't they cooperating with the prosecutors?'' update with details of speech and report that protests waning. picks up 14th graf, `the protests ...' edits to tighten.</note>
mikhail s. gorbachev today made an unprecedented public appeal for calm in the protest-plagued republic of armenia, but thousands ignored him and took to the streets in a ``sea of banners,'' witnesses said
for the past five days, protesters have jammed the center of yerevan, armenia's capital, to demand that a region of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan, nagorno-karabakh, whose population is more than three-quarters armenian, be made part of armenia
the communist party central committee, over which gorbachev presides as party general secretary, rejected the call earlier this month. that sparked street protests in yerevan in numbers without precedent in the 70 years of soviet history
sergei grigoryants, an armenian dissident, said a speech from gorbachev was read over armenian state-run radio at 11 a.m. by vladimir i. dolgikh, a non-voting member of the ruling politburo. it was later read by dolgikh over local television, said gevorg mirozyan, an editor at armenian gostelradio, the state broadcasting authority
gorbachev called on the armenian people to be calm, and said there were a lot of unresolved problems, including that of nargorno-karabakh, and that a patient approach is required,'' grigoryants told the associated press by telephone from yerevan
the 15-minute speech also was broadcast over loudspeakers at yerevan airport and elsewhere in the city, said grigoryants, a moscow resident who arrived in armenia earlier today
demonstrators also watched the address on tv monitors that had been set up on in yerevan's streets, said valery aidinyan, chief of the propaganda department at the local communist party newspaper kommunist
gorbachev said the central committee intends to devote one of its next plenary meetings to examining relations among the country's more than 100 ethnic groups
the soviet union has recently faced ethnic problems among the baltic republics and in the central asian republic of kazakhstan, where three people were killed and 200 injured in rioting dec. 17-18, 1986
armenia, the smallest of the 15 soviet republics in area, has 3.4 million people
grigoryants said gorbachev's speech was more conciliatory and soothing than ``combative'' remarks made wednesday night in yerevan by dolgikh, but he said it failed to sway protesters
the numbers in the streets have grown to more than 1 million today,'' grigoryants said. ``columns are marching along the major streets, and there is a sea of banners.''
several hours later, aidinyan said the demonstrators had begun to disperse. a worker at the yerevan hotel, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that by nighfall, virtually all of the demonstrators had left the city center
there is no disorder. everyone is working again,'' he said by telephone
factories, scientific institutes and the armenian telegraph agency reportedly went on strike in sympathy with the protest. armenians who had served with the soviet army in afghanistan were said to be among the protesters, throwing away their medals and their communist party membership cards
the protests in yerevan, now in their fifth straight day, constitute a clear challenge to gorbachev's campaign for greater democratization and openness. gorbachev's personal appeal showed how seriously the kremlin regards the situation
there has been no official estimate of the number of protesters, and the state-run travel agency intourist has refused to allow moscow-based reporters to travel to yerevan
ayrikyan said that before midnight thursday, 1,500 soviet paratroopers had been flown into yerevan, and were ferried in a 40-vehicle motorcade to the dynamo sports hall and other locations around the republic's capital
they came with full equipment, including clubs,'' ayrikyan said. he said paratroopers were told by officers aboard their transport planes that an ``uprising for national independence'' was under way in armenia, but would not say how he obtained the information
ayrikyan, a former political prisoner who spent 17 years in labor camps and exile for alleged nationalist behavior, called the arrival of the paratroopers ``an interference in armenia's affairs.'' each of the soviet union's 15 republics is ostensibly independent
mofses gorgisyan, 26, a member of an armenian underground group called the alliance for national determination, told the ap by phone from yerevan thursday that other soldiers took up positions in the city's downtown area and stationed tanks in the outskirts
a 17-year-old resident of nagorno-karabakh said after arriving in moscow thursday that virtually the entire armenian population of the region, about 120,000 people, has been demonstrating daily in the main city, stepanakert, since feb. 13
the student, who spoke on condition she not be identified, said protests were continuing round-the-clock and that schools and businesses were closed in a strike
she also said some armenians in her region had been killed by azeris, members of the dominant ethnic group in azerbaidzhan, but that she had did not know how many or the circumstances
soviet officials have said there were ``victims'' of the unrest, but did not give other information. senate trial</head> ....'</note>
on the eve of what would have been the greatest challenge of his 30-year legal career, the man who has been impeached gov. evan mecham's lead lawyer for months has resigned
murray miller, 60, who with his son has defended the governor through impeachment proceedings as well as mecham's criminal indictment, said in a brief interview today that ``i was fully in charge of the case'' as late as wednesay night, after his appearance before the senate impeachment court
miller still was acting for the governor thursday evening in filing motions with the senate challenging the adequacy of the impeachment charges, but he would say today only that the decision to withdraw came thursday night and that he hoped the senate would not suspect that he had deceived it
as for mecham, miller, said, ``my main concern is that the governor gets a fair legal shake.''
earlier miller had said a ``lynch mob atmosphere'' was undermining his fight to save the governor from an impeachment conviction
they're trying to sandbag the governor,'' miller had said, referring to mecham's foes in and out of the state senate which is scheduled to convene as a court monday
if they convict him, they can also stamp the dracula clause,'' said the metaphor-prone attorney. ``they can bar him from holding office for life _ putting the stake through his heart.''
miller declined to discuss the reasons for his resignation. however, mecham hired five additional attorneys early this week, including jerris leonard, a washington attorney and former congressman, and miller said earlier the leonard move came as a surprise
that was the first time i met him, when he walked in here on tuesday,'' miller had said with a shrug. ``i spoke with the governor and he said he was bringing (leonard) on board for advice.''
the senate dealt leonard a setback wednesday night, however, rebuffing his plea for a delay to let him catch up on the case but agreeing to let leonard join the defense team. miller had said at the time he would be the lead counsel ``at the beginning'' because he was most familiar with the case
leonard resigned from the washington law firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney and evans because of his decision to take the case, charles t. manatt, a senior partner, confirmed today
jerris leonard informed the firm last week that he had been contacted by gov. mecham concerning representation,'' manatt said. ``we made it clear that the firm was not interested in representing governor mecham, and mr. leonard informed us that he has resigned from the firm.''
the 23-count impeachment accused mecham of concealing a campaign loan, diverting money from the governor's protocol fund for private use and obstructing justice in the investigation of a death threat allegation
miller said he believes mecham is innocent, but that it is impossible for the republican governor to get a fair trial even though the gop controls both houses of the legislature
you really have a lynch mob atmosphere in the city,'' miller said
you're not dealing with a neutral jury,'' he said. ``you're dealing with senators who may be predisposed against the governor. ... i'll try to beseech them to keep an open mind. but, politicians being what they are, i'm not sure that's going to be possible.''
if mecham faces difficult odds, he had in miller an attorney who knows how it feels to be an underdog
described by colleagues as talkative and tenacious, the new york-born lawyer is the son of european immigrants and was the youngest of six children raised in a one-bath, two-bedroom brooklyn tenement
miller recalled nostalgically how he waded through snowdrifts to carry his father's lunch to his upholstery shop
oh, dad, you're telling those stories again,'' chided his son rick, 28, who joined his father's law practice a year ago. another miller son is a court stenographer and a third is about to enter law school
miller was sent by the army to new mexico where he met and married zelda cohen, a registered nurse, and attended the university of new mexico
a job selling x-ray equipment brought them to arizona, where he decided to try law school. mrs. miller worked to pay his tuition at the university of arizona, and in 1958 he set up a one-man practice
we were really broke,'' he recalled of the days when he accepted any case that came along
his current clients include max dunlap, a contractor who is suing phoenix for $650 million over his subsequently reversed conviction in the car-bomb slaying of newspaper investigative reporter don bolles
two soviet cosmonauts conducted a 4-hour, 25-minute walk in space friday to replace a solar battery on the outside of their mir space station, the official tass news agency reported
vladimir titov and musa manarov completed their work ``with the highest level of professionalism,'' and they were feeling well after the activity, tass said
they have been aboard the space station since dec. 21, when they blasted off from the central asian cosmodrome with a third spaceman aboard the soyuz tm-4 capsule
it was the first space walk from the mir since titov and manarov took over from cosmonaut yuri romanenko, who set a space endurance record of 325 days during his 1987 mission. romanenko returned to earth on dec. 29
the mir station, the newest of the two soviet research complexes in orbit, was launched feb. 20, 1986. 0285</first>
here is the 53-41 roll call friday by which the senate failed to shut off debate on a bill to limit campaign spending
on this vote, a vote ``for'' was a vote to end the filibuster, while a vote ``against'' was a vote to continue the debate. it takes 60 votes to end a filibuster
there were 53 votes ``for'' and 41 votes ``against.''
adams, wash.; baucus, mont.; bentsen, texas; bingaman, n.m.; boren, okla
bradley, n.j.; breaux, la.; bumpers, ark.; burdick, n.d.; byrd, w.va
chiles, fla.; conrad, n.d.; cranston, calif.; daschle, s.d.; deconcini, ariz
dixon, ill.; dodd, conn.; exon, neb.; ford, ky.; fowler, ga
glenn, ohio; graham, fla.; harkin, iowa; hollings, s.c.; inouye, hawaii;
johnston, la.; kennedy, mass.; kerry, mass.; lautenberg, n.j.; leahy, vt
levin, mich.; matsunaga, hawaii; melcher, mont.; metzenbaum, ohio; mikulski, md
mitchell, maine; moynihan, n.y.; nunn, ga.; pell, r.i.; proxmire, wis
pryor, ark.; reid, nev.; riegle, mich.; rockefeller, w.va.; sanford, n.c
sarbanes, md.; sasser, tenn.; simon, ill.; stennis, miss.; wirth, colo
chafee, r.i.; kassebaum, kan.; stafford, vt
heflin, ala.; shelby, ala
armstrong, colo.; bond, mo.; boschwitz, minn.; cohen, maine; d'amato, n.y
danforth, mo.; domenici, n.m.; durenberger, minn.; evans, wash; garn, utah;
grassley, iowa; hatch, utah; hatfield, ore.; hecht, nev.; heinz, pa
helms, n.c.; humphrey, n.h.; karnes, neb.; kasten, wis.; lugar, ind
mccain, ariz.; mcclure, idaho; mcconnell, ky.; murkowski, alaska; nickles, okla
packwood, ore.; pressler, s.d.; quayle, ind.; roth, del.; rudman, n.h
simpson, wyo.; specter, pa.; symms, idaho; thurmond, s.c.; trible, va
wallop, wyo; warner, va.; weicker, conn.; wilson, calif
a construction crew working on the grounds of a plutonium-refining plant found an unexploded world war ii bomb in a load of soil they had just dumped onto a truck, officials said
explosives experts safely disarmed the 110-pound u.s.-made bomb after moving it to a wooded area, said christiane kohl, spokeswoman for the hesse state environment ministry
the crew was digging the foundation for a new building at the alkem nuclear-reprocessing facility in hanau, 12 miles east of frankfurt, she said
the excavator's metal shovel scooped up a chunk of earth ``and loaded it onto a truck,'' she said, and the crew then noticed the bomb amid the dirt
work at the scene was halted and police and atomic safety officials were informed, an alkem statement said
detonation experts said there would have been no danger to stored nuclear materials had the bomb gone off'' because of the way the facilities at alkem are constructed, ms. kohl said
the bomb was unearthed about 80 yards from production buildings at the reprocessing facility, she said
manfred popp, state secretary for the hesse environment ministry, said experts will search the grounds for more ordnances before work resumes
the alkem nuclear facility produces radioactive fuel rods for nuclear power plants.   
consumer prices rose a moderate 0.3 percent in january, about the same rate of inflation as through 1987, but a large decline in energy costs cloaked hefty increases in many other areas, the government reported friday
the january increase in the labor department's consumer price index followed a revised december increase of 0.2 percent. the december rise initially been reported as 0.1 percent
the advance was equivalent to an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent, according to department analysts. that compares to the 4.4 percent actual rate of inflation posted for 1987 and is also in line with the reagan administration's projection of 4.3 percent inflation for 1988
but, while most analysts do not see a major acceleration of inflation this year, january's figures showed particularly steep increases in the category of services
medical care services rose 0.8 percent, its steepest increase in two years. the cost of hospital rooms was up 1.2 percent, physicians' bills were up 1.0 percent
rent costs rose 1.1 per cent, auto insurance prices were up 1.5 percent and entertaintment costs rose 0.9 percent
analysts said that many of the price increases may reflect one-time-only increases timed to coincide with the beginning of the year
but donald ratajczak, a georgia state university economist who specializes in price activity, called the report ``a bit worrisome.''
we didn't expect that much of a rise in services,'' he said. ``it does appear that there was some aggressive pricing going on in january. we should see some calming in february.''
in another economic reports friday:
_the commerce department said americans' personal incomes and consumer spending both rose at moderate rates of 0.3 percent in january, less than half the 0.7 gains both posted in december. economists expect weakening consumer spending this year as the economy slows down
_a real estate trade group said sales of existing homes fell 3.6 percent in january, the third consecutive monthly decline. the national association of realtors said that sales of existing single-family homes were at their slowest pace since june 1985
january's consumer inflation level would have been higher had it not been for the second consecutive monthly decline in energy costs
in fact, subtracting the usually volatile food and energy categories, consumer prices for all other goods and services rose a sharp 0.5 percent in january _ equivalent to about a 6 percent annual inflation rate _ after a 0.2 percent increase in this category in december
overall, energy prices fell 0.7 percent in january after a 0.8 percent drop in december
gasoline prices fell 1.6 percent, heating oil costs were down 0.8 percent, natural gas prices dropped 0.1 percent and electricity charges were down 0.3 percent
food prices, meanwhile, rose but not as much as they had in the previous month _ up 0.3 percent after december's 0.6 percent gain
overall, grocery prices were up 0.2 percent while restaurant meal costs climbed 0.3 percent. after climbing sharply through the fall, the index for fruits and vegetables fell 0.4 percent last month. beef prices were down 1.4 percent, pork prices fell 0.5 percent
poultry prices, however, climbed 1.0 percent while cereal and bakery products rose 1.1 percent
although import prices have been rising recently under the pressure of a weaker u.s. dollar, the january price report did not show much evidence of dollar-related inflation
and, despite the surge in service prices in january, most economists stuck to their predictions of relatively little price acceleration for 1988
there were a lot of price increases that come at the first of the year, but i'm not overly alarmed,'' said lawrence chimerine, chairman of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area forecasting service
services are clearly a major source of inflation. but i think that in the months to come, we'll see less inflation from services and more from import price increases,'' chimerine added
the labor department gave these other specifics of january price behavior
_new automobile prices were down 0.2 percent; used automobile prices fell 0.1 percent
_housing expenses were up 0.4 percent
_apparel costs gained 0.1 percent
_tobacco products rose 2.8 percent
january's increase left the cpi at 115.7, meaning that a selection of goods and services that cost $100 during a 1982-84 base period cost would have $115.70 last month
the department recently abandoned a 1967 base period in favor of the 1982 standard. under that earlier base period, a selection of goods and services costing $100 in that year would have cost $346.70 last month _ which is $1.56 more than the same goods cost in january 1986
the overall index is not adjusted for seasonal variations while other figures in the report are. acceptable</head> house comment.</note>
soviet concerns about president reagan's proposed space-based missile defense system are diminishing, possibly opening the door to wider testing of the ``star wars'' program than moscow previously said it could accept, according to a report published today
in what was described as a highly unusual luncheon in moscow with reporters, a high-ranking soviet official said his country only opposed the deployment of the space-based system and would want assurances that the united states would not use a testing program to disguise actual deployment
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``if they have new moves or new proposals, we will certainly take a look at them.''
the new york times said the soviet official spoke freely thursday during the meal of caviar and filet mignon with reporters on the condition he not be identified or quoted directly, as senior american government officials often do
the official said technical problems with the system made it unlikely a workable system could be produced by the end of the century
he added that moscow remains committed to a strict interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, which includes prohibitions on the development of space-based weapons envisioned under reagan's strategic defense initiative
it was unclear if the new position was a genuine change in soviet policy or merely a hint of possible compromise, the times said
a revised soviet position on testing of components of the system could alleviate one of the main obstacles to completion of a treaty reducing long-range, strategic missiles. with comment from second lawyer, crowe, and edit to conform.</note>
gov. evan mecham's chief attorney has resigned, just days after other lawyers were brought in to handle the governor's impeachment trial opening next week before the state senate
murray miller said today during a brief interview at his office that the decision to withdraw from the case came thursday night. he declined to elaborate on the decision but he said he hoped members of the senate would not suspect he had deceived them
as late as wednesday night, after his appearance before the senate, ``i was fully in charge of the case and defending the governor,'' miller said
i feel uncomfortable that the impeachment court (the senate) may think i knew about the withdrawal at the time i appeared and that i was being deceptive. i want them to be asssured that is totally not the case.''
miller said he thought that washington attorney jerris leonard, hired earlier this week by mecham to be the lead lawyer for the impeachment trial, is now in charge of mecham's case
miller said he did not know whether the new mecham legal team would be able to proceed with the impeachment trial as scheduled monday, but assumed they would if so ordered
my main concern is that the governor gets a fair legal shake,'' said miller
another lawyer hired by mecham this week, thomas crowe, said today that leonard would be at the senate on monday
how ready he'll be i don't know, but he will be there,'' crowe said. he also said the attorneys had not decided whether they would go to court today in an effort to delay the impeachment trial
the arizona daily star of tucson today quoted the governor as saying: ``murray withdrew from the case. we parted friendly, but that's really all. you'll have to ask him why.''
mecham and leonard did not immediately return phone calls this morning
leonard resigned from the washington law firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney and evans because of his decision to join mecham's defense, said charles t. manatt, a senior partner in the firm
jerris leonard informed the firm last week that he had been contacted by governor mecham concerning representation,'' manatt said. ``we made it clear that the firm was not interested in representing governor mecham, and mr. leonard informed us that he has resigned from the firm.''
manatt, a former chairman of the democratic national committee, was asked why his firm wasn't interested in being associated with the mecham case. ``lots of reasons, you can well imagine,'' he replied
miller said wednesday he did not know additional attorneys were being hired until leonard walked into his office monday
the beleaguered mecham also faces a may 17 recall election and a march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
the senate on wednesday refused to delay the impeachment trial. miller said then that he expected to remain the lead attorney until leonard could get acquainted with the case
mecham hired miller on oct. 21, the day it was disclosed that the attorney general's office was investigating mecham's failure to disclose the $350,000 campaign loan made in 1986
on thursday, miller filed a motion asking the state senate to dismiss the impeachment case
lawyers in the case also raised the possibility that the governor would go to state or federal court today in an effort to delay the senate trial. senate counsel john lundin told lawmakers he expected any challenge to be filed in the state supreme court
if mecham's attorneys ask a court to delay the trial, the senate is expected to argue that courts have no jurisdiction over a legislative impeachment
the motion filed thursday said, ``this impeachment article should be dismissed and the governor should be permitted to govern this state as mandated by the will of the people in the last election.''
miller has contended that the republican governor's impeachment trial should be delayed until after his criminal trial, on grounds that the criminal jury would be prejudiced by the publicity surrounding an impeachment trial
mecham was impeached feb. 5 on a 46-16 house vote. several days later the house approved 23 impeachment articles outlining details of three broad charges against the governor: that he concealed the $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership, and tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
miller argued that the claim regarding the alleged death threat was a ``tempest in a teapot'' that had ``given the prosecutors the unbridled license to wildly charge crimes against the governor in a vindictive and persecutorial manner.''
miller said mecham cannot be convicted for allegedly concealing the $350,000 loan because a campaign financial report on which the loan was lumped with other funds was made on dec. 5, 1986, before mecham took office. the state constitution says officials may be impeached only for acts committed while in office, miller said
miller said the $80,000 loan to mecham pontiac violated no laws and was ``nothing short of a prudent investment'' that earned higher interest than the money would have gotten in a bank
a woman has reached a $925,000 settlement of her suit against a hospital and nursing company charging a nurse incorrectly hooked up a pump, causing air pressure that blew a hole in the woman's intestine
juanita johns continues to suffer infections and has a disfiguring scar on her stomach, one of her attorneys, wayne alford, said friday
mrs. johns, 53, reached the settlement this week with university medical center and medical personnel pool of northeast florida inc., which supplied the nurse under a contract with the hospital. mrs. johns' malpractice lawsuit had been scheduled to go to trial next week
mrs. johns was recovering from lung surgery at university hospital in jacksonville last year when her doctor ordered a tube placed down her throat to remove intestinal gas
however, a private-duty nurse attached the tube to the exhaust end of a pump and air was pumped into mrs. johns, blowing a hole in her intestines, her lawyers said
she realized something was wrong when because her stomach started blowing up like a balloon,'' alford said of his client. ``she suffered extreme pain. at that point, she ripped this thing out of her nose and out of her stomach and a doctor later said this ultimately saved her life.''
mrs. johns was rushed into surgery and was in intensive care for eight days
under the agreement, the hospital will pay $150,000 and the nursing pool will pay $775,000, said alford and fellow attorney john kalil. the settlement was reached after a judge ruled that both the hospital and the nursing firm could be held liable. up 1st graf a0627</note>
the national assembly today convened an emergency session and ousted president eric arturo delvalle after he tried to fire the nation's military chief and de facto leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega
in a 10-minute session, 38 legislators voted delvalle out of office and accused him of promoting u.s. interference in domestic affairs by trying to force noriega out
the cabinet immediately named a new chief of state, education minister manuel solis palma, who was sworn in before dawn. devalle called the moves ``legally despicable.''
noriega blamed the upheaval on the united states but said u.s. interests in panama would be safe. he said the events were ``strictly internal.''
in washington, president reagan said the united states does not plan military intervention in panama. ``no, i don't think that's the answer,'' he said when asked
u.s. ambassador arthur davis said the u.s. government would not recognize the replacement for devalle, who had acted to assert civilian control over the government
opposition leaders were meeting today to discuss a possible national strike and the university was closed, but banks and stores opened and there was no sign of unrest
noriega, under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges, said through his miami attorney, ray takiff, ``all american interest in the republic are and shall remain undisturbed and unharmed.''
noriega said he was a friend of the american people, but he denounced u.s. politicans who he said advocate ``hysteria (and) act with a wreckless disregard for the truth.''
in an interview broadcast today by the government's radio nacional, noriega said of the united states: ``they have been using a web that includes psychological warfare ... slander, lies, injury, conjecture, and ... misinformation.''
drivers honked their horns and some waved white handerchiefs immediately after delvalle announced his plan to oust noriega. both have been signs of opposition to noriega, who was the target of nationwide protests and strikes last summer
carlos ernesto gonzales de la lastra, a spokesman for the opposition national civic crusade coalition, said today in a telephone interview, ``the national civic crusade and other opposition leaders are meeting to reach an agreement, with the intention of carrying out a national strike.'' he declined to give more details
officials of the national university of panama closed the school and said it was to prevent disturbances. secondary and primary schools were out for vacation
delvalle called his own ouster ``something legally despicable that only fulfills a formality in the mind of those who want to grasp power at any cost.''
he urged a trade embargo against panama but said he opposed u.s. military intervention
panama, with 2.2 million people, is headquarters for u.s. military operations in latin america
the u.s. southern command has 10,000 troops and 20,000 dependents in panama. the u.s. garrison was on alert and told americans to keep a low profile during any unrest
the white house called for noriega's resignation after his indictment in florida on feb. 5. delvalle's attempt to oust noriega, announced in a nationwide broadcast thursday night, received immediate backing from the united states
but noriega and his supporters moved quickly
the national assembly was called into session, although opposition lawmakers in the 67-member legislature boycotted the 1 a.m. meeting. both delvalle and vice president roderick esquivel were removed from office
noriega, who says he is innocent of all charges, did not comment publicly on the events
delvalle said of his opponents, ``they will not receive acceptance from any country that takes pride in being democratic. i continue to feel that i am president of the republic.''
from his home, delvalle said he asked noriega to ``retire'' as soon as the u.s. indictments were announced, but the general refused
defense forces police chief col. leonidas macias told panamanian television thursday that no officer would replace the general
he (delvalle) is going first,'' said macias, flanked by senior officers at the defense forces' central garrison
delvalle said earlier that col. marcos justines, the chief of staff, would replace noriega. justines refused and told reporters: ``we have been conversing with him (delvalle) constantly, and he knows that our position has been that there is too much american interference in this panamanian affair.''
in its resolution, the national assembly said delvalle violated the law in removing noriega and noted that esquivel had abandoned his post in september without resigning
the resolution said delvalle mentioned u.s. charges against noriega ``with the object of permitting the intervention of the government of the united states in the internal affairs of panama,'' damaging national sovereignty and endangering national security
the u.s. indictments accuse noriega of using his authority to let colombian drug traffickers use panama as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states. the charges said noriega received a healthy kickback from drug profits
later, at his home, the president told the associated press, that he ordered noriega's dismissal ``for the health of this country.''
roman catholic archbishop marcos gregorio mcgrath arrived at the house and pledged support for delvalle
california's ``vehicle of the future'' features a back-seat driver that not only nags but also is capable of slamming on the brakes
a 1977 dodge van equipped with an experimental radar-based ``collision-avoidance'' system was demonstrated thursday at a meeting of the governor's regional transportation management conference
the system has a grill-mounted radar dish and a computer under the dashboard to warn the driver of approaching hazards
john davis, the san diego engineer who invented and sells the system, took the van on a demonstration spin
watch it! watch!'' the computer voice snapped as he drove out of the parking lot
look out! look out!'' it barked as he came too close to a car
fall back! fall back!'' it commanded before finally putting on the brakes
the state has ordered six vehicles equipped with the system, said interim director donald watson of the state transportation department
this system will enable more vehicles to move faster at closer intervals and will substantially increase the capacity of our highways,'' he said
the six experimental trucks and cars will cost about $250,000, he said
vietnam has told the united states that next week it will turn over what the vietnamese say are the remains of 20 american servicemen listed as missing from the indochina war, u.s. government sources said today
richard paul, an aide to sen. frank h. murkowski, r-ala., a member of the senate veteran's affairs committee, said a member of the vietnamese delegation at the united nations told the senator that vietnam had information on, or the actual remains of, 23 servicemen
a reagan administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said vietnam was believed to have 20 remains and information on three others and would provide the bodies and the information on march 2
the official said a u.s. plane would be sent to hanoi and take the remains to the u.s. military's joint casualty resolution center in hawaii for identification
the united states has been urging vietnam to account for the more than 1,700 american servicemen still listed as missing from the indochina war. u.s. government leaders have said vietnam has been withholding information
a leading panamanian dissident said today that ousted president eric arturo delvalle knew in advance his effort to fire military strongman manuel antonio noriega would fail
but jose i. blandon, a former close associate of noriega's, said in an interview that delvalle's bid to depose noriega was but one step in an 18-point plan that is designed to lead to noriega's ouster within three weeks
it is exactly what we thought was going to happen,'' blandon said, referring to delvalle's attempt to replace noriega with the second-ranking officer in panama's defense forces and noriega's decision to ignore the order
early today, the panamian legislature voted to remove delvalle from office and appointed a successor
blandon said that he and about 10 other opposition leaders have joined with delvalle in putting together the plan over the last several weeks
the next steps in the plan, blandon said, include rallying broad international support for delvalle, a general strike in panama and, they hope, an embargo by the united states aimed at crippling panama's economy
these steps, blandon said, ``will leave noriega more isolated than ever'' and force his eventual downfall
blandon said his allies already have been in touch with authorities in the dominican republic to determine whether they would be willing to allow noriega to enter the country if and when he is forced out. he said dominican officials have responded positively to the proposal
one potential obstacle to noriega's acquiescence to this solution is the possibility of his arrest in the dominican republic and his extradition to the united states based on federal drug smuggling indictments against him, blandon said
he said delvalle raised last week with assistant secretary of state elliott abrams the possibility of dropping the u.s. indictments against noriega. he said abrams was unable to make any such commitment and that a final decision on withdrawing the indictments would have to be left either to the justice department or president reagan
in any case, blandon said, the political and economic circumstances in panama are such that it is doubtful that noriega can survive much longer, especially if the united states and latin american countries close ranks behind delvalle
blandon spoke to a reporter at a local hotel where he is under 24-hour guard by u.s. marshals. he was a key witness earlier this month in congressional hearings on noriega's alleged drug smuggling activities and his ties to the cia
as he spoke, blandon frequently referred to a folder outlining the plan to end noriega's domination of panamanian politics and to restore elected civilian rule to the country. the plan was dated feb. 22 but its contents had been agreed to weeks earlier by a broad-based coalition of panamanian opposition leaders, blandon said
an abandoned rum warehouse has become the latest symbol of rebirth in this port city that was founded on cotton, famed for its beatles and devastated by changing times
contractors on wednesday handed over the keys of the old warehouse to sir alan bowness, director of london's tate gallery
on may 24, prince charles, the heir to the throne, will come to the building and open the ``tate in the north,'' the first endeavor by a state museum in britain to show its works on a large scale outside of london
a series of 10-month exhibitions will keep pictures and sculpture circulating to liverpool from the tate's collection of 40,000 works of british and 20th century art
it is a bid to attract another 500,000 visitors a year to liverpool
first to be seen will be surrealist art, the works of american abstract painter mark rothko and british sculpture of the past 20 years
liverpool has had a hard time and it's trying to pull itself up. i hope we can help, not least because i've always felt it was unacceptable that the tate should only be in london,'' bowness told the associated press
it will cost about $17.6 million to convert a warehouse in the albert dock, completed in 1846, to a museum. the dock contains five blocks of five-story, red-brick and cast-iron warehouses surrounding a 7-acre ``courtyard'' of water
the dock area already has a maritime museum and shops. more shops, restaurants and apartments are being created in the warehouses, which have been empty since world war ii when the dock fell into disuse
now the dock buildings are considered so valuable as architectural history that they are state-protected, and liverpool waterfront, stretching 1{ miles along the banks of the one-mile-wide mersey river, is being transformed from dereliction into a major tourist area
more than 50 million pounds ($88 million) has already been sunk into the waterfront and we are sure it is going to be a spectacular success,'' said diana day, publicist for the merseyside development corp
private industry has invested more than $315 million in other liverpool projects
liverpool, with 600,000 people 210 miles northwest of london, is beset by 20 percent unemployment and miles of decaying housing. fifteen million people live within one hour's drive from the city, which was home to the rock group, the beatles
liverpool was once the second port in britain after london and the major port of europe for the atlantic,'' said eric leatherbarrow, spokesman for mersey docks and harbor co
but when britain joined the european economic community trade tilted from here to southeast england, and containerization saw a lot of the old shipping lines disappear
now we are pulling up because european businessmen are realizing that liverpool is still the nearest major port to the united states. shipping companies are coming back and our cargo throughput was up by 1 million tons a year to 11 million tons in 1987.''
to generate interest for the new museum, ``the tate in the north'' has prepared charming and funny posters introducing liverpudlians to the world of modern art
one radio commercial features picasso's ``three dancers.''
a male voice explains the painting as follows:
the bloke on the right was married to the woman on the left who was having an affair with the bloke in the middle who was obsessed with her, only she lost interest so he invited her to a restaurant with some friends, they have a slap-up dinner, then he pulls a gun, fires at her, she ducks, plays doggo, then he shot himself
when his mother heard, she died of shock. you see, paintings talk to you.''
i don't hear nothing,'' a second voice replies. penalty</head> recommending reconsideration of proposed punishment, picking up 8th graf pvs, `swaggart, who ....'</note>
leaders of the assemblies of god said today they have asked church officials in louisiana to reconsider a recommended three-month suspension for fallen tv evangelist jimmy swaggart that hundreds of callers criticized as too lenient
twelve members of the church's highest governing board met for 12 hours at the church's international headquarters in springfield today and thursday to discuss the louisiana district's proposed sanctions against swaggart, who allegedly engaged in voyeurism with a prostitute
officials of swaggart's home district recommended earlier this week that the fiery television evangelist, who confessed to undisclosed moral misconduct, be prohibited from preaching for three months and undergo two years of rehabilitation and counseling
the state recommendation was criticized by many church members as too lenient, and the executive presbytery's move today was an indication the board disagreed with the state district's recommendation
meanwhile, the companion of a prostitute who claims she performed pornographic acts for swaggart for about a year said he was negotiating to sell her story to the mass media
this is a shot for me and a shot for her,'' said john martinez, a carpet cleaner who said he met debra murphree, 28, in west palm beach, fla., about four months ago. ``it's the american way _ see an opportunity and jump on it.''
martinez said he discussed a $100,000 contract to tell ms. murphree' story with the national enquirer and also contacted people magazine, abc-tv's nightline and other media worldwide, the palm beach post reported thursday
enquirer president and editor iain calder confirmed the tabloid was talking with martinez, but would say nothing more
at the end of the assemblies of god meeting here, general superintendent g. raymond carlson said, ``we will not discuss the content of our meeting.'' he said no final decision had been reached on swaggart's punishment and it could be several weeks until one is made
the church constitution provides for the louisiana district to reconsider the case and submit new recommendations to the church headquarters in springfield, where the final decision will be made
carlson made the announcement with seven board members at his side
juleen turnage, a church spokeswoman, said the board met thursday with two representatives of the church's louisiana district _ cecil janway, general superintendent of the state district and a member of the swaggart ministries board, and forrest hall, treasurer of the louisiana district
swaggart, who was not at thursday's meeting, has not made a public appearance since sunday, when he tearfully told his congregation in baton rouge, la., that he had committed an unspecified sin
the evangelist, whose jimmy swaggart world ministries gives $12 million a year to the assemblies of god, has been known for his harsh denunciation of sexual lapses by other preachers, including ptl ministry founder jim bakker
the church's 13-member governing body was considering a recommendation by the louisiana district that swaggart be barred from preaching for three months and undergo counseling during a supervised two-year rehabilitation
mrs. turnage said the international headquarters here has been swamped with up to 300 calls an hour since swaggart's televised confession sunday. about half of the callers complained that the louisiana recommendation was too lenient, she said, while others were generally supportive
mrs. turnage said the two-year rehabilitation is standard, but in cases of moral misconduct on the part of ministers, ``the precedent has always been that for that first year, the minister is barred from preaching.''
under the church constitution, if the executive presbytery decides to toughen up the state district's recommendation, they would send the case back to louisiana for reconsideration
the group had no statement after the meeting thursday, but mrs. turnage said they may release a progress report after more discussion today
we cannot put time and expediency ahead of our constitutional process,'' she said. ``i know that they are really carefully considering everything.''
the church, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, has been shaken by the swaggart revelations and a sex-and-money scandal that last year cost bakker, another prominent assemblies minister, his ministerial credentials. he had rejected the option of undergoing rehabilitation
evangelist marvin gorman, who claimed swaggart falsely accused him of adultery, for which he was defrocked by the denomination, reportedly gave the church photographs of swaggart entering and leaving a motel room with a prostitute
ms. murphree told wvue-tv of new orleans wednesday that she met with swaggart for about a year at various motels between new orleans and baton rouge to perform pornographic acts, but did not have sexual intercourse with him
ms. murphree has an arrest record in louisiana and florida for prostitution-related offenses. she also is wanted on a drug charge in nashville, tenn., according to police records. ^by reid g. miller</byline>
eric arturo delvalle today insisted he is still president of panama and called for a worldwide trade embargo against his nation and its de factor ruler, gen. manuel antonio noriega
delvalle, ousted by the national assembly today after he tried to fire noriega, said a trade embargo would create economic chaos, ``but we all have to realize that a country has to suffer to rid itself of a dictatorship.''
he said he also he also supports u.s. congressional calls for a halt to commercial airline flights and to free-zone banking transactions between the united states and panama, home of one of the western hemisphere's largest banking centers
delvalle spoke informally to reporters at his home, where he has remained since he announced thursday afternoon he was firing noriega
the assembly is dominated by a coalition of noriega's supporters and its brief, post-midnight session was boycotted by minority opposition members
i am the president of panama this morning,'' delvalle declared, his eyes baggy and red-rimmed from lack of sleep. ``there is no doubt about it. there is no legal power in panamanian laws or the constitution that allows the national assembly'' to dismiss a president
but asked how he intended to exercise the functions of the presidency, delvalle shrugged and replied with a tired smile: ``that's a good question.''
he said he knew that his ``chances were slim'' in calling for noriega's departure because ``never has any president ousted the commander of the defense forces in panama in all our history. it has always been the other way around.''
delvalle said he would take his case to the nation's supreme court, ``where my chances are also very slim, because it also is controlled by gen. noriega.''
the cabinet named education minister manuel solis palma as the new chief of state
meanwhile, a coalition of business, professional, labor and political organization known as the national civic crusade was meeting to consider a call for a nationwide work stoppage
delvalle said he would support ``an indefinite strike'' and called ``the people of panama to unite, all for one and one for all, to struggle for the removal of gen. noriega.''
he said that as soon as u.s. grand jury indictments charging noriega with drug trafficking were announced in miami and tampa, fla., earlier this month, he called noriega and asked him to step down
but he said he didn't think it was advisable.''
i let him consider his answer for a couple of days and then again i requested his own decision to retire, which he didn't accept, and that's why i acted today (thursday.)''
in a telephone interview with ``cbs this morning,'' delvalle said the united states had not pressured him to fire noriega
delvalle, 51, spent most of the evening huddled in a back room with u.s. ambassador arthur davis and his personal advisers
between 30 and 40 people, most of them close friends, listened to radio and television news reports at the delvalle home and he occasionally strolled out to chat with them
asked about the naming of another president, delvalle replied: ``i will fight it out, because there is no reason for me to be removed from my position. i am acting within the laws and the constistution of the country.''
asked what reaction he expected from the international community, delvalle said, ``the reaction of the international community will be against the defense forces.''
asked if he had discussed thursday's action with u.s. assistant secretary of state elliott abrams while in miami last week, delvalle said, ``no, not at all.''
but delvalle said he had a four-hour visit from davis thursday evening and ``received state department support ... stating that they will back me and support my actions.''
he said he did not fear for his safety
delvalle had no political experience before he became vice president in october 1984, after running for the republic party in a coalition with five other parties
he was president and general manager of national sugar, a sugar producing and refining company owned by his family. he studied in the united states
he and his wife mariela diaz have three children
president reagan will nominate karen borlaug phillips, a congressional staff economist, to be a member of the interstate commerce commission, it was announced friday
if confirmed by the senate, she will succeed malcolm m.b. sterrett
since 1987, mrs. phillips has been minority chief economist on the senate finance committee. taxes</head>
taxpayers who underestimated their income-tax withholding this year would be allowed to pay the internal revenue service in installments under legislation introduced friday in the senate
sen. carl levin, d-mich., said broad changes in the income tax law passed in 1986 make it more likely that taxpayers, especially in families with two wage-earners, failed to deduct enough from their paychecks to cover their tax liabilities
the bill, sponsored by levin and sen. steve symms, r-idaho, would allow people who underwithheld to pay off their debt to the irs, with interest, in three payments after april 15
under the present law, taxpayers unable to pay a lump sum by april 15 must negotiate terms with the irs on a case-by-case basis. picks up 9th graf, `austria is ...'</note>
a top socialist minister today reversed his decision to boycott a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of nazi germany's annexation of austria after president kurt waldheim dropped plans to speak during the event
other socialists hailed the decision of the president, who served as a lieutenant in the german army during world war ii
in a televised interview thursday, waldheim announced he would not give a speech march 11. he said he would give a televised speech march 10
in the interview, waldheim also said he had considered quitting the presidency but had rejected the idea
the announcement on the speech prompted finance minister ferdinand lacina to reverse his decision to boycott the solemn ceremony
lacina, a socialist, said friday that a waldheim speech would have led to ``a renewed polarization'' among austrians and ``criticism coming from other countries.''
heinz fischer, a leader of the socialist party, said waldheim's decision to drop the speech ``will lead to an easing of tensions on march 11.''
waldheim has been surrounded by controversy since march 1986, when it was disclosed that he had served as a lieutenant with the german army in the balkans during world war ii. the united states and put him on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens, barring him from entering the united states
in the interview thursday, waldheim said he had a ``clear conscience'' and repeatedly insisted he did nothing wrong
austria is governed by a coalition of socialists and conservatives. waldheim is the ceremonial head of state
the head of the government, chancellor franz vranitzky told abc-tv's ``good morning america'' today that it was up to waldheim to determine whether he should step down
the 69-year-old waldheim said he will address the nation in a televised broadcast on march 10, the eve of the ceremony marking the anschluss, when austria was absorbed into the german reich in 1938. austria was liberated by the allies in the spring of 1945
waldheim opponents had promised to take to the streets in protest if the president went ahead with the talk on march 11 in the hofburg palace
several leading austrian politicians said a waldheim speech was not the way to lead the country into reflecting on its nazi past
there have been calls for waldheim's resignation since march 1986, when austrian and u.s. media and the world jewish congress reported that he served as a lieutenant with the germany army in the occupied balkans during world war ii
the calls intensified after an international historians' commission issued a critical report earlier this month, which left open the question of whether he was guilty of war crimes
if i thought i had done anything false or anything wrong, then i would have taken the consequences,'' waldheim said
in the controversy over waldheim's past, ``taking the consequences'' has come to be synonymous with resignation. waldheim's term is scheduled to end in 1992
waldheim was asked if he had considered quitting
naturally i thought of it,'' he said. ``otherwise i wouldn't be a human being. i'd have to be a piece of wood.''
but he firmly rejected any notion of stepping down. ``my resignation would only make things worse,'' he said
waldheim's decision not to speak at the anschluss commemoration dominated the front pages of newspapers today
waldheim cancels the speech at the remembrance ceremony,'' said the salzburger nachrichten. the conservative newspaper has strongly criticized waldheim for his handling of his wartime past
vienna's kurier tabloid, which also has criticized waldheim, focused on conciliatory remarks he made in the interview
waldheim: i apologize for the misunderstandings,'' the kurier newspaper said in a banner headline
the march 11 speech originally had been planned as a way to avoid a political showdown over whether waldheim would address a joint session of parliament to mark anschluss. angeles-dated item.</note>
a 10-day visit to california by britain's prince andrew and his wife, ``fergie,'' the duchess of york, will be full of public events, but no security problems are expected, a british consulate official says
the couple, scheduled to arrive late this afternoon, will attend exhibitions and concerts that are part of uk@la '88, a three-month-long british arts festival, said angus mackay, the royal visit press officer. they also will attend banquets and visit schools, stores, an aircraft carrier and churches from los angeles to palm springs
when andrew, the third child of queen elizabeth ii, visited los angeles four years ago he was a bachelor naval officer who lived up to a rowdy reputation by playfully turning a paint sprayer on the press corps. since then, he married the former sarah ferguson, who is pregnant, so the current visit promises to be more staid
the first event planned for the royal couple is a welcoming ceremony saturday at los angeles city hall featuring a performance by the rock group los lobos, which gained fame in the movie ``la bamba.'' children</head>
a woman with two small children who is running for election to a judgeship says she's surprised her opponent has made motherhood an issue in their campaign
district judge john mckellips raised the issue at a sheriff's deputies' meeting while comparing his qualifications with mary anne bramblett's
bramblett, an assistant county attorney, has less than six years experience as a lawyer and is seeking to become the county's first female state judge. because there is no republican candidate, the winner of their march 8 democratic primary will capture the 41st district judge's seat
the incumbent judge suggested bramblett and other mothers should stay home with their young children
she had to take some time out for maternity leave to have two small children, so i don't know how much time she's actually spent working as an attorney,'' he added wednesday night
the judge also linked absent mothers to the problem of overcrowded jails and prisons
what do we do (about crowded prisons)? well, we can start in our homes,'' he said. ``mothers can stay home and raise their children during the formative years.''
the judge continued the theme thursday in an interview with the el paso times
no one who will be truthful will deny the importance of a mother being with children during pre-school years,'' he said. ``other persons may try to substitute and mean well, but there's no substitute for a mother's love.''
the judge's views were surprising, bramblett said
everybody got the clear message that (mckellips believes) i am not qualified to be a judge because i'm a woman and a mother,'' said bramblett, whose children are 3 and 4 years old
the judge's comments to the sheriff's deputies association were made in the context of crime rates and the cause of crime, he said
i acknowledge it would have been more correct to have used the term `parent' rather than mother,'' he said in the thursday interview. ``the whole point of this discussion is a breakdown of parental guidance in the home, whether that breakdown is the fault of the mother or the father.''
he said, ``as a district judge, one never has a normal life. to do your job properly requires long hours and extra devotion, and she would have less time as a judge to be with her family than she has had in the past. it appears that mrs. bramblett's personal ambitions are more important to her than the lives of her children.''
it's not true,'' bramblett said. ``i think my children have a very good role model to look up to, both myself and my husband.'' to 24</head>
a man dubbed the ``dapper bandit,'' disguised with sunglasses, wig and fake mustache, robbed two banks in one day to bring his 10-year total in texas to 24, authorities said
in one robbery, the man disarmed an off-duty police officer working as a guard and escaped with the officer's pistol, police said
officials would not disclose the amount taken in the robberies thursday, which came four hours and two miles apart. the well-dresssed robber had been idle since striking a bank in east dallas last september
in addition to the usual disguise, the well-dressed bandit has been known to wear bandages on his face. he has been photographed numerous times by bank cameras and a $25,000 reward has been posted, but there have been no significant leads, police say
the first robbery occurred at first republicbank, said arlington police spokesman dee anderson
we had an off-duty uniformed officer there working security,'' he said. ``he was approached by the suspect, who pulled a gun and ordered him to drop his weapon.''
after picking up officer eddie bell's pistol, the bandit, wearing a gray suit and maroon tie, leaped over the tellers' counter and scooped up money from cash trays, anderson said
bell slipped outside and told passers-by to call police. he ran back in time to see the bandit jump into a car and leave, anderson said
in the second robbery, at landmark bank, the robber pulled a pistol from a leather briefcase, walked around the tellers' counter and took money from both tellers' drawers, anderson said. he fled out a back door and drove away in a different car
police recovered both getaway cars, both of which had been stolen in nearby irving, anderson said
the chief game warden in zimbabwe's state-controlled national parks was convicted friday on charges of fraud and taking bribes from professional hunters
arthur wood was sentenced to five years in jail on the charges of fraud and corruption, in which undervalued permits were issued for hunting trips on state wildlife estates in return for bribes from foreign and local hunters
magistrate billy de beer ruled in harare regional court that wood, 56, defrauded the state of the equivalent of $52,000 by underpricing hunting permits and taling at least $7,100 in bribes. wood denied the charges
a zimbabwe-based professional hunter and safari operator admitted in court he had offered wood money for a hunting permit
here is a chronology of major events in panama leading to the ouster of the civilian president, eric arturo devalle, in a showdown with gen. manuel antonio noriega:
april 18, 1978 _ the u.s. senate ratifies the panama canal treaty, which turns over to panamanian control the 50-mile long waterway and the u.s. military bases on dec. 31, 1999
oct. 1, 1979 _ panama assumes sovereignity over the panama canal zone and is given the right to use portions of the area not needed for its defense
july 31, 1981 _ gen. omar torrijos, head of the defense forces, who came to power in a 1968 coup, dies in a plane crash. two years later gen. manuel antonio noriega emerges as the leader of the defense forces
may 6, 1984 _ nicolas ardito barletta is elected president on the ticket of a military-backed coalition, amid charges of fraud
sep. 27, 1985 _ noriega, chief of the defense forces, and other military leaders force out ardito barletta and replace him with eric arturo delvalle, formerly vice president
june 6, 1987 _ col. roberto diaz herrera, noriega's recently retired second in command, accuses noriega of election fraud, drug trafficking, corruption and involvement in the assassination of political opponents
june 9 _ the national civic crusade is formed, initially by 101 professional, civic, labor and business groups to demand noriega's resignation. small street demonstrations break out, for and against noriega
july 26 _ police close down the newspapers la prensa, extra and el siglo for publishing articles demanding noriega's resignation
july 27 _ police raid the headquarters of the national civic crusade and arrest five leaders. they are later released and flee the country
aug. 31 _ a nationwide strike planned by the opposition fizzles. one man is killed and seven are wounded. demonstrations continue almost daily for about two months
feb. 5, 1988 _ noriega is indicted in courts in miami and tampa, fla., on charges of involvement in drug-trafficking
feb. 17 _ delvalle meets with u.s. assistant secretary of state elliott abrams in miami
feb. 25 _ delvalle announces that he is dismissing noriega as defense chief and replacing him with col. marcos justines, the chief of staff. justines refuses to take the job
feb. 26 _ the national assembly meets in emergency session and votes to oust delvalle. education minister manuel solis palma is named the new head of state and sworn into office
a member of the 1950 brink's robbery gang who seeking a divorce says his wife can have their house, built on land he purchased with some of his share of the $1.2 million heist
vincent costa, 74, told brockton probate court judge summer z. kaplan that he bought the land for $1,800 on nov. 10, 1950
when asked by his lawyer where he got the money, costa replied, ``i got it from the brink's case.''
costa, one of the two surviving members of the 11-member gang, told the judge his share amounted to about $100,000. a son cheated him out of most of it, he said
the jan. 17, 1950, robbery of the brink's counting house in boston's north end was then the largest in u.s. history. none of the money was ever recovered
two of the 11 men involved in the robbery two died before the fbi solved the case in 1956. the remaining nine were sentenced to life in prison, but had their sentences commuted after serving various terms
costa didn't admit his involvement until may 1977, when he and another participant held a news conference to publicize a book and a movie about the robbery
costa told the judge this week he wants his wife of 54 years, nancy, 76, to spend her remaining years in the home. but, he said, he or his estate would be entitled to half of the proceeds whenever the house is sold
the house, now valued at $125,000, is the couple's only asset, her lawyer said
mrs. costa testified she is a devout roman catholic and doesn't believe in divorce but said she won't oppose it. the couple, both of whom have serious medical problems, have five children
the united states said today it continues to recognize eric arturo delvalle as president of panama, even after a parliamentary vote to oust him
state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley, reiterating what she termed ``our support for the supremacy of civilian constitutional rule,'' said ``we continue to recognize president delvalle as the president of panama.''
asked to describe the legal grounds for such recognition, she said, ``i don't think it's for us to interpret their constitutional law. we had regarded him as the president, we still regard him as the president.''
she described the situation among panamanian political figures as one of ``a great deal of political maneuvering.''
she said delvalle's decision to fire manuel antonio noriega as the nation's defense chief _ which precipated delvalle's ouster by the assembly _ ``took great courage and we continue with our policy.''
the spokeswoman said delvalle made the decision on his own, though she acknowledged that u.s. officials were in close contact with him. she declined to reveal the substance of the discussions
mrs. oakley also said the united states continues to recognize juan b. sosa as panama's ambassador in washington. sosa has supported delvalle
i informed the state department that i will continue with him,'' sosa said, referring to his support for delvalle
i'm sure they will try to send another ambassador,'' he said, adding that he had asked for continued recognition by the u.s. government
mrs. oakley said elliot abrams, the assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, met with sosa this morning, but she wouldn't reveal details of the discussion
many people knew that we had been aware of the actions that president delvalle was contemplating doing,'' she said. ``we had been informed that the decision was president delvalle's own to make.''
i'm not going to get into who was behind what; who said what,'' she said. ``this is obviously an unstable period, confused.''
the situation there obviously has to clarify,'' she said
asked if the united states had been in contact with noriega, she said, ``not that i'm aware of.''
pat robertson complains that he is being held to a higher standard than his rivals but the political world is in awe over how he gets away with controversial statements that would sink other presidential hopefuls
the man is tefloned,'' says republican consultant ed mahe. ``he is tefloned so well with his base that he's not taking any hits as a consequence of what he says.''
but mahe and other experts say robertson's controversial pronouncements are likely to sink whatever hopes he holds of winning over enough mainstream support in the republican party to be a serious contender for the presidential nomination at the gop convention in august
ultimately this could be his upending,'' said sociologist anson shupe of indiana, co-author of a forthcoming book, ``televangelism: power and politics in god's country.''
if robertson doesn't make it to the nomination, it won't be because of a lack of money or grassroots organization or definable issues or momentum, it will be because he is so far out in left field with some of these statements that even his followers are embarrassed,'' shupe said
even ronald reagan, who has often stood corrected, ridiculed robertson's claim that his christian broadcasting network had information about the location of hostages in the middle east
isn't it strange that no one in our administration was ever apprised of that?'' asked the president at his news conference wednesday, in a departure from his loyalty to the republican 11th commandment: speak no evil of any republican
robertson said his hostage claim was only a ``throwaway line'' to illustrate a point, but he complained wherever he went that he is being held to an unfair scrutiny
i have been grossly misunderstood and the press has distorted what i've said,'' he said in tulsa, okla
i don't go around with a press person on one side and a lawyer on another and a librarian behind me,'' robertson said. ``i'm not used to having to give 200 answers every time there's one little innocent statement.''
exactly right, mahe said. ``what we have here is a talk-show host who doesn't understand the power of talk; after all, when you're a talk-show host you toss these things out and who cares.''
my guess is that pat is deliberately playing to his south carolina constituency,'' said university of virginia sociologist jeffrey hadden, a student of the television fundamentalist preachers. ``he doesn't care if folks in new york or chicago or los angeles think he's crazy at this point. if he can get the press bashing him a bit, it would help ignite his followers.''
just as robertson weathered the hostage crisis this week, he survived the missile crisis earlier this month
when he claimed there were soviet missiles in cuba, the pentagon denied it, the white house denied it, even fidel castro denied it, and robertson merely shrugged off the outcry, saying he hoped those doing the denying were right
he also suggested he saw the sinister hand of vice president george bush behind the timing of the disclosures of sexual misbehavior by a fellow fundamentalist preacher, jimmy swaggart
and he accused television anchorman tom brokaw of engaging in ``religious bigotry'' when brokaw referred to robertson, a former television evangelist, as a former television evangelist
bush challenged robertson on friday to ``prove it'' about his claim that bush engineered the timing of the swaggart disclosures to hurt robertson's chances in the march 5 south carolina primary. and the vice president said robertson is ``scaring the american people'' with loose talk about missiles
stephen hess, a brookings institution student of the press and politics, said robertson's ability to weather attacks on his credibility _ ``the teflon factor'' _ exists because the press has been easy on him
the media gets tough on people when they become important,'' he said
moreover, said larry sabato, a political scientist at the university of virginia who has followed robertson for decades: ``the other republican candidates are hesitant to attack him. even bush has done so gingerly. the republicans know they need his constituency in the fall; they know these people are easily offended and will stay permanently offended.''
the nation's roman catholic bishops on friday said time was running out for communist authorities to bring sweeping economic and political reforms to poland
among the reforms they called for are constitutional guarantees for private enterprise and the right of workers to form independent trade unions
the bishops also said they viewed with ``seriousness and concern'' the impact of price hikes imposed by the government earlier this month. they said authorities must protect pensioners, invalids and poor families from ``further impoverishment.''
the bishops made their remarks in a communique released after a two-day meeting of the polish episcopate in warsaw presided over by the polish primate, cardinal jozef glemp
the communique reflected growing concern within the influential church about the authorities' slow pace in introducing political and economic reforms announced last fall
the bishops quoted extensively from the recent encyclical issued by pope john paul ii on social action
they cited passages saying that the development and well-being of nations depends on guaranteeing the right to undertake economic initiatives at the expense of bureaucratic state apparatuses, respecting human rights including the freedom to set up trade unions, and reforming unjust political institutions
glemp, in a pastoral letter read aloud in the nation's churches feb. 21, said the many ``shortcomings'' in poland's economic system had embittered and discouraged people, while the government's economic recovery program seemed ``incomprehensible'' and ``inconsistent'' to many poles
the bishops said there had been many official announcements about introducing reforms aimed at allowing more political and economic initiatives. but they had remained ``in the sphere of declarations and discussions.''
administrative practice often goes in the opposite direction, setting a dam for various economic and social initiatives,'' the bishops said. ``time is running out.''
it is only acts that can convince the society about the real wish of reforms in the economic, social and political life,'' they said. ``without them there is a danger of deepening the crisis in our country.''
the bishops said the authorities should make it easier for individuals to set up their own businesses, grant more economic decision-making powers to local governments, and reject ``political criteria'' in the selection of managerial personnel
it is necessary to widen the role of the private sector in the national economy,'' the bishops said
they added that the economic reforms should be accompanied by ``wide reforms ... allowing (the society) to organize independent social associations and workers' representations.''
the government has said its political and economic reform programs advocate many of the same goals supported by the bishops
the outlawed solidarity labor union has called the reforms inadequate because they fail to loosen the communist party's grip on economic and political decision-making powers
president reagan said today the united states does not plan any military intervention in panama and the state department reaffirmed u.s. support for that nation's embattled president
at the white house, reagan was asked about the governmental crisis in panama, where president eric arturo delvalle failed in his attempt to oust gen. manuel antonio noriega, the country's strongman, and was in turn dismissed himself
there are some limits on what we can do, but we are looking at the situation to see if there is anything we can do,'' the president said
when asked if military intervention was planned, he said, ``no, i don't think that's the answer.''
we are not prepared to come up with any answer yet,'' reagan added
when he was asked whether he thought the 10,000 or so u.s. troops in panama were in danger, the president replied, ``no, i do not. i don't think there is any appetite on the part of anyone there, including mr. noriega, to take on our troops.''
separately, the state department said it continues to recognize devalle as panama's president despite an early-morning parliamentary vote to oust him
department spokeswoman phyllis oakley reiterated what she termed ``our support for the supremacy of civilian constitutiona rule,'' and said, ``we continue to recognize president delvalle as the president.''
asked to describe the legal grounds for such recognition, she said, ``i don't think it's for us to interpret their constitutional law. we had regarded him as the president, we still regard him as the president.''
in other developments:
_panama's ambassador to the united states, juan sosa, an ally of delvalle, said he had informed the state department he would stay on, at least for the time being, despite a call from noriega telling sosa he would be replaced
mrs. oakley said the united states does, indeed, continue to recognize sosa
_vice president george bush said in south carolina that the united states should do ``whatever is necessary, including military force'' to protect american interests
bush stopped short of calling for military intervention, saying the united states' history of intervention in latin american affairs is ``what's hurting us in some areas now.''
during a presidential campaign visit to south carolina, he said, ``we will do whatever is necessary to protect american interests in panama. we've got treaty interests on the (panama) canal. i don't want to rattle any sabers. ...''
_defense secretary frank carlucci, interviewed on a u.s. information agency program, also said that ``it would be premature at this time'' to discuss an american military move
_jose i. blandon, a former noriega ally but now a leading panamanian dissident, predicted that noriega would be out of power within three weeks and said delvalle's allies have already asked the dominican republic if it would let noriega live there if and when he is forced out
he said dominican officials have responded positively to the proposal
reagan said the united states did not instigate delvalle's action, but had been ``very much aware of it.''
when asked whether the united states still wants noriega to stand trial on drug trafficking charges on which he was indicted by a federal grand jury in miami, the president said, ``i assume so.''
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said earlier that delvalle had consulted with american officials at the u.s. embassy in panama city
we have had discussions with delvalle over the past several days. we assured him of our position, which is that we would like to see a peaceful transition to civilian rule,'' the spokesman said
asked whether the united states had encouraged delvalle to dismiss noriega, who has been indicted by a federal grand jury in this country on charges of drug trafficking, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater replied:
i can't elaborate on any of the specific conversations. we did not urge him to take this action. he did it on his own. ..
we have a precarious position. yes, we want him (noriega) to stand trial. yes, we want a civilian government in panama. yet, we want to be careful not to unduly intrude upon the affairs of panama.''
another u.s. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the united states would ``take steps'' if americans are endangered in panama
meanwhile, sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., a leading noriega critic, said, ``panamanians will take care of that themselves. just wait and see what happens if and when the united states takes a flatfooted stand and tells the panamanian president, we're with you and we're against him,'' helms said
he said of noreiga: ``he's a bum; he ought to be thrown out.''
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., proposed a trade embargo against the government under the control of military strongman manuel noriega and called for u.s. troops to be put on full alert to protect the panama canal and 50,000 u.s. citizens in the country
fitzwater said no consideration is being given to a trade embargo
delvalle, in a telephone interview with ``cbs this morning,'' indicated he still considers himself president and urged a u.s. trade embargo against his country as ``the only way that we can get rid of the dictators of the americas'' but said he saw no reason for military intervention
the reagan administration on thursday voiced ``unqualified support for civilian constitutional rule'' in panama after delvalle tried to fire noriega as military chief
george bush said friday that republican presidential rival pat robertson should produce evidence to back up rash allegations that the vice president said were ``scaring the american people.''
bush, in a forceful response to the former television evangelist, recounted several allegations that robertson has made against bush and his republican presidential campaign
of each he demanded, ``prove it.''
bush made the remarks in an address to state newspaper editors. he was less direct about robertson moments later in a private meeting with about two dozen fundamentalist church leaders but told them ``i believe in jesus christ as my personal savior.''
i don't like to feel there's a monolith out there'' that will back just one candidate for president, he said
bush and robertson have both targeted south carolina as a crucial battleground in their white house bids, with robertson saying he must win the march 5 primary
a group of 21 congressmen supporting bush flew into south carolina to spend the day campaigning for him as the vice president departed for atlanta after a two-day campaign swing here. appearing with the congressmen, who donned white baseball-style caps bearing the words ``bush '88,'' the vice president said, ``these guys can talk southern.''
south carolina holds its gop primary just three days before the rest of the south votes, and bush forces hope a win here will be a indicator of the super tuesday vote that follows, when one-third of the gop delegates are at stake
answering questions from the south carolina press association, bush was asked about robertson's charges in the state earlier in the week that the bush campaign had engaged in ``sleazy'' campaigning and ``dirty tricks'' against the robertson campaign. he also was asked about robertson's suggestion that bush aides engineered the release of information about the sex scandal involving evangelist jimmy swaggart to embarrass robertson
no,'' bush said. ``if you make such an allegation, the american sense of fair play says, prove it.''
i have something to do with arranging for the assembly of god (church) to bring out information two weeks before the south carolina primary?'' bush asked, referring to the swaggart charge. ``forgive me. prove it. that's all i say.''
bush asked why his questioner was smiling, saying the nature of the allegations by robertson were serious. in recounting them, bush included robertson's claim in a debate in new hampshire two weeks ago that nuclear missiles are hidden in cuba
if you think there's cuban missiles _ scaring the american people _ what's your facts?'' bush said
he also cited robertson's claim in backing out of a debate in dallas last week that questions had been leaked in advance and the audience was stacked against him. ``prove it,'' bush said
bush told the church leaders he had ``respect for life'' and had been frustrated by the administration's lack of success in supporting prayer in public schools
i know we're pluralistic. i also know we're one nation under god. i feel strongly about that,'' bush said. ``... i would not be afraid of asking god's help.''
before the editors, bush cited the developments in panama and said the united states would use military force if necessary to protect u.s. interests in panama following strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega's removal of the nation's president
noriega's gone bad, and he's proven he's trafficked in narcotics,'' bush said. ``... noriega should go and in my view he will go.''
bush referred to the american hostages in lebanon and said a problem in helping recover them has been that ``many of our sources (in lebanon) dried up because of the excessive publicity and exposure'' of the cia in the 1970s. ``that's hurt us very, very badly,'' the former cia director said
singer michael jackson showed a real fondness for flowers, both as decorations and as dinner, when he stayed at a hotel here for two weeks as he rehearsed for his national tour, workers say
jackson last week concluded his secretive rehearsals at the pensacola civic center and kicked off the tour in kansas city this week
during his stay in the presidential suite of the pensacola hilton, workers refused to talk about him, but the wall of silence lifted when he left
michael's chef, damien, visited my flower shop daily, pointed and said, `i'll have that, that and that,''' said gehrig galloway, owner of gehrig's flower shop at the hilton
spray orchids, anthuriam, birds of paradise, calla and ribrum lillies were some of the flowers ordered by damien, a chef from the los angeles hilton who joined the jackson entourage 12 weeks ago
i walked into the kitchen once when damien was cooking,'' said thaisa betts-hester, the hotel's room division manager. ``damien was cooking with an odd-looking flower with brown petals that he kept in a zip-loc bag. i asked him what was in the bag and he said, `flowers
damien ordered about $50 worth of flowers every day, but i don't know if michael ate them all.''
jackson also ordered 32 cases of evian mineral water for drinking and bathing, baby corn, fresh herbs and sun-dried tomatoes from orlando, hotel employees said. he had a portable dance floor installed in his suite's living room and was a polite guest, they said
of the famous people who have stayed at the hotel, including elizabeth taylor and bob hope, jackson ordered the most flowers, galloway said
when michael left, i went up to the presidential suite to collect the vases and they were everywhere, everywhere,'' he said
the entertainer, a vegetarian, ate a normal breakfast of orange juice and toast, but for dinner damien cooked seven different dishes for him so he would have a choice, galloway said. he said some of jackson's favorites were vegetable pizza and meatless mexican and cajun entrees
damien wrote the names of the food on cards and then decorated michael's plates and fruit trays with flowers,'' galloway said
he had a nutritionist with him all the time and what he ate each day depended on his energy output,'' said ken dyer, the hilton's executive chef
while jackson has a reputation for shyness he wasn't totally inhibited, said kathy dyson, the hotel's executive housekeeper
one night, she said, jackson sprayed a can of purple, gooey substance down the hallway of the 14th floor
veteran rocker frank zappa will be made an honorary secretary of state next month for the voter registration drives he stages at his concerts
secretary of state sherrod brown said he would present the grammy nominee with the title when zappa plays in columbus next month
brown, who talked with the singer wednesday night, said workers would have voter registration tables at zappa's march 6 concert at veterans memorial hall. he said he might do the same thing at zappa's concert in cleveland the night before
i don't know a lot of his songs, but i guess he's got a new song out about fundamentalist preachers called `jesus thinks you're a jerk,''' said brown, who confessed to seeing zappa perform as a warm-up act to chuck berry in 1971
zappa, 46, made national news in 1985 as an outspoken critic of the parents music resources center, which wanted to put warning labels on records with sexually explicit lyrics. his album ``jazz from hell'' has been nominated for grammys in jazz and rock instrumental categories
miss maryland-usa, rowann brewer, has been named miss photogenic for the miss usa pageant
ms. brewer, 23, of silver spring, was chosen thursday night by a panel of photographers after the swimsuit and evening gown competitions were taped
photographers said the brown-eyed brunette model was the clear favorite from the moment the 51 contestants began taping ``fun scenes'' around el paso and ciudad juarez, mexico, about two weeks ago
miss usa will be crowned tuesday in the nationally televised contest
britain's princess anne arrived in mozambique on friday for a five-day tour of charity projects run by the save the children fund, of which she is president
the daughter of queen elizabeth ii was greeted at maputo international airport by health minister dr. fernando vaz. the royal entourage then drove to the maputo offices of save the children fund, where the princess was briefed by the charity's field workers
the fund has been working in mozambique for the past four years, concentrating particularly on the central province of zambezia, one of the areas hit hardest by drought and th 12-year-old guerrilla war. in 1987, the fund made about $23 million in aid available for people displaced by the war
princess anne is on a three-nation tour of africa which has already taken her to uganda. she next flies to the east african nation of somalia
comedian george burns will receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree, his first ever, at a special convocation march 31, the university of hartford has announced
the 92-year-old burns has fashioned a career spanning nine decades, but has never been recognized with an honorary degree, the university said thursday
like a superb wine, he has improved remarkably with age,'' said university president stephen j. trachtenberg
fashion designer oleg cassini rode a 10-1 shot to victory at freehold raceway on the second day of his new career as a professional harness racing driver
cassini, 74, the oldest man ever to be given a driving license in harness racing, led wire to wire on hi po bay myst thursday, said track spokeswoman lauren fundler
i feel great,'' cassini said in the winner's circle. ``i am very happy to show everyone that i can be competitive.''
cassini, who said he decided to try his hand at professional racing after doing well in several charity races, was coming off an inauspicious debut on wednesday. he finished last in his first race, was thrown from his sulky in the second race, and a track physician said the designer's blood pressure was too high after the accident to compete in his final race
cassini placed fifth in another outing thursday
hi po bay myst paid $22.20, $13.40 and $7, ms. fundler said
movie producer darryl f. zanuck's daughter has filed a malicious prosecution suit against her late father's mistress, who had contested the movie czar's will
the suit, filed wednesday in indio superior court by darrylin zanuck de pineda, seeks unspecified damages against genevieve gillaizeau, 41, of new york, for alleged malicious prosecution. it also seeks unspecified damages against her attorneys for allegedly failing ``to investigate the facts and law.''
zanuck, a co-founder of the 20th century fox studio, died in 1979. according to court papers, he and ms. gillaizeau were romantically involved from 1965 to 1973 while he was married to virginia fox zanuck
ms. gillaizeau claimed zanuck suffered from alzheimer's disease and was influenced by his family to change his will in october 1973, eliminating her as an heir to his estate, valued at $3.4 million. an earlier will had left her 40 percent of the estate
ms. de pineda's suit claims the former mistress falsely accused her of exerting undue influence on her father to change the 1973 will
zanuck's will was settled jan. 8, after ms. gillaizeau provided that her claim on the estate would be given to yeshiva university in new york. the university received a $50,000 payment
italy's minister of culture says he won't approve construction of a four-lane highway adjacent to pompeii's famous ruins and across the ancient city's unexcavated necropolis
carlo vizzini, whose ministry protects and preserves archaeological sites, said thursday that ``in no case'' will he approve a project ``that not only edges, but minimally touches'' excavations at pompeii
some members of pompeii's city government proposed reducing traffic congestion in the modern city by linking two existing highways with a new one streching a little more than a mile along the famous tourist attraction
opponents argue the exhaust and viabrations will damage the ancient stones, and that the highway will prevent excavation of roman archaeological treasures in the necropolis
the eruption of mount vesuvius in a.d. 79 buried the city of pompeii
guiseppe galasso, a member of parliament from the town of pozzuoli in the shadow of the volcano, calls the highway proposal ``the kiss of death'' for the ruins
britain has agreed to accept a chinese offer of $41.3 million for british assets confiscated after the 1949 communist revolution, less than 8 percent of the sum claimed
foreign office minister timothy eggar told the house of commons on thursday that britain would pay china the equivalent of $3.5 million for property requisitioned by britain during the korean war of 1950-53
britain had originally claimed $840 million for lost assets in china, ranging from a chocolate factory and the shanghai race club to racing saddles, polo sticks, bathing huts and bonds
britain has settled claims against the world's two major communist powers
the soviet union began payment last year of about $81 million on claims originally totaling $1.8 billion from the 1917 revolution
communist bulgaria has agreed to pay britain $1.76 million. claims against albania and east germany are still unsettled
the founder of a boys acrobatic troupe that gained a national audience has been charged with 14 counts of sexual abuse involving youngsters in his organization
robert lee ``flippo'' morris, 35, was indicted wednesday on five counts of aggravated rape, six counts of aggravated sexual battery and three counts of crimes against nature, said district attorney general gary gerbitz
the charges concern nine boys, age 9 to 16, who were members of the flippo morris tumblers, said ardena garth, special child abuse prosecutor for hamilton county
over the years, the tumblers have had as many as 150 members and gained a wide following, performing at school carnivals and during halftime of university of tennessee-chattanooga basketball games. in 1982, they appeared at the knoxville world's fair and on the nbc television program ``real people.''
morris, former director of a city recreation center, started his troupe in 1972 with about 30 boys from chattanooga's inner city. his program has been so highly regarded that hamilton county juvenile court has referred some boys to it and even put some offenders in his custody
an investigation was started when the city received a complaint in july, said ms. garth. when more complaints were made, the tennessee department of human services and gerbitz's office joined the investigation
morris surrendered thursday and was jailed in lieu of $90,000 bond
the environmental protection agency said friday its contractors would begin burning leftover stocks of the banned pesticide ethylene dibromide, edb, in texas next month
the agency paid $2.8 million to buy up 328,000 gallons of edb after banning the pesticide as an emergency action in early 1984. under federal law, epa must pay for stocks of products that cannot be sold because of an emergency ban. there have been only three such actions in the agency's 16-year history of pesticide regulation
epa has stored much of the edb at douglas chemical co. in liberty, mo., and will continue to receive certain forms of the chemical there for transfer to rail cars for shipment to deer park, texas, about 15 miles east of houston
edb formulations containing methyl bromide or chloropicrin will be accepted at the rollins environmental services co. incinerator at deer park. people holding those stocks should get shipping instructions in the next two weeks, epa said
edb is used to kill worms in soil, as a fumigant for grain and fruit and as an additive for leaded gasoline. it causes cancer and birth defects, epa believes
a test burn showed that 99.999 percent of the edb was destroyed by the incinerator, the agency said
rock island has the prettiest privy around
that's the verdict of park maintenance and ground management magazine, which said this city's parks and recreation department built the outstanding outhouse in a nationwide competition
we felt they had an attractive design that fit well in the area,'' erik madisen, magazine editor, said friday in a telephone interview from appleton, wis
not only was it attractive, but it was also economical to build and accessible to the handicapped.''
the $32,000 restroom that made rock island proud is a windowless beauty of graffit-proof silicon-coated brick with ceiling vents which allow sunlight to penetrate
it had a unique design that is substantially vandalproof,'' madisen said. ``that was a big factor. everything, its faucets, fixtures, ceiling and light vents were as vandalproof as you can get.''
madisen said the magazine reviewed 22 public toilets entered from cities across the united states. for winning, the rock island parks agency will receive a plaque at the annual national institute on park and ground management convention
a 19-year-old woman who has spent a record 488 days atop a telephone pole says she's not ready yet to come down from her perch
i've only raised $6,000 so far'' for cancer research, said mellissa l. sanders as she set the record on thursday. ``it still needs to grab people's attention.''
she hopes to remain three-stories high for another month to raise $100,000. her sister, rebecca, is a cancer patient who has been in remission four years
miss sanders, of tucson, ariz., climbed the pole oct. 26, 1986. she is living in a 42-square-foot box that features a telephone, hair dresser and a plastic pool for bathing
if people see it's for a good cause and take two minutes to put some money in an envelope, i could make my goal,'' she said, ``i've seen telethons do it in about five minutes.''
even if miss sanders has not attained her goal when she descends on march 24, her mother, mauri rose sanders, says her daughter is a winner
i'm proud enough to burst. i feel like we both did it,'' said mrs. sanders, who broke a similar record in 1959 by sitting 211 days, 9 hours and 33 minutes above another indianapolis corner in a publicity stunt
the rev. hans upstad and his wife were in the middle of dinner when they were interrupted by a 5-foot-long fugitive from a college exhibit
we were sitting by the table eating our evening meal, and here this snake came crawling over the floor, its red tongue sticking out,'' said upstad. ``what would you think?''
the snake, lucille, and a companion python, mr. twister, were stolen feb. 6 from a live-snake display at concordia college, authorities said thursday
a 17-year-old boy who lived in an apartment across the hall from the upstads later admitted to police he had taken the snakes. mr. twister was recovered from the youth's apartment, but lucille remained at large until she slithered across the upstads' floor late wednesday night
upstad beat the snake with a hoe and later tossed it into a snowbank, but he learned later it was revived after neighbors alerted authorities
the snakes are favorites of concordia biology instructor elinor torstveit. she could not be reached for comment friday, but her husband, olaf, said he and another concordia biology teacher identified lucille for police and returned her to the college thursday
politicians said friday that kurt waldheim's decision not to address the main ceremony will ease tensions when austria marks the 50th anniversary of the anschluss that made it part of nazi germany
two socialist members of the cabinet had said they wouldn't attend the ceremony march ll and two others said they also might stay away if the president spoke
socialist party leaders have said it would be inappropriate for waldheim, who faces unresolved accusations of war crimes, to lead the nation in remembering atrocities of the nazi past. the party is the senior partner in austria's governing coalition
waldheim announced thursday that he was canceling the speech, and said in a television interview later: ``i thought that with this decision, which was my own initiative i might add, i would contribute to the orderly carrying out of the solemn ceremony.''
heinz fischer, socialist floor leader in parliament, said friday that waldheim's decision ``will lead to an easing of tension on march 11'' and it ``certainly was the most reasonable thing'' to do
finance minister ferdinand lacina, also a socialist, withdrew his decision to boycott the march 11 ceremony
in the television interview, waldheim repeated his intention to remain in the presidency, which is largely ceremonial, and insisted that resigning would make matters worse
he also repeated criticism of a report on his wartime activities by an international panel of historians, declaring it ``full of contradictions'' and errneous presumptions
waldhim concealed his world war ii service as a german army lieutenant in the balkans until accusations arose during the presidential campaign in 1986 that he had committed war crimes
the united states put the former u.n. secretary-general on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens last year, and in september the government appointed the historians at waldheim's request
they said in their report this month that waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to atrocities, knew of them and did not try to prevent them. the historians said they found no proof that he committed war crimes, but left the question of personal guilt open
the vietnamese government has agreed to repatriate the remains of what it believes may be 20 american servicemen missing from the vietnam war, the pentagon announced friday
the remains will be delivered to u.s. military officials in hanoi on march 2 and transported to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu, hawaii, for identification, the pentagon said in a statement
the u.s. government appreciates the initiative taken by vietnam to repatriate these remains and hopes it represents just one of many continued steps to resolve this long-standing humanitarian issue,'' the pentagon said
the upcoming repatriation would be the fourth largest such transfer since the end of the war. the largest occurred in august 1985, when the vietnamese returned 26 remains at once
there are currently 2,404 americans still listed as missing in indochina as a result of the vietnam war, of whom 1,767 are listed as missing in either north or south vietnam. all told, the remains of 152 americans have been repatriated to the united states and subsequently identified by the laboratory since the end of the war
the upcoming transfer would be the third since retired army gen. john vessey traveled to hanoi last august as a special presidential emissary, hoping to step up the process of accounting for missing americans
william harold cox, a federal judge who enraged civil rights advocates with his remarks about blacks but presided over a 1967 trial that convicted eight klansmen of murdering three civil rights workers, has died at the age of 87
cox died of natural causes thursday night at his home here, a family spokesman said
he was a real colorful and effective-type judge who was his own man,'' former gov. bill waller said of cox. ``he was strictly independent in interpreting the law and in carrying out court proceedings as he wanted to do it. he left his mark on the judiciary of our state.''
gov. ray mabus agreed, saying cox ``had an impact on mississippi.''
cox, the son of a sunflower county sheriff, built a successful practice in corporate and civil law before he became a u.s. district court judge in 1961. he was an active judge until july 1983
in the course of his judicial career, cox was attacked by the national assocation for the advancement of colored people and others for his remarks about blacks, segregation and civil rights
during a hearing on a voter discrimination suit in 1964, cox said: ``i don't know who is telling these negroes they can push people around just by getting into a line and acting like a bunch of chimpanzees.''
the remark triggered a demand for his impeachment by u.s. sen. jacob javits, r-n.y., and u.s. rep. peter rodino, d-n.j., but there never was an impeachment proceeding
cox also disdained the civil rights act of 1964 and said in court, ``i don't know anybody down here who don't oppose it.''
when a civil rights attorney complained in 1971 that a decades-old mural behind the bench depicted blacks as serfs to white people, cox retorted loudly, ``well, it will remain in this court whether you like it or not.''
in 1967, cox presided over one of the most famous cases of the decade _ the trial of eight klansmen charged in the 1964 murders of three civil rights workers in philadelphia, miss
after the jury seemed deadlocked for two days, cox ordered them to come up with a verdict. the jury found the eight klansmen guilty
survivors include a son and a daughter
cuban immigrants who commit crimes in the united states can be shipped back to their homeland, even if they have obtained u.s. citizenship, a top immigration and naturalization service official said
the u.s.-cuban immigration agreement reached in november does not limit those eligible for deportation to the 2,500 cuban detainees in federal prisons, ins commissioner alan nelson said thursday
his comments appeared in friday's editions of the miami herald
nelson attended an academic conference in washington, d.c., examining the 1980 mariel boatlift of cubans to the united states and the status of cuban detainees in u.s. prisons
any cuban who commits a crime, whether he is a resident or citizen of the united states, and if the law so sees fit, can be deported,'' nelson said
advocates for cuban prisoners immediately criticized nelson's statements
cuban deportation and what nelson is doing, representing the government's politics, is scandalous and truly unjustifiable,'' said steven donziger, a member of the cuban detainees support coalition in atlanta
the immigration pact with cuba allows the deportation of 2,500 mariel detainees who have committed crimes in the united states. in turn, the united states agreed to allow about 20,000 cubans and 3,000 political prisoners to immigrate every year
news of the agreement triggered riots by cuban detainees at prisons in atlanta and oakdale, la
the pact was aimed at normalizing immigration, nelson said
there would be no purpose in sending 2,500 refugees back now and not be able to deport anyone else in the future for committing crimes,'' he said
the widow of challenger astronaut michael smith cannot sue the government for $1.5 billion in damages because her husband was on military duty when the space shuttle exploded, killing him and six others, a federal judge has ruled
u.s. district judge patricia fawsett cited earlier court decisions holding that military personnel or their dependents could not sue the government for injury or death while on active service
smith, the challenger's pilot, was a navy captain who was assigned to nasa in 1981
smith's death occurred during activity incident to his military service,'' the judge said in removing the federal government as a defendant in the suit filed by jane j. smith
the judge also agreed with government lawyers who argued that military personnel ``receive generous statutory veterans' disability and death benefits.''
mrs. smith's lawyers had argued that her husband was not on regular military assignment and had no military duties at the time of his death
the order, filed this week in u.s. district court in orlando, maintained morton thiokol inc. as the principal defendant in the civil lawsuit. morton thiokol built the solid-fuel booster rocket blamed for the explosion that destroyed the space shuttle on liftoff at cape canaveral on jan. 28, 1986
the shuttle fleet has been grounded since then
the families of the other six victims have accepted financial settlements, four from morton thiokol and the government and two from morton thiokol alone
ms. fawsett also dismissed one count in the smith lawsuit seeking to bar morton thiokol from supplying nasa with any other booster rockets. the court, she said, had no jurisdiction in any of the counts involving the federal government
in a separate action on thursday, the judge denied a request by mrs. smith and her attorneys to transfer her lawsuit from orlando to the federal court in richmond, va. the judge did not explain the order
mrs. smith had sought to move the case because of a heavy caseload in the court system here and because she now lives in virginia beach, va
kerry nesbit, a spokeswoman for mrs. smith's lawyer, william f. maready, said the lawyer was considering appealing the judge's order monday dismissing the federal government from the lawsuit
another defendant named in the smith lawsuit is lawrence b. mulloy, manager of nasa's solid booster rocket program at marshall space flight center at the time of the challenger disaster. federal attorneys have filed a motion seeking his removal from the case, but ms. fawsett has issued no decision
u.s. justice department spokeswoman amy brown said the government contends that mulloy was acting in an official capacity for an agency of the government, and therefore cannot be sued
five wild cougars or mountain lions from texas will be released in a forest in northeastern florida to see if the closely related but endangered florida panther can survive there, wildlife officials said friday
if the re-introduction plan succeeds, the florida panther could be roaming the osceola national forest by the next decade, they said
the big cats will be fitted and radio collars and sterilized before they are released in april or may in the forest north of lake city, said tom logan, chief of the bureau of wildlife research for the florida game and fresh water fish commission
the osceola national forest was selected because of its size, habitat and food base. the surviving population of florida panthers now is largely confined to southern florida in the everglades and big cypress national preserve, although sightings have been reported around lake okeechobee and inland from cape canaveral
it is impossible to use florida panthers for the first phases of the project because only a few dozen of them survive, logan said
we don't have enough to experiment with,'' logan said
after the one-year experiment, the five cougars will be removed from the area and the second phase of the project will begin, with the release of captive-born cougars or hybrid offspring of a florida panther and a cougar
so far, attempts to mate big guy, a florida panther injured several years ago by a car, with female cougars at white oak plantation near yulee have been unsuccessful
he's more aggressive than in past years. we have our fingers crossed,'' said chris belden, an official with the panther project
if the first two phases of the project are successful, the final phase would be the introduction of florida panthers into the area
each phase of the proposed experiment is structured to enable us to identify and deal with any problems that might come up. and the radio collars would enable us to locate and remove any of the cats at any time we believe is necessary,'' logan said
the plan calls for livestock owners to be paid for any losses caused by the cats
wildlife officials said they plan no special hunting season restrictions for the benefit of the cats, but said it is unlikely that people will ever see the animals
they are very reclusive animals and the likelihood of interaction is very, very slim,'' said logan
justice anthony m. kennedy will not take part in the supreme court's deliberations on the constitutionality of a federal law authorizing independent counsels to investigate alleged crimes by government officials, a court spokeswoman said friday
spokeswoman toni house said kennedy, who joined the court on feb. 18, removed himself from consideration of the case without stating a reason
his absence creates the possibility of a 4-4 tie when the court's ruling, expected by july, is announced
if that occurs, the deadlock would have the effect of nullifying the law because it would uphold a decision by the u.s. circuit court of appeals here that declared the statute unconstitutional last month
the appeals court struck down the watergate-era law on grounds that it gives presidential appointment power to the federal courts. the law authorizes a federal court to appoint a special prosecutor when the attorney general recommends an independent investigation of a high-ranking official accused of a crime
the supreme court will hear arguments in the case april 26 in an appeal by independent counsel alexia morrison, who is investigating former justice department official theodore b. olson on charges he lied to congress
the perjury conviction of former white house aide michael k. deaver also could stand or fall depending on the court ruling
kennedy's decision not to take part in the case prompted speculation that he may have been concerned about old ties to president reagan and his aides, including deaver, who have been targets of independent counsel investigations
kennedy did some work for reagan when he was governor of california. at the time, kennedy was a lawyer in sacramento, calif., later to be named a federal appeals court judge there
two other investigations that could be affected by the high court's ruling on the special prosecutor law are a probe of the iran-contra affair and another that resulted in the feb. 11 conviction for illegal lobbying of former white house aide lyn nofziger
but the special prosecutors in both those investigations received parallel authority from attorney general edwin meese iii that could insulate their investigations from the constitutional attack on the independent counsel law. there is uncertainty in both cases because the investigations began before the back-up authority was conferred
a new study shows that sugarbeet production costs in 1984 were lowest in the midwest and highest in some western areas, the agriculture department said friday
the study involved seven regions that produce nearly all the u.s. sugarbeets. about 8,700 farms produce beets in the seven regions. overall, the department's economic research service reported that it cost an average of $30.30 per net ton to produce beets. the range, however, was between $24 and $35 per ton
about 60 percent of the 1984 u.s. sugarbeet crop was produced at a cost below the u.s. average price support of $31.63 per ton,'' the report said. ``the producers received a weighted average price of $33.90 a net ton, ranging from $23.30 in region 3 (colorado, nebraska and southeastern wyoming) to $37.10 in region 6 (eastern idaho).''
most beet producers in region 3 operated at a loss because of the closing of several processing plants by the great western sugar co., the report said
the study of 1984 costs, by region, showed:
_region 1, michigan and ohio, 10.8 percent of the u.s. sugarbeet acreage; government support of $27.79 per net ton; actual price received by growers, $32.95 per ton; average cost of production, $24.02 per ton
_region 2, minnesota and eastern north dakota, 35.2 percent of the u.s. acreage; support of $32.24 per ton; actual price received by growers, $36 per ton; average cost of production, $25.66 per ton
_region 3, colorado, nebraska and souteastern wyoming, 12.8 percent of the acreage; support of $31.23 per ton; actual price received by growers, $23.30 per ton; average cost of production, $28.06 per ton
_region 4, new mexico and texas, was not included in the study
_region 5, montana, northwestern wyoming and northwestern north dakota, 5 percent of the acreage; support of $31.37 per ton; actual price received by growers, $35.40 per ton; average cost of production, $34.26 per ton
_region 6, eastern idaho, 7.4 percent of the acreage; support of $31.05 per ton; actual price received by growers, $37.10 per ton; average cost of production, $34.87 per ton
_region 7, western idaho and oregon, 6.5 percent of the acreage; support of $31.05 per ton; actual price received by growers, $36.90 per ton; average cost of production, $34.68 per ton
_region 8, california, 18.8 percent of the acreage; support of $32.98 per ton; actual price received by growers, $35.10 per ton; average cost of production, $34.57 per ton
a former stockbroker was sentenced friday to 120 weekends in jail and fined $10,000 for his role in the insider trading scandal that involved a wall street journal reporter
peter brant also was placed on probation for five years and ordered to do 750 hours of community service. u.s. district judge charles e. stewart did not say what the community service would be
brant, 35, a former broker at kidder peabody &amp; co., pleaded guilty in 1984 to conspiracy and securities fraud. he admitted his part in a scheme to trade stock in 24 companies on the basis of information that was to appear in the journal's ``heard on the street'' column
the material brant received came from r. foster winans, a journal reporter who wrote the column. during a five-month period, the scheme netted almost $700,000, of which winans got $31,000 and brant got most of the rest
winans, whose mail, wire and securities fraud convictions were upheld by the u.s. supreme court last november, is serving an 18-month sentence. brant's sentencing was delayed pending the high court decision and because of his cooperation in other cases
brant's lawyer, stephen weiner, pleaded for leniency, asking stewart to consider ``the brutal price already paid'' by his client. brant, who now works for a telecommunications company in west palm beach, fla., has agreed to stay out of the securities business for life
the judge said he found the defendant ``at least as guilty as mr. winans and perhaps more so.''
stewart could have sentenced brant to 15 years in prison and fined him $30,000, but he took into account assistant u.s. attorney carl loewenson's request that he consider brant's cooperation in prosecuting two major criminal cases
one case loewenson referred to was the prosecutions of winans, winans' roommate david carpenter, and former kidder peabody broker kenneth p. felis who had roles in the wall street journal trading scheme
felis is serving six months of weekends and carpenter was placed on probation and directed to do community service
the second case involved former lawyer david w.c. clark, convicted last november of embezzling more than $3.7 million from clients from 1980 to 1984
clark, who died of chronic alcoholism a few days before he was to be sentenced, used the embezzled funds to trade securities based on the insider information brant passed on to him from the journal column
a plea of innocent to three misdemeanor counts of vehicular manslaughter was entered friday for the driver of a runaway bus that killed three people and injured 15
salvador orogo was at the wheel of a commuter bus on jan. 19 when it pulled out of a terminal during rush hour and plowed through a crosswalk filled with pedestrians
defense attorney gilbert eisenberg entered the pleas for orogo, 53, who was not in court. he is free on $10,000 bail
orogo surrendered thursday after an arrest warrant was issued. district attorney arlo smith said charges were filed when ``it was determined that the cause of the incident was negligent operation of the bus by orogo.''
orogo said after the crash that his accelerator had jammed and his brakes had failed, but investigators said the bus showed no mechanical defects
authorities said there was no justification for felony charges in the case because there was no allegation that alcohol or drugs played a role
michael dukakis jabbed gingerly at richard gephardt on trade and taxes friday, saying the 1981 tax cut his democratic presidential rival voted for was ``one of the biggest mistakes in recent american history.''
dukakis refrained from directly attacking gephardt as he pressed his campaign for southern support in the multi-state primaries and caucuses on march 8
no culprits,'' the massachusetts governor said with a smile after delivering his speech to an overflow crowd at the lyndon johnson school of public affairs without uttering gephardt's name. ``just good, strong, positive efforts to get this country moving again.''
dukakis devoted much of his speech to his campaign message of ``good jobs and real opportunity'' for all, with special emphasis on the need for education and research. ``it's going to take hard workers, not high rollers, to get america moving again,'' he said
he spoke as he moved through a three-day southern swing in advance of the march 8 primaries, most of which will be in southern or border states. aides said he has begun airing television commercials in targeted areas of florida and texas, as well as in the baltimore area
if gephardt's name was not mentioned, dukakis' meaning was clear when he said in his speech that ``building walls around america'' was a mistake. ``we tried that 60 years ago and it gave us the worst depression in our history,'' he said
gephardt favors trade legislation that would give the president authority to retaliate against trading partners that failed to open up their markets
the missouri congressman also voted for the 1981 reaganomics tax cut, which passed with substantial help from southern democrats in the house
in seven years that one mistake transformed our nation from the world's largest creditor into the world's largest debtor,'' dukakis said
reaganomics isn't an economic theory; it's theft from our children,'' he said. ``it's a felony against the future and it has played the hard-working, tax-paying families of middle america for fools.''
the governor's speech reflected at least a temporary decision to remain above the fray in an increasingly fierce rhetorical battle. gephardt sharply attacked dukakis earlier this week and the governor said on thursday his rival ``better watch out'' if he persisted
in his speech, dukakis said he has no ``southern strategy'' for the primaries on march 8. ``the people of texas and florida and virginia aren't voting for a zip code. they're voting for a president of the united states,'' he said
but at the same time the massachusetts governor sought to re-establish a political bond created 28 years ago when john kennedy and lyndon johnson were on the winning ticket in the national election
together, john kennedy and lyndon johnson inspired a whole generation,'' he said. ``ten months ago, in the spirit of jfk and lbj, we launched a campaign for the future of america.''
u.s. companies surveyed by the government reported a loss of $23.8 billion in 1986 because of foreign piracy of u.s. patents, trademarks and copyrights, according to a u.s. international trade commission study released friday
the itc said actual losses are much greater because not all companies filled out questionaires on the subject
the commission said it received responses from 431 companies. the questionaire was sent to 736 u.s. companies, including all those on the fortune 500 list
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said that the annual drain on u.s. companies because of ``inadequate protection of intellectual property'' actually may run as high as $43 billion to $61 billion
the failure of our trading partners to provide effective protection for intellectual property is a severe and growing problem that distorts trade,'' yeutter told a news conference called to release the study
the report came in advance of discussions next week in geneva on developing a new international code to protect patents, trademarks and copyrights. the talks are being held under the auspices of the 95-nation general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt), which is at work on a new set of global trade rules
the united states is seeking much tighter protection for intellectual property rights and unified standards
industries hardest hit by intellecutal-property piracy include sceintific, medical and photographic equipment, computers and software, electronics, entertainment, motor vehicles and pharmaceuticals, yeutter said
nations cited most frequently as having inadequate protection of intellecutal property included mexico, brazil, taiwan, korean and japan
however, yeutter declined to single out any particular country as the worst offender, telling reporters ``it's not just developing countries. there is ample opportunity to improve among most of the nations of the world.''
piracy of u.s. movies and musical recordings is a major problem area, the study said
jack valenti, president of the motion picture association of america, told the news conference: ``piracy is a toxic waste ... it is life threatening. it is a global war and we are fighting it on every front.''
the commission, which undertook the study at yeutter's request, said its figures represent only a partial approximation of u.s. losses from piracy
the data collected by the commission's questionaire cannot be projected to u.s. industry as a whole with any statistical validity,'' the report said. ``the universe of all u.s. businesses is unknown (and) those companies responding do not represent a random sample.'' udf official operating freely, sted not in hiding. ^by david crary</note>
police on friday arrested 14 white women protesting the crackdown on black opposition groups, and authorities silenced the last high-ranking united democratic front official who was operating freely
at the university of cape town, 2,000 students and staff assembled to denounce the government's bans on political activity by the udf, the country's largest anti-apartheid coalition, and 17 other groups
the battle has only just begun,'' said the rev. allan boesak, one of the udf's founders, at the campus rally. ``we have decided we will resist. our commitment starts right now.''
the 14 members of black sash civil rights group were arrested as they carried placards in durban. they were taken to police headquarters, told they were being charged with participating in illegal gathering, then released
azhar cachalia, treasurer of the united democratic front, was served with a restriction order prohibiting him from speaking to the press, publishing any statement or participating in activities of the udf or other anti-apartheid organizations
cachalia had been the only udf executive committee member not in hiding, in custody or restricted from udf activities. the 5-year-old coalition has 600 affiliates with about 2 million members
the government wednesday banned the udf and 17 other opposition groups from political activity, and issued restrictive orders against 18 senior black leaders, including udf co-presidents archie gumede and albertina sisulu
also on friday, the pietermaritzburg chamber of commerce met with law and order minister adriaan vlok to discuss the feuding between udf supporters and members of the zulu political organization, inkatha. more than 400 people have been killed in the past year in fighting between the groups for control of black areas in natal province
with the udf banned from all activity, and its leaders restricted, observers predicted the violence would continue and inkatha would have an advantage
chamber of commerce manager paul van uytrecht was quoted friday as saying that peace talks sponsored by his group could not proceed
inkatha, with an estimated 1.5 million members, was not affected by the new bans
the kwazulu homeland assembly, headed by inkatha president mangosuthu buthelezi, condemned the restrictions. but at the same time, it asked the government to give the homeland's pro-inkatha police force jurisdiction over all natal townships
the weekly mail, a newspaper the government has threatened with closure, quoted an unidentified udf representative friday as saying the crackdown ``simply gives buthelezi a free hand to gain control of the whole of natal.''
musa zondi, an inkatha delegate at the chamber of commerce peace talks, said the restrictions ``dash all hopes for the talks. the udf is a crucial element in the search for peace.''
police said three blacks were killed in violence in natal late thursday, but gave no details
at the ktc squatter camp near cape town, rival black factions shot at each other and burned shacks early friday, resulting in at least one death and five injuries, police and witnesses said
the fighting was between militant youths and the squatter camp management committee, both considered anti-apartheid groups. about 20 shacks were burned during the battle
the fighting in the camp began last month, and hundreds of shacks have been burned. in 1986, 70,000 people in the area lost their homes and scores of people died in battles between conservative ``vigilantes'' and the squatter-camp groups
this year the fighting is between two groups who fought together against the ``vigilantes'' in 1986, and appears to involve an attempt by the militant youths to gain more power in the administration of the squatter camp
prime minister yitzhak shamir urged secretary of state george shultz to move slowly on palestinian self-rule, and 15 prominent arabs didn't show up for a meeting friday night to which shultz had invited them
shultz went to a hotel in arab east jerusalem, stood in the floodlit courtyard and read a statement suggesting the palestinians were fearful of working with the united states
peacemaking is difficult,'' he read. ``peace has its enemies, but peace is a necessary ingredient to a decent life. even small steps toward peace can be significant in moving beyond distrust and hatred.''
shultz is here pursuing new american proposals for middle east peace
the no-show was not new for him. a group of palestinians also refused to meet him in jerusalem during a visit last october
in the statement he read friday night against a backdrop of moslem evening prayers in the distance, shultz still pursued the goal of bringing palestinians into middle east peace talks
opportunity knocks loudly on your door,'' he read out in the hotel courtyard. ``now is the time to get to work. we have a workable plan, and we are ready to commit our efforts to it. the time is right, together, to make decisions of historic proportions.''
earlier friday, several palestinians issued statements saying they would not attend the meeting. the palestine liberation organization had told palestinians from the west bank and gaza strip, where riots began more than 11 weeks ago, not to meet with shultz in jerusalem
mr. shultz seems to be trying to make a political statement by insisting on a meeting here: that the palestinian problem is in the context of civil, religious and perhaps economic rights,'' said sari nusseibeh, a professor at bir zeit university in the west bank
by saying i will not attend, i'm saying this is wrong. the problem is one of the national rights of the palestinians.''
hanna siniora, editor of the newspaper al fajr, said he told shultz ``i regret i cannot accept because the palestinian people have decided that we have to have a delegation reflecting the true composition of the palestinian people.'' siniora conferred with the secretary earlier this month in washington
shultz met on friday with the three principal members of israel's coalition government _ shamir, foreign minister shimon peres and defense minister yitzhak rabin
he put ``no pressure whatsoever on shamir,'' an israeli official said, on condition of anonymity. the official said shamir urged shultz to move slowly on self-rule in the west bank and gaza strip
during a two-hour meeting, shamir told shultz there should be ``a time of testing'' of up to three years before negotiations on a final settlement in the occupied territories, the official said. the american plan calls for negotiaitons on an overall settlement by december
the attempt by shamir to keep alive the 1978 camp david formula for interim palestinian self-rule puts shultz in the middle, between israel and the arabs. egypt and jordan have declared the process out of date
shamir also insisted that palestinian ``autonomy,'' which would involve some self-rule but not statehood, not be ``accelerated'' because of the current violence, the israeli official said
peres, shamir's partner and rival in the ``national unity'' coalition, said he found shultz ``open-minded and very attentive, looking for fresh ideas and information.''
he brought workable proposals,'' the foreign minister said.``we have some workable proposals, and for that reason we have started to work.''
rabin, the defense minister, said arab demonstrators should have ``no illusion that by force they can change the position of israel.''
a solution is possible only through negotiations involving palestinians who live in the west bank and gaza, along with jordan and israel, he said
he told reporters: ``they are going to suffer more than anybody else by the violence. ... by military means we can achieve tranquility, but not a solution.''
peres and rabin represent the center-left labor party, which for 20 years has proposed that israel yield some of the occupied territory as part of an overall peace settlement. shamir and his conservative likud bloc oppose trading land for peace, which shultz has suggested
shultz flies to amman on saturday to meet with prime minister zaid rifai of jordan, then to damascus to see the syrian president, hafez assad
he also will travel to cairo during his five-day shuttle, for which jerusalem is the base. assault</head>
a young white man sentenced earlier this week to work for the naacp by a judge who hoped to end a ``cycle of hate'' faced new charges of ethnic intimidation friday for allegedly punching and shouting slurs at a pregnant woman
it's very disappointing,'' cook county circuit judge stuart nudelman said of the new charges against james kalafut jr., 21. ``i've done these type of community-service sentences before and they've been successful
unfortunately, perhaps this one may not be. that remains to be seen.''
kalafut was back in nudelman's court friday to face charges of ethnic intimidation, battery and violation of his court-supervised sentence, accused of punching a pregnant woman in the stomach and shouting ethnic slurs at her
the woman has an hispanic surname
kalafut had pleaded guilty tuesday to ethnic intimidation and aggravated assault for an aug. 16, 1987, incident in which a group of whites brandishing baseball bats, hurling bottles and shouting racial slurs chased two blacks from their neighborhood
nudelman said kalafut had been ``taught to hate blacks'' and sentenced him to perform 200 hours of community service for the national association for the advancement of colored people. he also sentenced the young man to one year of court supervision
the judge said he imposed the sentence in an effort ``to stop the cycle of hate.'' however, the sentencing plan was put on hold and will be set aside if kalafut is convicted on the new charges, the judge said
nudelman said friday that if the younger kalafut is found guilty of the new charges, ``the young man unfortunately will be in a position where he may need an alternative form of punishment, such as some time in the county jail.''
defense attorney barry silver said kalafut had met with naacp officials and worked out a plan to collect and distribute clothing to poor families and victims of house fires
the judge transferred the two new charges to judge leo holt, saying, ``it wouldn't be fair for me to hear them.'' a trial before holt was tentatively scheduled for march 28
silver said the new charges were trumped up and said he believes kalafut was framed because of his guilty plea and sentence in the earlier incident
i interviewed two witnesses who tell me he never touched the girl,'' who lived nearby, silver said. ``i'm told there has been bad feelings between the families for quite some time.''
the charges stem from an argument late wednesday in front of the kalafut home between virginia flores, 27, who is 4{ months pregnant, and kenneth kolokowski, 25
the couple said kalafut came out of his house, yelled at them and then got into a struggle with kolokowski, said police officer al murphy
kalafut then allegedly punched ms. flores in the stomach and shouted an ethnic slur, murphy quoted the couple as saying
the defendant apparently considers ms. flores to be of hispanic origin, although ms. flores told police she is primarily of irish heritage with some indian background, murphy said
she suffered minor injuries but her fetus was not harmed, said a spokesman for holy cross hospital, where she was treated and released
the couple also told police the defendant's father, james kalafut sr., 45, came out of the house during the confrontation wearing pajama bottoms and exposed himself, murphy said
silver said friday the allegation was false
the elder kalafut, charged with ethnic intimidation and battery, faces an april 14 court hearing
kalafut's teen-age brother, larry, was sentenced last march to six years in prison for firebombing the home of a black family who moved into gage park, a predominantly white neighborhood
nicaragua came out in support of panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega on friday in the showdown over the leadership of the central american nation
venezuela backed eric arturo delvalle, who was removed from office early friday by legislators a few hours after he ordered noriega to step down
in cartagena, colombia, the foreign ministers of eight other latin american nations attending a regional meeting stayed non-committal, saying they were studying the situation
in bogota, ex-presidents alfonso lopez michelsen of colombia, daniel oduber of costa rica and carlos andres perez of venezuela said they had agreed earlier with noriega on a plan for the ``democratization'' of panama under which they said noriega would promise to retire as armed forces commander to allow free elections next year
but the three former leaders said the events in panama had aggravated the situation in the country
in managua, nicaraguan president daniel ortega offered his support to noriega and accused the u.s. government of trying to destroy the nation's sovereignty, the government-owned sandinista newspaper reported friday
the president of nicaragua assured gen. noriega that the panamanian people, facing threats, blackmail and the danger of american troop intervention, could count on the militant and combative solidarity of the people of sandino,'' a government communique printed in the newspaper said
the sandinista communique said ortega spoke with noriega on the telephone thursday night and offered ``unconditional solidarity in these moments when the american government is trying to kill the spirit of torrijos to save the sovereignty of panama.''
brig. gen. omar torrijos, the nationalist leader who staged a 1968 coup, became a national hero by working out the transfer to panama in 1999 of the american-built panama canal. he died in a plane crash in 1981
the sandinista links with torrijos and the panamanian government go back to before the 1978-79 revolutionary war in nicaragua. torrijos' government sent combatants and arms to the leftist sandinistas, who overthrew anastasio somoza
weeks after noriega's problems broke out last june, ortega flew to panama as a show of support. ortega said the united states was engaged in a conspiracy to break the 1977 canal treaties
the eight latin american foreign ministers attending the meeting in colombia discussed the events in panama at the request of panamaian foreign minister jorge abadia
we are being informed about developments in panama,'' said colombian foreign minister julio londono paredes, but he declined to make any further comment
abadia had asked thursday that his fellow ministers of argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, uruguay and venezuela should offer their solidarity to panama against ``a worldwide disinformation campaign.''
abadia told them that drug-dealing charges against noriega ``do not correspond with the facts in panama'' and he denounced ``maneuvers'' by the united states to keep its troops in control of the panama canal beyond the year 1999, when a treaty stipulates that panama will take over control of the waterway
abadia returned hurriedly to panama on friday
venezuelan foreign minister german nava carrillo said in cartagena that his government supports ``the democracy, sovereignty and independence of panama'' but warned that ``the military forces should be subject and obedient to civilian power.''
in caracas, the venezuelan government expressed support for delvalle's decision to oust noriega and called on the central american nation's armed forces to respect such a decision
the venezuelan government reaffirms its unequivocal position on the respect that the military forces in panama owe to the civilian power, as dictated by the panama's constitution,'' said a communique issued thursday night by the miraflores government palace
the venezuelan government expresses categorically its support to all the efforts aimed at strenthening the panamanian democratic process,'' the brief communique said
a rookie policeman was killed in his patrol car friday by three point-blank shots to the head in what the police commissioner said was an assassination meant to intimidate a crime witness
officer edward byrne, 22, was shot as he sat in a marked patrol car in queens, guarding the home of a threatened witness in a drug case. the house had been firebombed twice, allegedly by dealers
two men drove up to the patrol car at 3:30 a.m. one man got out and fired up to five shots into the patrol car, said police commissioner benjamin ward
the gunman had approached the car ``in a way not likely to alarm the police officer that anything was amiss, and then when he was so close that he could not miss, and moving so rapidly that the police officer would not be able to respond defensively, fired into the car,'' the commissioner said
byrne was the first officer killed in the line of duty this year, said police spokesman sgt. peter sweeney. three city police officers and one transit police officer were killed in 1987
ward acknowledged that the shooting could have been an act of random violence, but said ``it smacks more of a deliberate assassination attempt.''
he described the shooting as ``an attempt to intimidate not just that witness but all of you, and all of the people of this city and this country to say that if you cooperate with criminal justice something is going to happen to you.''
the resident of the house is a witness in impending cases against area drug dealers
the house was firebombed twice in november by drug dealers who believed the man had complained to police about drug dealing on his street, police said
southeast queens has become a hub of crack trafficking and drug-related violence in the last two years. many shootings in the area are the result of constant turf wars between drug cartels, ward said
authorities assigned a 24-hour police guard to the house after the firebombings. ward said the witness has also received other threats against his life for cooperating with authorities
he said assigning a single officer was standard practice. the patrol car was provided for the officer's convenience because of the weather
ward said having two officers in the patrol car would not make a difference in officers' safety ``if an assassin decides to arrive.''
byrne was single and was a second generation police officer; his father, matthew byrne, headed the department's legal bureau from 1972 to 1976
a state judge friday formally dismissed 22-year-old triple murder charges against rubin ``hurricane'' carter a week after prosecutors said they would not seek a third trial of the former boxer
i'm joyous with the result and deeply satisfied that justice finally has been done and the charges dismissed,'' said carter's attorney, myron beldock, after superior court judge ralph v. martin signed the order dismissing the indictment against carter and john artis
carter had served 19 years in prison before a federal judge in 1985 voided his second conviction and ordered his release on grounds that the conviction was tainted by racial bias and the witholding of information from the defense
carter, who has been living in seclusion, could not be reached for comment. beldock would not release his telephone number or whereabouts, but said his client would meet with reporters monday
prosecutors had said dismissal of the charges was justified because of the passage of time since the 1966 killings, problems finding witnesses, court decisions descrediting previous testimony and the burden posed by a third prosecution
they also cited the time served in prison by the defendants. artis, who was paroled in 1981, is serving a six-year term on an unrelated drug conviction
carter and artis were convicted in 1967, but given a new trial in 1976 after two witnesses recanted. they were convicted again, and the verdicts were upheld by the state supreme court
the federal judge's decision releasing carter from prison was upheld by an appellate court, and the u.s. supreme court refused to accept an appeal by prosecutors
carter, 50, and artis, 41, had been accused of killing a bartender and two patrons of a paterson bar. the victims were white; and the gunmen, like carter and artis, were black
hours earlier, a black paterson bartender had been shot to death by a white man. prosecutors theorized that the later killings were in retaliation
celebrities such as muhammed ali and actress ellen burstyn took up carter's cause, viewing him as a symbol of racial injustice. bob dylan wrote and sang ``hurricane,'' a ballad about the boxer's case
americans' incomes rose 0.3 percent in january, a moderate increase that matched the gain in consumer spending during the month, the government reported friday
the commerce department said that incomes and spending both rose 0.3 percent, following identical 0.7 percent advances in both categories during december
the gains were taken as positive signs that consumer spending, while not growing as briskly as it did during the early years of the economic recovery, will at least expand enough this year to keep the economy out of a recession
consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, is being closely monitored following the october stock market collapse
these figures support our impression that the economy will slow down this year but continue to move ahead,'' said roger brinner, an economist with data resources inc. of lexington, mass
consumer spending, after adjusting for inflation, fell at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the biggest decline in more than seven years. brinner predicted that much of this decline would be reversed in the current january-march quarter, in part, because auto sales have rebounded
wages and salaries, the key component of the income category, increased $12.4 billion in january, more than double the $5.6 billion december increase. this gain included a $2 billion increase in payrolls at manufacturing companies, which followed a $1.1 billion december increase
allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co., said the rise in incomes, while below previous months, was still strong enough to support further increases in spending. he noted that incomes in manufucturing have risen 4.7 percent in the past 12 months, compared to growth of just 1.8 percent in the previous 12 months
we have a picture of a consumer with adequate income growth who has become a bit more cautious and is more likely to save, but is not going to stop spending and drive the economy into a recession,'' sinai said
americans' savings rate, savings as a percent of disposable income, rose to 4.7 percent in january, 0.3 percentage point higher than the december level
the 0.3 percent increase in spending reflected an annual rate of increase of $10 billion with almost all of the strength coming in the services category
purchases of durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, edged up $200 million compared to a $12.3 billion december advance. purchases of non-durable goods fell $700 million in contrast to an increase of $5.3 billion in december
the services category, which includes housing expenses, shot up at an annual rate of $10.6 billion in january, much faster than the $4.2 billion december rise. some analysts said this reflected in large part a big jump in inflation in the services sector during the month
in a separate report friday, the labor department said that medical care services rose 0.8 percent, the steepest increase in two years, while rental costs and other service charges also posted big gains
in january and december, personal income was affected by a variety of special factors, including pay raises for federal employees, cost-of-living adjustments for social security recipients and swings in farm subsidy payments
farm incomes fell $10.5 billion in january, erasing a $10.4 billion december increase. excluding the big swings in government subsidies, farm incomes would have increased $500 million in janaury following a $1.5 billion december decline
after-tax incomes rose 0.6 percent in january following a 0.7 percent december increase
panama's ambassador to washington said he refused an order friday by military strong man miguel antonio noriega to resign and would continue to serve as envoy under u.s.-recognized president eric arturo delvalle
ambassador juan sosa also said a u.s. trade embargo might be necessary to depose noriega and acknowledged that delvalle has no support in the military
sosa declared his support for delvalle hours before the state department said it would continue to recognize him even though he was ousted by panama's national assembly after he tried to fire noriega as military chief
department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said the u.s. government still considered sosa panama's legal ambassador
sosa said at a news conference that he expects noriega to appoint a rival ambassador, but he said later that he would retain his office with the full backing of his embassy staff in washington
sosa said he had not contacted other panamanian envoys around the world and did not know whether others would support delvalle
he said, however, he expects official recognition of delvalle's government from several other countries
the envoy said he told noriega in a telephone call friday that as a member of delvalle's republican party, he still considered him president of the country. noriega asked for his resignation and he refused, sosa said
he noted that as ambassador for four months he had opposed economic sanctions against panama, ``but there are some times in the history of nations when economic sanctions (are needed) to get the country back on track.''
we certainly hope that not only the u. s. but the whole hemisphere will support panama and if necessary apply economic sanctions to help panama get back onto the road of democracy,'' sosa said
he said, however, delvalle would not support u.s. military intervention
sosa said he did not expect reprisals against the 50,000 u.s. citizens in panama and predicted the crisis could be resolved by peaceful means
he denied that u.s. pressure had led to delvalle's attempt to depose noriega, saying it is a ``step that has been taken consciously and courageously'' without anyone else's help
asked if there were any signs of support for delvalle in the military, sosa said, ``the national defense forces are very united. there might be dissent, but i don't know of it.''
we do not have any military support. we only have the weapon of being right,'' he said
a former morton thiokol engineer who tried to stop the fatal launch of the space shuttle challenger says another shuttle disaster is possible because what he feels is a poor redesign job
the shuttle's return flight is not going to be a safe one,'' roger boisjoly told student engineers thursday during a speech on professional ethics in oklahoma city
morton thiokol managers, not engineers, directed the effort to redesign new booster joint seals, and the result is ``an incredibly lousy design,'' he said. the new seals are no better than the old ones, he added
company spokesman rocky raab was out of his office in brigham city, utah, on friday and could not be reached for comment
boisjoly was considered morton thiokol's expert on the booster rocket joint seals. he warned nasa officials not to launch the challenger on jan. 28, 1986, when below-freezing temperatures beset the kennedy space center
the shuttle exploded when o-ring seals on its solid fuel booster joints failed and allowed gases to escape the booster and ignite the massive fuel tank. the seven astronauts were killed
the next space launch is tentatively set for august. boisjoly said he wouldn't fly on it, and wouldn't advise anyone else to
boisjoly has filed two federal lawsuits against morton thiokol inc. he took a long-term disability leave from the chicago-based company, saying he suffered depression and post-traumatic stress following the explosion
he contends the company hurt his reputation by portraying him as a disgruntled employee after he testified before the rogers commission, which investigated the challenger explosion
boisjoly contends in another suit that morton thiokol and the national aeronautics and space administration conspired to ensure that the company would be the sole supplier of solid-rocket motors
the lawsuits also charge that morton thiokol falsely certified the safety of its o-rings
the fbi is conducting a criminal investigation of fraud allegations made by morton thiokol employees. but the justice department has declined to enter the case
a top soviet official went on armenian radio and television friday and read a plea by mikhail s. gorbachev for an end to unrest by protesters demanding land from a neighboring republic
armenian activists speaking by telephone from yerevan described an increased presence by the red army, including paratroopers armed with clubs
the 15-minute unprecented speech, broadcast at 11 a.m., blasted from speakers throughout yerevan, the capital of armenia. demonstrators crowding the streets heard it read over tv monitors placed outside by government officials
reports from yerevan late friday indicated that the thousands of demonstrators began dispersing several hours after the broadcast. a witness said the protesters only began heading home after the armenian communist party central committee agreed to ask the soviet central committee to reconsider the request for land
another witness said 1,500 soviet paratroopers had been flown into yerevan around midnight thursday and were ferried in a 40-vehicle motorcade to the dynamo sports hall and other locations around the republic's capital
they came with full equipment, including clubs,'' said paruyr ayrikyan, an armenian activist
for the past week, unsanctioned mass demonstrations have rocked yerevan. protesters are demanding that nagorno-karabakh, an autonomous region of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan, be made part of armenia
protests also were reported earlier in the week in nagorno-karabakh where more than 80 percent of the 157,000 residents are armenians
the armenian national committee, an anti-communist group based in athens, greece, claimed that azerbaidjanis killed more than 70 armenians in the disputed region
a 17-year-old resident of nagorno-karabakh said thursday that virtually the entire armenian population of the region demonstrated daily in the main city, stepanakert, since feb. 13
tass reported that soviet officials said there were some ``victims'' in those protests but said there were no deaths
in his speech, gorbachev appealed to the people of armenia and azerbaidzhan to show ``civic maturity and restraint,'' the official tass news agency reported
he said the central committee will meet to examine relations among the country's more than 100 ethnic groups, tass said
in a late night dispatch, tass reported that gorbachev acknowledged ``there are unresolved problems in the life of soviet society, but the fomenting of strife and mistrust among peoples only hinders their resolution.''
one witness said the demonstrators did not begin dispersing immediately after hearing the address, read by politburo member vladimir i. dolgikh
they began leaving a few hours later, after learning that the armenian central committee had requested the national central committee to reconsider the annexation proposal, said the witness, a 40-year-old armenian woman reached in yerevan by phone friday night
a hotel worker said the demonstrators planned no more protests until after march 23 when a decision on the dispute is expected from the armenian central committee
there is no disorder. everyone is working again,'' said the employee of the yerevan hotel who spoke on condition of anonymity
asked how the demonstrators reacted to gorbachev's speech, valery aidinyan, chief of the propaganda department at the yerevan communist party newspaper kommunist, said: ``they took it with good feelings. it had a calm tone, and was warm, without the usual rhetoric.''
earlier friday, sergei grigoryants, a dissident of armenian origin, estimated that more than 1 million people were in yerevan's streets friday morning
columns are marching along the major streets, and there is a sea of banners,'' he said
gevorg mirozyan, an editor at the armenian state broadcasting authority gostelradio, put the number of demonstrators at more than a million
aidinyan said his crowd size estimate was in the range of tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands
there has been no official estimate of the number of demonstrators, and the government has barred foreign reporters from traveling to armenia
aidinyan said factories and public transportation, reported earlier to have been closed by a strike in support of the protesters, had returned to normal
late friday, tass issued the first official confirmation of labor disruption
a number of industrial enterprises in yerevan have been in a fever of late as people were leaving their workplaces to take part in demonstrations and meetings in connection with the events in nagorny-karabakh,'' the news agency reported, quoting an armenian central committee member identified only as s. petrosyan
armenia is the smallest of the 15 soviet republics in area, and has 3.4 million inhabitants. by annexing nagorno-karabakh, which at 1,760 square miles is smaller than delaware, armenia's area would increase by 14 percent, and its population by 4 percent
the protests test gorbachev's campaign for greater democratization and openness, and his personal appeal showed how seriously the kremlin leadership regards the situation. gorbachev has said relations among the soviet union's nationalities are the country's greatest problem
grigoryants said protesters carried signs linking their actions with gorbachev's policies of ``glasnost,'' or openness, and ``perestroika,'' his broad plan for rebuilding soviet society
the speech marked the first time gorbachev has personally intervened in a nationalities dispute
even in december 1986, when rioting broke out in the central asian republic of kazakhstan, killing three and injuring hundreds, gorbachev did not surface
president reagan is nominating frank degeorge to be inspector general at the commerce department, the white house announced friday
degeorge, if confirmed by the senate, will succeed sherman maxwell funk in the job
reagan also announced his intention to nominate robert h. brumley ii to be general counsel of the commerce department, succeeding douglas a. riggs
since 1982, degeorge has been deputy inspector general at the commerce department. before that he was associate deputy administrator for administration at the veterans administration from 191-82
degeorge, 58, graduated from la salle college in 1951 and completed graduate studies at the university of delaware in 1955
brumley since 1985 has been deputy general counsel at the commerce department, and before that was a special assistant to the general counsel and had been in private practice of law from 1979-83
brumley, 39, is a graduate of east tennessee state university and the university of tennessee college of law
soon it will be all right for american hunters to bring foreign-bagged wild pheasant and grouse home for cooking, the agriculture department said friday
that is, so long as the birds have been eviscerated and their heads and feet removed, said james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service. the new rule takes effect march 28
previously, such game birds had to be cooked before being brought into the united states to prevent the introduction of poultry diseases. glosser said the agency has determined that wild pheasant and grouse carcasses are not threats if they are first trimmed of innards, heads and feet
about 300 to 400 american hunters annually have been returning with cooked fowl shot in foreign countries, he said
health and human service secretary otis r. bowen on friday announced the formation of a federal task force to focus on aids among children
the purpose of the initiative is to cut across agency lines, ensuring that we provide not only the best medical response but also the best use of our social programs on behalf of these children and their families,'' bowen said at the latest in a series of department briefings on aids
dr. antonia c. novello of the national institute of child health and human development heads the newly designated pediatric hiv infection working group, which includes representatives from five agencies within the sprawling hhs department
bowen cited emerging evidence that the deadly disease affects children somewhat differently than adults as justification for designating the special task force
he said the working group ``will help carry out the agenda set last year at the surgeon general's workshop on children with hiv infection and their families.''
bowen noted that many agencies within hhs have already been working on special problems associated with aids among children. he cited as an example a plan by the health resources and services administration to spend $4.4 million this year on demonstration programs for innovative ways of caring for children with aids
he also said the office for human development services ``will be funding projects to improve recruitment of foster parents and to provide supportive services for natural and foster families'' of children with aids
there are just over 1,000 officially reported aids cases among people under 18 years old, but bowen said that is projected to increase to 3,000 in three years
moreover, he added, ``we believe that for every one child who meets the definition for aids itself, at least another two are hiv infected and the number of probably higher. by 1991, we expect that there will be some 10,000 to 20,000 hiv-infected children in the united states.''
existing evidence suggests that most children infected with the virus eventually develop the disease itself
two independent music promoters, a former radio executive and a promoter's wife were indicted on bribery, tax evasion or other charges stemming from a two-year-old payola investigation, federal officials said friday
one promoter used cocaine as well as cash to bribe radio station employees to play his records, according to the indictment
the independent promoters were acting on behalf of virtually all record companies in this country,'' u.s. attorney robert bonner said at a news conference after the indictments were unsealed
however, bonner said there was no evidence the record companies were aware of any bribery, or payola as it's called in the industry
the investigation was continuing with help from authorities in half a dozen cities, bonner said, but he declined to say whether additional indictments were expected
federal agents arrested promoter ralph tashjian, 39, of san mateo and his wife, valerie, at their home thursday, even though their attorneys had offered to surrender them to authorities, said anthony brooklier, the promoter's lawyer
tashjian is accused of three counts of payola, one count of conspiracy to distribute cocaine, one count of obstruction of justice and three counts of corporate income-tax fraud, brooklier said
tashjian allegedly paid nearly $42,000 in cash and gave undisclosed quantities of cocaine to three radio station workers from 1980 to 1985 in exchange for air time for his records
the charges against him, handed up by a los angeles federal grand jury thursday, were denied by the tashjians' attorneys
mrs. tashjian was arrested for alleged corporate tax evasion
a second indictment announced friday by bonner charged independent promoter william craig, 42, of scottsdale, ariz., also known as william craighead, with willfully aiding in the preparation of false federal tax returns and attempting to evade individual income tax
it also charges craighead with making illegal payments to three radio stations to ensure that certain records were played on the air
the third indictment charged george wilson crowell, also known as george wilson, 59, former vice president and general manager of radio station kiqq in los angeles, with willful failure to file federal income tax returns for 1984, 1985 and 1986
craig faces 18 years in prison and fines of $1.64 million if convicted. the charges against tashjian carry penalties of up to 23 years and $1.53 million in fines; mrs. tashjian, 15 years and $1.5 million; and crowell, three years and $75,000, bonner said
the payola investigation began in 1986. alleged organized crime figure salvatore james pisello, 64, of west hollywood, was charged last july with three counts of tax evasion. his case is pending in los angeles federal court
panama's president eric arturo delvalle knew in advance that his attempted firing of gen. manuel antonio noriega would fail but is confident that planned steps would lead to noriega's downfall within three weeks, a panamaniam dissident said friday
jose i. blandon, a onetime noreiga associate, said in an interview that delvalle has devised an 18-point plan for the ouster of the military strong man, and his unsuccessful bid to replace him was but one element
it is exactly what we thought was going to happen,'' blandon said, referring to delvalle's bid to install the second-ranking officer in panama's defense forces as commander on thursday and noriega's decision to ignore the order
hours later, the panamanian national assembly, dominated by noriega allies, voted to oust delvalle and replace him with the education minister. but delvalle said he still regards himself as president
blandon said other elements in the effort to topple noriega include a general strike, the rallying of international support for delvalle and the consent of the dominican republic to give noriega a safe haven if and when he flees panama
delvalle received a boost friday when the state department announced that it continues to recognize him as president. blandon said he expects similar support from many latin american democracies
the reagan administration has been increasingly hostile to noriega, especially since his indictment on drug-smuggling charges by federal grand juries in florida three weeks ago
other aspects of the anti-noriega plot, blandon said, include a purging of panama's defense forces, leading to the ouster of six majors he said are involved in drug trafficking and eight colonels who are serving in violation of rules requiring retirement after 25 years' service
if noriega leaves, col. elias castillo, the third-ranking member of the defense forces, would take command. blandon said castillo is a military professional, is untainted by corruption and leads a modest middle-class existence that contrasts sharply with the opulent life styles of some of noriega's close military associates
castillo is ``not involved in drugs and he's clean,'' blandon said. ``he's a good soldier. he does not have political ambitions.''
with u.s. marshals deployed nearby, blandon sat in a local hotel suite and outlined how he, delvalle and a group of other opposition leaders have been planning to restore civilian rule in panama
noriega once looked on blandon as a close confidante, but the two had a falling out last fall after blandon told the military chieftain that panama's crisis can only be solved if he steps down
blandon is under u.s. government protection because of testimony he gave outlining noriega's alleged drug-smuggling activities and his ties with the cia, among other issues
during his 90-minute conversation with a reporter, blandon perused a document he said was an 18-point plan for restoring civilian supremacy in panama. it was dated feb. 22, but blandon said the essentials of the plan had been worked out by himself, delvalle and opposition leaders weeks earlier
blandon said that during a meeting in miami last week, delvalle asked assistant secretary of state elliott abrams if it would be possible to drop the indictments against noriega
abrams replied that it would be legally possible but that any such decision would have to be made by either the justice department or president reagan, blandon said
withdrawal of the indictments presumably would leave noriega free to seek a safe haven outside panama without fear of u.s. extradition. but blandon said the administration has given no indication it would agree to lift the indictments
he said authorities in the dominican republic, where noriega has a son-in-law, have agreed to allow him and five to seven associates into the country should he be forced out. noriega has been informed of this development, he said
but if the indictments remain in place, noriega would be subject to u.s. extradition under a treaty with the dominican republic
still, blandon said he was confident that noriega's days as defense chief are numbered, particularly if there is widespread adherence to a scheduled call for a general strike and if the united states imposes an economic embargo against panama
he said alaskan oil is shipped through a panamanian pipeline for eventual delivery to u.s. east coast ports. an embargo would prevent continued use of the pipeline by american companies, depriving panama of millions of dollars of badly needed revenue and aggravating what he described as the country's acute financial crisis
cotton use by u.s. textile mills is at the highest level since the early 1970s, the agriculture department said friday
in the 1987 marketing year that ended last july 31, nearly 7.5 million bales of cotton were used by mills, up from 6.4 million in 1986. as it looks now, 1988 mill use is headed for another gain to around 7.8 million bales
but imports of cotton textiles also are up, totaling an equivalent of 4.9 million bales in 1987, a 22 percent increase from 1986, the department's economic research service said
meanwhile, u.s. exports of raw cotton are expected to be around 7 million bales in the 1988 marketing year, an increase of 300,000 bales from 1987, the agency said in its new outlook report
based on jan. 1 indications, the 1987 cotton harvest _ which goes into the overall supply for the 1988 marketing year _ is expected to yield 14.7 million bales, up from 9.7 million bales in 1986
cotton prices moved up last year because of the tighter supply and rising demand. the u.s. spot price, for example, rose above 77 cents per pound, the report said. but since last august prices have dropped by 17 to 20 cents
the larger-than-expected 1987 u.s. crop, the potential for increased acreage and production in 1988, and concern about the economy's performance have pressured prices lower this season,'' the report said
democratic presidential condidate jesse jackson campaigned in georgia on friday, visiting the legislature, cajoling atlanta attorneys to help the poor and picking up an endorsement from amy carter
jackson, as he has done at other stops across the south, reminded members of the georgia general assembly of his southern roots
i am one of you,'' he said in remarks to the state senate. ``i worked hard to make the new south new _ now, lets make the new south better
i am my party's conscience. by july, with your help, i want to be its candidate.''
appearing with jackson in the capitol rotunda was miss carter, the daughter of former president jimmy carter, who said she was endorsing the civil rights leader and 1984 democratic candidate because of his ``pro-people'' stands
i have discussed this with my father, but you'll have to ask him how he feels about it, not me,'' miss carter told the marietta daily journal
the former president, a ``superdelegate'' to the democrats' national convention in atlanta this summer, remains uncommitted, according to aides at the carter presidential center
jackson will be back in georgia on saturday for a debate with the other democratic hopefuls at the georgia world congress center, sponsored by the atlanta journal and the atlanta constitution
in a speech friday to members of the atlanta bar association, jackson asked the lawyers for help in assuring all americans equal access to the judicial system
we have a whole body of people denied equal protection under the law'' because president reagan has cut funding for legal help for the poor and the nation's lawyers have failed to fill in the gap, jackson said
in response to a question about his religion and the presidency, the baptist minister vowed to keep church and state separate if he is elected
but, he said, ``we should not keep morality and state separate. ... we must bring our values to high office. ... i'm not ashamed of the gospel. that which makes us feed the hungry and clothe the naked ... we must never apologize for that.''
the air force said friday it had launched an environmental impact study of bases that could be used as garrisons for rail-mounted mx nuclear missiles
in conducting the study, the service said it would review a number of deployment alternatives, including the fielding of 100 mx missiles on rail cars instead of just 50 missiles
defense secretary frank c. carlucci disclosed recently the administration would like to move the 50 mx missiles that congress already has approved for silo basing to rail cars along with a new batch of 50 missiles
congress has yet to approve any type of mobile deployment for the 10-warhead mx, but it has provided research-and-development funding since president reagan unveiled the idea in december 1986
the air force announced a year ago it had selected f.e. warren air force base in wyoming to become the main operating base for any rail-mounted mx missiles and 10 other bases for consideration as additional ``rail garrisons.''
the service said friday that list had not changed, and that special ``meetings to identify environmental issues'' would be scheduled soon for residents living near each of those 11 bases
besides f.e. warren, the list includes blytheville air force base, ark.; little rock air force base, ark.; whiteman air force base, mo.; barksdale air force base, la.; dyess air force base, texas; fairchild air force base, wash.; grand forks air force base, n.d.; minot air force base, n.d.; malstrom air force base, mont., and wurtsmith air force base, mich
the air force said it hoped to complete the impact study by late this year and make the final selection of home bases
the air force envisions either 25 or 50 six-car trains, with each train carrying two mx missiles. each garrison could house four, five or six trains
the missiles would be carried in specially modified cargo cars, made to look like a regular boxcar. to launch the missile, the top of the box car would open outward, allowing the missile to be erected into a vertical position and fired
the trains would remain inside the heavily guarded garrisons during peacetime, but could disperse onto the regular commercial rail system in the event of an emergency. the pentagon's goal would be to have a mobile target that the soviet union could not destroy
the air force says it has made no decision on how many rail garrison bases it needs out of the list of 10 besides f.e. warren
the air force, which calls the mx the peacekeeper missile, said, ``the proposed action is to deploy a total of 50 peacekeeper missiles on 25 air force trains with two missiles per train. but an alternative action is to deploy 100 peacekeeper missiles on 50 trains.''
three companies accused of selling thousands of pounds of non-kosher poultry as kosher to customers in up to 22 states have agreed in a legal settlement to get out of the kosher business, officials said friday
we wanted to make sure something like this never happened again,'' said rabbi victor segal, president of goldman-segal kosher caterers of chicago, which had accused the three companies of fraud in a federal lawsuit. ``it was a nightmare.''
segal said it was the largest case of fraud involving mislabeling of kosher foods, and potentially affected jewish families in 22 states where the companies' kosher poultry products were sold
jewish religious law restricts the type of meats that can be eaten and mandates a ritual for butchering the meats and removing as much blood as possible to make them kosher. ``the process is lengthy and more expensive,'' segal said
in mid-december, segal's catering company sued the chicago-based companies _ united poultry inc., aspen foods inc. and shelat kosher foods inc. _ and two of their officers in federal court, accusing them of false advertising, fraud and deceptive trade practices. the catering company had bought kosher poultry products from united poultry, segal said
a month earlier, the illinois attorney general had filed a state lawsuit against the companies, as well as sheldon terman, president of the three firms, and michael terman, the companies' secretary, for allegedly mislabeling their products as kosher
cook county circuit judge anthony scotillo ordered a nationwide recall on nov. 5 of up to 376,000 pounds of poultry processed by shelat kosher foods and sold under the shelat label
the judge also issued a temporary injunction shutting down shelat, a meat-processing firm that made specialty kosher poultry products such as chicken kiev
on nov. 24, shelat admitted selling non-kosher poultry as kosher in a court-issued consent decree and was permanently closed, said william sullivan, chief of the attorney general's consumer protection division
the attorney general's office estimated that shelat made about $250,000 profit from selling cheaper non-kosher poultry at the higher kosher prices
but segal said his catering company was more concerned about the possible violations of jewish religious law. ``the mental anguish that we had from the possibility of having defiled dishes and ovens and flatware was awful,'' he said
the company also was ordered to pay $250,000 in restitution and fines, and its president, sheldon terman, was ordered to sell his stock in united poultry, a company that distributed shelat's products and other kosher foods
under friday's settlement, united poultry, which still was distributing other kosher poultry products, must stop selling all kosher foods by no later than sept. 1, and the other two companies are also ordered out of the kosher business, segal said
it also specifies a monetary settlement which may not be disclosed under terms of the settlement, segal said
we have no complaints about the settlement,'' said harvey silets, an attorney representing the companies and the termans. ``we've agreed to it. this is merely a continuation of the matter that was initiated by the attorney general.''
silets said the company officers accused in the suit would not be available for comment
shelat bought poultry from kosher butchering houses and then processed it to make specialty items, such as boneless chicken breasts stuffed with rice, segal said
but a new employee at shelat noticed that the company was sending out more kosher-labeled products than the amount of kosher-slaughtered chicken it received, segal said
a surprise inspection by the union of orthodox jewish congregations found that shelat employees were placing the union's kosher labels on poultry that was not kosher, segal said
milk production last year declined 1 percent to less than 142.5 billion pounds from a revised 1986 record of 143.8 billion pounds, the agriculture department said friday
previously, usda had estimated 1987 milk output at about 142.9 billion pounds and the 1986 record at 144.1 billion
the new estimates were in a monthly report on milk production, which showed january output running about 3 percent above a year ago in the major dairy states
department economists say 1988 milk production is expected to rise by 1 percent to 3 percent, which could push output for the year to another record level
an appeals court on friday freed on bail 20 british soccer fans charged with manslaughter in riots that killed 39 people at a 1985 championship match
the court ruled that despite the charges, the setting of bail was sufficient to assure their appearance at a trial, a court official said. he spoke on condition he not be identified by name
no date for the trial has been set
the 20 were among 25 fans of the british soccer team fc liverpool who had been extradited to belgium last september to be tried in connection with the riots at heysel
earlier this month, a lower court had set bails ranging from $1,430 to $5,715. five of the defendants had been released earlier to await trial
the 25 fans were arrested in britain after video tapes and photographs indicated they had been involved in the riots, which occurred before the european champions' cup final between liverpool and juiventus turin of italy on may 29, 1985
british supporters charged rival fans in an adjacent stand, causing panic. thirty-nine people, most of them italians, were trampled to death during the retreat from the violence
the foreign ministers of six balkan nations pledged friday to resolve ethnic disputes in their region following a meeting that included the rare participation of albania
the ministers ended their first post-war meeting by adopting a communique in which they also pledged to boost economic cooperation. participating in the conference were yugoslavia, albania, greece, turkey, romania and bulgaria
relations among nearly all the balkan nations are marked by ethnic tensions. albanian and yugoslav relations have been strained over the ethnic albanian minority in the southern yugoslav province of kosovo
the three-day conference was the highest-level meeting of balkan states since world war ii, and the first international conference outside the united nations to be attended by an albanian foreign minister
it was also the first visit to yugoslavia by an albanian foreign minister since belgrade broke with the soviet bloc in 1948. albania broke with the bloc in 1960
albania has been moving toward contact with other nations since the death in 1985 of its longtime leader enver hoxha, who kept albania virtually isolated from the rest of the world
the adoption of the final document was delayed 9o-minutes after albania raised objections to some aspects of the text. as the host country, yugoslavia drafted the final document
albanian foreign minister reis malile and his yugoslav counterpart budimir loncar left the conference hall to discuss the disputed paragraphs
loncar, asked what albania had objected to, said that it involved ``only a sequence of words and paragraphs.'' he refused to be more specific
the communique adopted by the conference encouraged more frequent meetings among the balkan leaders. the foreign ministers agreed to meet ``periodically,'' but did not set a date for their next conference
addressing the minority issue, the communique stated that ethnic minorities ``should be a factor of cohesion, stability, friendly relations and cooperation.''
the communique also emphasized the ``humanitarian aspect of cooperation,'' an apparent reference to concerns of some states over human rights abuses regarding their ethnic minorities in neighboring countries
bulgaria began a campaign in 1984 to change the names of its estimated 1 million-strong ethnic turkish minority. the campaign was first reported by turkish newspapers and later confirmed by western diplomats in sofia and amnesty international, the london-based human rights organization
albania has also accused yugoslavia of discriminating against its ethnic albanian minority, and greece has in the past expressed concern about the greek minority in albania. mission</head>
the united nations prepared friday for an emergency session of the general assembly next week to consider u.s. plans to close the u.n. observer mission of the palestine liberation organization
the session by the 159-nation group begins monday and is expected to last at least three days
the dispute began after the u.s. congress voted and president reagan approved an order last december to shut the plo mission in new york effective march 22
following the congressional action the general assembly voted overwhelmingly to urge the united states to abide by its treaty obligations and leave the mission alone
the united nations resolution said the u.s. law violated the 1947 headquarters agreement, which obliges the united states to allow u.n. missions to operate
both the plo and arab league previously said they might seek to move the general assembly from new york to geneva if the plo office is closed. they also have said they could seek a ruling by the world court in the hague
the united nations was awaiting word from u.s. attorney general edwin meese iii on whether he would implement the law and close the mission. in the past, he has said he intends to enforce the law
in washington, u.s. ambassador vernon a. walters, america's permanent u.n. representative, told congressmen thursday he was ``not optimistic about the outcome'' of the session
he made the comment after testifying that if the united states continues to default on its u.n. budget dues, now $252.8 million in arrears, it will lose influence and prestige in the international body
a draft resolution approved friday by the arab league states that the united states is legally obliged to let the plo operate its observer mission and calls the u.s. legislation ``a blatant violation'' of the headquarters agreement
last year, the state department closed the plo information center in washington, the only other plo office in the united states
the headquarters agreement provides for binding arbitration of disputes between the united states and the united nations. u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar has invoked the arbitration clause of the treaty, but said the united states had not agreed to arbitration.  
an internal revenue service agent and a former agent have been charged in a sting operation in which $300 million of purported drug money was to be laundered and brought into the united states, federal prosecutors said friday
william parramore, 52, of union city, an irs employee for 20 years, and harold brown, 33, of albany, ga., who resigned from an irs office in san mateo last year, were among four men charged after an internal investigation that began in seattle, said u.s. attorney joseph russoniello
the investigation last month when ray wilford, 26, of des moines, wash., told a government informant posing as a cocaine dealer that he had an uncle who worked for the irs and could help launder money, said irs internal security investigator michael charland in a statement filed in federal court
wilford later identified the uncle as parramore, a revenue officer group manager in the hayward irs office, charland said
the informant told parramore at an electronically recorded meeting jan. 14 that he had $300 million in panama and hong kong banks and wanted to bring it into the united states without trouble, charland said
he said parramore agreed to help in exchange for 10 percent of the money, and proposed setting up a corporation to launder the funds, which were to be moved in amounts of $500,000. wilford and his cousin, terrance wilford, 25, of seattle, were to receive $50,000, charland said
parramore and ray wilford referred the informant to brown, who in a recorded feb. 5 meeting proposed a plan to move money into the united states by setting up three businesses in the san francisco bay area that would be financed through loans from foreign banks, charland said
he said the informant and an undercover irs agent rejected the proposal, and that brown promised to work on a new plan
all four men are charged with conspiracy to commit tax fraud, punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine
parramore was arrested at his home friday, and the wilfords were arrested in seattle, russoniello said. brown is being sought. 02-26 0693</first>
the romanian government, apparently weary of white house and congressional demands for a better human rights performance, has renounced american trade benefits given to communist countries with good emigration policies, u.s. officials said friday
as a result, romania could lose up to $250 million in commerce with the united states, according to romanian figures
state department spokesman phyllis oakley said romania informed the united states through diplomatic channels that it had decided to ``renounce'' the trade concessions, therefore subjecting romanian goods to higher tariffs as of july 2
romania also will lose eligibility for u.s. government-supported export credits through the commodity credit corp. or the export-import bank, mrs. oakley said
the announcement reflected a growing deterioration of relations between the united states and romanian leader nicolae ceausescu, who has been wooed by u.s. administrations in the past because of his relatively independent line from moscow
deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead, who met ceausescu in bucharest three weeks ago, informed the romanian leader of u.s. dissatisfaction with human rights policies. whitehead later told reporters that ceausescu's replied, in essence: stop meddling in romania's internal affairs
starting in 1975, presidents ford, carter and reagan scrutinized romania's emigration policies and repeatedly asked congress to waive a rule preventing state-economy countries from receiving ``most-favored-nation status'' _ the right to lower tariffs. congress has gone along
under the jackson-vanik amendment, designed to spur the soviet union and its allies to permit high levels of emigration by jews and other ethnic groups, countries that satisfy that human right are eligible for the trade benefit on an annually renewable basis
among soviet bloc countries, only romania, poland and hungary have been recipients
despite friday's announcement, mrs. oakley said romania ``stated to us that it will continue to allow emigration for family reunification purposes, without relation to economic ties with the united states. we welcome this.''
she said romania had also expressed a desire to continue to work for better relations
according to her figures, u.s. exports to romania are worth $200 million annually, of which half are agriculture products. ``the competitiveness of these exports will suffer,'' she acknowledged. ``we think trade will likely shrink.''
romania exported goods worth $775 million to the united states last year, the spokeswoman said. she said romania estimates that its loss of most-favored nation status will cost up to $250 million in lost exports
in recent years, u.s. diplomats have conferred with the ceausescu government on steps romania would be expected to take to win president reagan's approval of a waiver of the jackson-vanik rules
romania traditionally had satisfied those expectations enough to win a presidential waiver and approval by congress, but in recent years, members of congress increasingly have questioned whether romanian compliance met the requirements
many members, notably sen. paul trible, r-va., asserted that romania's continued discrimination against religious minorities and its overall supression of free speech, political opposition and other freedoms warranted cancellation of the trade benefits
they also rejected arguments by reagan and other presidents that the benefits encouraged romania to continue such non-moscow policies as recognition of israel and non-participation in warsaw pact military maneuvers
whitehead said after returning from bucharest that the administration had not decided whether to ask congress to give romania the trade benefits this year. even if it made such a request, there were no assurances congress would grant it, he said
stripping romania of its most favored nation status has been under consideration by house-senate negotiators working on new trade legislation
rep. christopher smith, r-n.j., a sponsor of the trade-benefit cutoff, said of ceausescu's action, ``i think he has done this to pre-empt the annual scrutiny of romania's human rights record, which is deplorable.''
smith said that during a recent visit to bucharest he detected ``a hardened attitude.''
he's cutting off his nose to spite his face,'' smith said of ceausescu. ```we don't want to end the relationship. we just want them to stop the trashing of human rights.''
congressional foes of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega urged the reagan administration on friday to impose an immediate and total trade embargo to force him from power
some said the administration should not rule out _ at least as an option _ the use of military force to oust noriega, the general who heads panama's defense forces
noriega was indicted in the united states recently on charges of taking millions of dolllars to turn panama into a haven for drugs and the profits they generate
others said the united states should press the issue at the organization for american states and seek the widest possible consensus in the western hemisphere for noriega's removal and for the restoration of democracy in panama
but senate majority leader robert c. byrd of west virginia said the united states needs to ``keep cool''as it reviews its options in dealing with noreiga, especially in light of the continuing u.s. need to protect free passage through the panama canal
there was almost universal rejection on capitol hill of noriega's claim that the united states is attempting to use corruption charges against him to renege on the u.s. committment to turn the canal over to panama by the year 2000
that statement by gen. noriega is piffle, pap, and political flim flam intended to preserve his own interests,'' byrd told reporters
that is an absolute and total and complete fabrication,'' said sen. david boren, d-okla. ``... it's the old trick of when you get caught with your hand in the till, of trying to raise some red herring to draw attention from yourself ...''
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said he spoke to panamanian president eric arturo delvalle by telephone at midday on friday
he said to me he would be fully supportive of a trade embargo,'' d'amato told reporters. ``that would be the kind of decisive action the united states should follow through on.''
d'amato said that while he does not believe the united states should now intervene militarily, ``we should not preclude military action if that is necessary to protect the vital interests of the united states.''
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., said the united states should press the organization of american states (oas) to accept the credentials of a new ambassador sent by devalle and cancel the credentials of noriega's ambassador
he said that would make clear where the democracies of the hemisphere stand on the matter
the action that the oas takes will speak volumes about whether that is a meaningful organization or whether it should not be taken seriously,'' kennedy said
sen. john kerry, d-mass., who heads a senate foreign relations committee investigation into noriega's alleged links to narcotics racketeering and money laundering, said the united states should consider suspending landing rights for panamanaian aircraft and stop the export of u.s. technology to that country
but he said that because panama uses u.s. currency as legal tender, the most telling step would be to suspend the transfer of u.s. dollars to and from panama
sen. alan simpson, r-wyo., the senate's deputy gop leader, called for a bipartisan movement to deal ``with a squirrel like noriega who's got his mailed fist on the levers of the locks of the canal.''
i think you will find noriega will leave once the united states makes a flat-footed stand,'' said sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., a leading critic both of noriega and of the treaties which call for the canal to be turned over to panama in the year 2000
just embargo panama,'' helms said. confession</head>
federal prosecutors said friday they intended to appeal a judge's ruling that the fbi illegally obtained a confession from a lebanese hijacking suspect who is scheduled to go to trial next month
assistant u.s. attorney ramsey johnson said prosecutors had asked solicitor general charles fried to approve an appeal of u.s. district judge barrington parker's order suppressing the confession of fawaz younis
parker ruled earlier this week that the fbi illegally interrogated younis over a four-day period on a navy vessel after the suspect was lured onto an fbi-chartered yacht off cyprus and arrested last sept. 13
younis is scheduled to go on trial march 22 on charges he led the june 11, 1985, hijacking of a royal jordanian airliner carrying three americans
the plane was blown up at beirut international airport the next day after the passengers and crew were taken off the aircraft
parker ruled that the fbi should have provided younis with an attorney for the interrogation, which occurred on board a navy munitions boat that slowly steamed from cyprus to a rendezvous with an aircraft carrier, from which younis was flown to washington
the judge found that younis, whose wrists were fractured when he was grabbed by fbi agents and slammed to the deck of the yacht, was in no physical condition to freely waive his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination before he was interrogated
the judge was sharply critical of the fbi's arrest and interrogation, saying the only reason the fbi kept younis aboard the ship for four days was to extract a confession
an appeal of parker's order could delay the proceeding if the u.s. circuit court of appeals agrees to take the case and does not make a ruling before the trial date. time</head> grafs, bgng: sen. george, to include mitchell comments and clarify filibuster background</note>
the senate refused on friday for the eighth time in a year to allow a floor vote on a democratic proposal to limit campaign spending, but supporters and republican foes agreed that the battle wasn't over
a move by majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., to halt debate failed again on a 53-41 roll call after 53 hours of round-the-clock filibustering led by republicans. the bill was promptly shelved, probably for the rest of the year
the democrats thus fell seven votes short of the necessary 60-vote majority required to invoke cloture, or to gag debate, even though democrats got the votes of republicans john chafee of rhode island, robert stafford of vermont and nancy landon kassebaum of kansas
democratic leaders of the fight to curb the escalating costs of senate campaigning _ which averaged $3 million per candidate in 1986 _ said they were ``disappointed but not downhearted'' by their latest setback
they claimed enough votes to pass the bill by a simple majority if the cloture petition had succeeded. but byrd declared that the campaign finance issue ``will not be swept under the rug.''
sen. david boren, d-okla., said, ``this is not the end of the fight for campaign reform; this is but the beginning.'' and assistant gop leader alan k. simpson of wyoming agreed
we've sliced the snake into seven sections and today we'll lop off the head, for the eighth time, but it will rise again from the sand,'' simpson said
by all accounts, the bill was killed by unwavering republican opposition to a provision that would have given senate candidates incentives to limit voluntarily their spending in general election campaigns starting in 1990. the ceilings would have ranged from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on the size of a state's population
under the bill, special-interest political action committees could have supplied no more than 20 percent of a participating candidate's funds. in 1986, these pacs accounted for more than half the campaign money spent by more than 200 house and senate candidates, most of them incumbents
republicans complained, as sen. mitch mcconnell of entucky put it, that ``the bill was crafted to aid the democrats at the expense of republicans,'' especially by limiting funds available to gop candidates challenging democratic incumbents in larger states
boren and other democrats denied such an aim, but gop senators remained convinced that the bill would serve to perpetuate democratic control of the senate, which they seized in 1986
mcconnell said republicans would never accept campaign spending limits. ``we didn't do it today,'' he said. ``we won't do it ever.''
but the issue, which sen. james exon, d-neb., called ``a ticking time bomb out there,'' was clearly far from dead. ``we will revisit the issue in one form or another,'' byrd said. ``it's not going to go away.''
the majority leader suggested that one option might be a proposed constitutional amendment, which reportedly has some bipartisan support, that would seek to override a supreme court ruling against mandatory limits on congressional campaign spending
but simpson warned that republicans would be waiting. ``i know there will be some more proposals like this, and when they come up, they'll be dealt with like this,'' he said
the latest senate battle over campaign spending followed a record seven cloture attempts by the democratic leadership last year, all of them in vain. wound up with a fusillade of floor rhetoric
in a futile appeal for votes to halt the debate, byrd asked his colleagues whether the senate ``is going to become the fortress of special interests and the citadel of men of wealth.''
sen. george mitchell, d-maine, said the republicans ``have made a miscalculation of historic proportions'' because incumbents tend to spend more on senate campaigns than their challengers
unless gop senators agree to spending limits, mitchell said, ``it is possible there will be a republican minority in the senate for the rest of this century.''
republicans began filibustering tuesday afternoon in an effort to block a vote on the bill, which the democrats were virtually certain to win. byrd responded by ordering non-stop debate in an effort to wear the republicans down and focus attention on their stalling tactics
things turned nasty early wednesday when senators _ nearly all of them democrats _ approved a byrd motion to have absentee republicans arrested and returned to the chamber
plainclothes capitol police seized sen. robert packwood, r-ore., in his office and carried him feet-first into the senate chamber, giving byrd the quorum of 51 senators that he needed to keep the filibuster alive
these were the top developments involving panama on friday:
panama city, panama _ gen. manuel antonio noriega accused the united states of instigating the effort to end his military rule
president eric arturo delvalle, ousted by the legislature after trying to fire noriega thursday, insisted he was still the president of panama and called for a worldwide trade embargo against his country
the defense forces, meanwhile, closed the headquarters of two opposition groups
washington _ president reagan said he has no plan to intervene militarily in panama, and the state department said the united states will continue to recognize delvalle as president
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the united states wanted to see noriega stand trial on the drug charges for which he was indicted in florida, and wants panama to have a civilian government, but ``we want to be careful not to unduly intrude upon the affairs of panama.''
vice president george bush said the united states will do ``whatever is necessary'' to protect its vital interests, but reagan said he detected no ``appetite on the part of anyone there, including mr. noriega, to take on our troops.''
washington _ sen. alfonse m. d'amato, r-n.y., advocated a trade embargo to press noriega to step down while sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., called noriega ``a bum'' who ``ought to be thrown out.'' senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said the united states ``ought to keep cool'' and give the panamanian people ample time to decide noriega's fate
washington _ jose i. blandon, a onetime associate of noriega, said delvalle anticipated that his attempted firing of noriega would fail but is confident that planned steps will lead to noriega's downfall within three weeks
washington _ panama's ambassador to washington, juan sosa, said he refused an order friday by noriega to resign and would continue to serve as envoy under delvalle. sosa said a u.s. trade embargo might be necessary to depose noriega and acknowledged that delvalle has no support in the military
gov. mario cuomo on friday criticized lawyers for a black teen-ager who says she was assaulted by six white men, accusing the lawyers of ``making up conditions'' that have blocked her testimony
a lawyer for tawana brawley said cuomo's remarks were ``down in the gutter.''
meanwhile, an aunt of miss brawley's aunt was quoted in a newspaper interview as saying the girl hadn't even talked about the case with the lawyers who have refused to allow her to cooperate with investigators
miss brawley, 16, was reported missing for four days in november. she was found wrapped in a plastic garbage bag and covered with feces, with racial epithets scrawled on her body. she has said one of the men who assaulted her flashed a police badge and had a holster
she and her family, of wappinger's falls north of new york city, have refused to be questioned on the advice of attorneys c. vernon mason and alton maddox jr. of new york city, who have pressed for a special prosecutor acceptable to them
they said they had reasons they could not cooperate. ... it's clear now they don't really,'' cuomo said, referring to the lawyers. ``these conditions obviously don't mean anything. they keep making up new conditions. what has become more and more apparent is they simply don't want to cooperate for reasons that i don't understand.''
cuomo said he was willing to do anything to help move the case along, including meeting with miss brawley if her lawyers and the special state prosecutor he appointed thought that might help. her lawyers have rejected that idea
at a news conference in newburgh on friday, mason blasted cuomo's remarks and compared new york to ``mississippi circa 1954.''
i shudder to think how he would deal with gorbachev. i shudder to think how he would deal with the world's problems. i shudder to think of how he would deal with leading the nation,'' mason said, referring to speculation about cuomo as a potential presidential candidate
he renewed his demand for a new and permanent special state prosecutor for racial crimes to replace cuomo's selection for the brawley case, state attorney general robert abrams
mason said that if cuomo didn't replace abrams, he would turn to federal authorities for help
mason and the rev. al sharpton said a mass rally against racism is planned for saturday in newburgh and neighboring poughkeepsie
cuomo stood behind abrams, and rejected mason's claim that the attorney general was unable to handle the investigation
abrams told an albany news conference that he was pressing ahead with the investigation. miss brawley's cooperation is ``critically important'' to the investigation, he said, but he refused to say the case couldn't be solved without her help
the middletown times herald record quoted juanita brawley, who helped raise tawana for eight years and who has spent time with the girl since her attack, as saying she is the only one who knows enough about the incident to keep the lawyers and the girl's mother informed
i know a few things that no one else knows,'' the girl's aunt said during an interview at her home. she said of maddox, ``he has not talked to tawana. he does not need to talk to tawana.'' she did not elaborate
i'm not going to address it or dignify it,'' mason said when asked about the report
miss brawley has refused to talk to investigators since shortly after she was found. the dutchess county district attorney and a special local prosecutor both withdrew from the case for unspecified conflicts of interest
miss brawley's supporters, without providing specific evidence, have charged that local law enforcement officials were somehow involved in the attack
john macgregor, great britain's minister of agriculture, will meet with u.s. officials and farmers during a visit next month, the agriculture department said friday
deputy secretary peter c. myers said macgregor will be here march 10-16 and will also visit st. louis and memphis, tenn., where the briton ``hopes to meet with small groups of farmers and agricultural leaders to learn more about u.s. agriculture,'' myers said
the cia official who established a secret supply network for nicaragua's contra rebels has resigned to go into private business, becoming at least the fourth agency official involved in the iran-contra affair to leave his job
alan fiers, a veteran agent who was chief of the agency's central american task force, has resigned effective march 4, bill baker, the agency's spokesman, said friday
fiers was one of several cia officials involved in the iran-contra affair who was reprimanded last year by cia director william webster because of his role and his failure to inform congress about the activity
despite that disciplinary action, fiers had continued to handle central american matters and had briefed members of congress as part of the reagan administration's efforts to win renewed military aid for the contras
it was his personal decision to leave,'' said baker, who called fiers ``a solid guy'' and confirmed that he had turned down a job as a cia station chief in an unspecified foreign country. ``he said he has other options and is going to take them. alan had a full career here, and he knew it.''
baker also said the agency is annoyed at elliott abrams, the assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, who also was involved in the administration's clandestine plan to aid the contras at a time when congress had prohibited such aid
abrams, quoted in friday's new york times, said fiers' treatment by the cia ``would send exactly the wrong signal to young officers at the agency.''
abrams was quoted as saying the handling of fiers case ``says, `don't get involved in controversial programs because you will end up being punished for it.''' he added: ``he has made a great contribution to our interests in central america and it is an injustice that he is not being rewarded for it.''
baker said the agency will complain directly to abrams about what he called the impropriety of the remarks
we're very angry at elliott abrams,'' he said. ``it's none of his business to making comments about case officers and their futures.''
fiers, a former ohio state football player, spent nearly 21 years in the cia after joining in june 1967. at age 48, fiers was two years short of reaching the cia's early retirement age and collecting a substantial pension, said one associate, who spoke on condition of anonymity
webster reprimanded fiers late last year after an internal probe of the agency's involvement in the secret sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels. the reprimand meant fiers could not be promoted for at least two years, and he apparently saw his career at the agency stalled, the source said
after that same investigation, webster reportedly fired two officials _ the former station chief in costa rica, joe fernandez, and the chief of a large agency base at aguacate, honduras. and clair george, chief of the agency's clandestine service who was criticized for his role in the affair, retired at the end of last year
during closed-door testimony before the congressional iran-contra committees, fiers acknowledged that he had withheld information from congress about the resupply effort, saying: ``so long as others who knew the details, as much as i, were keeping their silence on that, i was going to keep my silence.''
fiers remains under investigation as part of the investigation by the government's independent counsel, lawrence e. walsh, into the iran-contra scandal
the cia has never disclosed fiers' name or position, but some details of his background and career are known. he served as an intelligence officer in pakistan and later as station chief in saudi arabia, which was enlisted by the reagan administration to provide $32 million in covert funding for the contras
fiers played right end and tackle under the legendary ohio state football coach woody hayes from 1958 to 1960. he was a biological sciences major
at the cia, fiers was credited for skillful work in setting up a system to make airdrops of supplies to the rebels fighting the leftist sandinista government
a pleasure voyage around central america turned into a seagoing nightmare when passengers encountered poor food, a mutinous crew and fistfights, authorities say
the cruise brochure had promised passengers a ``friendly, attentive crew'' and a chance to meet new friends around the pool, or in the lounge or casino
on friday, the last 90 passengers aboard the cruise ship galaxy got off the boat in panama city, panama, without completing the last leg of the trip between acapulco and cancun, mexico, said ron dusek, spokesman for the texas attorney general's office
texas attorney general jim mattox had filed suit wednesday against golden cruisetours inc. of san antonio, which booked the cruise, and two of its subsidiaries and the companies' owners
mattox alleged that cruise customers were bilked of hundreds of thousands of dollars when their trips were canceled and their money not refunded. the pleasure cruises were advertised in an austin newspaper and 51 other newspapers across the country, mattox said
the galaxy is owned by global cruises, a panamanian company owned by the same people at golden gruisetours, said dusek
telephone calls placed friday to golden cruisetours' office in san antonio went unanswered
the galaxy cruise began feb. 11 in acapulco. eighty-seven of the 250 passengers refused to go on the cruise because the food was cold and the air conditioning broken, officials said
the next day, the crew mutinied, according to the u.s. state department. more passengers left the ship feb. 18, before the ship left from punta renas, costa rica
during a docking in costa rica, about 50 mutineers were removed from the ship. that led to a dock rally sponsored by a local workers' union which refused to supply replacement labor
when the ship docked in panama city, the last 90 passengers on the cruise disembarked, according to dusek, who said he did not know where the ship was
passenger sarita anderson described an unsettling scene aboard ship during a docking in guatemala
as we started into the lounge, there was a fight going on,'' she told the houston chronicle. ``it was something to do with work schedules.''
the english-speaking honduran crew supervisor was arguing with the ship's staff chief, yelling that the mexican crew members, kitchen help and cabin boys, who had been hired only days earlier in acapulco, were being worked too hard, ms. anderson said
the two men then began a bloody fight, she said. with woman, set for 6 p.m. est</note>
the prostitute who claims to have posed nude for evangelist jimmy swaggart failed a lie detector test, a national tabloid reported friday
the national enquirer said debra murphree voluntarily took the polygraph test it arranged, adding that it was administered by a expert with 15 years' experience with the new york city police department
the tabloid said in a news release that its expert concluded murphree failed to tell the truth on all key questions relating to her statements
however, the statement did not say what the questions were and gave no other details
murphree saus she performed pornographic acts for swaggart for about a year but never had sex with him
after allegations of misconduct arose, swaggart made a tearful public confession of sin and faces a three-month suspension from preaching recommended by the louisiana assemblies of god hierarchy
john martinez, a companion of murphree, told the palm beach post that murphree visited swaggart weekly for a year in new orleans-area hotel rooms at $50 per meeting
martinez is now peddling ms. murphree's story. ``this is a shot for me and a shot for her,'' he said wednesday. ``it's the american way _ see an opportunity and jump on it.''
martinez says he talked with the national enquirer about a $100,000 contract for murphree's story and also contacted other media
i don't want to see her end up with nothing and on the streets,'' martinez, 28, said in a telphone interview thursday. ``she's not after the money, but i'm looking out after her future.''
enquirer president and editor iain calder said the tabloid was talking with martinez, but would say nothing more
teachers in the state's largest school district walked picket lines for a second day friday as negotiators continued to search for ways end their strike and resume classes for 73,000 students
adminstrators planned to teach classes for 3,600 seniors starting monday if the walkout continued
the cleveland teachers union went on strike thursday after rejecting the school board's latest contract proposal. negotiations resumed friday afternoon under the guidance of a federal mediator
i'm hopeful, and the parties seem resolved to try to make a deal this weekend,'' said craig m. brown, the school district's chief negotiator
said richard farmer, the union's strike coordinator:``we would hope they sit at the table until it's resolved. we don't want a long strike.''
the district canceled classes friday because of the strike by the 5,093-member union. schools were closed thursday because of bad weather, although other area school systems remained open
the closure was viewed as an effort by school administrators to give negotiators in marathon talks more time to reach a settlement
schools spokesman john m. hairston said the school board planned to seek a court order to limit the number of pickets at the district's buildings because of problems friday. at lincoln-west high school, pickets prevented adminstrators from entering the building to prepare for classes for seniors at that school monday, he said
the school board had offered a three-year package with a 3 percent pay raise retroactive to sept. 1, and 5 percent increases the next two years contingent on passage of a tax levy and a voluntary ``career ladder'' in the third year, which would link pay raises to performance evaluations
the school board also offered a one-year contract with a 3 percent raise
cleveland teacher salaries range from $17,600 to $37,450, depending on education and experience. the average teacher makes $29,000 annually
a wild miss usa pageant took a turn for the wilder friday when an animal-rights activist disrupted a news conference by co-host alan thicke
thicke, star of abc's ``growing pains'' and host of the saturday morning children's show ``animal crack-ups,'' replaced bob barker as the pageant's host after barker resigned last month to protest the giving away of fur coats as prizes
it was just one in a series of bumps on the way to tuesday's nationally televised beauty contest
miss minnesota-usa and her runner-up dropped out after it was disclosed they had been arrested on shoplifting charges. another contestant is awaiting trial on drunken-driving charges
and thursday night, thicke's co-host, actress tracy scoggins, was attacked in a hotel elevator. she suffered bruises but no other injuries and a suspect was charged with attempted sexual assault
miss usa will be awarded cash and prizes including a full-length mink coat and a mink jacket. the furs are worth $15,000
the las cruces, n.m., and el paso chapters of sangre de cristo animal rights plan to picket the el paso convention center during the pageant to protest the fur prizes. the activists say fur farming and trapping are cruel activities that should be stopped
bob young, the picket organizer and president of the group's las cruces chapter, has criticized thicke for what he calls his hypocrisy in hosting the pageant. thicke ends each ``animal crack-ups'' show with the admonishment: ``here's hoping you will be kind to animals.''
thicke seemed eager to address the charges at friday's news conference. he said he prefers to work within the system instead of causing ``more abrasion in what is potentially a conflictive issue.''
referring to the pickets, thicke said: ``i invite those people to join any one of the eight groups that i am involved with and do some of the things that we do, such as meet with lobbyists and legislators.''
at that point, young stepped in front of thicke and held up a poster of a raccoon caught in a leg trap
do your eight groups go along with this?'' young said, holding up the poster
i'm addressing all of that, sir,'' thicke said
your eight groups _ i'd like to know what those groups are, and if they go along with this,'' young said
i'm sure they would be happy to give you an opportunity to speak when i'm done,'' thicke said. ``as mr. reagan once said, i paid for this microphone.''
he did not name the eight groups
thicke said he investigated the suppliers of the pageant's furs before deciding to do the show to make sure they conformed with u.s. animal-treatment standards
pageant officials clearly were angry about the interruption, but declined comment. ^ap news analysis</head>
although president eric arturo delvalle could not dismiss the general who really runs the country, his attempt will make it harder for other latin american nations to support panama's government
since that has long been a goal of gen. manuel antonio noriega's opponents, leading panamanian dissidents and the u.s. state department were quick to cheer delvalle's seemingly quixotic move
its practical result was that noriega stayed in his post as military commander and the national legislature dismissed delvalle, althoguh he refused to relinquish the office and the united states supported him
delvalle's order to noriega had the futility of tilting at windmills because he had no way to back it up. noriega, not the civilian president, controls panama's army, police, legislature, and even the game wardens
it came as no surprise, therefore, that the commander of the national police and the army's chief of staff quickly sided with the general against the president
so, too, did the national assembly, which is dominated by a coalition of noriega followers. in a 10-minute meeting early friday, it fired delvalle and vice president roderick esquivel
delvalle said the assembly's action was unconstiutional, but his only weapon against it is public opinion
panama's latin american neighbors have been slow to condemn noriega despite widespread allegations of involvement in drug trafficking and other forms of corruption, even murder. the general has denied all the charges
noriega has drawn the united states as a straw man, accusing it of trying to oust him and renege on a 1976 treaty turning the panama canal to panama at the turn of the century. delvalle took that stance himself before the change of heart
latin american governments are reluctant to side with the united states in any dispute involving a neighbor, if only to pacify their own large numbers of left-leaning voters
but the spectacle of a legally sitting president firing his top general, but being fired himself by the general's henchmen, is not likely to sit well
this will isolate the government, no doubt,'' said mario luis del valle, vice president of the panama banking association and a member of the national civic crusade, which began clamoring for noriega's ouster last june
the civic crusade, a loose coalition of business, professional, labor and political groups, has been trying for months to convince other latin american nations that panama's government is not legitimate
aurelio barria, president of the chamber of commerce and industry and an opposition leader, has carried that message personally to the presidents of at least half a dozen latin american nations
barria has obtained little support until now but the president, or ex-president, predicted that soon would change
i think it will be another blow against noriega and also against panama, which has had a terrible track record in recent years,'' delvalle said of his unsuccessful dismissal of the general. ``i expect that the majority of the nations of this hemisphere will be very reluctant to have relations with panama.''
editor's note: reid g. miller is roving correspondent in central america for the associated press. he has been based in san jose, costa rica, since january 1984
the league of women voters has rescheduled the march 5 debate among republican presidential candidates in nashville, tenn., to march 6 to avoid a conflict with the march 5 south carolina primary, a league spokeswoman said friday
the new schedule means the gop debate will be on the same day as a previously scheduled democratic debate sponsored by the league
we thought it would be better for the candidates if we scheduled the debate on sunday rather than on the day of the primary,'' said league spokeswoman janice kaplan
carole bucy, president of the league of women voters in nashville, said vice president george bush and sen bob dole of kansas had sent word they could not participate march 5 because of the conflict with the south carolina primary
ms. kaplan said rep. jack kemp of new york is the only candidate so far to accept the league's invitation for the gop debate march 6. she said all six major contenders have agreed to participate in the democratic debate
however, spokesmen for the campaigns of missouri rep. richard gephardt and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said they have not yet given a final commitment to join the league debate
the republican debate will begin at 2 p.m. est, while the democrats' debate will start at 5 p.m. both of the debates will last an hour and will be at the tennessee performing arts center
new york gov. mario cuomo said friday he wants no part of any brokered democratic national convention, either as the presidential candidate or a kingmaker in selection of the party's nominee
he said he still didn't believe there will be a deadlocked convention when the democrats gather in atlanta in july
cuomo, who announced a year ago that he wouldn't seek the democratic nomination, has since refused to rule out accepting a convention draft
his comments came as he prepared for trips during the next few days to north carolina and texas, two of the march 8 super tuesday primary states
i would have no role,'' said cuomo of any brokered convention. ``they (the announced candidates) would confine themselves to people who were candidates and talk to one another.''
cuomo did say the possibility of a brokered convention came up in telephone conversations he had this week with, among others, former arizona gov. bruce babbitt and illinois sen. paul simon. babbitt has quit the race for the presidential nomination while simon has cut back on his campaigning to concentrate on his home state's march 15 primary
i just asked them how they thought it would come out,'' said cuomo. ``they said it looks now like it's open.''
cuomo said that in discussing the situation, neither simon nor babbitt had asked if cuomo might become a candidate at a brokered convention. ``they know i'm not interested. they know i'm out of this thing,'' said cuomo
cuomo repeated his view that a deadlocked convention ``is the worst thing that could happen to the democrats'' because it would hurt them in the november election
was it coincidence that cuomo was heading south just before the super tuesday voting? ``oh, no, that's a plan,'' he joked. ``you see, i'm going to be march 1 in texas and if it really goes well, then march 2 i'm going to announce i'm running.''
organizers said a march and rally saturday for the homeless, designed to make their plight an issue in the presidential campaign, is expected to draw democratic candidates along with up to 10,000 participants
the march coincides with debates by democratic and republican presidential contenders saturday and sunday at the georgia world congress center. the debates are sponsored by the atlanta journal and the atlanta constitution
organizers said democrats jesse jackson, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, sens. albert gore of tennessee and paul simon of illinois, rep. richard gephardt of missouri and former sen. gary hart of colorado
keith summa, a project coordinator with the national coalition of the homeless, said no republican candidates agreed to attend
activities include two hours of speeches followed by a march to woodruff park for a rally.  commander's reaction, arabs released. pick up 5h graf pvs, before the ...</note>
young arabs went from weekly moslem prayers to street war with israeli soldiers friday, and four palestinians were killed in melees that swept the occupied territories
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz met with israeli leaders to explore new peace proposals in the second day of his mission to the middle east
friday's dead included a 12-year-old boy accidentally hit by a piece of concrete thrown by protesters outside a gaza strip mosque, the army said. hospital officials said israeli gunfire wounded 11 arabs
the army reported the arrests of four soldiers on charges of beating and kicking two young palestinians who had been detained, as shown in footage taken thursday in nablus by a cbs news crew
we were shocked and couldn't say a word after we saw this film,'' said maj. gen. amram mitzna, the army's west bank commander
mitzna said he suspended the unit's deputy commander, a captain, and ordered the two arabs released
before the violence friday, u.n. figures listed 65 arabs killed by gunfire and beatings since riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. hundreds have been wounded
shultz is on a five-day mission to israel and arab countries with new u.s. proposals for stopping the violence and reviving arab-israeli peace talks
he met separately friday with prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, partners and rivals in the tenuous ``national unity'' coalition
the u.s. plan calls for immediate talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations by december on the final status of the west bank and gaza, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
israeli sources said privately that shamir asked shultz to move slowly, recommending a three-year ``time of testing'' before negotiations on a final settlement
fifteen prominent palestinians refused to meet with shultz in jerusalem
leaflets signed by the ``united nationalist leadership for the uprising'' exhorted arabs to street protests this weekend as an accompaniment to the shultz visit
haaretz said syrian-backed al quds radio announced plans for six weeks of violent protest and strikes. the newspaper said arabs were using firebombs more frequently and suspected collaborators were being targeted for attack
a west bank palestinian accused of collaborating with the israelis was hanged by his fellow villagers wednesday
israel stationed 1,500 extra police in jerusalem, doubling the force, brought in soldiers to help with security during the shultz visit and put army units on alert throughout the occupied territories
it did not stop violence on the moslem sabbath, sometimes instigated by prayer leaders
thank god we are still alive to fight our enemy israel,'' a masked prayer leader told worshipers at nasr mosque in the west bank city of nablus
this is the time that we have to use to launch a holy war. we have already paid a very high price, and we have to be willing to pay more.''
in gaza's jabaliya refugee camp, the body of iyad al ashqar, 12, was brought to a u.n. clinic after a clash at al qassam mosque
according to the army, a military doctor said the boy died from a gash on the head inflicted by a chunk of concrete. initial army reports gave the cause of death as gunfire
hospital officials in jabaliya said a woman was wounded by gunfire and 20 arabs were treated for injuries caused by beatings or tear gas
ahmed attallah, a witness, said soldiers broke into the mosque and took 30 people away after palestinians inside began shouting ``allahu akhbar!'' (god is great)
at hebron, south of jerusalem, hundreds of worshipers streamed from a mosque chanting and throwing stones, and soldiers opened fire when tear gas and rubber bullets did not disperse the crowd, an army spokesman said.
arab reports said fuad shaarawi, 47, was killed but conflicted on the cause of death. the army said it was not clear whether he was shot or died of tear-gas inhalation
razk daraghmen, 55, bled to death after being shot in the right thigh during a protest in toubas, a the west bank village, hospital officials said
a palestinian was killed as a result of disturbances in al arub, south of bethlehem, the army reported. hospital officials and the arab-run palestine press service said israeli soldiers shot hassan abu kheiran, 22, in the chest
three arabs were wounded in jenin, also in the west bank, after 3,000 arabs staged a march that led to a clash with soldiers. arabs threw stones and glass bottles and troops fired tear gas, rubber bullets and live amunition, witnesses reported
panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega said friday he's still a friend of the united states and u.s. interests in his country ``shall remain intact, undisturbed and unharmed'' despite a leadership struggle there
noreiga's statement was issued by his miami attorneys after panama's legislative assembly removed the president and vice president early friday. the president had tried to remove noriega
these events are strictly internal to panama,'' noriega said
his attorneys declined to speculate as to whether noriega would step down
our roles here are as lawyers, not as foreign policy or domestic policy advisors,'' said neal sonnett, who read noriega's statement at a news conference
conditions in panama, as we understand it, are calm,'' sonnett said. ``that's a domestic political situation that's going on down there.''
noriega was indicted three weeks ago by federal grand juries in miami and tampa on charges of allowing drug traffickers to use his country as a base for smuggling into the united states
sonnett said he last spoke with noriega about 10 days ago. friday's statement was issued after consultation between noriega's advisers and his defense team in miami, sonnett said
all american interests in the republic are and shall remain intact, undisturbed and unharmed,'' the statement said. ``the general reiterates that he is now, and has always been, a friend of the united states of america. those american politicians who have suggested otherwise, and who advocate hysteria, act with a reckless disregard for the truth.''
panama's legislative assembly removed president eric arturo delvalle and the vice president from office during an emergency session. its action followed delvalle's order that noriega step down
hours after delvalle's announcement thursday, roberto eisenmann, exiled publisher of panama's leading independent newspaper, la prensa, received word that soldiers had again closed the newspaper. it was closed down last year for six months, reopening in january
richard gregorie, chief assistant u.s. attorney in florida's southern district, has said that if noriega were to leave panama, ``we would attempt to extradite him like any other dope dealer.''
if noriega were tried and convicted of all charges, he could face up to 145 years in prison and fines of more than $1.1 million
president reagan on friday announced his intention to nominate robert l. pettit to be associate deputy secretary of transportation, succeeding jennifer lynn dorn
since 1986, pettit has been a partner with the law firm of wiley, rein &amp; fielding in washington. before that, he was senior legal adviser to mary dawson, a member of the federal communications commission, from 1982-86, and an associate with the law firm of fletcher, heald &amp; holdreth, from 1978-82
pettit, a 35-year-old native of springfield, mo., graduated from the university of missouri in 1974 and duke university school of law in 1977
the sky was clear over much of the nation friday as two large areas of high pressure over the rockies and the southeast swept most clouds away
there were only a few areas of spotty precipitation
light snow or flurries extended across eastern upper michigan, northern new england, and western and upstate new york
isolated showers dampened arizona, new mexico, western texas and northwestern washington state
southwesterly wind of 15 to 25 mph with gusts around 35 mph blew up the middle mississippi valley as far as southern michigan, carrying warm air into the region and pushing temperatures into the 40s or 50s
the temperature hit 71 as far north as emporia, kan
temperatures were mostly in the 20s across western and northern pennsylvania, new york state and northern new england, and a freeze warning was issued overnight over parts of northeastern and north-central florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at gunnison, colo., to 83 at palm springs, calif., and gila bend, ariz. the low for the day was 17 below zero at gunnison
for saturday, snow was forecast from the upper ohio valley through new jersey and new england. scattered showers were forecast over california, and from southern texas across the central gulf coast region
highs in the 20s, 30s and 40s were predicted from north dakota across the northeastern quarter of the country; in the 40s in the mountains of colorado and western wyoming; in the 70s across the southern plains, louisiana and southern florida; in the 70s and low 80s over much of california and the desert southwest, and in the 50s or 60s over much of the rest of the nation
eric arturo delvalle, called a puppet of gen. manuel antonio noriega a few days ago, may have lost the presidency but he has gained respect
after 2{ years in the obscurity of panama's presidency, he went on television thursday and ordered noriega, the man who is really in charge of the country, to leave his post as military commander
on one side of the contest was a man with high political office but no power, on the other a man with no political office but control of the army, navy, air force, police and national legislature
a colonel delvalle appointed to succed noriega declined the job. other officers rallied around their boss. the national assembly convened for 10 minutes, long enough to declare delvalle an ex-president
the legislature's action was unconstitutional, delvalle said, and the united states continued to recognize him as president, but it was clear that he had lost
delvalle, 51, was the fifth president in six years of a nation whose presidents serve at the pleasure of the military. he said he would take his case to the supreme court, but acknowledged that his chances there were ``very slim because it also is controlled by general noriega.''
even so, he refused to relinquish the office. ``i am the president of panama this morning,'' he said friday
by friday afternoon, the two remaining numbers to the five-line telephone system to delvalle's residence were answered by a recording: ``because of damage to the system, the number you have dialed is being repaired.'' the other three lines were cut thursday night
delvalle was vice president in the fall of 1985. noriega moved him up after dismissing president nicolas ardito barletta for recommending an independent investigation into the death of one of the general's leading opponents, hugo spadafora
the dead man's relatives claim noriega was behind the killing. spadafora's headless body was found stuffed in a canvas u.s. mail bag in costa rica
he had been threatening to offer proof of noriega's involvement in drug trafficking, the same charge on which two federal grand juries in florida indicted the general earlier this month
before becoming vice president in the 1984 election that opponents claim was rigged, delvalle had not held public office. he had spent most of most of his time since graduating from lousiana state university running a family sugar mill
when asked friday whether he regretted getting into politics, he said:
no, not at all. i think when you have an opportunity to serve your country and you believe you can, you have to take the risks involved
i discussed it fully with my family before running for vice president and we knew it would be a difficult task. but i thought that i could help and maybe i could make the difference.''
he shrugged and added: ``i couldn't.''
just last month, retired gen. ruben d. paredes had urged delvalle to act. the former panamanian military commander said the president should ``look at the tomb of his father, be a man and do his part to tell noriega'' it was time to go
the leader of a puerto rican independence group and three sympathizers who plotted to spring him from prison with rockets, grenade and a helicopter were sentenced to prison terms of up to 15 years friday
those who take up the sword, die by the sword,'' u.s. district judge william hart said in sentencing faln leader oscar lopez and the others
lopez, 45, drew 15 years in prison for masterminding the scheme to free himself and another inmate from the federal prison at leavenworth, kan., in 1986. the fbi infiltrated the plot almost from the beginning and broke it up
lopez's co-defendants received prison terms ranging from three to five years
the conduct which has brought the defendants to this court is not their political beliefs,'' the judge said
in this country political beliefs are protected by the constitution, but by planning a prison escape with explosives, such conduct goes beyond that protection.''
lopez was convicted of conspiracy in december along with grailing brown, a fellow inmate and murderer; dora garcia, lopez's former sister-in-law, and jaime delgado, a counselor at northeastern illinois university
prosecutors said the group conspired to use rockets, hand grenades and a helicopter to free lopez, who was serving a 55-year sentence for a 1981 seditious-conspiracy conviction. he was transferred to another prison
brown was sentenced to five years in prison; delgado, 34, received four years, and garcia, 37, three years. lopez had faced a maximum of 25 years in prison, ms. garcia and delgado faced 15 years each and brown five
defense attorneys had denied their clients engaged in violent acts
lopez views himself as a freedom fighter above the law,'' assistant u.s. attorney daniel gillogly told the judge. ``he provided the leadership and the direction of the conspiracy.''
lopez ``believes human life is expendable,'' said assistant u.s. attorney deborah devaney
lopez said friday that authorities and inmates at leavenworth had made threats against his life
i do not deny that i love my people,'' he told the judge. ``i love my country puerto rico. i will do anything necessary _ when an injustice is committed _ to fight it.''
hart had planned to sentence the defendants at a closed hearing in the federal metropolitan correctional center because of outbursts by puerto rican activists at the defendants' trial, but later decided to do it in open court
ms. garcia made a plea for leniency friday, but ms. devaney dismissed her contention that she is ``generous and loving.''
what compassion did she show for the guards at leavenworth who were going to be riddled with bullets?'' the prosecutor asked
faln is a spanish acronym for armed forces for national liberation. the group seeks independence for puerto rico. it has been linked to more than 100 bombings or planned bombings since 1974 in chicago, new york and elsewhere
authorities say at least six people have died and 100 have been injured in faln violence in the united states
following are questions and answers about panama's importance to the united states and the dispute over the leadership of gen. manuel antonio noriega:
q. why is panama important to the united states?
a. panama is vital to the united states, both because of the panama canal, linking the atlantic and pacific oceans, and its strategic location
access to the s-shaped country is critical to control of the sea lanes in the caribbean as well as of links to south america and the far east. from panama, forces can be quickly deployed to central and south american points
q. is it that vital?
a. yes. the united states helped create panama by recognizing its independence when it seceded from colombia on nov. 3, 1903, and deployed the u.s. navy to deter colombia from reconquering it. the united states financed and built the canal, owned it and ran it as a wholly-owned u.s. government company until president jimmy carter and panamanian leader omar torrijos signed treaties in 1977 that would hand ownership to panama
q. what is the canal's status now?
a. panama owns the canal, which is administered by a joint u.s.-panamanian commission. complete administration, control and defense of the waterway will be handed over to the panamanians by the year 2000
the carter-torrijos treaties also abolished the panama canal zone, a 10-mile strip of land flanking the waterway that had been u.s. territory. u.s. military forces in the southern command are allowed to remain in forts and bases to defend the zone
q. what does the southern command do?
a. the u.s. southern command has about 10,000 officers and servicemen and coordinates all u.s. military activity from south of the u.s.-mexico border to tierra del fuego, in argentina, and antarctica. among other tasks, it does contingency planning for the defense of latin america, including training of latin american troops in anti-guerrilla warfare. part of that is carried out under provisions of the 1947 inter-american defense treaty
q. will the united states turn the canal over to panama?
a. it has to, if the treaties are to be respected, although at the time carter signed the accords now president ronald reagan and other conservatives in the republican party opposed the move
q. could current troubles affect operation of the canal?
a. since the unrest started last june, there has been no disruption in operation of the canal. officials say there is no cause for concern
q. why is the united states opposed to noriega's continued leadership?
a. he had been considered useful at times in some intelligence operations, but the mounting controversy over his purported involvement in illicit activities from drug trafficking to the assassination of political opponents has lost him credibility in washington
his presence also runs counter to the trend toward civilian governments in latin america
the united states wants a functioning democracy in place when the canal is turned over to panama to help ensure its security. noriega maintains democracy already exists
q. how was president eric arturo delvalle ousted?
a. delvalle fired noriega thursday evening. hours later the legislature, dominated by noriega supporters, deposed delvalle in a 10-minute session. it claimed he acted unconstitutionally in firing noriega. the officer corps stood by noriega
q. have relations between panama and the united state been strained before?
a. yes, several times. the last big confrontation was jan. 9, 1964, when students rioted in a dispute over flying the panamanian flag alongside the stars and stripes in the canal zone. this led to disputes over the then- existing treaties governing the zone, and eventually to the carter-torrijos negotiations
q. when did present tensions start?
a. last june, after noriega's recently retired second in command, col. roberto diaz herrera, went public with charges of illicit activities. the allegations had circulated for a long time, but were never on record before from one of noriega's associates
noriega denies the allegations and blames u.s. rightists who oppose turning the canal over to panama for provoking the problems. benefit</head>
state republican party officials revised their feb. 18 presidential straw poll numbers thursday after turning up 1,276 uncounted ballots, including some taken home by a precinct meeting captain the night of the poll
after the revision, vice president george bush remained the winner with 27 percent. but the undecided vote _ listed as 23 percent previously _ was revised downward to 22 percent. kansas sen. bob dole, whose original tally was 22 percent, had 23 percent after the revision
rep. jack kemp moved ahead of former television evangelist pat robertson, who dropped two points to 13 percent as kemp rose one point to 14 percent
the remaining 1 percent went to former delaware gov. pete du pont and former secretary of state alexander haig, both of whom have dropped out of the race
the final numbers are: bush, 1,672; dole, 1,480; undecided, 1,391; kemp, 875; robertson, 846; du pont, 42; haig, 8
while the numbers and percentages changed slightly and robertson's official tally slipped below that of kemp, robertson supporters were still claiming victory by combining undecided ballots and votes for their candidate
steve wark, robertson coordinator in nevada, has said most of the undecided votes were cast by robertson supporters as part of a strategy to control later voting for delegates to upcoming county conventions
asked what happened on the night of the straw poll, state gop chairwoman sally vitkus-mckinney said, ``i really don't know.''
hal steiner, state party vice-chairman who was in charge of the ballot counting, said part of the problem was the number of precinct captains involved in the counting process. he said there were 50 captains in clark county alone under pressure to get the numbers in quickly
asked about the fact that only 82 percent of the vote was in while party leaders were claiming 100 percent, steiner added, ``in the scurry of things, it's hard to tell an exact percentage.''
ambassador vernon a. walters said thursday the united states must pay the huge arrears in its share of the u.n. budget or lose prestige and influence in the world body
if the united states intends to use the united nations as an important tool of foreign policy in afghanistan, the middle east and the iran-iraq war, then ``we must treat it as a serious institution,'' he said
walters, permanent u.s. representative at the united nations, addressed the joint human rights and international organizations subcommittees of the house foreign affairs committee in washington on thursday. his testimony was made available by the u.s. mission
america, the largest u.n. contributor, now owes $252 million in regular budget assessments for several years. the annual u.n. budget is about $800 million, of which the united states is expected to pay about 25 percent
western sources said thursday that if congress continues to withhold u.n. dues, the embarrassed administration may seek a reduction of its budget contribution to the 159-member organization. no decision has been made
the sources spoke on the condition of anonymity
the united states has been withholding some of its dues since 1985 in an effort to push for reforms in the united nations, which u.s. officials viewed as inefficient and biased against the united states
u.s. delinquency in its payments and its efforts to close the u.n. mission of the palestine liberation organization have tarnished america's image in the organization. the general assembly reconvenes monday in an emergency session on the plo dispute
we cannot continue to neglect our financial commitments to the united nations and then expect that our opinions, policies and positions will carry their former weight in the world body,'' walters said
the u.n. is not a perfect organization, politically or administratively, from the u.s. perspective, nor will it ever be. after all, the world is hardly a perfect place ... we must work to improve the way the u.n. serves our needs.''
he and the reagan administration have been urging congress to restore full u.s. funding for the united nations, about $212 million annually
the united states said that, as the largest donor, it should have a greater voice in how its money was spent. under the one-nation-one-vote rule, developing countries were dictating how u.s. funds were spent and voting expenditures the united states opposed
a policy of consensus was instituted, in effect giving the united states veto power, but it broke down in the general assembly session
u.n. member countries understood that this budget reform would be followed by a return by the u.s. to full payment of our assessment,'' walters testified
he said implementation of the reforms was mixed and a key u.n. committee last year was unable to agree on a budget ceiling and contingency fund, as sought by the united states
but he said u.s. failure to pay even half of its u.n. dues last year ``made other countries unwilling to move the new (budget reform) process forward.''
the initial shock of u.s. withholding created the impetus for reform, walters said, ``but reforms are unlikely to take full effect in an organization paralyzed by financial instability.'' also calling for strike, more u.s. reporters turned back, other details. no pickup</note>
ousted president eric arturo delvalle called friday night for a national strike to show that panamanians repudiate the leadership of gen. manuel antonio noriega
the general accused the united states of instigating delvalle's failed effort on thursday to end his military rule and said washington waged a campaign of ``psychological warfare'' against him
noriega addressed a rally of his supporters friday night and said panamanians who consider ``betrayal, because they are born traitors, meet a bad end here.''
up to 10,000 people attended the rally at the central garrison of the defense forces
the noriega-dominated national assembly turned delvalle out of office in a 10-minute session early friday after the president tried to fire the armed forces chief following noriega's indictment in the united states as a drug trafficker
noriega has denied all accusations against him
the legislature named manuel solis palma, the education minister, as new president, but delvalle insisted to reporters he was still president
in washington, the state department said it still recognized delvalle as panama's president
delvalle told reporters friday night, ``i don't have a seat of government, nor military support, but i do have two million panamanians who are tired ... of living under a regime that one man has governed capriciously, and because of that i call for national resistance to paralyze the entire country starting monday.''
the opposition national civic crusade on friday evening called for a ``progressive, nationwide strike'' starting immediately
aurelio barrilla, president of the panamanian chamber of commerce and industry, one of the groups in the coalition, said the crusade was seeking ``total paralysis'' of the country by early next week
however, only one of several strikes called last summer by the coalition of about 200 organizations was notably successful, and the government has shut down opposition newspapers, radio and television stations, limiting the crusade's ability to spread its message
in his address at the central garrison rally, noriega said, ``the defense forces offer subordination, total support and our cooperation to the new president, our best efforts to be able to reach presidential elections in may 1989.''
panama is not a tribe,'' he said. ``the americans who live in panama should sleep easy, because this people is not a tribe, it is a healthy people.''
panama, a nation of 2.2 million people, is headquarters for u.s. military programs in latin america with the u.s. southern command that has 10,000 military personnel and their 20,000 dependents in panama
after the rally, noriega walked with his supporters to the presidential offices about a mile away
throughout the day there were fewer vehicles and people on the streets, but panama city was calm and businesses operated normally
delvalle said the protest strike would be peaceful, saying, ``i don't pretend to be the leader of the resistance. i pretend to be the president who returns to the presidency.'' he also urged a worldwide trade embargo against panama
he called solis palma ``an opportunistic politician.''
delvalle's bid to remove noriega as head of panama's 15,000-member defense forces was thwarted thursday night when the military closed ranks around the general and said no officer would replace him
president reagan said the united states was not behind delvalle's attempt to get rid of noriega but was ``very much aware of it.'' he said there were no plans for military intervention
the white house called on noriega to resign after he was indicted feb. 5 in florida on drug trafficking charges. noriega was accused of using his authority to let colombian drug traffickers utilize panama as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states. the charges said noriega received kickbacks from drug profits
soldiers on friday surrounded and closed the chamber of commerce building, headquarters for the national civic crusade
opponents of noriega met elsewhere to discuss actions to protest his rule
police closed the offices of the christian democratic party, whose president, ricardo arias calderon, has been a leader of the crusade movement
arias calderon and a miami herald reporter, andres oppenheimer, were detained for two hours thursday night when they arrived on a commercial flight from miami. oppenheimer was released but arias calderon was put on a flight to costa rica
panamanian authorities refused entry to three american journalists when they tried to land early friday in a charter plane from costa rica
miami herald central america correspondent sam dillon, washington post correspondent julia preston and john siceloff, a nicaragua-based producer for nbc-tv returned to costa rica
the rally was noriega's first appearance in public since delvalle acted. in an interview broadcast by the government's radio nacional earlier friday, he said of the united states: ``they have been using a web that includes psychological warfare ... slander, lies, injury, conjecture, and ... misinformation.''
asked if there was u.s. involvement in delvalle's attempt to oust him, noriega said: ``totally, they have maintained a web.''
he said delvalle ``is in his home, with his family, without any problem.''
relations between the reagan administration and noriega have deteriorated since june, when opposition leaders launched a campaign of strikes and protests in panama to force the general out
protests began after noriega's former second in command, retired col. roberto diaz herrera, accused noriega of drug trafficking, fraud and assassinating political opponents
noriega issued a statement through his attorneys in miami in which he denounced u.s. politicians he said advocate ``hysteria (and) act with a reckless disregard for the truth.''
the statement also said, ``all american interests in the republic are and shall remain undisturbed and unharmed.'' it added ``these events are strictly internal to panama
the panama canal operated normally friday
american military personnel were on alert and civilians were told to keep a low profile
the white house immediately offered its support after delvalle announced his intention to oust noriega, but noriega and his supporters moved quickly against delvalle
solis palma, 71, will fill out the current presidential term, which ends in october 1989
the national assembly removed both delvalle and vice president roderick esquivel from office, saying delvalle violated the law in trying to fire noriega
the soviet union will have its first international art auction in july when sotheby's holds a sale of contemporary soviet works, the american-owned auction house and soviet officials announced friday
about 100 paintings by more than 20 contemporary soviet painters, including some previously ``unofficial'' artists, will go on the block july 7 at the international trade center in moscow, said lord gowrie. he is a former british arts minister and now chairman of the world's largest auctioneering company
i hope this will be the first of a series of auctions. ... we chose sotheby's because they have an international name,'' sergei popov, a senior official in the soviet ministry of culture, told reporters at the news conference at sotheby's headquarters
it will be the soviets' first international auction since the 1917 revolution that brought the communists to power
asked if the auctioned works would be by unofficial artists as well as those whose work is approved by the soviet union of artists, popov replied: ``there are no longer any unofficial artists. for the past three years there have been no restrictions on any style or tendency in art.''
popov said that when the works in the sale are given preview exhibitions in new york, zurich, london and paris ``you will see that all tendencies that flourish in the west are present in our art, and some are perhaps better developed with us.''
gowrie said the soviets placed no restrictions on what could be sold
we have chosen what to sell and in the main they will be artists whose works are already well known in the west and of interest to collectors,'' he said
simon de pury, sotheby's managing director in europe, said, ``a large number of the artists represented in the sale were until recently regarded as unofficial artists.''
among the contemporary artists with works in the sale are iliya kabakov, ivan tschuikov and vadim zakharov. there will also be some russian avant garde paintings of the 1910-1932 period
gowrie said prices should range from about $3,500 to $35,000 and will have to be paid for in british pounds
he said sotheby's expects the sale total to be ``well over half a million pounds ($880,000) and the bulk of the money, after the normal commissions, will go to the artists.'' he would not disclose sotheby's commissions
popov said the soviet government agreed to the auction because previous art sales to the west, which started in 1967, were done through an export trade body
that's not a very good way of entering the art market and this auction will help to establish prices on the international art market and allow soviet artists to receive the bulk of the proceeds,'' popov said
asked if the auction didn't run contrary to marxist principles, gowrie said: ``we had a good response from the artists themselves and i don't think 19th century philosophers were consulted.''
popov said, ``what's un-marxist about selling soviet art works so they become better known all over the world?''
a defense contractor executive who lost his job after criticizing the pentagon's budget priorities filed suit thursday against the former secretary of the navy and three others, accusing them of having him fired
the suit by dr. lawrence j. korb, filed in u.s. district court here, requests a jury trial and asks for a minimum of $500,000 in compensatory damages as well as punitive damages for violating his first amendment right of free speech
the suit names as plaintiffs former navy secretary john f. lehman jr.; a former top aide, melvyn r. paisley; assistant navy secretary everett pyatt, and carl m. smith, a staffer with the senate armed services committee
the lawsuit alleges the four men, by complaining directly or indirectly to korb's bosses at the raytheon co., ``intended to and did penalize dr. korb for exercising the right of free speech guaranteed to him by the first amendment of the constitution ....''
as a direct and proximate result of the defendants' acts, dr. korb has sustained and will continue to sustain substantial monetary losses and has suffered and will continue to suffer mental and emotional pain, anguish and humiliation,'' the suit says
the suit was filed on korb's behalf by the american civil liberties union, which in 1986 had asked then-defense secretary caspar w. weinberger to fire lehman and his aides for their conduct
weinberger instead admonished the three
efforts to contact lehman and the other defendants thursday were unsuccessful
korb, who worked for weinberger for four years as the pentagon's assistant defense secretary for manpower, joined raytheon _ a major navy contractor _ as a washington vice president in 1985. with the company's permission, he also joined the committee for national security, a bipartisan group that seeks to encourage informed debate on national security issues
in february 1986, korb appeared with other group members at a press conference and suggested the pentagon could maintain its strength with a smaller budget than that requested by president reagan
following the news conference, raytheon received phone calls and letters from paisley and pyatt
the two lehman deputies have acknowledged calling raytheon and suggesting korb be told to stop speaking out against the president's budget. the pentagon's inspector general, in an earlier investigation, concluded lehman had not directed pyatt and paisley to call raytheon but clearly supported his deputies' actions
korb's suit says raytheon also was contacted about the same time by smith, a senate committee staffer who oversaw missile budgets affecting raytheon
on information and belief, defendant smith told them that unless raytheon silenced or removed dr. korb, he (smith) would no longer meet with anyone from raytheon's washington office,'' the suit says
in direct and immediate reaction to the angry complaints and explicit and implicit threats made by defendants lehman, pyatt, paisley and smith, raytheon terminated dr. korb as vice president in charge of its washington operations.''
korb is now the dean of the university of pittsburgh's graduate school of public and international affairs
the suit filed thursday is similar to one filed in december by korb against raytheon. ratheon has responded that it didn't fire korb, but offered him a transfer to another job that he declined to accept. korb has said he considered the offered job would have been a demotion. correcting from edward vii to edward viii. picks up 9th graf pvs, the new ...</note>
a 52-year-old surveyor has inherited 30 farms and the entire village of southwick, including two pubs, two churches, a post office and 67 houses from a distant relative he hardly knew, it was reported friday
robin thistlethwayte said he was astonished when he was told that eva borthwick-norton, who died last week at the age of 96, left him her 7,500-acre estate in hampshire, about 60 miles southwest of london near england's south coast
although i had only met her a handful of times i think she must have felt i was the best person to leave it to,'' thistlethwayte was quoted as saying in today's times of london
i have a lot of experience in running agricultural estates with traditional standards of farming and i intend to continue with the traditions as far as is possible in the 20th century,'' he said
the 300 residents of the pastoral village, nestling under the slope of nearby portsdown hill, appeared delighted with her decision
it seems she made sure the village will be preserved as it is, which is wonderful news,'' valerie church, who runs the red lion pub was quoted as telling the today newspaper
the estate had been in the thistlethwayte family for 250 years until lt. col. evelyn thistlethwayte left it to his nephew, hugh borthwick, in 1943. following his death in 1950, his widow took over its management
mrs. borthwick-norton, a socialite who was friends with wallis simpson, the american divorcee who forced the abdication of king edward viii, had no children, and apparently decided to return the estate to the thistlethwayte family
the new owner, who lives in banbury near oxford, said he plans to move to the village with his wife and three children. with dole quotes</note>
president reagan said friday he has no plan to intervene militarily in panama, as u.s. officials scrambled to assess ``a precarious position'' brought on in part by federal drug-smuggling indictments of strong man gen. manuel antonio noriega
but the state department said the united states will continue to recognize eric arturo delvalle as president of panama, despite a parliamentary vote to oust him and replace him with manuel solis palma, who has been education minister
the national assembly moved against delvalle after he tried to dismiss noriega, who was indicted by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., earlier this month
amid the continuing political instability, vice president george bush said the united states should do ``whatever is necessary'' to protect american interests in the central american country, which include the militarily and economically vital panama canal
noriega's gone bad, and he's proven he's trafficked in narcotics,'' bush said. ``... noriega should go and in my view he will go.''
reagan said he didn't think there was ``any appetite on the part of anyone there, including mr. noriega, to take on our troops.''
responding to questions during a picture-taking session with southern republican party leaders, the president said the united states did not instigate delvalle's move thursday. but he also said u.s. officials had been ``very much aware of it.''
asked whether the united states was contemplating military intervention there, the president replied, ``no, i don't think that's an answer.'' he declined to discuss other alternatives, saying: ``we're not prepared to come up with any answers as yet.''
reagan said he thought ``there are some limits on what we can do,'' but that ``we're looking at that situation, and our people are meeting on it to see if there's anything we can do.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said earlier there was no administration interest in a proposal by sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., to impose trade sanctions against panama
late friday, following a series of meetings involving national security officials, fitzwater issued a statement saying that ``we condemn all efforts to perpetuate military rule in panama, including efforts to remove president delvalle from office.''
the statement said ``we have also initiated a series of consultations to learn the views of other countries in in the hemisphere with regard to this situation.''
bush, campaigning to succeed reagan, seemed to take a harder line during a talk to a greenville, s.c., audience
he told the south carolina press association: ``we will do whatever is necessary to protect american interests in panama. we've got treaty interests on the (panama) canal. i don't want to rattle any sabers ....''
but we would obviously as the united states, and i would, reserve the right to do whatever is necessary, including military force, to protect america's sacred interest in that region of the world,'' bush said
he stopped short of calling for military intervention, however, saying the united states' past history of intervention in latin american affairs is ``what's hurting us in some areas now.'' some 10,000 american troops are stationed in panama
one of bush's rivals for the republican nomination, senate minority leader bob dole of kansas, said during a campaign stop in st. louis that, ``the united states has had enough of noriega and will have nothing to do with any phony civilian, noriega-puppet government.''
dole warned the panamian strong man: ``if you think you can put the heat on us by meddling around with the canal _ we will do whatever is necessary, including the use of military force, to protect our security interests and the lives of american citizens.''
from capitol hill, the administration got conflicting advice on how to handle the situation
senate democrats urged caution, while d'amato advocated the trade embargo and sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., called noriega ``a bum'' and said ``he ought to be thrown out.''
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said the united states ``ought to keep cool'' and ``make haste slowly'' to give the panamanian people ample time to decide noriega's fate
sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said washington should proceed with ``great caution,'' in consultation with neighboring nations, to protect u.s. national interests in panama
rep. dante fascell, chairman of the house foreign affairs committee, said the united states should strongly support delvalle and that other nations in the region should do the same
fascell, d-fla., said the united states should increase diplomatic pressure immediately, and added: ``at this point, we certainly should be reviewing our options in the economic area.''
fitzwater confirmed that delvalle had held talks at the u.s. embassy in panama city before moving to oust noriega on thursday, but he denied that the administration had lent any encouragement to the panamanian president
there's not a lot that we can say about impressions,'' the spokesman said. ``the united states has a large interest there, obviously. but we have tried to walk the line between what's appropriate and what's not appropriate.''
we have a precarious position,'' fitzwater added. ``yes, we want him (noriega) to stand trial (on the miami indictment). yes, we want civilian government in panama. but we want to be careful not to unduly intrude upon the affairs of panama.''
at the state department, spokeswoman phyllis oakley reiterated what she termed ``our support for the supremacy of civilian constitutional rule'' and said ``we continue to recognize president delvalle as the president of panama.''
asked to describe the legal grounds for such recognition, she said, ``i don't think it's for us to interpret their constitutional law. we had regarded him as the president, we still regard him as the president.''
mrs. oakley also said the united states continues to recognize juan b. sosa as panama's ambassador in washington. sosa has supported delvalle, and he said he planned to remain in his post, although noriega told him by telephone friday morning that he would be replaced
mrs. oakley said elliott abrams, the assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs met with sosa on friday, but she wouldn't reveal details of the discussion
asked if the united states had been in contact with noriega, she said, ``not that i'm aware of.''
many people knew that we had been aware of the actions that president delvalle was contemplating doing,'' the spokeswoman said. ``we had been informed that the decision was president delvalle's own to make.''
reagan canceled a scheduled weekend visit to his camp david, md., mountaintop retreat, but fitzwater said it was because of a scheduled social event at the white house on sunday afternoon and not because of the panamanian crisis
fitzwater said that while delvalle had been in contact with state department officials before thursday's ill-fated attempt to oust noriega, ``we did not urge him to take this action. he did it on his own.''
the spokesman also said he saw no immediate need for any dramatic moves by the united states to protect citizens and military forces in panama
panamanian authorities advise us there is no threat to americans in that country,'' he said. move up reference to car stopped in intersection. picks up 2nd graf pvs, `evans and ...'</note>
a woman out looking for a policeman to shoot stopped in an intersection and waited friday for one to find her, then smiled as she fired point-blank into the officer's chest, police said
officer buddy evans, who had approached the car at 5 a.m. because it appeared stranded, was saved by his bullet-proof vest, said police spokesman dee anderson
evans and another officer managed to subdue the woman, who was sitting on the passenger side of an idling station wagon, he said
she has given us information that this was premeditated. she was driving around looking for a police officer to shoot for some time, then she decided to stop and let the officer come to her,'' he said
she turned around and smiled and then shot him,'' he said
the woman, pamela diane takhar, 33, was arrested for investigation of attempted capital murder and was held in arlington city jail on $250,000 bail, anderson said
officers said the woman was ``not real lucid or coherent,'' said anderson
she thought by shooting a policeman and being put in jail, she would be an example to other people not to do it,'' anderson said
officers said evans was taken to arlington memorial hospital for an examination and was released. starting</head> presided ...' to delete extraneous `delay' and restore dropped `in.'</note>
arizona's supreme court on friday refused to delay the start of gov. evan mecham's immpeachment trial on monday but did not rule out blocking the proceedings later
the ruling came in an emergency session during which the governor's lawyers cited danger to his constitutional rights and the justices expressed concern about breaching the separation of judicial and legislative powers
the high court said it would decide on tuesday _ one day after the senate trial is to begin _ whether to issue an injunction against it
in another development, mecham's chief attorney has withdrawn from mecham's case
thomas crowe, another attorney for the first-term republican, had told the high court that mecham's rights would be violated if an impeachment trial were held before related criminal charges were heard in court
but john lundin, representing the senate, told the justices they were ``being asked to enter an arena that has never been entered into by any court in this nation'' and suggested they refrain from breaking such new ground
the justices indicated by questions that they were reluctant to interfere with legislative matters in light of the state constitution's separation of powers
i don't think one can say that fundamental rights of fair play don't apply to impeachment proceedings. but who decides what is fair play? isn't it the senate that decides what the rules are?'' said vice chief justice stanley feldman
feldman said he believed that the framers of the constitution ``wanted to keep us out of'' matters involving legislative bodies
feldman presided in place of chief justice frank x. gordon, who has removed himself from such matters because he will preside over the impeachment trial
meanwhile, the arizona civil liberties union filed a friend-of-the-court brief arguing that mecham's right to a fair trial on criminal charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan would be violated if the senate proceeding were held first
we are taking no position on the impeachment,'' said aclu lawyer alice bendheim. ``but we are asking that the state supreme court ensure that governor mecham gets due process.''
senators, who previously delayed the trial's start a week, refused earlier this week to give crowe and washington attorney jerris leonard more time to prepare the governor's defense
mecham was impeached feb. 5 on a 46-14 house vote. several days later the house approved 23 impeachment articles, the equivalent of an indictment in a criminal case. they outlined details of three broad charges against the first-term republican: that he concealed a $350,000 loan to his 1986 campaign, misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership, and tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
murray miller, who has represented mecham since october, withdrew from the case abruptly, saying friday that he decided late thursday night to drop out
he said leonard was now in charge of the defense. but he expressed uncertainty at whether leonard, who was hired by the governor tuesday, could be prepared to proceed on monday
however, leonard said, ``i think evan mecham is entitled to the best representation he can get. i don't say this braggadociously at all, but if he feels he wants me, he should be entitled to have the lawyer of his choice.''
miller declined to elaborate on his reasons for bowing out but he said he hoped senators would not suspect he had deceived them about his role in the case. as late as wednesday night, he said,``i was fully in charge of the case and defending the governor.''
senate majority leader robert usdane, a republican, said he suspected the change of lawyers was planned and was a delaying tactic by mecham
anything to try and tie this thing up until may 17th,'' he said, referring to the date when the republican governor faces a recall election. ``we are not going to do that.''
senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, said, ``i see no reason to delay.''
i think it is absolutely disgusting and an outrage...,'' said assistant minority leader lela alston. ``i think it's part of the governor's strategy to continue delays.''
miller, denying any devious actions, said, ``my main concern is that the governor gets a fair legal shake.''
mecham did not immediately return a telephone call friday from the associated press, but the arizona daily star of tucson on friday quoted him as saying: ``murray withdrew from the case. we parted friendly, but that's really all. you'll have to ask him why.''
impeachment prosecutor william french said miller will be required to submit a motion on monday seeking senate permission to withdraw from the case. french said he may oppose the motion if he believes miller's withdrawal might be used for a later claim that the new attorneys did not have time to prepare for the trial
leonard was in his office but sent word through a secretary that he was too busy to talk to a reporter who visited his office friday
leonard has resigned from the washington law firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney and evans because of his decision to represent mecham, said charles t. manatt, a senior partner in the firm
jerris leonard informed the firm last week that he had been contacted by governor mecham concerning representation,'' said manatt. ``we made it clear that the firm was not interested in representing governor mecham, and mr. leonard informed us that he has resigned from the firm.''
manatt, a former chairman of the democratic national committee, was asked why his firm wasn't interested in being associated with the mecham case. ``lots of reasons, you can well imagine,'' he replied
the beleaguered mecham also faces a a march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan. miller has dropped out of that case too
miller had repeatedly pleaded to have the criminal trial heard first, contending that widely publicized senate proceedings would prejudice potential jurors
senators have voiced suspicions that mecham wanted to fight for his job in the recall election before the senate trial because the senate has the power to bar him from ever holding public office again if he is convicted. released, statements by opposition and government, other detail. no pickup</note>
government officials said 2,134 prisoners were released saturday and 5,100 others had their prison terms reduced or civic rights restored under a ``grand amnesty.''
the officials said 125 political dissidents were among those freed and 1,606 dissidents were among those granted other forms of leniency. the rest were common criminals
it was the first public gesture of conciliation by the government of president roh-tae-woo, who was installed thursday in the first peaceful transfer of power since south korea's independence in 1948
culture and information minister chung han-mo announced the amnesty friday. he said it was meant to promote ``national harmony and restore public confidence'' in the roh government
the political opposition and dissidents, however, said the amnesty was not enough and expressed regret that many leading dissidents were not included
the divided opposition agreed friday to join ranks after months of bitter squabbling. the two parties decided to unite to oppose the roh government in upcoming national assembly elections
the rival opposition leaders issued a joint announcement saying, ``we have agreed to form a new integrated party by the end of next week.''
the agreement calls for kim young-sam's reunification democratic party and the kim dae-jung's party for peace and democracy to merge into a new opposition party, to be named later
in a news conference saturday, kim dae-jung called for ``total'' amnesty. he complained that the number of political prisoners released constituted a small portion of the total of 1,300 political detainees. he called on the government to free all but those who profess themselves to be communists
lee ton-myung, a leading dissident and human rights lawyer, said the amnesty was ``a sham'' and showed roh was ``the extension of his authoritarian predecessor chun doo-hwan.''
prosecution authorities claimed that 276 political detainees remain _ 216 awaiting trial and 60 serving sentences but considered unrepentant, involved in serious crimes such as murder or arson. the prosecution hinted that some of those awaiting trial might be freed later when judicial processes are completed
among released political prisoners were seven student leaders involved in seizing the u.s. cultural center in seoul in may 1985
some prominent dissidents, including the rev. moon ik-hwan and poet ko eun, who were already out of jail, had their civic rights restored
meanwhile, several major questions remained unanswered about the opposition merger, including power distribution, the two parties have been bitter rivals and their past unification attempts have failed
the division was formed after both kim young-sam and kim dae-jung insisted on running in the dec. 16 presidential election. the two kims, who split the oppostion vote, lost to roh, the ruling party candidate
roh was elected with 36.6 percent of the vote. friday.</note>
the hierarchy of jimmy swaggart's church said friday it will ask church officials in louisiana to reconsider their proposed three-month suspension of the tv evangelist accused of sexual misconduct
g. raymond carlson, general superintendent of the springfield-based assemblies of god, refused to say what penalty the church recommended instead
however, the church's executive presbytery had met here to consider a tougher penalty after many members called the church headquarters to complain that the suspension of the fire-and-brimstone evangelist too lenient
cbs reported friday that the assemblies of god told louisiana leaders to order swaggart, who tearfully confessed to unspecified sins from his pulpit sunday, to step down a year. the network cited no sources for the report
assemblies of god spokeswoman juleen turnage late friday said she did not know what the church had recommended and could not confirm the report. louisiana district superintendent cecil janway was not home friday night, said his wife
carlson announced the decision after 11 hours of discussion over two days with other members of the executive presbytery. other board members refused comment friday
the home district of the baton rouge, la., evangelist recommended earlier this week that swaggart be barred from preaching for three months and undergo two years of rehabiliation and counseling
once the louisiana district has reviewed the swaggart case, the executive presbytery will take it up again, carlson said. ``a final decision on these matters could be several days or weeks away,'' carlson said
although swaggart and church officials never specified the evangelist's sin, an admitted prostitute said in interviews this week that she had performed lewd acts for swaggart for about a year
church officials say no other minister accused of moral misconduct has been allowed to return to preaching in so short a time as three months and questions were raised about the financial support the louisiana district receives from jimmy swaggart world ministries
two officials of the state district _ general superintendent cecil janway, also a member of swaggart's evangelical enterprise, and forrest hall, the treasurer _ met with the executive presbytery on thursday. louisiana district officials had no comment friday
turnage said earlier that if the executive presbytery disagreed with the louisiana district's recommendations, it would pass on its concerns to the lower body and ask officials in louisiana to reconsider
mrs. turnage said the church's constitution made the disciplinary process a lengthy one. she said this has been frustrating for church members, who have flooded headquarters with calls expressing their concern
it just continues to hang there in the forefront of everyone's mind,'' she said
mrs. turnage added that officials want to conclude the matter as soon as possible, ``and get out of the public spotlight.''
it is the second time in a year that the assemblies of god, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, considered disciplinary measures against a prominent minister caught in a scandal. last year, ptl founder jim bakker lost his assemblies credentials after it was disclosed that he had had sex with a woman other than his wife and then tried to pay her to keep silent. bakker rejected a rehabilitation proposal
swaggart, who reaches around the world with broadcast sermons and contributes $12 million a year to the foreign missions programs of the assemblies of god, stepped down from his pulpit sunday after confessing to an undisclosed sin
he has not appeared in public since then and was not at the closed meetings here
mrs. turnage said the swaggart case is the most complex ever for the executive presbytery because of the many facets of swaggart's ministry
swaggart records gospel albums, bible study tapes and television tapes and takes his ministry abroad
the problem, according to mrs. turnage, is deciding ``what is preaching.''
`in the past, preaching meant going into the pulpit,'' she said. but with swaggart, ``is his singing going to be considered preaching? i don't know.''
the federal communications commission voted thursday to explore the possibility of creating a national radio channel with a single entity guiding the operations of the channel on a nationwide basis
such a channel could be carved from a new set of am broadcasting services in the 1605 to 1705 kilohertz range at the upper edge of the am band. these frequencies could accommodate about 10 channels in a band for which receivers are not yet available
the fcc voted to open its fourth inquiry on the expanded band to get comment on this proposal and others on use of the new channels, in preparation for an international telecommunications union conference in june where the issue will be discussed. the itu, a unit of the united nations, coordinates use of the electromagnetic spectrum
the fcc said that while it is keeping open the option of licensing the additional channels in its traditional way, it also said it will explore ``national licensing'' of frequencies in the expanded band
under this approach, a single entity would be able to guide the development of a channel on a nationwide basis. such a national licensee could operate the stations itself or could lease the frequency to others,'' the fcc said
the commission said such a concept could have several advantages, including economies of scale
commissioner patricia diaz dennis said that while the idea was ``creative,'' it would face a number of regulatory hurdles, including the commission's multiple ownership rules
the senate on thursday approved president reagan's nominations for three u.s. district court judges and four federal prosecutors
the nominations were approved by voice vote shortly after the senate ended a continuous 53-hour filibuster over campaign finance legislation
approved were:
_malcolm j. howard as a judge of the u.s. district court for the eastern district of north carolina
_stephen m. reasoner as a judge of the u.s. district court for the eastern district of arkansas
_rudy lozano as a judge of the u.s. district court for the northern district of indiana
_john e. fryatt to be the u.s. attorney for the eastern district of wisconsin
_patrick j. fiedler to be the u.s. attorney for the western district of wisconsin
_edgar w. ennis jr. to be the u.s. attorney for the middle district of georgia
_charles a. banks to be the u.s. attorney for the eastern district of arkansas
afghanistan's communist government said thursday a guerrilla proposal for an interim government while soviet troops withdraw was a ``hysterical'' dream, but a u.s. envoy called it a good idea
undersecretary of state michael armacost, visiting pakistan, said the plan announced this week by the seven-party guerrilla alliance was a ``very welcome step toward the resolution of the afghan problem.''
the alliance, led by yunis khalis and based in pakistan, proposes an executive council of all seven guerrilla leaders to preside over a 28-member cabinet of rebels, afghan refugees and ``moslems presently living in kabul.''
soviet military forces entered afghanistan in december 1979 and an estimated 115,000 now are in the country helping fight the guerrillas
about 3.5 million afghans have fled to neighboring pakistan. most live in border cities and camps that serve as bases and supply points for the guerrillas
thursday's editions of the afghan communist party newspaper anis said the plan ``resembles more a hysterical and disturbed dream,'' kabul radio reported
it is clear that this void and unfounded plan has no legitimacy and therefore is unacceptable,'' the paper said, adding that the insurgent proposal was like the ``story of sharing the wolf's prey.''
the radio also broadcast a foreign ministry statement that ``there is only one legal government in afghanistan, which has been recognized by 80 countries in the world.''
armacost arrived wednesday to discuss progress toward soviet withdrawal. he met with president mohammed zia ul-haq, and a u.s. embassy official said he also had ``frank and open'' discussions with leaders of the moslem guerrillas
mikhail s. gorbachev said feb. 8 that soviet troops will start pulling out may 15 if u.n.-sponsored talks in geneva between afghanistan and pakistan bring a settlement by march 15, and complete the withdrawal in 10 months. the talks are to resume wednesday
pakistan demands a military settlement be accompanied by a political one to ensure transitional stability. washington, which supports the guerrillas, has devoted most of its effort to obtaining a withdrawal
leftist guerrillas called an end to their transportation ban thursday. at least three civilians were killed and eight wounded during the three days it lasted, police said
the guerrillas announced monday on their clandestine radio venceremos that all vehicles defying the ban risked attack
police said guerrillas damaged four vehicles and a gasoline station during the ban
the five leftist guerrilla groups which form the farabundo marti national liberation front denied responsibility for civilian casualties in a statement broadcast over radio venceremos
they blamed the u.s.-supported government of president jose napoleon duarte, saying the dead and injured were part of ``an orchestrated campaign ... with the brutal intention of incriminating'' the guerrillas for civilian casualties
the broadcast claimed the guerrillas sabotaged 30 electrical distribution structures and killed or wounded 45 soldiers during the transport ban
a land mine exploded thursday as an army patrol sought to dismantle a barricade on the pan american highway, wounding five farmers and one soldier, according to judicial sources in ilobasco, about 35 miles northeast of the capital
city and rural traffic returned to normal thursday. dozens of trucks, waiting at the guatemalan and honduran borders until the ban ended, entered el salvador, customs and migration officials said
police sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said earlier this week that three workers were killed and five wounded when guerrillas attacked a bus on a highway 10 miles northeast of san salvador
police reported that in another incident, on the south side of the capital, three civilians were injured when suspected guerrillas ordered passengers off a minibus defying the ban and then tossed a grenade into it
the rebels have called transportation bans regularly as part of their economic sabotage campaign during the 8-year-old civil war
a gunman wounded four people on a crowded city bus and fled thursday in an outbreak of the gang violence gripping south central los angeles, police said
gang challenges were shouted back and forth on the bus before the assailant shot one gang member in the chest with a .45-caliber automatic handgun, said lt. bruce hagerty. ``then he shot indiscriminately,'' hagerty added
three of the victims were teen-agers and one was an adult, police said. two of the wounded were believed to be gang members, said police lt. fred nixon
two 15-year-old boys were taken to martin luther king jr. medical center, one in guarded condition with a chest wound, the other in serious condition with a wound in the lower abdomen, said spokeswoman paula wauls
a 15-year-old boy was in stable condition at california medical center with a gunshot wound to the upper thigh, said hospital spokeswoman jane twomey
the condition of the wounded adult was not immediately known
the shooting occurred in an area of the city plagued by gang violence. more than 300 gang-related killings occurred in los angeles county last year, many of them in the neighborhoods of south central
about 200 people gathered near the shooting scene. ``this is every day,'' said mary james, a bystander. ``i wouldn't mind seeing the national guard around here.''
earlier this week county supervisor kenneth hahn suggested national guardsmen be used to quell the gang violence. sheriff sherman block said people wouldn't like the idea of troops in the street
a major obstacle to oil and gas drilling below the scenic bluffs at pacific palisades on the los angeles coast was removed thursday when the state supreme court rejected an appeal by environmentalists
the unanimous vote of the six justices participating clears the way for occidental petroleum corp., which first applied for a permit in 1970, to begin exploratory drilling within a few months unless another court intervenes
occidental is obviously very pleased,'' said arthur groman, senior member of the company's board. ``this field, which we think may be as much as 60 million barrels of oil, is a vital resource of the united states.''
attorney roger diamond, who represented two residents challenging the drilling and is a board member the environmental group no oil inc., said opponents will ask a los angeles judge next week to block the drilling while a challenge to the project's coastal commission permit is pending
the (supreme) court now is less environmentally concerned than it used to be,'' said diamond, noting that the court had blocked a version of the palisades project in 1974
the court refused to hear an appeal of a lower-court ruling upholding the city's 1985 approval of the drilling project. justice stanley mosk, whose son, richard, is one of occidental's lawyers, did not participate in the ruling
occidental plans to seek quick city approval of a water drainage system to stabilize the cliffs, site of a destructive 1957 landslide. drilling could then begin
opponents suffered a setback monday when a los angeles city council panel voted 3-2 against withdrawing city approval of the project
occidental has estimated that 25 million to 60 million barrels of oil and 50 billion to 120 billion cubic feet of natural gas can be found 10,000 feet below ground at the site. opponents have called the estimates inflated and speculative
the arizona senate on thursday rejected a proposal to let voters decide whether to create a holiday honoring the rev. martin luther king jr
the 15-12 vote against a referendum clears the way for the legislature to decide the matter for itself
the republican-controlled legislature has killed such holiday proposals for many years, citing the cost of another paid holiday for state workers
but democratic gov. bruce babbitt ended his term in 1986 by creating a paid holiday by executive proclamation in honor of the slain civil rights leader
babbitt's successor, republican evan mecham, rescinded the order in 1987, triggering international boycotts of the state by musicians and convention groups
mecham has since been impeached on charges that he tried to conceal a campaign loan, and also awaits criminal trial on similar allegations. news digest: panama city, panama_panama, a0530; jerusalem_israel-violence, a0493; washington_consumer prices, a0434; undated_political rdp, a0447; washington_robertson's teflon, a0439; washington_dole-south, a0438; denver_hart, a0457; washington_robb's travels, a0443; washington_filibuster, a0445; phoenix, ariz._mecham's prosecutors, a0471; phoenix, ariz._mecham's defenders, a0448; washington_hot and cold, a0431; denver_daylight-saving time, a0433; hong kong_hong kong-big club, a0425.</note>
the reagan administration is welcoming reports from moscow that a strategic arms agreement could be ready for signing at a may summit, but says it is doubtful such a timetable could be met
we welcome it, if it means the soviets are going to work at the negotiations just as hard as we will,'' an administration official said thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity
and reagan, in an interview thursday with the washington post, expressed hope it could be signed by the end of the year although ``the time is too limited'' to complete work on the treaty by the summit
soviet troops headed home from east germany and czechoslovakia taking with them the first nuclear missiles dismantled under the superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range nuclear weapons
the soviet soldiers left two bases in east germany and one garrison in czechoslovakia thursday after a ceremonial send-off highlighted in the communist countries' state-run media
both of moscow's allies lauded the pullout of some shorter-range ss-12 missiles as evidence of the kremlin's sincere intent on peace
the white house is scrambling to untangle some of president reagan's news conference answers, offering details, emphasis and elaboration but no retractions
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater was hit with a barrage of questions at his regular press briefing thursday about what the president meant on several subjects during his nationally televised news conference the night before
fitzwater avoided saying that reagan had misspoken on any subject. but he played down reagan's comment that outsiders were stirring up trouble in israeli-occupied territories, and he also said an apparent contradiction with secretary of state george shultz on iran arms sales was a matter of ``interpretation.''
young families with children have suffered the most dramatic income drop since 1970 of any family group in america, while the elderly have seen the sharpest rise, according to a new congressional analysis
the study of family income trends by the congressional budget office found that median income for families with children, in which the head of household was under 25, plummeted 43 percent from 1970 to 1986
for those over 65, including people living alone, income went up more than 50 percent
boredom, peer pressure and bad management create a climate for widespread drug and alcohol use by the nation's railroad workers, two crewmen involved in last year's fatal amtrak crash say
the former conrail workers told the senate commerce committee on thursday of co-workers who consumed as much as a case of beer a day, brought bottles of liquor to work, or used marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines and other drugs
overall, drinking was encouraged on the job, especially when i was hired on,'' said ricky l. gates, who was the engineer of the three connected conrail locomotives that on jan. 4, 1987, collided with a crowded amtrak passenger train
an army helicopter nosedived into a cow pasture and skidded about 75 feet before it broke apart in a sheet of fire, killing nine men and seriously burning nine others, authorities and witnesses said
two soldiers leaped about 35 feet to the ground from the burning twin-rotor ch-47d chinook before it crashed about 50 miles from fort worth on thursday, said state department of public safety sgt. robert rankin. one of the soldiers died
the other soldier said that a fire had broken out at the back of the helicopter based at fort sill, okla., and that those aboard had tried to move to the front to get away from the flames, rankin said
a widely used pair of antibiotics prevented a deadly form of pneumonia in a group of 30 aids patients, while more than half of the patients in a similar untreated group came down with it, researchers reported today
this dramatic success in preventing one of the leading causes of death among aids patients is not a cure for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, but could prolong the lives of aids sufferers, said the study's principal author, dr. margaret fischl of the university of miami school of medicine
any individual that is symptomatic with hiv (the aids virus) should be considered for intervention with low-dose antibiotics to prevent pneumocystis,'' said fischl. ``it's easily available. it's not expensive.''
the reagan administration has made ``no secret deals'' on afghanistan and will arm guerrillas there ``until that support is no longer needed'' to gain permanent withdrawal of soviet troops, a senior official told congress
we will not abandon the afghan resistance,'' robert peck, deputy assistant seceretary of state, said thursday in testimony before the house foreign affairs subcommittee on asian and pacific affairs
peck also welcomed a statement by resistance leaders that they would agree to an interim government consisting of some afghans currently in kabul, possibly non-communist members of the kremlin's client government
president kurt waldheim said he considered quitting but rejected the idea, adding that he dropped plans to speak at a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of nazi germany's forcible annexation of austria
in an hourlong interview on austrian television late thursday, waldheim said he had a ``clear conscience'' and repeatedly insisted he did nothing wrong despite the furor over his involvement in the german army under adolf hitler
asked whether the decision to cancel the speech had been ``painful,'' waldheim responded: ``it wasn`t very painful since i will be present at the ceremony. news digest: panama city, panama _ panama; jabaliya, occcupied gaza strip _ israel; jerusalem _ shultz-israel; moscow _ soviet-armenia; undated _ political rdp; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham-impeachment; springfield, mo. _ swaggart-assemblies.</note>
eric arturo delvalle, called a puppet of gen. manuel antonio noriega a few days ago, may have lost the presidency but he has gained respect
after 2{ years in the obscurity of panama's presidency, he went on television thursday and ordered noriega, the man who is really in charge of the country, to leave his post as military commander
on one side of the contest was a man with high political office but no power, on the other a man with no political office but control of the army, navy, air force, police and national legislature
president reagan said friday he has no plan to intervene militarily in panama, as u.s. officials scrambled to assess ``a precarious position'' brought on in part by federal drug-smuggling indictments of strong man gen. manuel antonio noriega
but the state department said the united states will continue to recognize eric arturo delvalle as president of panama, despite a parliamentary vote to oust him and replace him with manuel solis palma, who has been education minister
the national assembly moved against delvalle after he tried to dismiss noriega, who was indicted by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., earlier this month
panama's president eric arturo delvalle knew in advance that his attempted firing of gen. manuel antonio noriega would fail but is confident that planned steps would lead to noriega's downfall within three weeks, a panamaniam dissident said friday
jose i. blandon, a onetime noreiga associate, said in an interview that delvalle has devised an 18-point plan for the ouster of the military strong man, and his unsuccessful bid to replace him was but one element
it is exactly what we thought was going to happen,'' blandon said, referring to delvalle's bid to install the second-ranking officer in panama's defense forces as commander on thursday and noriega's decision to ignore the order
the romanian government, apparently weary of white house and congressional demands for a better human rights performance, has renounced american trade benefits given to communist countries with good emigration policies, u.s. officials said friday
as a result, romania could lose up to $250 million in commerce with the united states, according to romanian figures
state department spokesman phyllis oakley said romania informed the united states through diplomatic channels that it had decided to ``renounce'' the trade concessions, therefore subjecting romanian goods to higher tariffs as of july 2
pat robertson complains that he is being held to a higher standard than his rivals but the political world is in awe over how he gets away with controversial statements that would sink other presidential hopefuls
the man is tefloned,'' says republican consultant ed mahe. ``he is tefloned so well with his base that he's not taking any hits as a consequence of what he says.''
but mahe and other experts say robertson's controversial pronouncements are likely to sink whatever hopes he holds of winning over enough mainstream support in the republican party to be a serious contender for the presidential nomination at the gop convention in august
the senate refused on friday for the eighth time in a year to allow a floor vote on a democratic proposal to limit campaign spending, but supporters and republican foes agreed that the battle wasn't over
a move by majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., to halt debate failed again on a 53-41 roll call after 53 hours of round-the-clock filibustering led by republicans. the bill was promptly shelved, probably for the rest of the year
the democrats thus fell seven votes short of the necessary 60-vote majority required to invoke cloture, or to gag debate, even though democrats got the votes of republicans john chafee of rhode island, robert stafford of vermont and nancy landon kassebaum of kansas
consumer prices rose a moderate 0.3 percent in january, about the same rate of inflation as through 1987, but a large decline in energy costs cloaked hefty increases in many other areas, the government reported friday
the january increase in the labor department's consumer price index followed a revised december increase of 0.2 percent. the december rise initially been reported as 0.1 percent
the advance was equivalent to an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent, according to department analysts. that compares to the 4.4 percent actual rate of inflation posted for 1987 and is also in line with the reagan administration's projection of 4.3 percent inflation for 1988
a young white man sentenced earlier this week to work for the naacp by a judge who hoped to end a ``cycle of hate'' faced new charges of ethnic intimidation friday for allegedly punching and shouting slurs at a pregnant woman
it's very disappointing,'' cook county circuit judge stuart nudelman said of the new charges against james kalafut jr., 21. ``i've done these type of community-service sentences before and they've been successful
unfortunately, perhaps this one may not be. that remains to be seen.''
the legacy of julius caesar is returning once again, as calendars around the world add an extra day on monday
feb. 29 is leap day _ an added 24 hours slipped in about every four years to make calendars nearly perfect
the day is designed to compensate for the fact that calendars count in whole days, 365 or 366 depending on the year, while it takes the earth 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds to orbit the sun
the west virginia supreme court last week declared the state's budget unconstitutional on grounds it is based on excessive revenue estimates and therefore threatens the chronically poor, mostly rural state's financial stability. the court gave the governor and legislature 60 days to remedy the situation. this, the second story in a four-part series on the impact of rural poverty, looks at how west virginians are dealing with the crisis
if west virginia were a private corporation, says george farley, the rural appalachian state would be in bankruptcy proceedings at this moment
things are that bad in west virginia,'' farley, chairman of the state house finance committee, said recently. ``and not only that, but it appears this current legislative session is our last chance to keep things from totally going bust.''
farley, a democrat who has helped put together the state's budget for the past 10 years, said he's never seen conditions so bleak. long-term unemployment, a decimated industrial tax base and the loss of millions of dollars in federal revenue sharing funds have west virginia reeling on the edge of bankruptcy
while leaders cast about for solutions _ including special loan promotions for industry, tax hikes, spending slashes and a hotly debated plan to make southern west virginia a dumping ground for nuclear waste _ the 1.9 million residents watch helplessly as their highways crumble from neglect, their social services dwindle and thousands of their friends and relatives flee to greener pastures
i'd estimate more than 100,000 of our young people have left the state since 1980,'' said william miernyk, a retired economist at west virginia university
this accounts for about 15 percent of the state's labor force, he said. it also tends to distort the unemployment picture in west virginia, a chronically poor state where three of every five residents live in rural areas
rural places throughout the south and appalachia have found themselves left out of the economic boom in many of the metro areas
the federal government currently lists west virginia's jobless rate at 7.4 percent, with many rural counties reporting double-digit unemployment
i'd say the true unemployment rate around here, counting people who have used up their benefits, would be way over 20 percent,'' said john ``duck'' dudash, a retired miner at farmington, a little coal town in northern west virginia
things are so bad that people would line up for miles, double file, if a mine around here would start hiring. why, it reminds me of the depression,'' said the 74-year-old dudash. ``farmington is almost a ghost town these days.''
miernyk went further: ``in some ways it's worse than it was in the 1930s
coal has always been a cyclic industry here but in recent years we've lost many thousands of coal mining jobs that, because of the decline of our chemical and primary metals industries, we'll never get back.''
the loss of these industrial payrolls, plus the erosion of nearly 25 percent of west virginia's manufacturing jobs, has had a ripple effect on the state economy. even traditional revenue sources, such as the state-operated liquor stores, are reporting serious revenue losses these days
in december, standard &amp; poor's, a national bond-rating service, imposed an emergency ``financial watch'' on the state
last month, the kanawha county school system, west virginia's largest, threatened to close down, then filed suit in an attempt to force the state to pay millions of dollars in overdue school-aid payments
the state needs an immediate $150 million fix, just to stay even,'' farley said. ``on top of that, we'll probably need another $50 million by the end of the fiscal year, given that tax revenues currently are $37 million below budget estimates.''
farley doubts gov. arch moore jr.'s recent assertion that the state merely has a cash flow problem, which will clear up when log-jammed tax revenues come rolling in
moore, a republican, imposed a 20 percent, across-the-board spending freeze during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended last june 30. despite the freeze, he still had to withhold $58 million in state income tax refunds until after june 30
this meant we began the current fiscal year $58 million in the hole,'' farley said
as of mid-february, west virginia was $100 million behind in school-aid payments. it owed $50 million in state medical insurance payments to hospitals, physicians and pharmacists. and it needed to come up with about $30 million as its share of $120 million in overdue federal-state medicaid payments
meanwhile, the state's teachers are up in arms because their paychecks are threatened and their retirement fund is more than $1 billion in the red, due to past borrowing from it by the state
some state officials acknowledge privately that many smaller companies no longer will do business with the government, except on a cash basis
moore, who is seeking re-election, acknowledged in november the state was facing a financial crisis. a month later, in his state-of-the-state address, he said west virginia had just experienced a great year of economic development
state senate president dan tonkovich, a democrat who also is running for governor, accused moore of fomenting ``chaos.''
standard &amp; poor's, in its financial warning about $900 million worth of state bonds, noted, ``neither the executive nor legislative branches has formulated a comprehensive program to address the state's deteriorating financial picture.''
west virginians, whose motto is ``mountaineers are always free,'' say they are depressed and frightened
i feel the thing that has really pushed us over the edge is the loss of federal revenue sharing funds,'' said kate long, a citizen activist who is knowledgeable about the state's tax structure. ``we've always had inept politicians and cycles of boom and bust, but a poor state like west virginia simply can't overcome the loss of $200 million a year, given everything else that has happened to us.''
a study by the american federation of state, county and municipal employees shows west virginia over the past four years has lost more federal dollars, per capita, than any other state except new york. the money lost when federal revenue sharing was curtailed took 23 percent of west virginia communities' annual budgets and caused widespread service cutbacks
in rural preston county, county hospital administrator hilda heady, said she has had to impose a 20 percent layoff and other cutbacks, such as reduced operating room hours, in order to keep the doors open
jerry ash, a spokesman for the west virginia hospital association, said continuing revenue losses, and especially late payments by the state, have created a medical care crisis
two small hospitals went bankrupt last year and we did a recent survey that showed six more of the state's 35 small, rural hospitals are on the verge of bankruptcy. another six are just a step behind them,'' he said
farley, who advocates a combination of budget cuts and tax increases to try and stave off financial disaster, said a national energy policy is needed to help states such as west virginia, louisiana and texas, whose economies have been crippled by erosion of natural resource-based industries
asked what west virginia would do if it did go belly up, farley just shook his head
the governor, when asked recently what would happen should west virginia be unable to pay its bills in april, replied by quipping, ``who says there will even be a state government by then?''
but the question is no joke to many west virginians, and especially thys out for the poor in pahokee, long bypassed by the opportunity burgeoning in other parts of florida
pahokee high school _ with 150 male students now enrolled _ has 26 graduates attending college on football scholarships. many hope to follow the lead of jackson, who returns here in the offseason, and pahokee alumnus andre waters, now a safety for the national football league's philadelphia eagles
football coach don thompson said 34 players from the high school have earned scholarships in the past 4{ years
that's a million dollars worth of education,'' said the coach
few could afford the schooling otherwise in a town where no college means joining the armed forces or a life of seasonal agricultural work
economic statistics are imprecise, but average family income in pahokee ranges between $12,500 and $15,000, compared to $38,000 statewide. florida's unemployment rate is only 4.9 percent. there are no reliable unemployment figures for pahokee because most work is seasonal
in pahokee, a few families are filthy rich, and some people are dirt poor,'' said warren nevad, city finance director
while florida's population has grown to 12 million from 5 million in 1960, pahokee's has fallen below 7,000 people for the first time since the depression, when it hit 15,000
nearly 45 percent of the residents are black, many of them young. the median age is 26.2 years
rural towns in many parts of the nation, but especially in the south, have seen their fortunes and numbers decline in recent years, as farming and small manufacturing employment have dropped and people have migrated to cities for opportunity
pahokee's history tells a peculiar tale of decline _ but recently, too, of hope for a new start
country singer mel tillis, who left his hometown in 1951, recalls a ``huckleberry finn-tom sawyer'' existence in his boyhood. pahokee's living history book, 92-year-old carmen salvatore, remembers that when he arrived in 1919 he found the land ``like god made it.''
that was before this part of the everglades was drained. the only way to get to pahokee was by boat
the wildlife was in abundance,'' salvatore said. ``the lake was filled with fish; there were birds of every kind. we had plenty of beans and fresh vegetables.''
but powerful financial, political and natural forces threatened that bucolic lifestyle
sugar corporations moved in after fidel castro's communist revolution in cuba three decades ago and the subsequent end in u.s. purchases of cuban sugar
the dark, rich everglades muck around giant lake okeechobee was bought up from small farmers and converted from winter vegetable fields by u.s. sugar corp. and smaller companies to grow cane. some 450,000 acres around the lake produce $1 billion in sugar each year
it's at harvest time, when the fields are torched to burn off leaves and drive out snakes and other animals, that the rabbit runs bring a burst of activity in the quiet town, which has no night spots or community center for teen-agers
we don't have jobs. that's the way we have to get some money,'' said willie littlejohn, an all-state sophomore defensive tackle at the high school. the rabbits bring $1.25 to $2 apiece. the likes of littlejohn can bring home 10 to 20 a day
salvatore recalls a thriving pahokee. during prohibition, bootleggers flocked to the isolated town on boats full of homemade south florida booze destined for chicago speakeasies
in the late 1920s, hurricanes and floods washed away precious topsoil _ and then the great depression hit
even then, pahokee's low cost of living _ salvatore, a father of five, recalls getting by on $9 a month _ and plentiful work in the vegetable fields, increased the population to 15,000
pahokee became one of south florida's up-and-coming towns. a native was elected speaker of the statehouse. the town's political clout led to roads, schools, and everything else pahokee seemed to need
we had high hopes,'' salvatore said, sitting on his porch as a morning breeze delivered a sugary scent from nearby fields
like so many pioneers, we had all the trials and tribulations, then someone else came in and reaped the benefits,'' he said, referring to recent shifts in the labor force
the sugar industry requires less labor than previous agriculture, and most harvesting is done now by west indians imported under a special immigration agreement
desegregation in the 1960s meant more change. many white families sent their children away to private school or moved out
salvatore, whose grandson carmen iii is police chief, details the dozens of stores, restaurants, motels and even barbershops that have closed
he predicts pahokee will shrivel, but he seems to be in the minority
people are saying, `i like this town and i'm going to take a stand,''' said james bennett, a funeral home operator who just completed four years as president of the chamber of commerce
it's not the style of people here to talk publicly about one major reason for change: the death 1{ years ago at age 80 of mayor duncan ``uncle dunc'' padgett, who ran the city for 25 years
uncle dunc'' dominated pahokee and was determined to protect it from the onslaught of florida growth
those who run the city now say pahokee had become a textbook for how not to run a city. water meters weren't read for years, and the city was paying $69,000 a year to insure a fleet of vehicles, many no longer in service
the city council of ``uncle dunc'' rebelled in the 1970s against federal regulations that found water, sewerage and housing were not up to minimum standards
at one point, pahokee city council voted to secede from the union
today's council is more pragmatic
mayor clark wilkinson was elected last year on a reform platform and she helped gain 3-1 passage of a feb. 9 referendum changing the city government from the strong mayor system to a city manager running a professional city government
this has turned the city around 100 percent,'' said councilman ramon horta, the first hispanic ever on the five-member council. roy singletary last year became the first black on council
the mayor followed the city charter referendum with a series of meetings among more than 50 residents and researchers from state universities to look at pahokee's needs
they are working out plans to develop fishing-based tourism, improve housing and lure new businesses
said city council president john norman, ``we love pahokee and we're going to keep it alive.''
the urgent need to boost employment in the depressed rural south is a point on which democratic and republican presidential candidates agree. but to create jobs in the hard-hit region, they take different routes. this, the last story in a four-part series looking at rural poverty, details the candidates' proposals, from training and basic education to rural enterprise zones and increased wages and farm prices
most of the presidential candidates agree that new jobs are the key to combating poverty, especially in the rural south, but their proposals for creating them differ widely, from minimum wage revisions to education, enterprise zones and saving the family farm
responding to a survey by the associated press on how to deal with rural poverty, democrats jesse jackson and gary hart both pushed an increase in the $3.35-an-hour minimum wage, while republican pat robertson said there should be a subminimum ``youth opportunity wage'' to help teen-agers break into the job market
the republicans, in general, stressed economic development. vice president george bush said rural america ``has been strongly tested in recent years,'' but is ``headed back up.''
bush's chief rival, senate republican leader bob dole of kansas, said that as a disabled war veteran, ``i am sensitive to the needs of people who, due to factors beyond their control, may need a boost in climbing the ladder of opportunity.''
dole said he would change the formula for funding poverty programs that he said ``discriminate against rural america.''
both bush and rep. jack kemp of new york suggest rural enterprise zones. robertson said education is ``the turnkey'' to resolve poverty in the south
among the democrats, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who is hoping to score heavily in his home region during the super tuesday primaries march 8, said, ``our greatest defense against poverty is education.''
rep. richard gephardt of missouri said his ``trade, agricultural and competitiveness initiatives ... will restore economic health to rural america.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said every distressed area in america, urban or rural, could benefit from the same development and welfare reform policies that have worked in his state, including job training for welfare recipients and public-private development partnerships
jackson said, ``the cornerstone of anti-poverty policy is full employment at adequate wages.'' he called for a national floor on welfare payments, universal national health care and a commitment to save the family farm
sen. paul simon, d-ill., said day care was vital for the rural poor. he said his public works program would give people a better opportunity than welfare or unemployment benefits, and he pledged to ``bring farm prices back up.''
the associated press asked all the presidential candidates on feb. 11 to respond to the following question:
the census bureau reports that in 1986, when the national poverty rate was 13.6 percent, the poverty rate in the south was 16.1 percent. more than 13 million or 40 percent, of the nation's 32 million poor people live in the south. as president, how would you deal with poverty in general and rural poverty in particular?''
here is how the democrats replied:
in massachusetts, we have made `opportunity for all' a fundamental economic goal. we have reduced unemployment from nearly 12 percent in 1975 to three percent today. ... our et (education and training) choices program has helped more than 40,000 massachusetts residents lift themselves from public assistance to real jobs. and the massachusetts housing partnership has helped provide decent and affordable housing for 30,000 families of low and moderate income, with thousands more in the pipeline
america can and must do the same. through a strong national urban policy and a parallel commitment to regional development, we can bring to every distressed area and to every region, rural or urban, the opportunity to combine public investment with private resources and create new jobs
through national welfare reform, we can make the success of et a nationwide success. and with a national partnership for affordable housing _ one that combines a renewed federal commitment with the sensitivity of local initiative _ we can end the national disgrace of homelessness and provide affordable housing for working people, the poor and the elderly.''
the missouri congressman said welfare benefits should be high enough to bring poor families up to the poverty line. welfare programs must be reformed to give people ``the skills and experience they need to leave welfare and poverty behind,'' and provide preschool education for their children at age 3
gephardt supports ``higher medicare prepayment rates for rural hospitals'' and federal efforts to strengthen ``both our infrastructure and our transportation system in rural areas.''
to spur rural development, gephardt ``will utilize the expertise of local governments, rural electric and telephone cooperatives, cooperative extension (through land grant universities), and the private sector to help communities build their own economic development strategies. ... the fmha business and industrial development loan guarantee program, which has languished in recent years, will be aggressively reorganized and expanded.''
the key to winning the war against poverty is giving all americans the first-rate education that will guarantee them a job. ... job training and retraining programs, like formal education, are also vital to preventing poverty. ..
i believe there is a great deal we can do to revitalize the rural economy so that fewer families are forced to live in poverty. first, we must improve and maintain our ability to compete for jobs and markets. we need to improve rural infrastructures to attract new jobs. we must make it easier for new enterprises to get started and for small businesses to stay in business. we need strong presidential leadership to open markets abroad and help workers and farm families earn a decent income at home. above all, we need an agricultural policy that works.''
jay angoff, a hart campaign aide in washington, said the former colorado senator favors a comprehensive strategy ``of promoting better health care in rural areas, higher quality education, more and better paying jobs, a better infrastructure and a greater availability of transportation and other services.''
among the anti-poverty strategies hart has proposed: raising the minimum wage to $5 an hour; voluntary national service, including a literacy corps; universal access to pre-school education, and incentives for student teachers to teach in rural areas
this is one of a series of periodic reports by associated press correspondents around the world on the way of life in other countries
polygamy was banned in this west african country more than 20 years ago, but it persists for much of the population because it makes life easier _ at least for the men
one woman is not enough for an african man,'' said soumahoro mekinhui, a 64-year-old retired civil servant who has four wives but is not sure how many children he has. ``every woman has her role. they clean house, wash clothes, prepare food, and care for the children.''
while the government doesn't try to enforce its ban on polygamy, debate erupts every year over the practice and it always ends up inconclusive
but there's no debate in mekinhui's home. he is a moslem and his religion permits him to have four wives. the only question is the number of children
i don't know how many there are exactly, perhaps 24,'' he said one recent evening, relaxing in a stuffed vinyl chair at home. ``they are too numerous.''
large families are traditional in many parts of africa because children, preferably males, can help support the family and perpetuate the husband's name
as mekinhui spoke to a reporter, a 2-year-old boy wandered into the room in his underwear and climbed onto his father's lap. his wife bakayoko, 38, the fourth and youngest of the four, sat in a chair across from him, breast-feeding a year-old son, chialo, in one arm and holding a sleeping 2-year-old in the other
she was the only one of the wives at home. the others were visiting their families, and bakayoko was left to do the work of all of them
her day began at 4:30 a.m., which she said is her usual waking hour even when the other wives are home to help with the work
she had prepared the family's food and washed the clothing. she spent part of the day selling fruit at the market, but at noon and in the evening she was home to prepare meals and look after her children
this is a woman's life,'' she said. ``there's never a dispute between me and the other wives. i do what work i have to do. it's not too much for me.''
my women are good,'' mekinhui said. ``there are those in other households who are impatient and always fight. but not in my house.''
marie antoinette aoulou, producer on an ivorian television show on women, said that because women outnumber men by a large margin in the country, many women could not marry unless they agree to a polygamous marriage
as such marriages remain outside the law, the wives' only recourse in marital disputes is to leave, said yves roux, chief lawyer at the ministry of justice
we africans like to live in community,'' roux added. ``children are a gift of god, a source of wealth. they play an important economic role for the family.''
he said the government banned polygamy mainly because costs of living rose as the country developed
the government wanted families to adapt to the new economic situation, to restrain spending.''
polygamy also runs counter to efforts at population control and has the potential to cause friction between religious groups
in nearby nigeria, black africa's most populous nation, roman catholics criticized a recent population-control policy limiting women to four children each. church leaders said this would permit the polygamous moslem population to expand at the expense of monogamous christians
about one-third of ivory coast's 10 million people are christians. the rest are moslems or animists, both of whom practice polygamy
roux estimates that more than half the nation practices polygamy, but exact numbers of polygamists are not known. roux added that some men call their additional wives mistresses, clouding even more any attempt to determine the fullest extent that polygamy is practiced
he said the ivory coast government has been concerned about disturbances caused by disputes in polygamous families
in interviews here, children of polygamous marriages complained of families divided by jealous wives, and of nasty disputes among children
there are always personality problems between the women, and often the disputes are uncontrollable,'' said ramatou traure, an unmarried seamstress in abidjan, whose father had three wives. ``the worst is when the women use black magic against each other.''
nonetheless, some ivorians believe the ban on polygamy should be lifted or at least modified to give people a choice
once a year, at least, the polygamy ban comes up for debate with people discussing it in the streets, in offices, on the radio and the television, and in the newspapers
polygamy is still common in the cities and villages,'' wrote narcisse haquat, a professor at the national university, in the official newspaper, fraternite matin. ``to legalize polygamy would be to take into account the sociological reality.''
reality includes the rising costs of maintaining multiple wives
it ruins the household ecomony,'' said ibrahim diallo, a moslem cafe owner in abidjan. ``the man is always paying for food and supplies for his women and children.''
mekinhui, who said he lives on a monthly pension the equivalent of $175, acknowledged that it is difficult to make ends meet. but he added that the burden is an honor, a man's responsibility. besides, he observed, his older sons help support him
no sand-bag bunkers bar the way, and sikh radicals aren't waving rifles and submachine guns menacingly. but inside the golden temple, bearded young men look as determined as nearly four years ago when indian troops stormed sikhism's holiest shrine to dislodge militants
today, sikh radicals are again in control of the 17th-century sanctuary, the seat of sikh temporal power which has served as the base for their six-year campaign for a separate nation in the indian state of punjab
police in amritsar estimate that 100 to 200 sikh radicals, most of them armed, are inside the shrine at any given time, slipping in and out almost at will
they are a determined lot, ruthless killers. we are up against very nasty people,'' said mohammad izhar alam, the amritsar district police chief
again, the radicals are vowing to resist intrusion. but now they say they will carry the battle well beyond the walled temple complex
we have arms and very, very committed men,'' said nirvar singh, one of the top sikh militant leaders in punjab. ``this time if we are attacked, the army will have to fight us all over northern india
it will be real bloodbath in true sikh tradition.''
as he spoke during an interview with the associated press in a windowless room of the temple, about 20 young sikhs looked on
warriors of the faith,'' singh called them
each of these men can die for the faith and we have thousands of them all over northern india.''
the evidence is that, despite 35,000 police and 50,000 paramilitary troops in punjab, the militants operate freely in the northern state bordering pakistan
they have been blamed for about 300 deaths in the state since january. in the same period last year, 135 slayings were reported
at least 17 visitors to the golden temple, including a woman, have disappeared this year. all are believed to have been killed by the militants on suspicion of being police spies
a classified police document shown to the associated press says the militants in punjab have at least 200 ak-47 assault rifles, 1,000 thompson submachine guns, 1,200 sten guns, 50 self-loading rifles, 10 light machine guns, 250 enfield rifles, 800 revolvers, and a large number of hand grenades
in almost every sikh home, too, is a 3-foot sword, kept shining and sharp under a religious obligation of the martial faith founded about 500 years ago as an alternative to the era's warring hindus and moslems
alam, the police chief, said authorities could clear the shrine of militants if necessary, but he questioned the costs
we can storm the shrine, but it has to be a political decision because the consequences will be far-reaching,'' he told a reporter
sikhs, who make up 2 percent of india's 780 million people, have traditionally been the sword-arm of the indian army. many consider it a sacrilege for security forces to enter their shrines
the 1984 assault on the golden temple left 1,200 people dead, most of them sikhs. it so angered two sikh bodyguards of prime minister indira gandhi that they assassinated her five months later in new delhi
s.s. virk, the senior paramilitary officer in amritsar, also expressed fear that driving sikh radicals from the temple could backfire and build support for them
clearing the golden temple of the terrorists is not a very difficult task, but after that what?'' said virk, who is the deputy director general of the central reserve police force
forty miles to the north, in the village of haruwal, a young sikh ventured an answer: ``if police enter the golden temple we will declare a war.''
he refused to give his name, but declared: ``seven of us from this village have been to pakistan and we have enough arms to strike at will.''
the village is a half mile from pakistan, which denies india's repeated charges that it is supporting the sikh rebels
to the south at fattu bheela village, where the radicals recently killed three members of one family, sikh farmer gurven singh said he knew the militants were killing innocent people
but i cannot support police entering our shrines to get them.''
in amritsar, a spokesman for the panthic committee, an umbrella group of radicals, vowed to kill ``any enemy'' entering the golden temple
we have a hit list. if and when anyone from that list comes here, we kill them,'' said giani jagir singh. ``we will kill them with our bare hands, so much is our anger.''
oh, yes, nbc wants you to spend a half hour in a roomful of tots, not once but three times this week as part of the unusual premiere schedule for ``day by day,'' a new comedy from the creator of ``family ties.''
preview episodes air tonight and thursday. the series premieres in its regular time period on sunday, in place of ``my two dads,'' which will move around the schedule during the ``day by day'' spring tryout
thanks to witty writing and a pleasant disposition, ``day by day'' proves a lot easier to take than the 30 minutes of darling dialogue and squeaky tricycles the premise would seem to suggest
linda kelsey and doug sheehan star as kate and brian harper, a successful couple who have dropped out of the rat race to spend more time with their infant daughter by running a day-care center for toddlers in their home
the series premise is based on ``family ties'' creator gary david goldberg's similar real-life experience
day by day'' has the same gentle humor as ``family ties'' and is in many ways also reminiscent of ``growing pains.'' there's even a kind of michael j. fox-kirk cameron stand-in _ c.b. barnes as 15-year-old ross, the harpers' older son
in the first episode, ross, who apparently heretofore had little use for little ones, gets uncharacteristically interested in the kiddie-minding business to impress kristin, the harpers' beautiful assistant
kristin: ``there's something so attractive about a man holding a small child.''
ross (suddenly bolting after a romping child): ``c'mere!''
there's ample opportunity for cheap sentimentality when ross promises little justin that the boy's father will be at his birthday party, not knowing justin's parents are divorced
but as in ``family ties,'' the writing only flirts with corniness: ross launches into a speech about resenting his own father's absence when he was a child. brian counters that he's given everything up now to be with his children. ``but i'm 15 now,'' ross says. ``i resent you being around.''
added to the mix of not-too-cute tykes is brian's self-involved former co-worker, eileen, still enthusiastically working her way up the corporate ladder. she drops by to say she saw some children playing and was moved by the sight
eileen: ``i said, `eileen, you've got a biological clock, but your finger's on the snooze alarm.' shouldn't there be some little eileens?''
kate: ``eileen! i never knew you felt that way!''
eileen: ``i do, and coming over here always seems to cure me of it.''
day by day'' is the first of a number of new series premiering in march. by the middle of the month, the networks' schedules will little resemble the lineups they started with last fall
this week nbc adds ``the highwayman,'' an action-adventure series starring sam jones as a ``road warrior'' kind of character, and featuring jacko, the australian ex-football player so popular in the battery commercials; it will be the new lead-in for ``miami vice.'' the ratings for that 4-year-old series have been so-so this season. nbc will announce in march after watching its performance following ``the highwayman'' whether it will be back for a fifth year. ``sonny spoon'' was recently added to the schedule following ``vice.''
abc is adding ``probe'' for a trial run. parker stevenson and ashley crow star in the series based on an idea by isaac asimov about crime-fighting scientists. the network is also launching ``supercarrier,'' apparently hoping to reap the benefits of the popular movie ``top gun.''
the abc comedy ``the wonder years'' also premieres this month in its regular time period on tuesday
cbs is adding a bunch of sitcoms to its drama-heavy schedule. on monday is ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' about a one-man palm springs law firm. the network will put three new comedies on tuesday: ``trial and error,'' about mismatched roommates; ``the dictator,'' with christopher lloyd as a deposed despot living in queens, n.y.; and ``coming of age,'' with paul dooley as a retired airline pilot living in an arizona retirement community
elsewhere in television:
from hard rock to those in hard times _ dan aykroyd as elwood blues of ``the blues brothers'' will be host of a live television special _ no network as yet _ broadcast from one of the hard rock cafes _ no base city yet _ to benefit the homeless. what is known is that coca-cola is sponsoring the event and it will be aired sometime this year. also, ``saturday night live'' executive producer lorne michaels will produce it. ..
raquel redux _ raquel welch, who played against type as a professor with a degenerative disease in the nbc movie ``right to die,'' takes another stretch next season in a new nbc movie, ``the education of leda beth vincent.'' she plays a small-town cocktail waitress who takes on the local school board to get an anti-semitic teacher fired
police commissioner kevin tucker drops management buzzwords like efficiency and cost-effectiveness, but what he's really talking about is battling a legacy of corruption in philadelphia's police force
a 47-year-old former secret service officer who once protected jackie kennedy, tucker is revamping a department that less than a year ago was labeled ``unfocused, unmanaged, undertrained, underequipped and unaccountable.''
as head of the nation's fourth largest force, tucker is credited with restoring morale and public confidence in a department crippled by a federal corruption probe and a deadly confrontation with the radical group move
a 1986 survey revealed that 65 percent of philadelphians thought police officers used excessive force, 49 percent thought they took bribes and 46 percent believed they slept on the job
i don't represent corrupt or brutal police officers,'' tucker said in an interview. ``it's my responsibility to find them and to deal with them as effectively as possible and to get rid of them.''
since 1983, a federal investigation of police corruption has resulted in the conviction of 34 police officers, including a deputy commissioner, for extorting money from vice figures
the department came under searing criticism for its handling of the may 1985 confrontation with the radical group move in which 11 people died and 61 rowhouses were destroyed in a fire ignited by a police bomb
in january 1986, tucker replaced gregore sambor, who quit after the move debacle. one of tucker's first actions was to appoint a civilian task force to examine the department top to bottom
the group issued a 195-page report last may attacking the force's management, training, infrastructure and relationship with the city's 1.6 million residents
to us, the philadelphia police department's development as an effective, modern department seems arrested,'' the 13-member panel wrote. ``the dead hand of past traditions guides the department, rather than the challenge of the future.''
so far, over half the task force's 112 recommendations have been implemented, and tucker gets credit
he has communicated a clear, positive, modern image of what a metropolitan police department ought to be,'' said william b. eagleson jr., chairman of the civilian police commissioners council. ``he's a very strong leader.''
among the few major gripes, black officers charge tucker with failing to recruit and promote enough minorities, who comprise just 18 percent of the force in a city that is 42 percent black and hispanic
philadelphia has the lowest crime rate among the nation's top 10 cities and is tied with detroit for the highest number of officers per capita
still, in 1974, the pennsylvania crime commission said of the philadelphia police: ``corruption and political influence have plagued the force since its inception.''
the force's reputation for violence grew under frank rizzo, who was commissioner from 1967 to '71 and mayor from 1972 to '80. one study found that from 1975 to '78, 41 percent of people shot by police were unarmed
the last decade has included unconstitutional police ``sweeps,'' dozens of false arrest charges and accusations of abuses by the police k-9 unit. according to city records, more than 300 citizens were attacked by police dogs in the early 1980s
tucker quickly reorganized the department's ethics and accountability division, which helped arrest nine officers on corruption charges in 1986. and for the first time ever, the department now has a statement of ethical principles
there's no question that he was very serious about making changes in the way the police department handled matters involving the integrity of officers,'' said u.s. attorney edward s.g. dennis jr
tucker was a police officer for two years in rahway, n.j., before joining the secret service in 1965. he spent four years traveling around the world providing security for john f. kennedy's widow, jacqueline kennedy, and the couple's two children
from 1969 to '78, tucker was an agent in newark, n.j., philadelphia and washington before taking over the philadelphia office. he retired from the secret service in may 1985
after six months in the private sector, he accepted the commissioner's job at a salary of $55,000 a year _ a $20,000 pay cut. in january, tucker received a pay raise to $85,000
the first outsider named police commissioner since 1924, tucker was greeted coolly by some members of the force _ including the influential head of the police union _ but reform has wooed the critics
i think there isn't any doubt that this police force is responding to what is happening at the top,'' said michael churchill, chief counsel for the public interest law center. ``many people in the force were disgusted by the crooks and the more brutal members and are pleased it's not being condoned.''
tucker sees policing as a partnership between officers and the public; so, he's opened a minipolice station in one of the city's worst drug neighborhoods and added victim assistance and crime prevention officers
foot patrols have been increased, officers are learning spanish, computers are on order and nautilus exercising machines have been installed in police divisions
i was convinced from my time here as head of the secret service that there were a lot of dedicated and competent people,'' said tucker, a burly 6-footer with a brooklyn accent. ``it was a question of giving them the opportunity to be innovative and creative.''
tucker's tenure as head of the 6,700-member force hasn't been entirely smooth
a federal lawsuit by the fraternal order of police has stymied his attempt to require polygraph tests for officers seeking to join an elite investigation team
last year, the commissioner was criticized for allowing officers to ``infiltrate'' political groups police believed would disrupt events celebrating the bicentennial of the constitution
the guardian civic league, which represents black officers, has called for timetables for increasing the number of black supervisors
i still see more effort in the hardware rather than in dealing with some core problems,'' said detective ron oliver, the league's president
tucker said he still has much to accomplish, from modernizing facilities to upgrading officer performance standards
i'm satisfied we've come a long way,'' he said. ``but a lot remains to be done, and a lot of them are big-ticket items.''
the stock market crash might have dropped the price-earnings ratios of some better-known stocks, but it didn't knock the dividends out of them
true, the boards of some companies might have rethought earlier notions of raising the payout, but many others went right ahead and raised theirs
for the first nine months of last year there was a 19 percent increase over the similar period of 1986 in the net number of increased corporate dividends. in two of the following four months the trend was lower
nevertheless, a compilation by wright investors' service shows dividends for the 500 companies in the standard &amp; poor's index were 7.3 percent higher in the final three months of 1987, matched against the similar 1986 period
in fact, the percentage of dividend increases in the fourth quarter of the year was higher than in the first three months
wright's figures show that so far this year companies continue to express a good deal of faith in the future, because that is what it takes to commit a major company to a higher dividend level
of almost 600 companies _ all listed on the new york stock exchange _ that have declared dividends so far this year, 360, or 60 percent, have raised their figures over the same period of 1987
while some observers are inclined to declare these increases as additional evidence that october's big collapse had only small repercussions on the economy, there is probably a better explanation
among other things, the oct. 19 debacle produced a very strange twist in the economic trend: it reduced the prospects for a sharp increase in inflation and the subsequent threat of a serious recession
recession still appears in the forecasts of most corporate economists, but it is pushed deeper into the future. if the executive suite listens to its economists, it believes any recession is not likely before late this year
adding to the sense of confidence about raising dividends is the historical record, which shows that dividend yields are still low
wright observes that the average dividend yield of the 500 companies in the standard &amp; poor's index is only 3.6 percent, ``clearly out of line with history.''
only during the period 1958 to 1972, wright's researchers found, have such low yields prevailed. even uncle sam is paying more; there is close to a 5 percentage-point yield advantage in treasury bonds compared with the s&amp;p 500 average
wright cautions that further increases are not in the bag, by any means, and even suggests there has been some additional loss of business confidence in the first two months of 1988
but, judging by forecasts of corporate economists, that lower confidence is not a consequence of recession fears. what appears to be a consensus forecast calls for relatively weak growth, but growth nevertheless
that is, they may be laying back because of a sense of caution more than a loss of confidence. and if that cautiousness lessens, it conceivably could lift the lid on more dividend increases
for the first time in their history, the japanese will be able to travel across the nation's four main islands without taking a boat or a plane
scheduled for opening soon is a transportation project that has been likened to the opening of the transcontinental railroad in the united states on may 10, 1869
the japanese project includes the world's longest underwater tunnel and a mammoth bridge system
but it has its critics and doubters who contend the project is unnecessary and is going to cost more than japan will be able to afford in the years ahead
in march, the 33.4-mile seikan undersea tunnel will replace an 80-year-old ferry service when it goes into operation as a railroad line running under the tsugaru strait between aomori on the main island of honshu and hakodate in southern hokkaido
in april, the seto ohashi, or great bridge, comprised of six suspension bridges reaching five small islands in the seto inland sea, will open to both rail and vehicle traffic between honshu's okayama region and shikoku island in southern japan
for the first time, japanese will be able use ground transport to go from the northern island of hokkaido to the main island of honshu, and on to kyushu or shikoku
the two projects represent the largest engineering schemes ever attempted by japan and each is a major technological feat in itself
yet critics question the investment of more than $17 billion in public money on what they contend is an outdated mode of transportation _ the railroad _ at a time when japan's rapid rate of growth is slowing
kyohei kakumoto, a director of the japan transport economics research center and commentator on transportation issues, said the projects were given the go-ahead by politicians in the 1960s, at times of rapid economic growth and when forecasters predicted major increases in rail use
the key point here is that even though planners were aware they erred in their original forecasts, construction was still allowed to proceed,'' kakumoto said. ``and now that these projects are complete the people are finding themselves concerned about the lack of advantages.''
the expressway portion of the bridge system is expected to recover costs, which ran up to $8.7 billion over the 10-year construction period, if tourism reaches projected levels. but transportation officials acknowledge that the rail lines will operate in the red in the tradition of the formerly state-operated japan national railways (jnr), where the blueprints for the two major projects originated
the seikan tunnel, tailored for 2.3 million rail passengers and some 5 million tons of cargo each year, carries a price tag of $8.5 billion in overall construction outlays, $16.2 million in annual maintenance costs and a yearly operating deficit of at least $23.1 million
a seikan tunnel official, mitsuaki tanaka, argued that the tunnel is justified because cargo and passengers will be transported safely, regardless of weather conditions
it now takes travelers four hours to cross the strait by ferry boat on waters that claimed the lives of more than 1,100 passengers in a 1954 accident. when rail service starts up march 13, the journey time will be cut by half
kakumoto, a former japan national railways official who has observed work on the both the tunnel and bridge since the start, claimed the system will never be cost effective
the longer that tunnel is used, the larger the deficit will become,'' he said. ``if the ferries had been allowed to continue service we could have gotten by with keeping the deficit at its present level and still have met the needs of the locals.''
but taizo omiya, an engineer from aomori who spent 10 years working on the main seikan tunnel, said the project should be backed as a national undertaking
compared to the defense budget the cost of the tunnel is minimal. ... if it brings prosperity to the region many people here feel it should backed by the government.''
thirty-four laborers lost their lives in the 16 years it took to build the tunnel
shikoku island residents, responding to recent survey, were divided in their opinions on the seto bridge, the first of three scheduled causeways to connect shikoku with honshu. while 45 percent were listed as saying the new bridge to would improve local lifestyles and spur development, 44 percent replied they were unsure or that they expected the effects to be detrimental
residents said they feared an influx of tourists would cause problems for their underdeveloped rail and road system
in aomori, businessman-historian masao mizuta echoed the local view that only politicians wanted japan's famed ``shinkansen'' (bullet-train) line to extend up from morioka in neighboring iwate prefecture
actually the people here are more concerned about how the disappearance of the ferries, which have been the center of life in aomori, will effect the region,'' takada said. ``even if the shinkansen comes through the only direct benefits will be some ski slopes and golf courses.''
both the tunnel and the bridge were built to accommodate the bullet train, and local officials insist that the new line will spur economic development in the backward regions of aomori, hokkaido and shikoku
after years of kremlin-imposed restrictions on artists, soviet drama director genrietta yanovskaya finally knows she has the talent to please audiences abroad as well as at home
the audiences here have been tremendous,'' yanovskaya said after her moscow youth theater performed a long-banned work, ``heart of a dog,'' to sell-out munich crowds
the audience was still shouting ``bravo'' and clapping enthusiastically as yanovskaya's cast made its seventh curtain call
her troupe was one of six from the soviet capital that performed in the ``moscow in munich'' theater festival, whose west german backers say reflects the sweeping soviet reforms under mikhail s. gorbachev
at last we (soviet artists) have an opportunity to do the things we want to do, to do the things we dream about,'' yanovskaya said in a backstage interview
her long-time artistic collaborator, scriptwriter alexander chervinsky, agreed. ``before gorbachev, we (artists) were punished very badly'' by severe creative restrictions, he said
gorbachev's reforms have made it possible not only for soviet theaters to stage controversial works but for the six moscow theaters to bring their shows to munich
the jan. 14-feb. 6 festival showcased works that two years ago would have never made it past soviet officials because they focus on such topics as the repression of past kremlin regimes
yanovskaya's troupe of young thespians staged a play based on mikhail bulgakov's 1925 novel, ``heart of a dog,'' with a script by chervinsky
at the start of the play, shabbily dressed actors and actresses stand at the edge of the stage screaming in dramatized terror because of political repression in the 1920s and showing mock pain because of moscovites' hunger at the time
the satirical novel, in which a dog is surgically transformed into a brutish low-level soviet official who turns on his creator, was banned by soviet authorities until 1987. the novel has been widely read in the west
that same year, the 47-year-old yanovskaya received permission to stage chervinsky's version of bulgakov's novel. muscovites packed her theater in the soviet capital to see the performances
when we first got approval to do this play in moscow, everybody had forgotten about our theater because nothing that was permitted was what people wanted to see,'' said yanovskaya, who has been in professional theater since the 1960s. ``not even the taxi drivers knew their way to the theater. now everyone in moscow knows.''
but yanovskaya says that because people in her country were for years harshly restricted in what they could perform, write or otherwise create, the soviet reforms are putting artists to an unexpected test
glasnost gave us more freedom in choosing what to do. but that does not mean we always know how to make the right artistic decisions. this is a real challenge,'' she said in russian, with chervinsky translating her remarks into english
west german theater producer jochen hahn thought up the idea for the ``moscow in munich'' theater festival and flew to moscow to try to put it together
the union of theater producers of the soviet union, an unofficial organization founded in 1986, put up half the $1.4 million cost for the munich festival, hahn said. the remainder came from west german federal and local government grants, as well as private and corporate sources, he said
we were interested in how theater people are working with glasnost and perestroika,'' hahn said, referring to the russian words for, respectively, openness and restructuring
we watched about 30 plays (in moscow), and were surprised about the openness'' displayed by theaters in dealing with controversial topics, he said
hahn says he had no problem getting official approval for his proposal, ``despite the nightmare rumors i had heard about the soviet union. it was just the right moment (because of gorbachev's reforms) for this happen.''
however, that's not to say that theaters have been given carte blanche in what they can stage and in how they do it. theaters are still required to get permission from the authorities before going on with a show
theater professionals in the soviet union also would like the opportunity to do more performances in the west
i would love to play in new york some day. i would like to see how i would be received by audiences in still other parts of the world,'' said one young soviet actress who performed in munich, speaking on condition that her name not be mentioned
yanovskaya says bulgakov's ability to find comedy in the bleakest of circumstances is a trait she and her colleagues also relied on heavily in the pre-glasnost days
you should not be too serious about yourself in this world. to make it, you have to understand comedy. comedy is the only thing that helped us (artists) to survive,'' she said
the career of german stage great bernhard minetti spans from the tumultuous days of the weimar republic to a current round of accolades for his contribution to the theater
he recently was made an honorary member of frankfurt's prestigous theater ensemble after receiving lengthy standing ovations for his final performance in samuel beckett's classic ``krapp's last tape,'' at the city playhouse
but the feisty, 83-year-old actor heatedly says he's not heading towards his last curtain call
why should i quit? i'm not sick,'' said minetti, who is known for his brusque manner and general dislike of talking to the news media
over the years, he has played some of the greatest roles theater has to offer, always in his native german
his shakespearean heroes have included hamlet, othello and lear. the actor's roles by german playwrights have included both mephistopheles and faust in goethe's ``faust,'' robespierre in buechner's ``danton's death'' and wallenstein in schiller's ``wallenstein.''
one of his favorite roles, the craggy-faced actor said in an interview is king lear. ``i would play lear again any time,'' he said, speaking in german
another role he said he would play again is krapp in ``krapp's last tape,'' which he has been performing in frankfurt since last october to enthusiastic reviews
projects for 1988, he said, include starring in a play by german playwright gerhart hauptmann in berlin
if you want any other information, just read my book,'' he said, his voice rising
minetti wrote the 1985 book, ``memoirs of an actor,'' with the help of frankfurt city theater director guenther ruehle
minetti is certainly one of our country's greatest actors,'' ruehle said. ``he has a strong personality and presence, and brings a wonderful intellectual energy into his work.''
minetti, who now lives in west berlin, was a member of the frankfurt city theater ensemble from 1951 to 1956
critics praise minetti especially for leading roles he played as an older man
the older he gets, the better he is,'' drama critic georg hensel of the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung newspaper said. ``minetti has impressed me most with his performances as king lear, prospero and his work with the playwright thomas bernhard.''
the actor is well known for his performances in works by austrian playwright bernhard, who in 1976 wrote a play entitled ``minetti _ a portrait of the artist as an old man'' in the actor's honor. minetti starred in the poignant story of a lonely old actor and a little girl who visits him
i'm constantly being asked whether i'm the minetti that thomas bernhard created,'' minetti writes in his 1985 memoirs. ``large portions of my life are not represented in bernhard's plays. on the other hand, bernhard gets to the essence of my being as an actor.''
frankfurt's neue presse newspaper has called him west germany's ``grand old actor.''
minetti's professional career began in 1927, when the beleaguered weimar republic was trying to cope with mass unemployment and severe inflation. but in 1933, adolf hitler took power, destroying hopes of a democratic solution
although minetti has worked in many west german cities, he is best known as a berlin actor. he was a member of berlin's prussian state theater from 1930 to 1944, when world war ii forced the theater to close
minetti recalls in his memoirs the day in 1934 when ensemble members gathered to hear gestapo head hermann goering appoint renowned actor gustav gruendgens director of the prussian state theater
herr gruendgens, you have been appointed to make this theater the best one in germany, and, with that, the world,'' minetti quoted goering as saying
minetti devotes several sections of his memoirs to gruendgens, whose experiences working for the nazis were the basis of klaus mann's novel, ``mephisto.'' that novel formed the basis for the 1981 academy award-winning film starring klaus maria brandauer
he (gruendgens) certainly suffered from many things that he couldn't change, politically, mentally and also ethically,'' minetti wrote. ``i often said to myself, `he has a cross to bear.'''
minetti was not a nazi sympathizer, he said. in a chapter called ``questions of conscience'' he writes of the problems artists had trying to get through the period
minetti starred in more than a dozen films during the third reich, but is not primarily thought of as a film actor
today, he occasionally participates in west germany's peace movement
the arms build-up goes against the duty to be humane,'' he said. ``my desire to live and to act is still strong.''
the huge american flag has been replaced with tapestries of adam and eve in the garden of eden. and bruce springsteen has shed his bandana and work boots for the less proletarian look of a boardwalk carny in his first return to the road since 1985
but appearance is the least of the unexpected twists and turns provided by the rock star on his `tunnel of love express tour,'' the 22-city show that opened feb. 25 at the centrum in worcester
it's good to see you again. i missed you,'' springsteen told the opening night crowd of 12,500 midway through a surprising first set that opened with the band as patrons at a boardwalk tunnel of love and springsteen as their host
the opener bore little resemblance to the ``born in the usa'' world tour shows, sharing only length (more than three hours) and intensity with the performances which made springsteen a mega-star
the 38-year-old new jersey rocker, aided by a five-piece horn section and the usual assortment of e streeters, rearranged and restructured virtually every song in the show _ from such springsteen classics as ``born to run'' to such new cuts as ``spare parts.''
after opening with the title cut from his ``tunnel of love'' lp, springsteen _ wearing black jeans, a loose-sleeved white dress shirt and white vest _ befuddled the crowd with an assortment of seldom-heard songs
virtually ignoring his albums ``nebraska,'' ``the river'' and ``darkness on the edge of town,'' the boss and his 12-piece band played an assortment of b-sides, unreleased songs, cover tunes and new material that eventually put the crowd in a frenzy
be true,'' a b-side dating back to 1981, was the second song of the show; another b-side, ``roulette,'' was performed before the hit ``brilliant disguise.''
eight songs from ``tunnel of love'' were featured; in comparison, only two from ``born to run'' surfaced during the show
a pair of new songs were introduced: the rhythm and blues-styled ``i'm a coward when it comes to love'' and a reggae-flavored ``part man, part monkey.'' both were key elements in the second set, which closed with springsteen and company's version of ``light of day'' _ the song he wrote that was performed by joan jett in the paul schraeder film of the same title
a highlight of the second set was a rockabilly tune, ``you can look (but you better not touch),'' with springsteen leading a conga-line of bandmates across the stage while pianist roy bittan pounded out a jerry lee lewis riff
the first encore featured an acoustic reworking of ``born to run'' with springsteen solo on guitar and harmonica, followed by revamped versions of ``hungry hearts'' and ``glory days'' emphasizing the horn section of jersey bar band favorites labamba and the hubcaps
after breaking new ground throughout the first 2{ hours of the show, springsteen returned to old territory for the knockout punch _ killer versions of ``rosalita'' and the mitch ryder ``detroit medley.''
both these former show closers had been discarded during the last tour, which ran from 1984-5; springsteen revived them and added covers of the 1960s classics ``sweet soul music'' and ``shake'' for good measure
i forgot how much work this is,'' a smiling springsteen told the crowd during the final encore. looking out at 25,000 raised hands, he quickly added, ``it's fun, too.''
_ best arrangement on an instrumental: jorge calandrelli, ``any time, any season''; dave grusin, ``the heart is a lonely hunter''; patrick williams, ``jive samba''; michael convertino, ``main title''; bill holman, ``take the `a' train.''
_ best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocal: frank foster, ``deedles' blues'' (from ``diane schuur &amp; the count basie orchestra''); jack walrath, ``i'm so lonesome i could cry'' (from ``master of suspense''; henry mancini, ``it might as well be spring'' (from ``the hollywood musicals''); randy kerber, ``over the rainbow'' (from ``one voice''); van dyke parks and bill ginn, ``a singer must die'' (from ``famous blue raincoat'')
_ best album package (art directors): ron scarselli, ``document''; joe stelmach, ``duke ellington: the webster-blanton band''; bruce licher, ``echelons''; bill johnson, ``king's record shop''; peter barrett, ``shaka zulu.''
_ best album notes: charles k. wolfe, ``the bristol sessions''; peter guralnick, ``the complete sun sessions''; nolan porterfield, ``jimmie rodgers on record: america's blue yodeler''; mark tucker, ``singers and soloists of the swing bands''; orrin keepnews, ``thelonious monk _ the complete riverside recordings.''
_ best historical album (producers): kyle young, ``the bristol sessions''; paul tannen, ``the gershwin collection''; kim cooke and bob porter, ``the otis redding story''; margaret robinson, ``singers and soloists of the swing bands''; orrin keepnews, ``thelonious monk _ the complete riverside recordings.''
_ best engineered recording _ non-classical (engineers): bruce swedien, ``bad''; don murray and keith grant, ``cinemagic''; ben harris, kyle lehning and joe bogen, ``heart and soul''; andrew jackson, ``a momentary lapse of reason''; tom jung, ``neon''; al schmitt, ``reflections.''
_ producer of the year (non-classical): emilio and the jerks; quincy jones and michael jackson; daniel lanois and brian eno; john mellencamp and don gehman; narada michael walden
_ best classical album: edo de waart conducting the san francisco symphony, ``adams: the chairman dances@christian zeal and activity@two fanfares for orchestra@tromba iontana@short ride in a fast machine@common tones in simple time''; sir georg solti conducting the chicago symphony orchestra, ``beethoven: symphony no. 9 in d minor''; robert shaw conducting the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra, ``faure: requiem, op. 48, durufle: requiem, op. 9''; leonard slatkin conducting the st. louis symphony and elmar oliveira, ``hanson: symphony no. 2 (romantic)@ barber: violin concerto''; vladimir horowitz, ``horowitz in moscow.''
_ best orchestral recording: sir georg solti conducting the chicago symphony orchestra, ``beethoven: symphony no. 9 in d minor''; james levine conducting the berlin philharmonic, ``berg, webern, schoenberg: orchestral pieces''; leonard bernstein conducting the new york philharmonic, ``copland: symphony no. 3@quiet city''; leonard slatkin conducting the st. louis symphony, ``hanson: symphony no. 2 (romantic)''; charles dutoit conducting the montreal symphony orchestra, ``holst: the planets.''
_ best opera recording: sir georg solti conducting the vienna philharmonic orchestra and chorus, ``mozart: die entfuhrung aus dem serail''; herbert von karajan conducting the berlin philharmonic orchestra and chorus, ``mozart: don giovanni''; riccardo muti conducting the vienna philharmonic and chorus, ``mozart: the marriage of figaro''; james levine conducting the vienna philharmonic, ``strauss: ariadne auf naxos''; riccardo chailly conducting the orchestra and coro del teatro communale di bologna, ``verdi: macbeth.''
_ best choral performance (other than opera): john eliot gardiner conducting the monteverdi choir and the english baroque soloists, ``bach: st. john passion''; michael tilson thomas conducting the mormon tabernacle choir and utah symphony, ``copland: old american songs; canticle of freedom; four motets''; robert shaw conducting the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra, ``hindemith: when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd (a requiem for those we love''; sir charles mackerras conducting the prague philharmonic chorus and czech philharmonic orchestra, ``janacek: glagolitic mass''; klaus tennstedt conducting the london philharmonic choir and orchestra, ``mahler: symphony no. 8 in e flat''; andre previn conducting the brighton festival chorus and royal philharmonic orchestra, ``tippett: a child of our time.''
_ best classical performance _ instrumental soloist or solists (with orchestra): elmar oliveira (leonard slatkin cond. st. louis symphony), ``barber: violin concerto, op. 14''; murray perahia (bernard haitink cond. concertgebouw orchestra), ``beethoven: piano concerto no. 5 in e flat (emperor)''; wynton marsalis (donald hunsberger cond. eastman wind ensemble), ``carnaval (works by arban, clarke, levy, paganini, rimsky-korsakov, bellstedt''; dale clevenger (franz lizst chamber orchestra), ``mozart: horn concertos no. 1-4, rondo, fragment''; itzhak perlman (james levine cond. vienna philharmonic), ``mozart: violin concertos nos. 2 in d@4 in d.''
_ best classical performance _ instrumental soloist or soloists (without orchestra): andras schiff, piano, ``bach: the well-tempered clavier, book 2''; murray perahia, ``beethoven: piano sonatas no. 17, op. 31@18, op. 31@26, op. 81a''; vladimir horowitz, piano, ``horowitz in moscow''; itzhak perlman, violin (samuel sanders, accomp.), ``kreisler: my favorite kreisler''; peter serkin, piano, ``stravinsky: wolpe: lieberson (stravinsky: serenade in a &amp; sonata@wolpe: form iv: broken sequences, pastorale, passacaglia@lieberson: bagatelles)
_ best chamber music performance (instrumental or vocal): itzhak perlman, lynn harrell &amp; vladimir ashkenazy, ``beethoven: the complete piano trios''; murray perahia &amp; members of the amadeus quartet, ``brahms: piano quartet no. 1 in g minor''; beaux arts trio, ``dvorak: piano trio in e minor (dumky)@ mendelssohn: piano trio in d minor''; jean-pierre rampal, isaac stern, salvatore accardo, mstislav rostropovich, ``mozart: the flute quartets (k. 285, 285a, 285b, 298)''; kronos quartet, ``white man sleeps (music by volans, ives, hassell, coleman, johnston, bartok).''
_ best classical vocal soloist performance: marni nixon (keith clark cond. members of the pacific symphony orchestra), ``copland: eight poems of emily dickinson''; kathleen battle (james levine, accomp.), ``kathleen battle _ salzburg recital (faure, handel, mendelssohn, mozart, purcell, strauss, spirituals)''; elly ameling (rudolf jansen, accomp.), ``soiree francaise (debussy, faure, poulenc, franck, canteloube, roussel, chausson, messiaen, etc.)''; jessye norman (geoffrey parson, accomp.), ``(r.) strauss: lieder including `malven'''; arleen augur (the yale cellos of aldo parisot), ``villa-lobos: bachianas brasileiras no. 5 (for soprano &amp; orchestra of violincellos).''
_ best contemporary composition: john adams, ``adams: the chairman dances''; milton babbit, ``babbit: piano concerto''; krzysztof penderecki, ``penderecki: cello concerto no. 2''; joseph schwantner, ``schwantner: a sudden rainbow''; roger sessions, ``sessions: symphony no. 5''; michael tippitt, ``tippitt: the mask of time.''
_ best engineered recording, classical: beethoven: symphony no. 9 in d minor (sir georg solti cond. chicago symphony orchestra; solos), john pellowe, engineer; faure: requiem, op. 48@durufle: requiem, op. 9 (robert shaw cond. atlanta symphony orchestra &amp; chorus; solos), jack renner, engineer; hindemith: when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd (a requeim for those we love) (robert shaw cond. atlanta symphony orchestra & chorus; solos), jack renner, engineer; horowitz in moscow (vladimir horowitz), thomas frost, engineer; tchaikovsky: 1812 overture@romeo &amp; juliet@the nutcracker suite (sir georg solti cond. chicago symphony orchestra), john pellowe, engineer
_ classical producer of the year: steven epstein; thomas frost; michael haas; jay david saks; robert woods
the u.s. economy expanded at a 4.5 percent annual rate from october through december, the fastest pace in almost two years, the government said
the growth in the gross national product was revised thursday up from an original estimate of 4.2 percent made a month ago
three-fourths of the growth last quarter came from a buildup of business inventories which was occurring at the same time that consumer spending was plunging 3.1 percent
getty petroleum corp. has joined the brewing contest over texaco inc., announcing it has bought $14 million worth of texaco stock and is seeking to acquire more
getty petroleum, which sprang from texaco's 1984 takeover of getty oil co., said thursday it would ask the federal trade commission to let it buy more than $15 million of texaco's stock
takeover strategist carl c. icahn, texaco's biggest shareholder, is attempting to win five seats on the company's board of directors. fellow takeover artist t. boone pickens has disclosed plans to acquire a major texaco stake and says he supports icahn's move
afg industries inc., which has made unsuccessful bids for two other companies in recent years, has agreed to be taken private by its chairman in a $940.5 million plan
the board of afg, one of north america's leading glassmakers, said thursday it had signed a definitive agreement to support clarity holdings corp. offer to pay $33 a share for 94 percent of its common shares, or $883.4 million
clarity, headed by afg founder r.d. hubbard, would acquire the rest of the stock for $33 a share in preferred stock or a combination of cash and stock for a total of about $57.1 million
campeau corp. has increased its hostile tender offer for federated department stores inc. to $66 a share from $61, and said it would consider sweetening the bid again if necessary
the move thursday by campeau _ which previously had offered $66 a share, about $5.84 billion, only as part of a negotiated merger agreement _ came as federated's board of directors met to consider campeau's offers and its own takeover alternatives
usg corp. is keeping quiet about a texas partnership's $1.96 billion takeover offer for the nation's largest producer of gypsum
at this time, we have nothing to say on any aspect of this,'' paul colitti, a spokesman for chicago-based usg, said thursday
the group led by oilmen cyril wagner jr. and jack e. brown said wednesday it would pay $42 a share in cash for at least 21.5 million common shares, or less than half the total shares outstanding. the group said it would exchange securities for the rest of the stock
northwest airlines and flight attendants were bargaining to avert a weekend strike, but a union representing the workers said a walkout appeared likely
there's a 100 percent chance of a strike,'' william genoese, director of the international brotherhood of teamsters airline division, said thursday. ``as far as i'm concerned we're on a collision course with northwest airlines to strike.''
flight attendants were preparing to strike at midnight tonight if an agreement wasn't reached
chrysler corp.'s possible sale of its parts-making division prompted demonstrations outside corporate headquarters by hundreds of angry workers shouting for a strike
you do whatever you need to do _ and you know what to do,'' united auto workers union vice president marc stepp told more than 1,000 workers who marched thursday in windy, 20-degree weather for more than two hours
chrysler says it is considering selling its 28,000-worker, $1 billion acustar inc. parts-making subsidiary. stepp said the sale threatens the job security of all chrysler workers
the railroad industry is riddled with workers who drink large amounts of beer or use marijuana and other drugs on the job, according to two conrail crewmen involved in last year's fatal amtrak crash
engineer ricky l. gates told a senate committee thursday that he believed 10 percent or 20 percent of rail workers drink or use drugs on duty. brakeman edward w. cromwell guessed the figure was more like 40 percent or 50 percent
the two men told the senate commerce committee that when they began their railroad careers 14 years ago, up to 80 percent of their fellow employees used drugs or alcohol during working hours
bank of new york co. has tightened the noose around irving bank corp., winning government approval to proceed with its $1.08 billion hostile bid and moving to oust the rival's directors if they don't capitulate
the federal reserve board and new york state banking board concluded thursday that a shotgun marriage of the two large new york banks wouldn't hurt competition in the nation's biggest financial center
the approvals were significant because they could signal more hostile takeover attempts of banks, which have been rare
the federal communications commission has signaled to foreign governments that the united states remains concerned about markets that have been closed or severely limited to u.s. telecommunications manufacturers
the fcc stopped short thursday of taking action that would reciprocally exclude or limit foreign-owned companies from participating in the u.s. market
however, chairman dennis r. patrick said such measures ``are still very much open, very much alive'' at the commission
the british government said it would proceed with the huge privatization of the state-owned electricity industry of england and wales, which is expected to raise $47.5 billion
the complicated sale, which the cabinet approved thursday, is expected to take two or three years and would be the biggest of the government's privatizations since prime minister margaret thatcher came to power in 1979
stock prices fell thursday as an afternoon selling wave wiped out strong early gains. the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up about 27 points at its midsession high, closed down 22.38 at 2,017.57
the dollar was mixed in narrow trading. gold prices edged higher in new york after falling sharply in europe
bond prices fell after a volatile session
coffee futures prices fell sharply, reversing a five-month trend on speculation that a tight supply situation may soon ease
crude oil prices have dipped below $16 for the first time since december, reflecting worries about overproduction and higher inventories
on the new york mercantile exchange thursday, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, closed at $15.92 per 42-gallon barrel, down 54 cents from wednesday
it was the first time the near-month crude contract closed below $16 since dec. 21, when it settled at $15.16
among march contracts for refined products, wholesale heating oil closed at 45.22 cents a gallon, down 1.18 cents from wednesday, while unleaded gasoline settled at 45.37 cents per gallon, 0.98 cent lower
analysts said technical factors and a report showing larger-than-expected u.s. inventories helped to send prices lower thursday
the catalyst of the decline was a federal energy information administration report, issued wednesday night, that showed u.s. crude inventories up by 8.5 million barrels last week, said william byers, an analyst at bear, stearns &amp; co
that figure, much greater than the 1.88 million-barrel increase reported tuesday by the american petroleum institute, a washington-based trade organization, shook the market, which was already edgy over continuing reports of growing production and inventories
the market's confidence was shaken further when the near-month crude contract broke below $16.37 in early trading. that had been viewed as an important support level on the, they said
declining prices on the london oil market overnight also contributed to the tone of thursday's market in new york, said donald morton, vice president for energy futures at the boston office of prudential-bache securities, inc
psychology in the market was already very weak, very negative,'' he said. ``so it gave ground and just broke. it seemed like everyone lined up on the sell side all day long.''
but behind the recent trend lay one underlying cause, he said: ``there weren't any new rumors. there weren't any new reasons. there weren't any new excuses. it was the same old reason: oversupply.''
three years ago today, american tourists were flaunting dollars in paris and tokyo while bargain-priced west german cars rolled off arriving cargo ships
feb. 26, 1985, marked the dollar's highest point of the 1980s _ a level that economists say will probably never be seen again
the strong dollar made americans rich in the eyes of the world, but contributed to a huge trade deficit and damage to american industries unable to compete with a flood of inexpensive imports
since then the dollar has lost roughly half its value against the currencies of japan, west germany and some other trading partners
against the japanese yen, for example, the dollar has fallen from a little more than 260 yen to a little less than 130
the dollar has fallen less against the currencies of canada, south korea and taiwan, though, and is actually stronger now against the currencies of mexico and brazil
the cheaper dollar has brought about an export boom and the trade deficit has begun to shrink, although more slowly than almost anyone had predicted
meanwhile, the dollar has flattened out in recent months, pinched between speculators who expect it to rebound and others who say it has further to drop
the dollar's stability makes for boredom at the banks and securities firms that specialize in trading currencies, where volatility is crucial to lock in profits
this week has been about the deadest it's been,'' james hohorst, managing director for foreign exchange at manufacturers hanover trust co., said thursday
currency traders are confident that the action will pick up, though, because governments can't agree on the coordination of economic policies that would allow for stable exchange rates
hohorst, 33, recalls once worrying about whether to commit his life to trading currencies because of the danger that governments would agree on fixed exchange rates
but then i realized fixed exchange rates would depend on responsible governments,'' he said. ``so i stopped worrying about it.''
car bombs, corporate spies, hijackings everywhere: the headlines are enough to make a millionaire shake in his guccis
they're also causing ceos, sheiks and stars from kenny rogers to michael jackson to seek out a host of high-tech security devices that would turn 007's head
are you bugged?'' asks the poster at the front desk of ccs communication control inc., where specialties include briefcases stuffed with telephone scramblers, wiretap detectors and ``bug alerts'' disguised as watches
the shah of iran once hired the company to build a limousine with an ``armageddon device'' to explode unless disarmed, a pop-out motorcycle in the trunk and other james bond-like features
the makers of ``miami vice'' have rented night-vision scopes, debuggers and long-distance microphones and occasionally call up to consult for the sake of realism, said tom salway, head of the ccs beverly hills office
salway is reluctant to discuss celebrity purchases in detail, but he outlines a few: singer kenny rogers stopped by for a bulletproof briefcase, actor roddy mcdowall bought a disguised tape-recording system and representatives of superstar eccentric michael jackson often drop in
they're always checking up on what's available,'' he said
when the company began nearly two decades ago, it sold only a few wiretap and hidden microphone detectors. now about 300 products are offered, salway said
among the items available for heads of state and corporations, security forces, private eyes, gadget-lovers and the merely paranoid:
_``supercars'' that spew tear gas and oil slicks. occupants breathe bottled oxygen, fire weapons through portholes in armor, and navigate through smoke and the dark with an infrared system
_letter bomb detectors, in case enemies use the mail
_more than a dozen bullet-resistant vests, shirts, coats and jackets. sales soared after recent reports of random freeway shootings, salway said
_video cameras disguised in books, bamboo stalks and clocks
_a voice ``microtremor'' detector advertised as a portable lie detector that ``can help determine ... if your friends are really your friends.''
salway said insurance companies use it to help determine if claimed losses are real
producers for entertainer joan rivers' talk show approached ccs about using the tremor detector to catch guests in lies, but she was replaced as permanent host of the fox broadcasting co. show last may before she could
it would have been so much fun,'' miss rivers said recently. ``it would have been the kind of thing i do.''
but most seek out high-tech security for deadly serious reasons
probably there's been more corporate interest in anti-terrorism in the last year or two than there has been in the 25 years i have been in the business,'' said philip w. little, president of west coast detectives
little, a former sheriff's deputy who opened his own private-eye business in 1971 and bought west coast detectives in 1977, says west coast doubled in size in 1986 and grew substantially in 1987. ``and it's all related to anti-terrorism.''
he tells stars and chief executive officers that terrorist groups have moved from the mideast and europe to latin america, and the united states is the next stop
little said clients include ``television and movie studios, oil, finance, electronics, aerospace, every manufacturing concern you can imagine.''
west coast detective's anti-terrorist division tries to do for private companies and people what the secret service does for the president, little said. many clients are americans traveling abroad
in southern california, protecting the homes of high-profile business people and entertainers, especially those with children, is a major part of the business
they have such a high profile that they feel they must take action _ they know you or anyone can find out where they are if you want to,'' little said
infrared cameras that see in the dark, alarms throughout the house, and ``panic buttons'' in the bedroom are part of a typical setup. perimeters of celebrity properties typically have visible but well-dressed guards
very professional, an executive look,'' little said. ``so you don't create fear in the minds of children or a wife _ you don't want to so overdo the threat that you create paranoia.''
little and salway said many corporate chiefs are worried more by devious employees or snoopers from the competition or the government than by terrorism
bug-detector business boomed after the arrest of stock speculator ivan boesky in the wall street insider trading scandal and reports that boesky, cooperating with investigators, had allowed his business conversations to be recorded, salway said
bank of new york co. has tightened the noose around irving bank corp., winning government approval to proceed with its $1.08 billion hostile bid and moving to oust the rival's directors if they don't capitulate
the federal reserve board and new york state banking board concluded thursday that a shotgun marriage of the two large new york banks wouldn't hurt competition in the nation's biggest financial center
the approvals were significant because they could signal more hostile takeover attempts of banks, which have been rare
irving officials could not be reached thursday night, but earlier they vowed to fight the takeover regardless of the government's decision. though irving's defenses have shrunk, the battle is expected to intensify
after a meeting that lasted well into thursday night, the fed's governors unanimously sanctioned the bank of new york's takeover attempt in a 58-page order
while noting the difference between friendly and hostile takeovers, the central bank said federal law ``does not draw any distinction between acquisitions that are agreed to between the parties and those where, as here, there is no agreement.''
as a condition, however, the fed requested the bank of new york to finance the $264 million cash portion of the proposed takeover by selling additional stock, partly because of concerns that such a depletion of capital would weaken it financially
bank of new york executives, who have been maneuvering to acquire irving for months, expressed delight with the fed's approval and said they were confident the condition could be met
we intend to proceed with our offer as expeditiously as possible,'' said owen brady, a bank of new york spokesman. ``we again invite the board of directors of irving to reconsider their position, sit down and talk to us, and discuss ways in which the transaction can be concluded on a negotiated basis.''
the bank of new york also said that as an irving shareholder with an approximate 4.83 percent stake, it would nominate 16 people for election to irving's board at the annual shareholders meeting april 21. the move was seen as another strategy to pressure irving into agreeing to a takeover
earlier thursday, the bank of new york won approval from the state banking board, which regulates many of the nation's biggest banks
jill m. considine, board superintendent, said a combination of the two banks met all state requirements, wouldn't hurt competition and would benefit the public with a wider range of services
such a merger would create the nation's 12th largest bank holding company, with assets totaling around $41.7 billion
despite bank of new york's successes thursday, analysts said it still faced a battle for control of irving
there's no reason to think they could strike a deal with bank of new york. chances are slim,'' said rosemarie conforte, a banking analyst with moody's investors service. ``their goal is to remain independent or maybe combine with somebody else they feel makes more sense, although i don't know who that is.''
shareholders of both banks would have to approve the merger, and bank of new york shareholders might react unhappily at the prospect of an additional stock issue that could dilute the value of their holdings
in composite new york stock exchange trading thursday, irving stock jumped $3 a share to $53.50. bank of new york fell 12{ cents to $29.50
in an effort to bolster its takeover defenses and place stock in friendly hands, irving announced tuesday that 15 investors were issued $100.1 million worth of cumulative convertible preferred stock, which have expanded voting rights and other entitlements that could foil a hostile bid
earlier this month, irving's board rejected as inadequate bank of new york's revised offer to pay $15 in cash and 1.575 shares of its own stock for each of irving's roughly 18.1 million common shares outstanding. that amounts to about $60 per share, or $1.08 billion
bank of new york initially offered to pay $80 in cash and securities for irving last september. it reduced the offer twice after the october stock market crash
gasoline retailer getty petroleum corp., cousin of a texaco inc. takeover four years ago that later would bring texaco to its knees, has now joined the contest for buying chunks of the troubled oil giant
getty announced thursday that it has bought $14 million worth of texaco shares and is seeking government permission to acquire more
the jericho, n.y.-based company, born of texaco's 1984 takeover of getty oil co., said it would ask the federal trade commission to let it buy more than $15 million of texaco's stock, in accordance with government regulations
getty is the third party holding _ or in the process of lining up _ a large block of texaco stock. but analysts said getty was not large enough to harbor any notions of swallowing texaco
rosario ilacqua, an industry analyst at nikko securities co. international inc., said ``$15 million is peanuts'' when it takes $42 million to buy roughtly 1 million of texaco's 243 million shares
he suggested getty might be hoping to make money on its stock, or perhaps negotiate its holding into some texaco assets in the future _ either with the company or some other party or parties
george friesen, who watches oil companies for the dean witter reynolds inc. securities firm, also held that view
i suspect we'll have a number of smaller predators circling the prey and relying on the bigger predators to do the job for them,'' he said. ``i can't imagine getty becoming a big player.''
last friday, t. boone pickens, a takeover strategist who controls mesa limited partnership, an oil and gas concern, also expressed interest in buying texaco shares. he joined fellow raider carl c. icahn, texaco's biggest shareholder
getty spokesman stephen salzman said that his company had not been in contact with either icahn or pickens and was unwilling to say if it would join icahn's effort to gain a greater voice in running texaco
in late trading on the new york stock exchange thursday, texaco stock stood at at $42.87{ per share, up 62{ cents
we believe that texaco is an excellent company which is substantially undervalued,'' leo leibowitz, getty's president, said in a statement. ``we are purchasing shares of texaco for investment purchases at this time.''
getty is one of the nation's largest independent marketers of gasoline and refined products, doing business in 11 states in the northeast and mid-atlantic regions. getty was known as power test corp. until january 1985, when it acquired getty oil's retail operation and the getty name
getty's interest in texaco coincides with texaco's effort to exit the refuge of federal bankruptcy court, sought nearly a year ago because of a $10.53 billion judgment held against it by pennzoil co
the judgment stemmed from a houston jury's ruling that texaco had illegally interfered with move by pennzoil to acquire getty oil and bought getty itself
in december, texaco agreed to pay pennzoil $3 billion in cash to settle the dispute as part of an overall plan to reorganize and emerge from bankruptcy
shareholders are voting whether to approve that plan, with the results due to be announced at a march 22 hearing in u.s. bankruptcy court in white plains, n.y., texaco's corporate home
the judge who heard the pennzoil-texaco case is listed in an attorney's directory as having a law degree, but the judge only has an undergraduate degree
solomon casseb jr., 72, a prominent san antonio attorney, garnered national renown after presiding over the controversial $10.53 billion judgment that a houston jury ordered texaco to pay pennzoil in 1985, the biggest civil damage award in history
casseb does not have a law degree, although the authoritative 102-year-old martindale-hubbell law directory lists casseb as having a law degree from the university of texas
it is legal to practice law or sit on the bench in texas without having a law degree because during an earlier era it was possible to pass the texas bar exam and become a licensed atorney without having graduated law school
larry fitzgerald, a spokesman for the state bar of texas, said that casseb was a member in good standing
we have absolutely no reason at all to say anything is wrong at this point,'' fitzgerald said. ``as far as state bar of texas is concerned, the man is a licensed attorney, passed the law exam and never had a grievance against him.''
richard pizzi, a spokesman for martindale-hubbell, said thursday that the company has two casseb application forms on microfiche, one from 1938 and the other from 1974. the original application forms for inclusion in the directory were destroyed years ago, pizzi said
pizzi said the 1974 application form is illegible, but the 1938 form listed casseb as receiving a bachelor of arts degree from st. mary's in 1936 and a ``bachelor of law'' degree from ut in 1938
the application has casseb's name typed in the signature line, but it is not signed, pizzi said
we don't require a signature and we don't require a certification. we rely on the representation of the attorney,'' pizzi said. ``about the law degree, i don't know if he said it, but whoever filled in the form said it.''
records show that casseb attended st. mary's university in san antonio as an undergraduate pre-law student from 1932 to 1935, said registrar spokeswoman helen garza
casseb then went to the university of texas at austin law school for three years, but did not receive a degree, dean susana aleman said
instead, casseb applied his law school credit to his bachelor of arts degree, which he received from st. mary's in 1938
casseb was hearing a civil case in laredo on thursday and did not return telephone calls to the associated press. attorneys for texaco and pennzoil also did not return calls
the united auto workers union is stepping up pressure aimed at discouraging chrysler corp. from selling its $1 billion acustar inc. parts-making arm
more than 1,000 angry workers gathered outside chrysler headquarters in below-freezing temperatures thursday chanting ``strike! strike!'' to protest the proposed sale of the 28,000-worker subsidiary, which represents nearly a fifth of chrysler's worldwide operations
you do whatever you need to do _ and you know what to do,'' uaw vice president marc stepp told the demonstrators, which followed a special meeting of the 140-delegate chrysler bargaining council representing the company's 49 uaw locals
although the union can't legally call a national strike against chrysler over acustar, stepp said he will give local uaw unions permission to strike on a plant-by-plant basis over unresolved issues such as health-and-safety grievances
a series of local strikes at key chrysler plants could shut down the company nationwide just as easily
at least seven chrysler locals have voted to seek strike authorization and one, a key 4,000-worker stamping plant in sterling heights, should receive authorization as early as next week, stepp predicted
acustar, which has plants in mexico and canada as well as the united states, represents nearly a fifth of chrysler's worldwide operations, already the leanest among the big three u.s. automakers
chrysler has said it may sell acustar because it doesn't want to invest in the research needed to upgrade some operations. chrysler already buys 70 percent of its parts elsewhere
the potential sale of acustar would generate funds for future investments but the primary reason we would sell acustar is because, long-term, we want to concentrate our resources on new product and powertrains rather than components,'' the company said in a statement
acustar's best chance to progress may be to operate as an independent company free to pursue business opportunities beyond chrysler,'' the statement said
workers say they are angry at the possible sale because they made concessions and helped chairman lee iacocca win loan guarantees from the federal government to rescue the company from the verge of bankruptcy at the beginning of the decade
four u.s. congressional bank investigators cut short a trip to switzerland after being warned that some of their alleged activity could constitute economic espionage, swiss authorities said friday
switzerland had allowed the staffers from the house committee on energy and commerce to hold talks earlier this month with authorities and banks about swiss rules on judicial assistance and insider trading probes, foreign ministry official alexei lautenberg said
the visit followed signing of a swiss-u.s. agreement designed to speed up cooperation in such cases last november. the committee oversees the u.s. securities and exchange commission
several days into the visit, a geneva bank alerted swiss authorities that the u.s. investigators allegedly overstepped their mandate, demanding details on a possible swiss link to a major insider trading case involving wall street dealer dennis levine, lautenberg said
he said authorities warned the congress staffers about swiss laws on economic espionage and banking secrecy and told them a swiss official would accompany them for their remaining interviews. thereupon the u.s. investigators left abruptly
switzerland's ambassador in washington, klaus jacobi, meanwhile has tried to smooth the affair in talks with rep. john dingell, a michigan democrat who heads the committee
bern and washington had lengthy diplomatic rows over exchange of information in the dennis levine case and another u.s. probe in the early 1980s involving marc rich, a commodities trader now based in switzerland
consumer prices in the 12 nations of the european economic community edged up on average 0.2 percent in january from december and 3 percent from the year-earlier month, the eec statistical office eurostat reported friday
the eec's year-to-year inflation rate of 3 percent in january compares with 3.2 percent in december
eurostat said the steepest price increases were recorded in italy (0.5 percent), denmark (0.5 percent), spain (0.6 percent) and portugal (1 percent)
west germany, france and luxembourg reported moderate increases of 0.2 percent or less, while prices in britain remained unchanged
according to eurostat, january prices declined in three countries, including the netherlands (0.8 percent), belgium (0.1 percent) and greece (0.2 percent)
the eec price index weighs the proportion of each country in the total consumption, and does not necessarily coincide with inflation figures from individual member states
consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in january as the year began with a moderate dose of inflation, the government reported today. higher grocery prices partially offset declines in energy costs
the increase in the labor department's consumer price index was equivalant to an annual rate of inflation of 4.2 percent, compared to the 4.4 percent rise for all of 1987
last month's increase was larger than the 0.2 percent rise in december and matched november's 0.3 percent rise. december's increase was revised from the previously reported 0.1 percent
pacing the january increase were widespread gains across a range of goods and services. energy prices, however, supplied a major dampening on the overall rate by plunging 0.7 percent after a 0.8 percent drop in the preceding month
gasoline prices fell 1.6 percent; heating oil costs were down 0.8 percent. the price of natural gas and electricity, combined, fell 0.3 percent
food prices rose 0.3 percent, down from december's 0.6 percent gain. pacing last month's rise were jumps in prices for poultry, eggs and bakery products. meat, fruit and vegetable prices declined
subtracting the usually volative food and energy categories, consumer prices for all other goods and services rose a sharp 0.5 percent in january after a 0.2 percent increase in december
january's report underscored forecasts by many analysts that any significant change in the inflation rate was unlikely this year
the underlying rate of inflation looks to be 3 percent to 4 percent,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston company economic advisers. ``the question mark is on the energy price side.''
the reagan administration has predicted an inflation rate of 4.3 percent this year
energy prices, which tumbled in 1986, partially rebounded through 1987. but more recently oil prices again have been falling, recently dipping below $17-a-barrel on the spot market from the $18-a-barrel prices that prevailed in december and from prices of around $19 a barrel in november
while petroleum prices have fallen recently, anlaysts also said they expected to see a rise in natural gas costs
energy prices may continue to soften through late spring, providing continuing offsets to food prices, which are expected to remain on an upward path,'' said donald ratajczak, a georgia state university economist who specializes in prices
supply shortages and weather and crop infestation problems, particularly in california and arizona, have pushed up food prices in recent months. after climbing through the fall, fruit and vegetable prices fell 0.4 percent last month
beef prices were down 1.4 percent while pork priced declined 0.5 percent. poultry prices, however, climbed 1.0 percent, their first increase since august. cereal and bakery product prices rose 1.1 percent
overall, grocery prices were up 0.2 percent while restaurant meal costs climbed 0.3 percent
the labor department gave these other specifics of january price behavior
_new automobile prices were down 0.2 percent; used automobile prices fell 0.1 percent
_housing expenses were up 0.4 percent
_apparel costs gained 0.1 percent
_medical care expenses rose 0.8 percent, its largest increase in two years
_entertainment costs gained 0.9 percent
january's increase left the cpi at 115.7, meaning that a selection of goods and services that cost $100 during a 1982-84 base period cost would have $115.70 last month
the department recently abandoned a 1967 base period in favor of the 1982 standard. under that base period, a selection of goods and services costing $100 in that year would have cost $346.70 last month
using either base number, the gain from january 1986 would have been $1.56
the overall index is not adjusted for seasonal variations; other figures in the report are
the major source of inflation in the months ahead likely is to come from higher import prices resulting from declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar
the dollar is now worth only half of its 1985-value against japanese and key european currencies. these exchange rate changes have begun to show up in the form of higher import prices for a wide variety of goods. at the same time, u.s. items are becoming less expensive abroad
the weaker dollar is expected to help trim the nation's huge trade deficit, although higher priced foreign goods might be the price americans will have to pay for more trade balance
still, ``there is too much slack in the u.s. economy and too much slack in the world economy'' to worry about steep inflation as a result of higher import prices, said jay goldinger, chief economist for capital insight, a los angeles bond brokerage
many economists say this slackness is illustrated by a recent slowdown in consumer spending _ a slowdown that will keep inflationary pressures at a minimum. consumer spending dropped 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1987, the steepest plunge in more than seven years, the commerce department reported on thursday
while most private economists deem a major bout of new inflation unlikely, federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan suggested earlier this week that chances of a resurging inflation and of a recession are now roughly equal
the companion producer price index, which only includes domestically produced items and does not cover imports or services, showed a 0.4 percent rise in wholesale prices in january
a ``broad-scale consumption tax of some sort'' may be the best medicine for the nation's economic woes, former federal reserve board head paul volcker says
i don't think we are approaching doomsday,'' he said, speaking thursday before a seminar held by the national association of industrial and office parks. ``i do not think we face inevitable recession or inevitable inflation or a combination of the two.''
i think we are in control of our destiny, but i don't think we can take the future for granted,'' he said
new york stock traders blamed volcker's remarks for helping kill a morning stock rally thursday, although he has publicly advocated tax increases before
to alleviate the nation's trade deficit, foreign debts and declining dollar, volcker said, ``we need to start with the federal budget deficit.''
i think there's some amount of wishful thinking about the budget deficit,'' he said. ``i'd like to think we can solve it all by a little spending restraint, but i don't think that's possible
certain elements of spending are going to increase, and you know it,'' he said
a combination of spending cuts and tax increases are needed to cure the deficit, he said
the newly reformed income tax structure should be left alone and ``given a chance to work,'' volcker said. instead, he recommended a ``consumption tax'' to raise revenue
as an example, volcker cited ``a very sizeable increase in the gasoline tax, which by world standards is relatively low. is it really so impossible to add 10 or 15 cents to the gasoline tax?''
i do not think this problem is insoluble,'' volcker said of the budget deficit. ``i think it's quite readily soluble.''
at a press conference after his speech, volcker said the ``political pressure'' of this year's presidential campaign is discouraging a meaningful discussion on the nation's large budget and trade deficits
the tendency in democracies is to wait for a crisis,'' volcker said in his speech. ``it is terribly important that we put a sense of reality in this situation and ... get this issue before the american public in a way that the political campaign does not undermine.''
both the federal government and american businesses must wean themselves away from their dependence on foreign capital, volcker said
people are not going to lend us money indefinitely to finance the deficit,'' he said
the european economic community said friday it has authorized spain to cut the imports of japanese cars and trucks to 2,000 units through much of this year
the eec executive commission, which granted the authorization, said the move was needed to protect spain's fledgling car industry from non-community imports coming largely from japan
citing spanish figures, the commission said car and truck imports to spain rose to nearly 400,000 units in 1987 from 70,190 in 1985, an increase of over 435 percent. of the 1987 total, 11,582 cars and trucks were imported from non-community countries
in spain, the share of domestically produced cars fell to 64.8 percent from 89.4 percent over the same three-year perid, the commission said
separately, willy de clercq, the top eec trade official, said the commission wants to conclude an agreement with japan to hold imports, mainly cars, to around 10 percent of the community market
he said in a speech to french businessmen in lille thursday that japan sold 1.18 million cars in the eec last year. this represents about 11 percent of the european car market
de clercq said the arrangements would be ``transitional'' to give the community's car industry time to restructure
the commission has been under pressure from automakers to impose eec-wide limits on japanese car sales following a surge in the imports in the first five months of 1987
the eec car industry has also expressed fear that the community's plan to abolish all internal borders and create one integrated market by 1992 will lead to a flood of japanese imports
japanese car imports are currently subject to a variety of national rules ranging from no restrictions in west germany to strict numerical limitations in italy and spain
any national curbs, however, must be approved by the eec commission
in his speech, de clercq urged japan to open its market to european car exports in order to boost europeans' market share to 5 percent from its current level of 2.7 percent
he said eec car makers sold 87,000 vehicles in japan last year
a commission official, who declined to be identified, said there are no negotiations under way at present on limiting car imports. ``there are continuing contacts, however,'' the official said
now that more and more people are investing on an international scale, many wall streeters these days are teaching themselves to think in foreign currencies
the exercise is relatively simple, nothing like having to learn a whole new language. and it seems a logical way to try to understand what has motivated foreign investors operating in this country in the recent past, and what they might do in the future
the dollar, of course, has taken a drastic drop since the mid-1980s against important foreign currencies
in early 1985, a dollar could be exchanged for more than 250 japanese yen. recently, it was worth about 129 yen. similarly, the exchange rate has fallen from more than 3 west german marks per dollar to about 1.7
to understand the kind of impact such wide swings can have on financial decisions and distort the way they are perceived, burton siegel, chief investment officer at drexel burnham lambert inc., speaks of the ``dave righetti effect.''
as followers of the sports pages know, righetti is a standout pitcher for the new york yankees who was offered, and decided not to accept, a deal to play in japan under a two-year contract that would pay him something on the order of $10 million
even in these days of boxcar-number sports salaries, the figure was regarded as mindboggling
but as siegel points out: ``in currency-adjusted terms, the offer was handsome, but not quite as expensive to the japanese as it first appears. indeed, when adjusted for the yen-dollar relationship, the proposal was in line with salaries being paid to top players in the united states
the same analyses can be applied to recent auctions of fine art in which japanese and euopean collectors-investors bid up dollar prices.''
what does all this mean for other businesses and the stock and bond markets?
if the dollar is going to keep dropping in foreign exchange, it would be a negative for foreign investors, reducing or eliminating the return they realize from investments denominated in dollars
but if the dollar is perceived as fundamentally cheap, the story could well be very different
says siegel: ``foreign corporations may be especially attracted to the opportunity to acquire existing u.s.-based operating assets. this avoids the delay of starting from scratch and can sometimes be done at lower cost
this may be especially appealing to foreign companies interested in handling u.s.-produced goods through their own international distribution systems
foreign companies anxious to increase or maintain their market share in the u.s. may also be attracted to the ability to produce in the now cost-competitive u.s.''
thinking in yen or marks yields another interesting point: when stated in those currencies, standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index is now substantially below where it stood at the beginning of 1985
thus, from a foreign investors' viewpoint, wall street has been experiencing a bear market for more than three years
there is a danger in carrying this kind of analysis too far. to illustrate that, greg smith, an analyst at prudential-bache securities, recently suggested a remedy if a friend or relative remarks that you seem to have put on weight lately: ``tell them that in yen, you have actually lost five pounds.''
the stock market edged upward today, steadying after thursday's late selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 3.65 to 2,021.22 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 602 up, 459 down and 432 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 25.32 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed for into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little evidence impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1} to 64~ on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .30 to 147.60. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .05 at 283.34
on thursday the dow jones industrial average, up about 27 points at its midsession high, closed with a 22.38 loss at 2,017.57
declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 8 to 7 on the nyse, with 689 up, 802 down and 473 unchanged. big board volume totaled 213.49 million shares, against 212.73 million in the previous session
new sales of life insurance increased 11 percent in 1987 to $11 billion, representing an improvement over 1986 but short of the other gains in the early 1980s, an industry group said
the life insurance marketing and research association, based here, said thursday that $9.8 billion in new life insurance policies were purchased in 1986
by contrast, new sales of life insurance grew 25 percent in 1983 and 15 percent in 1985, according to the trade assication, with 596 member companies around the world
1987 was a challenging year for sure, but the industry as a whole maintained a strong, steady growth pattern despite tremendous economic uncertainty,'' said ronald a. bishop, the association's chairman and vice chairman of national life insurance co. in montpelier, vt
the premium figures include only 10 percent of the money paid for single-premium life insurance, which is bought with a large lump sum, often $20,000 of more
the association says that to include the total amounts paid for those products, which are relatively new, would skew the statistics
the stock market declined slightly today in a subdued atmosphere after thursday's late selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 22.38 points thursday, dropped another 3.15 to 2,014.42 by 11 a.m. today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 557 up, 648 down and 510 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 55.75 million shares at midmorning
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1| to 64} on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .01 to 147.29. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .55 at 283.84. and personal income. picks up 3rd graf pvs bgng, the dow jones ...</note>
consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in january, matching 0.3 percent increases in american's personal incomes and consumer spending for the same month, the government reported today
the rise in the labor department's consumer price index was larger than the 0.2 percent rise in december and matched november's 0.3 percent rise. the gain in december was revised from the previously reported 0.1 percent
pacing the january increase in consumer prices were widespread gains across a range of goods and services, including a 0.3 percent gain in food prices
energy prices, however, fell 0.7 percent after a 0.8 percent drop in the preceding month, the report said
the overall increase in january prices was equivalent to an annual rate of inflation of 4.2 percent, compared with the 4.4 percent rise for all of 1987
the january gains reported by the commerce department in personal income and consumer spending were less than half the gains posted in december
the department said the 0.3 percent seasonally adjusted increase in incomes followed a 0.7 percent rise in december and was the slowest income gain since a 0.4 percent decline in november
the 0.3 percent rise in spending represented a slowdown from a 0.7 percent december advance. spending had risen 0.5 percent in november after falling 0.7 percent in october, reflecting a decline in auto purchases that month
the reports came a day after the government reported that economic expansion at the end of 1987 reached the fastest level in almost two years
the commerce department's announcement thursday that the economy grew at a 4.5 percent annual rate in the last three months of last year initially rallied wall street but stocks later fell sharply. bond prices and the dollar also fell
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up about 27 points at its midsession high, closed with a 22.38-point loss at 2,017.57, most of it in the last hour of trading
there is a considerable amount of confusion in the financial markets'' about the strength of the economy, said jack barbanel, senior vice president at gruntal &amp; co. in new york
the growth in the gross national product, the broadest measure of the economy, was revised up from an original estimate of 4.2 percent made a month ago
the reagan administration said the growth rate showed the economic recovery, now in its sixth year, a record for peacetime, was suffering no ill effects from the october stock market collapse. however, private economists said they were still concerned about the one-sided nature of the growth
the rapid expansion in the fourth quarter occured without a pickup in inflation. a price index tied to the gnp rose at an annual rate of 3.7 percent from october through december, little changed from a 3.4 percent increase in the third quarter
three-fourths of the growth last quarter came from a buildup of business inventories, occurring at the same time that consumer spending was plunging 3.1 percent, the biggest spending drop in more than seven years
the last such sharp drop in consumer spending occurred in 1980 during the recession that year which helped doom president jimmy carter's re-election bid
some analysts said the revisions made in the new gnp report made them more confident that a recession can be avoided. others said they were encouraged because the report showed that consumer spending, while falling sharply, was not as weak as previously believed. the report also increased the estimate of business investment spending, another area of expected strength
the fourth-quarter gain boosted growth for the year to 3.9 percent, when measured from the end of 1986, up slightly from the 3.8 percent estimate made a month ago. growth when all four quarters of the year are averaged together showed a 2.9 percent increase in 1987, the same as 1986
northwest airlines and its flight attendants are on a ``collision course'' and a strike by the attendants appears to be imminent, according to a teamsters union official
several dozen flight attendants demonstrated thursday night outside the eagan, minn., home of northwest chief executive officer steven rothmeier. the home was watched by private guards and eagan police
mr. rothmeier has been traveling around the circuit all of this week, visiting all of our flight attendant bases; we thought it was only polite to return the favor,'' flight attendant dottie malinski told wcco-tv
it was not known if rothmeier was home at the time
talks continued thursday as flight attendants prepared to walk off their jobs at 11:01 cst tonight
there's a 100 percent chance of a strike,'' william genoese, director of the teamsters' airline division, said at a morning news conference thursday. ``as far as i'm concerned we're on a collision course with northwest airlines to strike.''
but redmond tyler, a spokesman for the airline, said progress was being made on some of the major contract issues. the two sides have been meeting steadily since tuesday at northwest's headquarters in eagan with the assistance of a federal mediator, tyler said thursday
seniority wage scales, pensions and work rules are among the major issues in the dispute. former republic airlines flight attendants have been working under their old contract since northwest acquired republic in 1986. the company is trying to bring the workers under one contract
we believe we're making substantial progress at the bargaining table,'' tyler said. ``we're not jimmy the greek, but we continue to believe that we will get this resolved without a strike.''
flight attendants have voted overwhelmingly to strike if a contract agreement isn't reached by the 11 p.m. cst deadline. the national president of the international association of machinists has vowed his union's support, but the telegram that contains the message stops short of saying machinists would honor picket lines
officials at national and local iam offices did not return a reporter's phone calls thursday
tyler said the machinists are under a contract that forbids them to strike in sympathy with another union. ``we expect our machinists to honor their contract,'' he said
pilots are barred from sympathy strikes under provisions of the railway labor act, tyler said
asked if those workers would be locked out if they walk off their jobs in sympathy with the flight attendants, tyler said, ``we won't address that because we don't want to play that `what if?' game.''
genoese said flight attendants would have the full backing of the international teamsters, which could result in delays of supply shipments from truckers
we're putting all our power together in the next 24 hours,'' genoese said. ``we would like to put them (northwest) at 10 to 20 percent'' of operations if there is a strike
genoese said he is hopeful that pilots would honor picket lines, but jim halverson of the air line pilots association said pilots would not decide until today
tyler said the airline is armed with about 2,000 management workers who are certified as flight attendants to step in if the 6,700 union flight attendants strike
the machinists union represents about 20,000 airline mechanics, baggage handlers, aircraft cleaners, ticket and reservation agents and clerical workers at northwest
genoese said thursday the teamsters are researching the possibilities of an employee-led leveraged buyout of northwest and other airlines to protect the long-term interests of workers
he said his union has talked with salomon brothers inc. and other wall street investment firms to consider financing arrangements. however, robert salomon, managing director and chief spokesman of the firm, said he is unaware of any contact between the teamsters and his company on the issue
genoese said discussions of a possible leveraged buyout of northwest could help the bargaining position of flight attendants, but he said the talk was not a ploy
the stock market drifted aimlessly today in a subdued atmosphere after thursday's late selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 22.38 points thursday, recovered 2.16 to 2,019.73 by noontime today on wall street
but losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 641 up, 672 down and 490 unchanged
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1} to 64~ on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
eastman kodak gained | to 42| in active trading. on thursday the company said it expected its earnings for 1988 to be better than estimates published lately by some analysts
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .21 to 147.51. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .38 at 283.67
volume on the big board came to 85.53 million shares at noontime, against 99.76 million at the same point thursday
soybean futures prices retreated and grain futures were mostly lower in early, choppy trading today at the chicago board of trade
follow-through selling from thursday pressured the markets, while a flurry of buying by big professional traders helped offset losses, analysts said
continued heavy rains in brazil, which have eased dry, crop-threatening conditions, and other outside factors added a negative tone to the market, said victor lespinasse, an analyst with dean witter reynolds inc
it's mostly a technical trade, no big surprises,'' lespinasse said
in early trading, wheat was \ cent to } cent lower, with the contract for delivery in march at $3.17{ a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to \ cent higher, with march at $1.98{ a bushel; oats were \ cent to { cent lower, with march at $1.90} a bushel; and soybeans were 2 cents to 3 cents lower, with march at $6.18 a bushel
futures prices for cattle and pork bellies advanced while hog futures were mixed at the chicago mercantile exchange
in early trading, live cattle were .20 cent to .28 cent higher, with the contract for delivery in april at 72.60 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .08 cent to .33 cent higher, with march at 81 cents a pound; hogs were .2 cent lower to .18 cent higher, with april at 44.10 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .03 to .25 cent higher, with march at 52.60 cents a pound
cattle futures were choppy but ended higher thursday, while pork futures rallied
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

washington _ the national association of business economists plans to release its quarterly survey on the economy; due at 10 a.m. est
washington _ the department of agriculture is to release a report on the prices received by farmers for their produce as of mid-february; due at 3 p.m. est
washington _ the supreme court issues orders today, possibly hands down decisions tuesday and wednesday and hears arguments today, tuesday and wednesday
portland, maine _ the national labor relations board is to hear testimony on complaints filed against international paper co. unions, alleging striking workers violated federal law by interfering with workers and management entering and leaving the mill

washington _ the government's index of leading economic indicators for january is to be released by the commerce department; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department also is to report on the amount of construction spending during january; due at 10 a.m. est

washington _ a report on the number of new homes sold in january is to be released by the commerce department; due at 10 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department also is to report on the amount of orders received by american factories during january; due at 10 a.m. est

washington _ the labor department is to report on the productivity of american businesses during the fourth quarter; due at 10 a.m. est
detroit _ domestic and foreign automakers are to report on their sales of cars and trucks during february

washington _ a report on the nation's unemployment rate during february is to be released by the labor department; due at 8:30 a.m. est
chrysler corp. hopes to add passenger cars to the line of jeeps it already produces in china, a top official of the automaker said friday
gerald greenwald, head of the chrysler motors division of chrysler corp., said in an interview that his company was negotiating with first automotive works of changchun, in northeast china, to produce upscale autos for use as official cars and taxis
first automotive hopes to begin construction by the end of the year on a plant that initially would produce 30,000 cars a year, with potential capacity of 150,000, greenwald said
if successful, chrysler would be the first american automaker to set up passsenger car production in china, and the third foreign company. peugeot has a small joint venture in canton, and volkswagen produces about 10,000 vehicles a year at its shanghai plant
china produced about 400,000 motor vehicles last year, almost all trucks and buses. only about 20,000 passenger cars were built
chrysler inherited a stake in china last year when it took over american motors corp., which produces cherokee jeeps as part of a joint venture known as beijing jeep co
beijing jeep has had a rocky road since it began as a much-heralded sino-american joint venture in 1984. two years ago, the plant shut down for two months because it ran out of foreign currency to import the parts it needed to stay in operation. the chinese government finally agreed to provide financial support after exacting promises that the plant would use more domestically produced components
greenwald said that currently about 18 percent of parts are made locally. he said the process to increase the local percentage will take years, but that eventually, as production climbs from the current 4,000 vehicles a year to 30,000-40,000 vehicles, localization of parts could top 50 percent
we have an excellent start with the two projects'' with beijin jeep and first automotive, greenwald said. ``we want to move ahead at a faster pace.''
greenwald said he did not know what other companies were bidding for the passenger-car contract, but chrysler is thought to have an edge because it signed a deal with first automotive last july to supply technology for four-cylinder engines to the company. the chinese company is to produce 150,000 engines under the initial stage of the agreement with chrysler
at the end of last year, the chinese government sent a high-level delegation to the united states to seek a partner in a major auto production joint venture. chrysler is believed to have an advantage because of its previous activities in china, although general motors corp. sold an engine assembly line to china last month in what it said was a first step toward eventual co-production
greenwald said the 2.2-liter engine to be produced in changchun could be used in first automotive's envisioned car, giving the company a needed boost in its drive to cut back on foreign currency spending by relying on domestically produced parts
the bad news has been pouring in from all sides recently for eastman kodak co. as rivals, partners, judges and financial analysts take turns bashing the company
a questioned merger ... bam! battery troubles ... pow! the potential for a whopping damage award to polaroid corp. ... sock! a downgraded bond rating ... boom!
it seems like kodak can't do anything right,'' said robert maney, a local stock analyst with prudential bache securities inc. ``every time they get one thing cleared up, another thing comes along and hits them on the head like a hammer.''
things had been looking up for the photographic and chemical giant, which announced record sales and tripled profits for 1987, after two years of cost cutting and restructuring
but just two months into 1988, triumph has turned to trouble
we don't see it that way,'' countered kodak spokesman henry kaska. ``it's just coincidence that all these things have come together at the same time.''
kodak's woes began jan. 22, a friday, with the company's surprise announcment of a $5.1 billion effort to acquire sterling drug inc., maker of such products as bayer aspirin and lysol disinfectant and prescription drugs
stock analysts criticized the deal as being too expensive and several stopped recommending kodak's stock
four weeks later, on feb. 19, another friday, kodak found out that polaroid corp. wanted a federal judge to award $5.7 billion in damages for kodak's violation of instant photography patents, several times earlier estimates
kodak officials called polaroid's estimate ``ridiculously inflated.''
the same day, kodak announced that it had determined its innovative 9-volt lithium battery, which was supposed to have a shelf life of 10 years, doesn't last that long
that revelation prompted black &amp; decker corp., which sold two lines of mini-flashlights with the lithium cells included, to pull the products from the shelves immediately
we can't very well continue to be associated with something like this,'' said barbara lucas, a spokeswoman for the baltimore-based company
last monday, a federal judge in fort worth, texas, put kodak's planned joint venture with fuqua industries inc. on hold, ruling that a tiny photofinishing competitor, phototron corp. of san bernardino, calif., had grounds for an antitrust lawsuit
the venture with colorcraft corp., a fuqua subsidiary, would create the nation's largest wholesale photofinishing operation with potential control of up to 80 percent of the market, according to claims by phototron that are disputed by kodak
moody's investors service lowered its rating of kodak and sterling senior debt three levels, from aa2 to a2, the lowest rating kodak has ever had, according to john dean, a moody's analyst
the service's highest rating is aaa, followed by aa1, and aa2
standard &amp; poor's corp. disappointed kodak by lowering its ratings even further
on thursday, kodak officials held a special meeting with stock analysts in new york in an effort to stop the flow of bad news about the company and put an end to the storm cloud that seems to be hovering over its sterling deal
kay whitmore, kodak's president, told analysts that they had lowered their profit expectations too much because of the sterling deal and that kodak earnings will meet or exceed profit estimates made at the start of the year, which ranged from $4 to $4.40 a share
several analysts had dropped their estimates down to $3.75 before the kodak meeting. in 1987, kodak had profits of $3.52 a share
things went about as positive as could have been expected,'' eugene glazer, an analyst with dean witter reynolds, said about thursday's meeting. ``considering that virtually everyone went in with a negative attitude, i think it's still negative, but not as negative.''
peter enderlin, a stock analyst for smith barney, harris upham, said kodak offered a convincing case for the various cost savings and reductions inherent in the sterling deal
the meeting did not, however, prompt either analyst to start recommending the purchase of kodak stock again. kodak's stock edged up just 62{ cents a share to $42 a share, compared to $49.12{ just before the sterling announcement
kaska, who is kodak's chief spokesman, said that while the recent rash of troubles had kept him busy, they were really nothing more than ``temporary setbacks.''
he said the sterling acquisition will prove over time to be good deal, the lithium battery shortcoming will be corrected in a few weeks, the polaroid damage estimate is absurd, the phototron lawsuit will be thrown out on appeal and the bond rating is not so bad
the company has a bright future. period,'' kaska said
maney said he has been getting many calls from kodak investors in rochester who are disturbed by the flurry of bad news, but his advice to them is to buy more kodak stock
this has not changed my opinion that kodak is still a great buy. you just have to have patience,'' he said
in other business and economic news this past week:
_federal reserve chairman alan greenspan criticized a top treasury official's attempt to influence fed policy. he also said in congressional testimony that the risk of a recession is as great as the risk of renewed inflation, but neither is imminent
_the u.s. economy expanded at a 4.5 percent annual rate from october through december, the fastest pace in almost two years, the government said. the growth in the gross national product was revised from an original estimate of 4.2 percent made a month ago
_the government said consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in january, matching 0.3 percent increases in american's personal incomes and consumer spending for the same month
_orders to u.s. factories for ``big-ticket'' durable goods fell 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year, the government said
_the nation's trade deficit shrank in the final quarter of 1987 as exports climbed, the commerce department said. the deficit's decline to $40.2 billion on a balance-of-payments basis marked the first quarterly improvement since the spring of 1986
_the federal government reported a rare $16.09 billion surplus for january, primarily because social security checks for january were mailed early
_sales of existing homes fell 3.6 percent in january, the third consecutive monthly decline, the national association of realtors said
_new american car and truck sales rose 14.5 percent in mid-february from the comparable period a year ago. general motors corp. said it planned to rehire 8,600 workers at four u.s. and canadian assembly plants because of rising demand and shrinking inventories
_the oil, chemical and atomic workers union rejected a merger with the united mine workers union after private talks in denver
_campeau corp. and federated department stores inc. said they were negotiating a $68-per-share, $6.1 billion cash proposal to merge the two retail companies
_l.f. rothschild holdings inc., an investment firm staggered by october's stock market crash, said it will merge with a subsidiary of franklin savings corp., a financial services company based in ottawa, kan
_santa fe southern pacific corp. rejected an offer from dissident investor henley group inc. to buy $780 million of new santa fe stock. santa fe said it would pursue a financial restructuring
_new england electric system, a massachusetts electric holding company, began talks aimed at taking over ailing public service company of new hampshire, except for its 36 percent share of the stalled seabrook nuclear plant
_black &amp; decker corp. sweetened a hostile bid for american standard inc. a second time, raising its offer to $68 from $65 per share and promising court action to block the target's recapitalization plan
_afg industries inc., one of north america' leading glassmakers, agreed to be taken private by its chairman in a $940.5 million plan
_bank of new york co. tightened the noose around irving bank corp., winning government approval to proceed with its $1.08 billion hostile bid and seeking to oust the rival's directors if they don't capitulate
_texaco inc. agreed to pay $1.25 billion to the government to settle claims it overcharged customers for oil during the 1973-81 period of price controls. meanwhile, getty petroleum corp. announced it has bought $14 million worth of texaco stock and was seeking to acquire more
_a federal judge ruled occidental chemical corp. was liable for the estimated $250 million cost of cleaning up the love canal landfill that became synonymous with environmental disaster
_the pentagon said mcdonnell douglas corp. surpassed two competitors last year to reclaim the title of largest u.s. defense contractor. mcdonnell douglas jumped past general dynamics corp. and general electric co. to win the top ranking for fiscal 1987
the stock market showed a very slight gain today in a subdued atmosphere after thursday's late selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 22.38 points thursday, recovered .50 to 2,018.07 by 2 p.m. today on wall street
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 711 up, 691 down and 504 unchanged
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1] to 64{ on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
eastman kodak gained { to 42{ in active trading. on thursday the company said it expected its earnings for 1988 to be better than estimates published lately by some analysts
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .22 to 147.52. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .53 at 283.82
volume on the big board came to 119.70 million shares with two hours to go. index; no pickup</note>
share prices dropped on the london stock exchange friday as investor sentiment turned sour and trading volume thinned
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was down 15.9 points, or 0.9 percent, at 1,766.5 at the close. the index's low for the trading session was 17.8 points down
volume fell to a light 350.2 million shares from 510.1 million on thursday
a strong rally earlier this week seemed to run out of steam as the index approached strong technical resistance at the 1,800-point level, dealers said
in addition, losses on wall street thursday and sharp declines on the london stock futures market took their toll on british stocks, they said
it's amazing how quickly confidence can change, showing we're still very nervous'' in the wake of october's stock crash, one dealer said
however, the market still views the british economy as sound, and a string of company earnings results this week indicated that corporate profits are being maintained despite the crash, dealers said
the government will announce by march 4 its response to foreign banks' secret bids for bonds offered by mexico in an innovative plan to reduce its $105 billion in foreign debt, the treasury department said
mexico's approximately 560 creditor banks had until 4 p.m. est friday to submit their sealed bids under the plan, devised by the mexican and u.s. governments
new york-based j.p. morgan &amp; co., exchange agent for the deal, refused to disclose details of the bids
over the next week, mexican officials will consider how much debt would be cleared and service cost reductions in determining whether to accept each bid, the treasury department said in a statement
the plan involves exchanging some of the debt mexico owes foreign commercial bankers for new, 20-year bonds to be issued by the government
the bonds, backed by $10 billion worth of special u.s. treasury securities, will carry a higher interest rate than mexico is paying on the old debt
mexico's potential savings ``will be in proportion to the offers that are accepted,'' the department said in a statement carried by the government newspaper el nacional
in addition to the bond scheme, the government ``will present other options and programs'' to its creditors to reduce the country's debt burden, the treasury statement added
it refused to predict how much principal and interest the government might save under the bond program, saying each bank bid must be analyzed first. but mexican officials previously have warned that if the offers are not attractive enough, they may reject all of them
participating banks sought to get as much money as they could for their old loans, while mexico wants to buy the debt cheaply
most analysts expected bidders to offer discounts of between 30 cents and 40 cents to the dollar. mexican debt paper sold for 48 cents to the dollar in early february
observers doubted the government could market the entire $10 billion package. mexican officials, they said, would consider at least $3 billion in securities sales to be acceptable
the treasury department said that at the least, the mexican bond scheme had achieved a ``formal recognition'' by mexican creditors of the difference between the debt's book value and that commanded on secondary markets
the stock market crept ahead today in a subdued atmosphere after thursday's late selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 22.38 points thursday, recovered 3.82 to 2,021.39 by 3 p.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 766 up, 669 down and 487 unchanged
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1\ to 64] on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
eastman kodak gained { to 42{ in active trading. on thursday the company said it expected its earnings for 1988 to be better than estimates published lately by some analysts
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .41 to 147.71. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .89 at 284.18
volume on the big board came to 135.82 million shares with an hour to go
soybean futures prices advanced and grain futures were mixed in trading friday at the chicago board of trade
a wave of buying by big professional traders sparked a rally in soybeans and also helped support corn futures, analysts said
jitters early in the trading session over crop-bolstering rains in brazil's soybean region subsided later in the day, and traders discounted that as a negative factor, said victor lespinasse, an analyst with dean witter reynolds inc
big professional buying late in the day helped the beans to rally to new highs,'' he said
technical rather than outside factors had the biggest influence on the markets, he said
at the close, wheat was unchanged to 2\ cent lower, with the contract for delivery in march at $3.15{ a bushel; corn was \ cent higher to 2\ cents higher, with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were } cent lower to 1 cent higher, with march at $1.90\ a bushel; and soybeans were 3 cents to 5} cents higher, with march at $6.25 a bushel
brussels stock exchange officials suspended trading in societe generale de belgique sa for a second straight day friday, as soaring demand for the stock highlighted the intense battle for control over belgium's biggest holding company
societe generale shares opened with offers hitting a record 8,060 francs, or $230.30 per share, up 15 percent over thursday
on thursday, italian investor carlo de benedetti had doubled his original offer to 8,000 francs, or $228.60
de benedetti claims to control 45 percent of societe generale stock. he wants 7 more percent to counter an alliance of french, belgian, luxembourg and swiss investors, which claims it controls 52 percent of societe generale shares
de benedetti disputes that claim
societe generale management, which supports the alliance, denied reports of a rift within the group on friday
there are accords between different partners to be sure this majority exists,'' said etienne davignon, a societe generale director
the italian financier has said he wanted to expand societe generale's holdings throughout europe by 1992, when the european economic community expects to have removed all internal bariers to trade among the 12 eec nations
the alliance opposing de benedetti wants the 166-year-old company to remain anchored in belgium
trading in societe generale was first halted thursday, after the share price rose to a record 7,010 francs, or $200, shortly after the stock exchange opened
the stock closed at 6,100 francs, or $174.29, wednesday and at 5,350 francs, or $152.86, tuesday. it stood at 2,155 francs, or $61.58, last october, when hints of the looming takeover battle began to appear
on friday, a new freeze forced any trading in the share off the exchange to the unofficial market
this market has accounted for millions of transactions on given days over the course of the last few months, but has largely dried up in recent days to the lack of available shares
we had offers as high as 10,000 francs (or $285) per share but had no paper for them,'' said one dealer at a major brokerage firm
the alliance battling de benedetti is formed around the french firms compagnie financiere de suez, an investment firm, compagnie generale d'electricite, an industrial company, and societe financiere et industrielle gaz et eaux
together they control 36 percent while an international group around belgium's biggest insurance company, groupe ag, controls another 16 percent
the 166-year-old societe generale has interests in some 1,400 firms world-wide and in about half of belgium's top 50 companies
metromedia co. has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the ponderosa inc. restaurant chain for an undisclosed amount, the company announced friday
metromedia, a privately-held telecommunications and technology holding company, said it planned to keep ponderosa management in place and anticipated no changes in the company's operation
ponderosa, which was taken private in a $331 million buyout led by new york investor asher b. edelman in january 1987, is one of the nation's largest steakhouse chains, with annual sales of $500 million
the dayton, ohio-based company owns and operates 400 restaurants nationwide and franchises another 280 in the united states and canada, and has a meat processing and distribution operation through its esi meats inc. unit
after edelman acquired the company he sold off a number of assets, including most of its casa lupita restaurants and a meat-processing company, to help pay off debt used to finance the buyout
we believe that ponderosa is an outstanding company: it is strong and well-positioned with excellent management and great potential for growth and expansion,'' said stuart subotnick, metromedia executive vice president and general partner
metromedia formerly was the nation's biggest independent television and radio broadcasting company. john kluge, who owns 97 percent of the present company, liquidated most of its holdings after taking metromedia private in 1984
kluge has said he planned to use metromedia as the vehicle for a broad-based investment program. in addition to long-distance telephone operations, the company owns robotic painting and computer software companies
stock prices edged upward today in a subdued session
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 3.48 at 2,021.05
the stock market edged upward today in a subdued atmosphere after thursday's late selloff
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report this morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market. description of refrigerators to commercial-style sted `sub-zero,' which is a trademark.</note>
arthur emil never envisioned traveling all the way to japan to sell some of the 54 luxury condominiums he developed in lower manhattan
and he was more than a little skeptical when japan's fujisankei communications group approached him about featuring one of the units on a home-shopping broadcast that would air in tokyo, osaka and nine other cities in late january
a fujisankei representative explained that the communications giant's satellite shopping network ``markets high-ticket items,'' emil said. ``they said they sold a chateau in france.''
and what could be more high-class than his condos, which range in price from $500,000 to $1.7 million and feature such amenities as commercial-style refrigerators in the gourmet kitchens, 17-foot ceilings and a 24-hour concierge in addition to the doorman
emil had a hard time with the notion that someone would buy an apartment without ``physically visiting the property,'' although he said it does happen from time to time
but fujisankei promised, after a single broadcast, to present him with 20 to 25 qualified buyers. ``i'm assuming these are real buyers,'' he said shortly before leaving for japan in early february
but 16,000 miles later and one week later, emil was a believer. ``you can sell apartments in the united states by television in japan,'' he exclaimed
while emil said fujisankei introduced him to fewer qualified buyers than promised, he was still pleased
none of the investors signed on the dotted line, but emil said several are coming to new york to see the landmark building in the near future, and he's confident he'll close on more than one deal
emil described the buyers as wealthy executives who do business in and around new york and were attracted by the building's luxury qualities
i expected a number of offshore buyers, but that i would schlep myself over to japan ...,'' he joked
fujisankei's january broadcast proved to be successful not only for emil. a limousine used by pope john xxiii also sold _ to an unnamed bidder for $423,000
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 5.64 to 2,023.21, finishing the week with a net gain of 8.62 points
advancing issues outpaced declines by about 5 to 4 on the new york stock exchange, with 804 up, 655 down and 483 unchanged
big board volume totaled 158.06 million shares, down from 213.89 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index added .40 to 147.70
in a courtroom filled with 100 lawyers, a bankruptcy judge on friday began trying to sort out how to handle the complex, historic public service company of new hampshire reorganization
judge james yacos reached no immediate decision on a ``procedural mechanism'' for the case after a 2{-hour hearing. but he approved several preliminary motions, including the utility's request to retain a law firm to consider a u.s. supreme court challenge of a state law that bars advance charges for power plants
public service, choked by debt from its $2.1 billion investment in the stalled seabrook nuclear power plant, sought refuge from creditors in bankruptcy court on jan. 28. two days earlier, the state supreme court upheld the state law that bars the utility from charging ratepayers for seabrook unless the reactor surmounts evacuation-planning hurdles and wins a commercial license
new hampshire's largest power company, with 360,000 customers, became the first major investor-owned utility to seek protection from its creditors since the depression
yacos noted that congress did not contemplate the insolvency of an electric utility, with captive customers, when it drafted the bankruptcy law
this case wasn't supposed to happen,'' yacos said, because there had been a belief that utility regulators would save troubled companies. but the state court ruling denied public service an emergency rate increase
we are doing what congress didn't do, and if we can do it in a year, which i hope we can do, it would be a miracle,'' yacos said
public service has 120 days from its bankruptcy filing to present a reorganization plan. other parties then could propose rival plans. though debtors often get lengthy extensions of the ``exclusivity period,'' yacos said he is inclined not to grant one to public service
here is a list of the retailers owned by federated department stores inc. and the states in which their stores are located:
abraham &amp; straus _ new jersey, new york, pennsylvania
bloomingdale's _ connecticut, florida, massachusetts, maryland, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, texas, virginia
bullock's and bullock's wilshire _ arizona, california, nevada
burdines _ florida
children's place _ california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, missouri, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas, virginia, wisconsin
filene's _ connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island
filene's basement _ connecticut, massachusetts, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, rhode island
foley's _ arizona, new mexico, oklahoma, texas
gold circle-richway _ florida, georgia, kentucky, new york, north carolina, ohio, tennessee
goldsmith's _ tennessee
lazarus _ indiana, kentucky, ohio, west virginia
i. magnin _ arizona, california, illinois, maryland, oregon, washington
mainstreet _ illinois, michigan
ralphs _ california
rich's _ alabama, georgia, south carolina
here is a list of the u.s. retailers owned by campeau corp. and the states in which their stores are located:
ann taylor _ alabama, california, colorado, connecticut, district of columbia, florida, georgia, illinois, louisiana, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, missouri, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, ohio, pennsylvania, rhode island, tennessee, texas, virginia
brooks brothers _ alabama, california, colorado, connecticut, district of columbia, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, missouri, new jersey, new york, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, texas, virginia, washington. (to be sold to marks and spenser plc of london if campeau acquires federated department stores inc
jordan marsh _ connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island
maas brothers-jordan marsh _ florida, georgia
stern's _ new jersey, new york, pennsylvania
the bon _ idaho, montana, oregon, utah, washington, wyoming. midwest, not west; also moved on general newswires</note>
sales of existing homes suffered their third consecutive monthly decline in january, a 3.6 percent drop which pushed activity to its slowest level in 2{ years, a real estate trade group said friday
the national association of realtors said that sales of existing single-family homes dropped to a seasnally adjusted annual rate of 3.21 million units last month, following declines of 1.2 percent in december and 2.9 percent in november. the association said that consumer fears raised by the collapse of the stock market in october were partly to blame for the slowdown
the sales decline was accompanied by an increase in home prices, which rose $2,500 to a median price of $87,900 in january, up 6 percent from a year ago
the decline in sales pushed the annual sales rate, the number of homes that would be sold if the monthly sales pace continued for a year, to its lowest level since june 1985
john tuccillo, the realtors' chief economist, said he did not believe the downturn in housing would be permanent or would lead to a recession
anecdotal evidence suggests that sales in february were more brisk than in january,'' he said, crediting lower mortgage rates and better economic news for the rebound
the federal home loan mortgage corp. reported friday that its nationwide survey found 30-year mortgages had dipped to 9.87 percent this week, down from 9.92 percent the previous week. the new rate is almost a full percentage point below where it was at the beginning of the year
sales were off in every region of the country in january except the midwest, which posted a 4.5 percent gain to an annual rate of 920,000 units
sales dropped 12.2 percent in the west to a rate of 500,000 units and fell 9.6 percent in the south to a rate of 1.12 million units. sales fell 4.7 percent in the northeast to 610,000 units, a decline blamed in part on job layoffs in the new york financial district following the market crash
but the northeast continued to report the fastest jump in home prices, a 14 percent gain over the past 12 months to a median price of $135,000
the west was close behind with a 12.2 percent rise in home prices over the past year, pushing the median sales price to $116,000. the south, where sales have been depressed by weakness in energy and farming, saw prices rise 3.7 percent to $82,000. in the midwest, home prices rose 3 percent to $67,400
the stock market closed out an on-again, off-again week with a small gain in quiet trading friday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 5.64 to 2,023.21, finishing the week with a net gain of 8.62 points
advancing issues outpaced declines by about 5 to 4 in the daily tally on the new york stock exchange, with 798 up, 669 down and 492 unchanged
big board volume totaled 158.06 million shares, down from 213.89 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index added .40 to 147.70
analysts said many traders were disappointed at the market's inability to surpass its early-january highs, as measured by the dow jones industrial average
the average seemed to be headed into new-high territory for the year thursday morning, but the advance gave way to selling
while evidence continues to accumulate that the economy hasn't yet suffered any severe effects from last fall's market crash, brokers say confidence remains fragile
the labor department's report friday morning that the consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january was in line with advance estimates, and had little apparent impact on the market
federated department stores rose 1] to 64{ on news that the company, which has been fighting a takeover bid by campeau corp. of toronto, was negotiating with campeau on a proposed purchase at $68 a share
eastman kodak gained { to 42{ in active trading. on thursday the company said it expected its earnings for 1988 to be better than estimates published lately by some analysts
other gainers among the blue chips and technology issues included international business machines, up 1\ at 115}; hewlett-packard, up 1 at 61; philip morris, up 1 at 91~; general electric, up | at 43|, and general motors, up { at 69[
on the downside, merck dipped \ to 161\; american telephone &amp; telegraph \ to 29, and coca-cola | to 36~
ausimont n.v. jumped 3 to 23. the company denied rumors that it was being pursued as a takeover candidate by minnesota mining &amp; manufacturing
wells fargo mortgage and equity trust fell 1[ to 15}. the real estate investment trust said it had decided not to proceed with a plan to liquidate after negotiations ended to sell its property investments to cal fed
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $6.88 billion, or 0.27 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 181.90 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 1.02 to 302.63, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up .88 at 262.46
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped .22 to 363.40. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 284.32, up 1.03
for the fifth time since the october stock market crash, a stock specialist firm has agreed to give up its role as a market maker in a new york stock exchange issue, the exchange said friday
the nyse said wagner, stott &amp; co. had voluntarily withdrawn as the specialist in the stock of carter-wallace inc., a drug and consumer products company based in new york
the exchange said in a news release that the stock would be reallocated to another specialist firm march 10
catherine maroney, a nyse spokeswoman, said the exchange would not disclose the reason for the reallocation. the press release said the exchange had been reviewing the performance by wagner stott on oct. 20, the day after the historic market collapse
the nyse is investigating several cases in which its 53 specialists failed to maintain orderly trading in stocks they controlld. the specialist firms control the rights to market certain issues and are required to keep order by setting opening prices and covering trades when there are too few buyers or sellers
previously, spear, leeds &amp; kellogg surrendered its franchise in j.p. morgan &amp; co. stock; m.j. meehan &amp; co. withdrew its rights to gould inc.; lawrence, o'donnell &amp; co. gave up neiman-marcus group inc.; and labranche &amp; co. agreed to drop e.f. hutton group inc. and a.g. edwards inc
the dollar slipped friday against most major currencies in quiet trading on the world's foreign-exchange markets
gold prices resumed their recent decline in new york, falling to their lowest level since april 1987 in moderate volume. republic national bank of new york quoted a late bid price for gold of $429.50 a troy ounce, down from $433 late thursday
the dollar slipped in asia and europe, reflecting lingering disappointment over thursday's report that the u.s. economy expanded at a 4.5 percent pace in the fourth quarter when some traders had expected a 5 percent rise
but dealers in europe said expectations that central banks might intervene to support the dollar prevented it from falling even lower
john hazelton, a vice president for institutional sales at manufacturers hanover trust co., said the dollar traded in a very narrow range in the united states with professional traders accounting for the bulk of the activity
they are about the only ones involved in the market,'' he said. ``there has been very little corporate or institutional business. it's mostly traders in the various banks.''
he said the market shrugged off the latest government reports on the u.s. economy, which said friday that personal income, consumer prices and consumer spending each rose 0.3 percent in january. the increases were within expectations
we are in a quiet period for the currencies,'' hazelton said
in tokyo, the dollar fell to 128.35 japanese yen from 128.80 yen on thursday. later in london, the dollar fell to 128.24 yen. in new york, the dollar edged down to 128.37 yen from 128.425 yen late thursday
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7715 from $1.7665 late thursday. in new york, the pound rose to $1.7715 from $1.76725 late thursday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late rates thursday, included: 1.68875 west german marks, down from 1.6930; 1.38625 swiss francs, down from 1.39215; 5.71700 french francs, down from 5.7285; 1,245 italian lire, down from 1,247; and 1.2634 canadian dollars, down from 1.26495
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates thursday, included: 1.6895 west german marks, down from 1.6945; 1.3897 swiss francs, down from 1.3935; 5.7175 french francs, down from 5.7315; 1.8965 dutch guilders, down from 1.9020; 1,245.45 italian lire, down from 1,248.25; and 1.2838 canadian dollars, up from 1.2650
gold prices have slumped this week as worries about inflation have receded and supplies of the metal have grown
on new york's commodity exchange, gold for current delivery fell $3.60 a troy ounce to $429.60, its lowest level since april 8 when it closed at $420.20
the exchange said contracts for about 3 million ounces of gold were traded, which an exchange spokesman described as moderate volume
earlier, gold closed in both zurich, switzerland, and london at $431.50 a troy ounce, up from $428 bid late thursday in london but down from $433 in zurich
in hong kong, gold rose to $437.23 an ounce from $436.35 late thursday
silver bullion rose in london to $6.20 a troy ounce, up from $6.15 late thursday. on new york's comex, silver for current delivery fell 9 cents an ounce to $6.155, its lowest level since march 26 when it closed at $5.92
cocoa futures prices dropped sharply friday amid fears that a london trading house was preparing to release an estimate showing a jump in surplus production
in other markets, energy futures prices were mostly lower, precious metals retreated; soybean prices rallied while grains were mixed. cattle and pork prices also were mixed
a wave of selling in the cocoa pit at new york's coffee, sugar &amp; cocoa exchange was triggered by rumors that london-based gill and duffus is preparing a report showing a production surplus of 130,000 to 140,000 tons for the 1987-88 crop year ending in august, analysts said
that compares to the most recent estimate of world production of 93,000 tons surplus'' from the international cocoa organization, said debra tropp, an analyst with philipp brothers inc. in new york
this is a substantial increase,'' she said. ``even if you take into account recent rumors that ivory coast production might be up ... this still exceeds most market expectations.''
cocoa prices settled $39 to $45 lower, with the contract for delivery in march at $1,609 a ton
energy futures prices continued a downward swing in quiet trading at the new york mercantile exchange
crude oil futures prices settled unchanged to 14 cents lower with the contract for delivery in february at $15.36 a barrel; heating oil prices were .48 cent higher to .18 cent lower, with february at 45.47 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline settled .11 cent to .45 cent lower, with march at 45.26 cents a gallon
the drop in energy futures prices helped drag down precious metals prices, which began a retreat earlier this week in trading at the new york commodity exchange, said bette raptopoulos, an analyst with prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
a sharp decline in the commodity index, a measure of inflation, added pressure. but the negative market was tempered by political turmoil that has resurfaced in south africa and a softer u.s. dollar, she said
gold prices settled $3.60 to $4.60 lower, with the contract for delivery in march at $429.60 a troy ounce; and silver prices settled 9 cents lower across the board, with the march contract at 615.5 cents a troy ounce
a wave of buying by big professional traders sparked a rally in the soybean pit, and also helped support corn prices in trading on the chicago board of trade
cattle and pork futures prices were mixed at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle prices settled .10 cent to .15 cent higher, with the contract for delivery in april at 72.55 cents a pound; feeder cattle settled .2 cent lower to .10 cent higher, with march at 80.72 cents a pound; hogs were .45 cent lower to .30 higher, with april at 44.30 cents a pound; and pork bellies settled unchanged to .47 cent lower, with march at 52.10 cents a pound
soybean futures prices advanced while grains were mixed at the chicago board of trade
concerns over rains in brazil's soybean region subsided as the session got under way, and traders discounted that as a negative factor, said victor lespinasse, an analyst with dean, witter, reynolds, inc
technical rather than outside factors had the biggest influence over the markets, he said
wheat settled { cent to 2{ cents lower, with the contract for delivery in march at $3.15\ a bushel; corn settled { cent to 2\ cents higher, with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats settled } cent lower to 1 cent higher, with march at $1.90\ a bushel; and soybeans settled 3 cents to 5} cents higher, with march at $6.25{ a bushel
the champion spark plug co. announced friday that nearly 20 percent of its 1,700 production workers nationwide will be laid off because of overcapacity in the auto parts industry
the bulk of the cuts, which will begin march 22 and will be phased in over the next four months, are being made at the plant here
the layoffs come just one month after workers at four u.s. champion plants approved a new four-year contract that includes a provision that the company try to increase production at two of its domestic plants
we explored every alternative to reducing the labor force. even though the numbers are regrettable, it was the only way we could keep a significant number of manufacturing presence in toledo,'' said william walker, champion's industrial relations director
there is clearly too much capacity in the auto parts industry, and we have elected to balance production rather than close and consolidate plants,'' he said
a total of 243 toledo workers _ 119 people from the aviation products group and 124 from automotive operations _ will lose their jobs, the company said. champion currently employs about 800 production workers in toledo
an additional 63 people will be laid off at the company's three other u.s. manufacturing facilities, including 13 at the detroit; 20 at cambridge, ohio; and 30 at burlington, iowa
walker said uaw leaders were aware of the overcapacity situation when they agreed to a new national contract last month, which covers about 1,700 workers at the u.s. champion plants
we informed them of the possible consequences to champion; specifically, that about 200 workers might be laid off in the coming months. as a result, it was a recognized fact in the negotiations and led to a major effort on the part of the company and the uaw to assure those who were laid off that they would receive benefits,'' walker said
rodney smith, international representative for the uaw, said he was disappointed with champion's decision
it's bad news for us, that's for sure,'' he said
walker said the effect of the toledo layoffs could be lessened by normal attrition through the retirement of 60 to 70 production workers
he also said the company is reducing its toledo aviation division because it is trying to balance production between toledo and liberty, s.c, a non-union plant
bond prices rose in thin trading friday, supported partly by indications of continued moderate inflation
the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond rose by nearly } point, or $7.50 per $1,000 in face value, with its yield declining to 8.36 percent from 8.42 percent late thursday
analysts said that after a busy morning session market activity quieted for the rest of the day, with price movements occurring in very thin trading
helping to tug prices higher was the labor department report that its consumer price index rose 0.3 percent in january, a pace generally expected by the market, analysts said. the monthly rate translated into a moderate 4.2 percent annual rate, compared with 4.4 percent in 1987
high inflation erodes returns on fixed-income securities such as bonds and reduces their attractiveness as investments
in addition to the cpi report, the commodity research bureau futures index of 21 commodities fell a sharp 1.42 to 224.26. many market participants consider the index a reflection of inflationary expectations, with a decline thought to signal lower near-term inflation
furthering such sentiments were additional declines in crude oil prices. the april contract for west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, fell 14 cents to $15.78 per 42-gallon barrel on the new york mercantile exchange, its lowest since late december
otherwise, analysts said, many market participants were limiting their activity in the absence of major new economic news. many are waiting for next friday's u.s. unemployment report for february before taking major investment positions
the economy still seems to be moving at a decent clip and no one has any strong convictions in either direction to buy or sell, so the market waffles in a narrow trading range,'' said elizabeth reiners, a vice president of money market research at dean witter reynolds inc
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments rose [ point, intermediate maturities rose in the range of 3-16 point to 15-32 point and 20-year issues rose { point, according to the investment firm salomon brothers inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.32 to 113.71. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, rose 3.46 to 1,189.35
in corporate trading, industrials rose { point and utilities rose ] point, according to salomon brothers. trading was light
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.09 to 284.57
among tax-exempt municipal bonds, general obligations and dollar bonds were unchanged in light trading
yields on three-month treasury bills were down 4 basis points to 5.59 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 3 basis points to 5.76 percent and one-year bills were off 4 basis points to 6.19 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted at 6 9-16 percent, unchanged from late thursday
the federal communications commission signaled a tougher stance thursday on minority hiring, putting conditions on license renewals of 11 southern television stations with affirmative action efforts it found defective
the action, the first since the fcc revised its equal employment opportunity guidelines last year, shows that ``we mean business,'' said commissioner patricia diaz dennis
the fcc renewed the stations' licenses but said they must report periodically to the agency on efforts to recruit, hire and promote qualified women and minorities
the commission will monitor the stations' efforts and if unsatisfied, could conduct an investigation. if the fcc still is unsatisfied with a station's equal employment opportunity efforts, it could take steps to revoke the station's license
the national black media coalition had asked the fcc to deny license renewals to 19 tv stations because of what the group called deficient affirmative action efforts
pluria marshall, coalition chairman, said that while he was disappointed the commission did not take stronger action, it was ``a step in the right direction.''
the fcc requires all tv and radio stations to have plans describing their efforts to find, hire and promote qualified women, blacks and other minorities. the plans are reviewed at the time of license renewal, every five years for tv stations and every seven for radio stations
in revising its equal employment opportunity guidelines last year, the fcc required more detailed reporting by stations and put stronger emphasis on evaluation of a station's overall employment efforts, rather than focusing on the the number of minorities and women employed
with the revision, the fcc also decided to scrutinize all plans. previously, the agency looked closely at plans of stations where minority employment was less than 50 percent of the minority population of the work force in the station's area
one of the stations cited, wtwc-tv in tallahassee, fla., had more minority employees than required by the fcc parity guidelines, but the commission said ``merely meeting or exceeding these guidelines is not a `safe harbor.'''
the number of minorities and women that a station employs is important and continues to be a factor which we consider,'' said fcc chairman dennis r. patrick
we will not use numbers as a strict quota below which a broadcaster will necessarily fail in their eeo program if they are making aggressive and adequate efforts to correct the problem,'' he said. ``but nor will numbers be used as a `safe harbor' above which broadcasters will necessarily be found to be in compliance
the simple lesson is that all broadcasters must have in place an affirmative action program which puts them in a position to identify and recruit and retain qualified minorities and women,'' he said
besides wtwc, the stations required to submit further reports to the fcc are: wnct-tv, greenville, n.c.; wunc-tv, chapel hill, n.c.; wtkk-tv, manassas, va.; wtgl-tv, cocoa, fla.; wxel-tv, west palm beach, fla.; wnft-tv, jacksonville, fla.; kets-tv, little rock, ark.; wlpb-tv, baton rouge, la.; wyes-tv, new orleans, la.; and wjtc-tv, pensacola, fla
all stations in a block of states come up for renewal in the same year. price.</note>
after a month of public discord, campeau corp. and federated department stores inc. announced friday they had opened negotiations on a $6.1 billion merger agreement
federated's board of directors, which met in regular session thursday, authorized the merger talks, in which campeau proposes to pay $68 in cash for each share of federated
the proposal, which followed campeau's pledge to sell off its brooks brothers division to help finance the merger, is to be presented to the federated board monday, the companies said in their joint announcement
no assurance can be given that a definitive agreement will be reached,'' the companies said
it was the first sign of a softening in campeau's month-long, increasingly hostile campaign to buy federated. the cincinnati-based federated had $11 billion in sales last year. the toronto-based campeau, a development company, bought allied stores corp. in december 1986
sixty-eight dollars per share is a good price. the shareholders should be happy,'' said monroe h. greenstein, an analyst with the bear stearns firm in new york city
federated stock rose $1.50 to $64.50 a share in late new york stock exchange trading friday
the merger proposal is separate from campeau's latest hostile takeover offer, its $66-per-share tender bid made thursday, campeau spokeswoman joele frank said friday in new york city. that offer was improved from a previous $61-per-share proposal
federated has 90.4 million common shares and equivalents outstanding. in addition to acquiring the company's 88.5 million outstanding shares, campeau would pay about $100 million to buy up outstanding federated stock options
what's new about this is that negotiations are under way and that the price has been agreed on,'' ms. frank said
greenstein predicted that campeau corp. would _ if it buys federated _ sell off some federated holdings, including non-department store assets and underperforming department store groups
greenstein said those groups might include i. magnin in san francisco, lazarus in cincinnati and abraham &amp; straus in new york. ``all these have been known to be under-performers in recent years,'' he said
thursday, the canadian company increased its tender offer to federated from $61 to $66 per share and said it would consider making a higher bid if necessary. campeau has been bidding to buy federated since jan. 25
federated's board said friday it has deferred until 11:59 p.m. est monday implementation of a ``poison pill'' shareholder rights measure designed to make a takeover of federated more difficult. the board said it could later decide to further delay the measure's implementation
federated has rejected previous campeau takeover bids, questioning whether campeau had obtained the necessary financing. campeau chairman robert campeau says he has the financing and would be willing to match offers by other bidders for federated
campeau said thursday it would raise a substantial amount of equity for its proposed buyout by selling the brooks brothers division of its allied stores corp. unit to britain's marks and spencer plc for $770 million. the brooks brothers sale was conditioned on campeau acquiring federated
the brooks brothers sale also could preempt antitrust concerns raised by sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, in connection with the proposed federated acquisition. metzenbaum is concerned that a campeau purchase of federated could hurt competition in some u.s. markets, such as new york and miami, where both allied and federated operate stores
federated's board has previously rejected offers of $66 and $47 per share. the company has been considering alternatives, such as selling some of its non-department store assets or having management buy the company and convert it to private ownership
federated operates 650 stores nationwide. its holdings include the new york chains bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, rich's in atlanta, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles, i. magnin in san francisco and lazarus in cincinnati
dart group corp. announced friday that it passed another hurdle in its attempt to oust the board of directors of stop &amp; shop cos. inc. in its $1.03 billion hostile takeover bid for the supermarket chain
dart said its 95 percent-owned affiliate, jefferson partnership, submitted to stop &amp; shop applications from holders of more than 10 percent of stop &amp; shop's outstanding shares calling for a special shareholders meeting on march 30, according to dart spokesman stanley rubenstein
dart says the meeting, which is being demanded under massachusetts' business corporation law, is to consider replacing stop &amp; shop's board with jefferson's nominees and adopting related resolutions
stop &amp; shop spokeswoman aileen gorman declined to comment on dart's latest announcement
stop &amp; shop, based in braintree, mass., on feb. 12 filed a federal suit to block dart's $37-a-share offer. stop &amp; shop claimed that dart failed to register as an investment company with the federal securities and exchange commission and failed to disclose details of its past takeover attempts
dart responded with a countersuit, claiming that stop &amp; shop illegally withheld corporate information. u.s. district judge rya zobel ruled dart must file its claim in norfolk superior court in massachusetts
as of wednesday, jefferson partnership had acquired more than 73,000 shares of stop &amp; shop, about 2.7 percent of the company's outstanding shares
stop &amp; shop operates 113 stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 169 bradlees discount department stores from maine to north carolina
speculation mounted friday that stop &amp; shop could soon be sold to an outside bidder
one union representing stop &amp; shop workers said thursday it wanted to be included in any sale negotiations, said robert petronella, international vice president and new england regional director for the united food and commercial workers union, which represents about 20,000 stop &amp; shop employees
recently, ufcw union leaders agreed to take a strike vote if there was not a new contract for stop &amp; shop employees by march 6
dart, based in landover, owns crown books and trak auto parts. it has mounted other hostile takeover attempts targeting retail chain dayton hudson corp., safeway co. and supermarkets general. acquiring federated; brooks brothers is owned by campeau, not federated; picks up 4th graf pvs bg'ng, campeau and federated ...</note>
marks and spencer plc, where prime minister margaret thatcher shops, is poised to establish a major u.s. beachhead with its planned purchase of the preppy clothier brooks brothers
marks and sparks,'' as the 550-store chain is affectionately known among rhyme-loving londoners, has been seeking to expand in the united states for more than a year as part of its strategy of becoming a global retailer
marks and spencer announced thursday it had agreed in principle to buy brooks brothers for $770 million from campeau corp., the canadian retailing and real estate company, if campeau acquired federated department stores inc. of cincinnati
campeau and federated disclosed friday they were negotiating a $6.1 billion merger but said there was no guarantee they would reach a definitive merger agreement. federated already has rejected several lower offers from campeau
marks and spencer has grown in 104 years from a market stall to a favorite store of the average briton. it's also where mrs. thatcher buys her underwear because, she says, it is well made
the retailer hopes to get brooks brothers' flagship store on new york city's madison avenue, its 46 other u.s. stores and 12 joint-venture outlets in japan
british retailers have boomed in recent years on strong spending by consumers and their increased use of credit. this has prompted some retailers to ponder expansion outside britain, which they now see as too small a market
marks and spencer needs to become a global retailer and to a certain extent hey do need to get into the u.s. market to fulfill that ambition,'' said charles allen, an industry consultant with the investment firm wood mackenzie and co
other british retailers that have expanded into the united states by acquisition or opening of new stores include storehouse plc, owner of the conran's home furnishing stores, dixons group plc, owner of the silo electric appliance chain, and the jeweler ratners plc
but reaction to marks and spencer's plans were mixed in the city, london's financial district
marks and spencer fell 4.5 pence, about 8 cents at current exchange rtes, to 176 pence, or $3.12, a share late friday on the london stock exchange after falling the same amount on thursday
analysts agreed the retailer should target the united states but were divided about whether the acquisition of brooks brothers was the right choice and whether marks and spencer agreed to pay too high a price
some also expressed concern that marks and spencer was establishing its beachhead in a portion of the u.s. market that might be softening
wood mackenzie's allen said the company agreed too quickly to something that wasn't a sure deal
marks and spencer's pre-tax profit growth will slow to 5 percent from 10 percent in its new fiscal year beginning april 3 because of the acquisition, allen predicted
but paul backhouse, a retail analyst with the investment firm morgan grenfell and co., said: ``this is a long-term move for marks and spencer.''
analysts also noted that although many foreigners view the u.s market as uniform, it has regional differences that make marketing products challenging
marks and spencer stated thursday: ``the acquisition of brooks brothers would represent a substantial opportunity for marks and spencer to enter the u.s. retail clothing market through a major long-established business with a high reputation for quality.''
marks and spencer said it wants to use its retailing expertise to boost brooks brothers' business
brooks brothers and marks and spencer are similar in that they both sell durable, quality merchandise under their own brand name and they stick with classic designs
but there are some big differences. brooks brothers caters to a small clientele of the well-to-do; marks and spencer markets huge volumes to the middle class
marks and spencer also sells more than clothes. it sells food under its st. michael brand name, and home furnishings
marks and spencer ventured into the u.s. market last year by opening four women's clothing stores in upstate new york under the name d'allaird's
a marks and spencer spokeswoman, who did not want to be named, declined to detail how the stores were faring but said the company remained optimistic about their prospects
marks and spencer has had mixed results with its efforts to expand into other foreign countries
profits for its 11 stores in the rest of europe jumped 25 percent in its most recent fiscal year. but in canada, where it operates 260 stores, its profit sank 61 percent
the company plans to open a store under its own name in hong kong in may
marks and spencer's pre-tax profit jumped 18 percent to 432 million pounds, about $765 million, in the year ended march 1987 on a 13.5 percent revenue gain to 4.2 billion pounds, $7.4 billion
montgomery ward &amp; co., bolstering its move to promote itself as a specialty retailer, announced on friday a realignment of field office management to create several new specialist merchandising positions
the move will create a 20 percent increase in employees, while some current employees will lose their jobs, said spokesman charles thorne. he did not have exact numbers on how many employees will be cut
under the realignment, the chicago-based retailer will close two of its six territorial management offices, one in los angeles and one in kansas city, leaving offices representing the north, south, east and west, thorne said
the new merchandising experts will be spread out primarily at 23 offices throughout the country, with an aim to bring the managers closer to the stores they serve, he said
each of montgomery ward's four major specialty merchandising categories _ electric avenue, auto express, home ideas, and apparel _ will have its own field organization under the realignment
every full-line store features each of the four categories of merchandise, thorne said
as a result, montgomery ward will begin to compete as a specialty retailer right down to the point of sale, as is done by the best specialists in the industry,'' said bernard f. brennan, president and chief executive officer
the new organization will create 10 merchandise director positions, one additional apparel vice president and 115 district merchandise manager positions, the company said in a statement
the district managers will be deployed in the field and are responsible for implementing merchandising and sales training programs at the store level,'' the statement said
the field officers currently in charge of the retailer's territorial offices will concentrate on operations, customer service and other similar responsibilities, thorne said
now, our territorial offices can concentrate their entire effort on sevring customers, while a new group of managers has the task of moving our specialty merchandising strategy ahead,'' brennan said
the move will increase the retailer's field employees to more than 180, he said
the company is in the process of identifying candidates for the new positions, brennan said, adding that they will come from within as well as outside the organization
montgomery ward, a subsidiary of new york-based mobil corp., operates a chain of 316 stores in 39 states. for 1987, sales increased 6 percent to $4.6 billion. earnings rose 23 percent to $130 million in 1987, the second consecutive year of record earnings, the retailer said. documents</head>
manville corp. said friday it will make available at a denver storage facility more than 16 million asbestos-related documents to those involved in resolving health claims against the company
billions of dollars worth of asbestos-related lawsuits drove manville into chapter 11 reorganization. the denver-based company's reorganization plan has been confirmed, but it cannot emerge from bankruptcy until all appeals have been exhausted, and one currently is pending
manville said in a prepared statement that the repository, which is believed to be the most comprehensive of its kind, will be established in cooperation with the manville personal injury settlement trust, the committees representing asbestos health claimants and other interested parties
manville officials said the repository should be operational in six weeks, and access guidelines will be provided
the documents were produced from 1983 through 1986 in two widely publicized manville lawsuits against 29 insurance carriers and the u.s. government. the company said some documents support claims that manville knew or should have known before 1964 that some employees and customers were at risk because of exposure to high levels of asbestos
manville has agreed to pay $2.5 billion over a 28-year period, including $615 million in insurance proceeds, into the personal injury settlement trust when the chapter 11 plan is completed. the company also will give the trust 50 percent of its common stock and convertible preferred stock for use if needed. the trust also will share in manville profits as long as necessary to pay off the claims
japanese share prices posted modest gains at the start of half-day trading in tokyo saturday following an overnight rise on wall street, and analysts predicted a 13th consecutive day of gains in a market intent on recouping its losses after the october crash
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which gained 64.52 points friday for the 12th straight trading day, gained another 5.74 points, or 0.02 percent, in the first 15 minutes of trading to rise to 25,170.92
it's the 13th day of straight gains and the market is definitely headed for a rally ... it's 100 percent sure,'' said a trader with nikko securities, one of japan's four largest brokerages
the index stood at 25,746.56 points just before the mid-october crash when it lost nearly 4,000 points in one trading day. it was the largest single day drop for the nikkei
the trader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said tokyo trading opened on a positive note, taking the lead from moderate gains in new york friday, and then shot up by some 40 points by mid-morning
trading companies and supermarket issues were winners, he said
other notables included precision machine makers such as as olympus and ricoh, as well as pulp and paper, transportation and nonferrous metals
the tokyo foreign-exchange market is closed on saturdays
