egypt and jordan said monday the united states should not advance interim solutions to the palestinian problem and urged that any u.s. peace plan aim for a final settlement through an international conference
president hosni mubarak of egypt and prime minister zaid rifai of jordan separately outlined that position in remarks to reporters. rifai arrived in cairo monday for a one-day visit
u.s. secretary of state george shultz will visit the middle east at the end of this month
officials in washington and israel have said a new u.s. peace plan was outlined to arab and israeli leaders by richard murphy, the assistant secretary of state for near eastern affairs
the egyptian president visited washington last month and held talks in cairo with murphy last week. however, mubarak said: ``the americans have not given us a specific (peace) plan.''
but we have taken the position that any plan must clearly include: first, an overall settlement of the problem and, second, an international conference as a framework without any attempt to outflank it.''
for any peace plan to succeed, mubarak said, it must envisage ``the final outcome, and we must stay away from any words or provisions that were in the camp david agreements because they are outdated and finished.''
he referred to an autonomy plan outlined in one of the u.s.-mediated 1978 camp david accords between egypt and israel. it provided for an interim arrangement under which the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza, captured by israel in 1967, would exercise self-rule for five years
the plan also provided that negotiations begin not later than the third year of autonomy to consider the final status of the two territories
reports from washington and jerusalem last week said a two-stage plan carried by murphy suggested an accelerated version of the camp david formula
the reports said the plan proposed talks, to be held under international sponsorship, on limited palestinian self-rule as an interim measure. those talks would begin in april and negotiations on the final status of the two territories would be held in december, the reports said
after his 90-minute meeting with mubarak, rifai said that jordan opposed ``partial solutions or projects for self-rule'' in the west bank and gaza. jordan wants a final settlement through an international conference, he added
the state-owned middle east news agency reported that rifai carried a message to mubarak from king hussein. rifai did not comment on any message
the washington reports suggested that shultz's tour will be to sell the two-stage plan to arab and israeli leaders
mubarak's remarks on monday appeared to reflect serious reservations about the reported plan
shultz is coming and if he is bringing proposals to offer to the parties concerned, i hope they will keep away from camp david and will cover a final solution,'' he said
he said an international conference ``would give all parties confidence.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel opposes an international conference, contending it would pressure israel into making territorial concessions
if a peace plan does not seek a final settlement through an internatiuonal conference, mubarak said, ``the consequences will not be good
i do not wish for any initiative to fail. i wish for an initiative that aims for a final solution establishing just peace in the region.''
rifai reiterated jordan's demand for a united nations-sponsored international conference with the participation of the security council's five permanent members and all concerned parties, including the palestine liberation organization
we are against any plan dealing with partial solutions or projects for self-rule. we seek a final settlement ... our assessment of any initiative will depend on how close it comes to the position i have stated.''
since palestinian demonstrations against israeli rule broke out dec. 8, more than 50 arabs have died of israeli gunfire
in ottumwa, iowa, kathy pietraszewski stood in the doorway at the place where the republican caucus was held last monday night to encourage shy voters to cross the threshhold for pat robertson
she was a soldier in robertson's ``invisible army.''
there were two of mine that couldn't come because they were sick, but there were four who surprised me,'' says mrs. pietraszewski, 35, mother of two. ``i knew them all as they came in; i went out and personally met them so they wouldn't be afraid to go to the caucus.''
when the heads were counted, there were 64, and 43 of them gave the nod to robertson
statewide, robertson finished second, behind bob dole but ahead of vice president george bush _ a shock to many, but not to some robertson people who like mrs. pietraszewski had been working for their candidate for months. (``i told my family there will be lots of other christmases, but this one's different.'')
the robertson ground troops, new to politics and excited by success, are starting to ask themselves if they have it within their power to put their man in office
a lot of people have said, well, i agree with pat robertson's stands, but i don't want to waste my vote,'' the rev. walter holder, pastor of the first baptist church told the concord (n.h.) monitor. ``that was before iowa. my impression is now he's a little more electable. there may indeed be a groundswell.''
the rev. john fortin of the faith christian center in bedford, n.h., puts it this way: ``if pat is god's man then somehow he's going to get in there. but not without a lot of hard work and prayer.''
and the rev. ken borchers, pastor of the united methodist church in ashland, tells of a lunch that a group of clergymen had with robertson. after getting to know him as a person, borchers said, ``we all laid our hands on him and prayed for him. we prayed for strength and guidance and prayed if it is god's will, that he be elected.''
jeffrey k. hadden, a university of virginia sociologist and a robertson biographer, says robertson came up with a masterstroke in insisting that three million followers sign petitions before he would decide to run. the tactic gave robertson an army
he asked people to pledge that they'd work for him, pray for him and give him money,'' says hadden. ``political historians may view it as one of the most ingenious things a candidate ever did.''
these days, robertson soft pedals the church-based foundation of his candidacy. he says he should be thought of as a television network executive and the chancellor of a fully accredited graduate university. to call him merely a tv evangelist, he protests ``is bigotry and it's an insult. and it denigrates who i am and what i am and i'm sick of it.''
for all that, most of robertson's followers come out of the evangelical churches of america. they know him best as a man of god _ and they speak of him, often, in language unblushingly tinged with theology
i just believe robertson is going to win,'' says gloria widmann of waterloo, iowa. ``he operates in miraculous wonders in terms of what the bible says _ prophecy, healing, miracles. he operates just like jesus did and he loves just like jesus did. and we need a man of god in the office.''
in port huron, mich., billye knoik, who quit her job as a church secretary to work for robertson, scoffs at the term the press has given robertson's political flock
these are just your common, everyday folks from various and sundry backgrounds and pat is touching these people,'' she says. mrs. knoik, mother of three grown children, got to know robertson from watching the 700 club on the christian broadcasting network
in new hampshire, where on tuesday robertson faces his first test in a primary, mrs. maria farris, 37, of londonderry, town chairman and robertson's local coordinator, says the conventional wisdom _ that robertson will have trouble in a primary election _ has missed the point
it's there,'' she says of a robertson post-iowa surge. ``there's a tremendous force that hasn't been really identified in the normal political process.''
registration ended last weekend in new hampshire and city and town clerks say they were so busy for three weeks they didn't have time to leave their offices and grab lunch
the lines were long. nearly 1,000 people registered in manchester on a saturday. many are first-time voters. many registered undeclared, meaning they can vote democrat or republican. secretary of state william gardner estimates the late surge added 15,000 to 25,000 voters in a state where ronald reagan won the primary in 1980 with 73,000 votes. gardner can't guess how many of the new registrants are robertson supporters
the rev. keith marsh, a pastor at the dartmouth area christian fellowship in new hamsphire, says in 1986 about 50,000 residents of the state gave money to the christian broadcasting network
after iowa, all the candidates flew to new hampshire, but robertson went to minnesota, which holds caucuses feb. 23 and where a strong ``pro-life'' movement has ties to fundamentalist churches
dole's minnesota co-chairman, carl ludeman, says jack kemp is no longer dole's greatest threat. ``we feel that in minnesota we have only one competitor in grass roots organization, that's pat robertson.''
in hawaii, where robertson won overwhelmingly in the feb. 4 republican caucuses, gop chairman howard chong credits a 60 percent rise in party registration tp robertson's appeal
says robertson co-chairman gene ward: ``we draw from mainstream conservatives, evangelicals and those who know pat from the 700 club.''
in iowa, retiree chuck underwood of des moines, a lay pastor, says robertson's appeal politicized the non-political _ like himself
i've got to get with it,'' underwood tells a reporter. ``i've got to get involved. i'm ashamed to say that's the first caucus i ever attended.''
were robertson people in iowa told to be evasive to pollsters so the robertson strength would come as a surprise?
no, underwood says: ``people have a little bit of a problem with the role of the media. they were tight-lipped on the thing.''
guy rodgers of shenandoah, iowa, a robertson activist who has worked for a number of christian causes: ``we had a lot of people support pat who we referred to as closet supporters. i saw that in my own precinct. i saw people we hadn't identified, people we didn't know. there were extra numbers here that we weren't aware of.''
the rev. david nelms, pastor a des moines baptist church, says evangelical churches didn't outright support robertson, but they sure gave up preaching that politics is securlar business to be shunned in favor of the lord's work
for years, we heard christians should stay out of politics,'' he says. ``of late, our leaders have encouraged the opposite.''
a federal judge monday temporarily barred enforcement of a new federal rule that prevents federally funded family planning clinics from advising pregnant women on abortion. the ruling applies to three organizations in colorado and utah that brought suit
u.s. district court judge zita l. weinshienk granted the motion by the three birth control services groups seeking a preliminary injuction against the new rule scheduled to go into effect march 3
the order just says the government cannot put these regulations into effect until we have a chance to hear it in a final hearing,'' weinshienk told the associated press
the judge said she expected new hearing dates to be set within a week. she also said two other similar cases are before federal judges in boston and new york
filing the suit against the government were rocky mountain planned parenthood based in denver, planned parenthood of utah and the boulder women's health clinic. the ruling temporarily barring enforcement of the rule applies only to those three organizations, weinshienk said
the suit claims new federal ruling violates the federal title x statute and the intent of congress, censors free speech rights at family planning clinics and violates the right of privacy of clinics and their patients
the department of health and human services had ruled that beginning march 3, family planning programs receiving federal funds could not provide pregnant women with information on abortion or refer them to other sources, even if they ask
administration officials have said the rule is intended to make sure federal funds are not used to promote abortion, even indirectly
weinshienk said she based her decision on many u.s. supreme court rulings that said there could not be rules that ``dictated to doctors what they say to patients, which is what the regulations attempted to do.''
based on that finding, and the fact that all of these cases indicated that such attempted regulation was unconstitutional, i found irreparable injury. the last two prongs for such a preliminary injunction are a balancing of harms to the plaintiff and against harms to the defendant,'' the judge said
the order will be in writing and out by the end of the week, she said
the judge said she made the ruling on a holiday, presidents' day, because it was the only date when the two sides and she could get together
the government wanted it heard as soon as possible. the plaintiffs ... wanted it heard before the regs (regulations) went into effect on march 3. i said fine, if you want to come in on a holiday, i will too,'' weinshienk said
when pat robertson's campaign bus pulls into shopping malls, the driver turns on his tapes of john philip sousa marches and passers-by strut on the sidewalks. inside, robertson and his aides are busy passing out a different type of cassette _ his positions on issues ranging from abortion to defense
robertson's campaign for the republican nomination for the presidency is as much showmanship as it is politics. it's one of the slickest shows in town now finishing its run in new hampshire and heading south next
at a major rally to fire up supporters, randall brooks, who starred as annie in the smash broadway musical 10 years ago, sings the hit song, ``tomorrow.''
and as the song goes, you can bet your bottom dollar that robertson is hoping the sun will come out tomorrow, er tuesday, in the form of a strong showing in the new hampshrie primary
at a rally in concord saturday night, you'd have thought robertson had already won his party's nomination. it had all the trappings, the straw hats and robertson placards, of a nominating convention
eight hundred supporters clapped, stomped their feet and chanted:
we want pat! we want pat!''
go, pat, go! go, pat, go!''
then, of course, robertson came out on stage and whipped the crowd into a frenzy
when i look at your faces and see this enthusiasm, i believe we are going to see victory in new hampshire,'' he said. ``i'm talking to people who love america. this state represents what's good in america because it stands for faith in god. it stands for strong family values. it stands for preservation of life for the unborn.''
and when you ask around in the malls and at the rallies about pat robertson, his followers tell you he stands for all those things. simple as that, they say
kelly griswold, a mother of five children from londonderry, sang a couple of inspirational songs for robertson
one of them was ``can't we be friends.'' _ ``can't we be friends. life's too short. too soon it ends. and good friends are so hard to find. can't we be friends. someone like you is one of a kind.''
the second one, ``eagle song,'' she wrote herself: ``an eagle tucked with golden wings is flying on his way upward, heavenward bound.''
i feel that's what pat's calling is,'' she said later. ``that's what i believe pat is meant to do. he's my man.''
martha greer drove 30 miles from laconia to see robertson this night. she explained that she was an ``8_88.'' that means she found eight more voters to support robertson in '88
he's a solid man,'' she said. ``he stands for a lot of good things. he stands on the bible for one thing. he's a good christian man.''
at the malls, robertson works the crowds relentlessly. he's in pizza parlors, bookstores and barber shops, smiling, shaking hands, embracing voters
at a candy shop, he wishes voters a happy valentine's day, then matter-of-factly says to them, ``i need some help on tuesday.''
annie sims, the preacher's wife, delivered the prophecy at a noon prayer meeting late in december:
the lord said he was going to send a tornado, and many shall die,'' she recalls, saying god spoke through her during the prayer service. ``he was going to send his fury and vengeance on the people.''
so 17 faithful members of the repairer of the breach church of god in christ gathered at their small westside church _ a converted two-story frame house _ on jan. 3 to await the wrath of god
the congregation has been waiting, faithfully, peacefully, ever since
any day now, any moment, members believe, god will send a tornado spinning down from the heavens to smite the wicked and spare the righteous. and spare their church
their number includes a school teacher, a recent college graduate, a college freshman, and a restaurant worker with a management degree
they have sacrificed jobs and education, as well as the respect of family and friends who question their sanity
the congregation has been challenged by the power of the state, too
five members have been removed under court order _ though two of them have returned since undergoing forced psychiatric examinations. two children were taken from their mother and returned to school, and a 51-year-old man was ordered to undergo kidney dialysis treatment
but unlike a mormon polygamist clan in utah whose recent resistance of police ended in a shootout that killed one officer, these religious fundamentalists have quietly accepted the intrusions
we're not against the court,'' says m.l. sims, the church elder and preacher, the husband of annie. ``if god allows it to happen, then that's it.''
sims, 36, says he's also lost the support of national church headquarters in memphis, tenn., which ordered him to take down a sign proclaiming affiliation. ``until the lord says to move it, it's going to be up,'' he says
a woman who answered a call at the memphis headquarters said no one was available to discuss the matter
despite the challenges from outsiders, sims and the church members welcome visitors and talk freely. all profess an unshakeable belief in the tornado. none say they want to leave
the 39-year-old mrs. sims first prophesied the tornado would strike jan. 3, then jan. 24. both dates passed uneventfully. the simses now say god delayed the tornado to gain time to spread the warning. no new date has been set
it'll be pretty soon,'' says sims. ``it's nationally known now.''
no one's faith is shaken by the delay, or by meteorological precedent
tornadoes can occur anytime, but most of the tornadoes in this area occur from march through june, and then again late in the fall,'' said national weather service forecaster larry mowery, who says he can't recall a midwinter tornado ever striking the area
religion professor patrick olivelle, chairman of the department at indiana university, says apocalyptic visions are common religious themes
of course there are always reasons why the end never comes,'' he said. ``i always tell my students that religion is not logic, and you cannot put logical questions to that.''
one of those waiting in the church, david freeman, a 24-year-old graduate of grinnell college with a major in spanish, said, ``there's no doubt in my mind, or in anyone's mind that it's going to come.''
freeman stopped showing up for his bank teller's job after jan. 3, then called the bank to explain. ``they didn't really understand it,'' he said. ``but after the tornado comes they'll understand, and they'll congratulate us for standing up for the lord.''
the family of ruschell harris, a gary school teacher, and her 16-year-old daughter, jeanetta, won the court order compelling the two to undergo psychiatric evaluation
really, at the time, they felt i was so deeply under the influence of pastor that we couldn't do our own thinking,'' she said. ``if i believe something, and it's different from what you believe, does that make me insane and you not?''
mrs. harris said she and her daughter returned voluntarily to the church after a psychiatrist found them competent
i'm 47 years old. i've been teaching for 20 years. i've taken my daughter out of school,'' said mrs. harris indignantly. ``do you think i would be here if i didn't believe it?''
jeanetta says it doesn't matter she's missing out on school. ``it doesn't bother me because after the tornado, the school may not be there.''
a court gave custody of patricia sanders' two sons, allen simmons, 13, and charles russell, 12, to a brother, who will return them to school. child welfare authorities took the children from the church
i don't fight that. they're just doing their job,'' says mrs. sanders. ``they don't understand, because this is spiritual.''
the days are occupied with informal services, talking and just waiting
praise god, because this world is coming to an end, and we want to be right,'' chanted elder sims during one service. ``people say we're strange, they say we're crazy, that we're crackpots,'' he intones, mopping sweat from his face with a towel thrown around his beefy shoulders. ``but we're just doing what god says to do.''
better be so ready, you may not know the day,'' sings the congregation, now a choir whose voice reverberates off bright blue-painted plaster walls
there is no television or radio in the church, and no newspapers. adult members take turns preparing meals in the fully equipped kitchen, and the teen-agers clean up. the simses live upstairs. at night, the others fold up the metal chairs and spread out bedding
the cramped quarters are part of the sacrifice. ``we've all sacrificed here,'' says 18-year-old falease lemon, who dropped out of indiana univerity's gary campus. ``god is going to pay us in return.''
jacqueline sims, the preacher's 18-year-old daughter, says the waiting will be ended soon
we'll be out there after the tornado,'' she says. ``then the world will be a better place to live, with everybody doing god's will.''
the french, known for fickleness in politics and love, have become so enamored of president francois mitterrand that they affectionately call him uncle and his following often is compared to a cult
with presidential elections less than three months away, mitterrand is a phantom candidate. he says he has not decided on seeking re-election, but draws celebrities, scientists and ordinary citizens onto his bandwagon in an effortless non-campaign
politicians who have spoken with the 71-year-old socialist say he will declare his intentions in early march. the first-round vote is set for april 24
meanwhile, mitterrand is called more and more by the nickname tonton, an affectionate term for uncle. he has become a sort of political superstar, imperturbable and lovable in his presidential grandeur
lacking a declared rival in the socialist opposition, premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre have a problem. the two leading conservatives are reduced to shadow-boxing with the avuncular mitterrand image at the risk of looking like family bullies
francois mitterrand would be well advised to give an answer soon,'' chirac said recently. ``a presidential election is an important affair.''
barre has criticized ``the often abusive use of an image, that of the nice old uncle. it's both charming and fuzzy. it's sweet tonton.''
mitterrand's popularity has risen since his socialist government lost power to the chirac conservatives in march 1986. he has led opinion polls for months, but the phenomenon called ``mitterrandolatry'' or ``tontonmania'' is recent
with the socialist party not conducting an official campaign, independent committees began springing up around the country, gathering signatures and putting up mitterrand posters
groups of noted scientists, intellectuals, homosexuals and others advertised their support
actor gerard depardieu said he never votes, but he bought a full-page newspaper ad declaring: ``mitterrand or nothing.'' the rock star renaud sponsored a similar ad, urging the president to ``hang in there.''
dominique jamet, editor of the right-wing newspaper quotidien de paris, was among hundreds of people who signed an appeal saying, ``don't leave us.'' he was fired immediately
justice minister albin chalandon compared the president's relationship with the french to that of marshal philippe petain, head of the vichy france government that collaborated with the german occupation in world war ii. many of the french were scandalized by the comparison
chalandon called the situation ``irrational'' and said the campaign climate risked becoming one of ``soft, vague demagogy.''
indeed, pro-mitterrand letters being published speak of ``dr. mitterrand,'' his ``intellectual firmness'' and his ``cultural finesse.''
a quarterly magazine named influence quoted a former dancer at the crazy horse nightclub as saying mitterrand is not a sex symbol, ``but he is so soft, with such a watchful air, that it gives him in my eyes great charm. without mentioning his intelligence, which seduces me completely.''
historian jacques julliard, who studies public opinion and contemporary political culture, says ``tontonmania'' is explainable
always in france there is the role of the providential man,'' he said in a telephone interview
as a president sharing power with a conservative premier, mitterrand has a high profile without the blame for unpopular government policies
he is a president who doesn't govern,'' julliard said. ``when he officially becomes a candidate, he'll start losing points.''
one of many recent polls indicated 61 percent of french people want mitterrand as president, 48 percent prefer barre and 40 percent favor chirac
in early 1986, when a socialist government still was in power, mitterrand's support was 39 percent
if mitterrand is not officially a candidate, it is to make himself desired,'' wrote serge july, editor of the leftist newspaper liberation, reflecting the view that the president's refusal to declare himself is a political tactic
mitterrand has made few comments about ``tontonmania,'' saying only that he had no hand in the private efforts on his behalf. as he put it in late december: ``it's very nice of them. they didn't consult me and so i have neither to say go ahead nor to stop them.''
two decades ago, affordable housing and a good highway system lured dozens of major companies to connecticut's suburbs of new york city. today, highways are clogged, $500,000 homes are considered pedestrian, and a corporate exodus may be on the horizon
the waves of growth from new york's global market, which once brought treasures to connecticut's ``gold coast,'' now threaten to erode some of its most precious economic gains
over the past year, at least a half dozen big companies have announced plans to close or relocate their fairfield county operations and many more are said to be considering such moves. a recent survey of 300 local manufacturers found a third considering partial or total relocations
the main gripe: the suburbs, which used to have the location without the cost of the big apple, have grown so clogged with people and cars that life here is no longer a bargain
most people who make a move do a lot of looking and if they're after big cost differences, there's no longer a big cost difference between new york and fairfield county,'' said peter helie, chief operating officer of the william pitt real estate company, which has 16 offices in connecticut
so, if they're looking for a lower-cost area, they're bound to move off the east coast.''
housing prices have soared so that many homes are out of the reach of even some two-income families. in greenwich, the average price of a home has risen from $86,730 in 1970 to $706,150 last year, said stanley klein, publisher of the greenwich record of real estate sales
he said the ``american dream'' _ a four-bedroom home on one acre of land in greenwich _ costs a family about $540,000 today
howard t. owens, a state senator from bridgeport and chairman of the general assembly's transportation committee, describes the situation on interstate 95 and the merritt parkway _ the region's major highways _ as ``absolutely horrendous.''
it's gridlock from 6:30 a.m. to after 8:30. a ride from bridgeport to stamford that should take 25 minutes takes more than one hour, and if every aspect of mass transportation was used by the year 2000, we'd still have hopeless gridlock,'' owens said
william s. woodside, former chairman of primerica corp., said if some of these trends aren't stemmed, fairfield county could become a pasture for top executives with little commerce because people who work in the trades, restaurants and other businesses won't be able to afford to live here
woodside, who moved primerica's headquarters to greenwich in 1970 when it was american can co., is chairman of the regional plan association, an economic planning organization for the tri-state region of connecticut, new jesey and new york
he said that when companies moved to connecticut in the 1970s, housing was affordable, land was plentiful and an ample labor pool was available
the county has changed dramatically already,'' he said. ``greenwich has closed schools in the last 10 years and they do that because they no longer have enough kids to use the schools. no young people can afford to live in these cities.''
evidence of a possible corporate exodus cropped up in 1987, when at least six companies pulled out of the area:
_georgia-pacific corp. announced it would move most of its regional operations from darien to its corporate headquarters in atlanta. the fortune 500 forest products company employed 320 people in darien, making it the town's single largest employer
_revere copper and brass inc., which had moved from new york to stamford about two years ago, said it planned to relocate its headquarters in the midwest
_penn central corp. said it would move its headquarters from greenwich to cincinnati
_stauffer chemical co. announced it would close its headquarters in westport. its three main businesses were split up and the headquarters are moving to shelton, conn., wilmington, del., and chicago
_electrolux inc. said it would shift its headquarters from stamford to atlanta
_iomega corp. returned to utah only a year after moving its headquarters to stamford
most cited the need for ``consolidation'' as the reason for leaving, but one knowledgeable observer said the high cost of staying in the area was a contributing factor
essentially those who can break away and have no need to be in the command center of the global market are finding other locations and being in a sense pushed out or at least costed out by those who have to have that location,'' said john keith, president of the regional plan association
a survey by the southwestern area commerce and industry association, a coalition of business groups and the state, said last year that twice as many manufacturers moved out of fairfield county as moved in during the past five years
manufacturing generates $10 billion in revenues and provides 36 percent of the jobs in the county, said al petrikas, president of the wilton-based vitta corp. and chairman of the task force that directed the survey
but john mitovich, president and chief executive officer of sacia, said he doesn't believe ``the bloom is completely off the rose'' in fairfield county
when people look at the region and see some traffic patterns, some people like to attribute the erosion (of businesses) to traffic or cost, but that's not completely it. there's a range of things happening,'' he said
mitovich said some of the companies that moved to the region in the 1970s are no longer here because they have been merged with others or bought out
corporate executives at companies that have not announced any plans to move decline to discuss the possibility of relocating because it worries their employees
but when louis harris and associates, the survey research firm in new york, asked chief executive officers to name the best major metropolitan area in which to locate a business, none of the 403 executives ranked any connecticut cities in the top tier. they said atlanta was the best location
overall, the new york area, which includes connecticut, does get a pretty bad rap,'' said merl baker, executive vice president of louis harris in new york
as six states and the district of columbia launch a new multistate lotto game, associated press bureaus in 26 states checked on their states' experience with legal wagering
twenty-six states are now wheedling extra dollars from their taxpayers with lottery games, helping senior citizens in pennsylvania, schools in ohio and economic development in iowa and oregon
total sales exceeded $12 billion last year. eight states sell $1 billion or more in lottery tickets a year, keeping a third or more of that amount to support state programs. within the last year, florida, kansas, montana and south dakota have joined the club, and wisconsin and virginia will begin games this year
though most states report rising income from wagering, some have to hustle to keep bettors interested
last week, pennsylvania scrapped a lotto game that had sold $2.2 billion worth of tickets since 1982 and launched a ``wild card lotto'' game. players in the old game picked six numbers out of 40, but the new game has 48 choices
that changes the odds of winning from one in 1.9 million to one in 6.1 million. that, in turn, increases the chances of creating one of those humongous $30 million or $40 million jackpots that inspire frantic ticket sales
we've had so many people who've won a million or more, it now takes a pot of $10 million to generate the interest that $5 million did once,'' says laurie kipp-klecha, a spokeswoman for the lottery in michigan, where on sunday officials said someone was holding a $17 million ticket after the latest drawing
people like to spend a dollar to have a shot at the moon,'' said kathy rem, a spokeswoman for the illinois lottery
that's also the theory behind the new six-state ``lotto america'' game, launched last week in oregon, iowa, kansas, missouri, rhode island, west virginia and the district of columbia. with more bettors to lose money, the game can offer bigger prizes _ a minimum of $2 million
our motivation is to offer oregonians a chance to play in games they could play in one of the big states,'' said james davey, whose state lottery faces big-jackpot competition along the california border
no one picked all seven numbers to win the jackpot in the first lotto america drawing held saturday night. more than 2 million tickets were sold, spokesman brett voorhees said in des moines, iowa
colorado legislators, who have seen lottery sales slump from $136.9 million in the first year, 1982-83, to as low as $105.3 million in fiscal 1985, are debating a big-jackpot lotto game this year
donald l. bean, assistant director of the ohio lottery, credits the state's ``super lotto'' game with helping build ticket sales from $100 million in the first year, 1974-75, to $1.07 billion last year
there are seven other states in the billion-dollar club: california, illinois, massachusetts, michigan, new jersey, new york and pennsylvania
new york has the most lucrative games, earning $666.8 million on sales of $1.46 billion, a 45 percent profit, in the fiscal year ending march 31, 1987
new jersey, michigan and pennsylvania all extract more than 40 percent from their games as well
however, missouri's 2-year-old lottery has run into problems because the state constitutional amendment authorizing the games requires that 45 percent of the proceeds go to the state and that no more than 10 percent go to administration
an independent audit commissioned by the legislature concluded that the game would fail early in 1989 unless more money was offered as prizes and more money was available for administration. an amendment reflecting those recommendations will be on the missouri ballot later this year
the missouri lottery earned $80 million last year, far less than the $250 million a year some legislators had forecast
even a successful operation such as the new york lottery contributes only 2.5 percent of the state's general fund budget, and there is no reason to believe that lotteries have been a substitute for tax increases
new york's game began at the same time sales, personal income and corporate taxes were rising in the free-spending years of gov. nelson rockefeller. washington state's lottery came with a package of tax increases in 1982, when the state was hard-pressed for cash
dave ellis, spokesman for the massachusetts lottery, recalled that the lottery was promoted in 1971 as a way of avoiding a sales tax increase from 3 percent to 4 percent. in 1975, the sales tax went up to 5 percent _ part of a program by newly elected gov. michael dukakis to eliminate a $600 million deficit
pennsylvania's receipts are earmarked for senior citizen programs such as tax subsidies and prescription drugs. despite projected growth of 11 percent next year, revenues were lagging behind program requirements, and gov. robert p. casey has recommended returning some of the senior citizen programs to general funding
iowa decided not to depend on lottery profits for state operations. instead, ``iowa plan'' proceeds go into one-time economic development programs such as grants to new or expanding businesses
oregon also directs its lottery profits _ $47.3 million last year _ to economic development
florida, which began its lottery last month, has a novel clause making things more difficult for unscrupulous prize winners. it provides for prizes to be awarded to dependents if the winner is a child-support deadbeat. already, $70,000 has been earmarked for dependents
state lottery games have had few scandals, but inevitably someone is tempted to try to shorten the odds
one of the more recent scandals was in new york, where four workers in the lottery division's mailroom were caught intercepting stubs in a ``second-chance'' and putting their own names on them. the four were fired
in 1975, all 318 lottery workers in new york were laid off and the games were suspended after it was discovered that tickets with duplicate numbers had been printed for one drawing. the games resumed the next year
the chairman of new jersey's lottery commission was indicted in 1983 for submitting false letters to a state ethics committee. the panel was investigating whether the chairman, reese palley, had a business relationship with lottery contractors or potential contractors
palley pleaded guilty to a single conspiracy charge
in ohio, a former official was convicted of mail fraud in 1980 along with an accomplice for rigging a game. he was found out when lottery employees noticed that the official's fiancee had won $21,000
pennsylvania had a loaded ping-pong ball scandal in 1980. eight people were convicted of rigging a daily number drawing and winning $3.5 million. greed was their undoing _ investigators said heavy betting by the conspirators gave the game away
last month, delaware's ``high card'' game suffered an embarrassing boo-boo when it was discovered that numbers could be read on a scratch-card game without having to scratch. the cards were withdrawn
there was no question the danish supertanker kate maersk had a gaping hole in its hull, that a crewman was dead, that the burning and crippled ship needed to be towed from the persian gulf
but the question that perplexed the gulf shipping community is one that has become increasingly characteristic of the increasingly confusing iran-iraq war: which nation staged the attack?
it's confusing, and it will grow more confusing,'' said a dubai-based shipping executive who spoke on condition of anonymity according to company rules. ``both sides are diversifying the style of the attacks and the weapons they have been using.''
initially, the gulf shipping community almost unanimously considered the tanker a victim of an iranian raid on thursday. it was a logical target for iran, which attacks neutral vessels in retaliation for iraq's attacks on iranian tankers
it also left the sort of damage characteristic of iranian silkworm missiles
but by sunday, the prevailing opinion among shipping executives was that the ship was the victim of an iraqi raid _ the latest, perhaps, in a series of errant iraqi missile attacks
the executives said a key clue came on friday, when an iraqi jet bomber, a soviet-made badger, fired two c-601 missiles within eight miles of the destroyer uss chandler, which was escorting a convoy of reflagged kuwaiti oil tankers. the navy began escorting the tankers last july to protect them from iran, which considers kuwait an ally of iraq in the seven-year iran-iraq war
the iraqis weren't known previously to have had the c-601s, an air-to-ground version of the anti-ship silkworms favored by iran. iraq normally uses french-built exocet missiles
such changing weaponry on both sides _ and the propensity for mistaken targets _ is clouding the gulf picture. iran, for example, until lately has relied mainly on speedboats equipped with guns to stage its attacks
but earlier this month, a u.s.-made phantom jet of iran's made a sudden reapearance on the gulf, the first iranian jet spotted in the region in a year and a half
shipping executives also believe iranians now possesses substantial numbers of u.s.-designed mavericks, an air-to-surface missile that can cause as much damage as the missiles used by iraq
the iranians also have equipped frigates with italian-made seakiller missiles, which can cause more damage to a ship's hull than cannon shells, rocket-propelled grenades or machine guns that their speedboats normally use
and they have the silkworms, deployed at the southern and northern extremities of the gulf, but mobile and therefore effective from any point along the 600-mile gulf coast
but mistaken targets are what u.s. officers said they fear most in the gulf
last may 17, an iraqi missile strike killed 37 americans aboard the uss stark, a frigate. iraq said the attack was a mistake, and the united states accepted its apology
on feb. 7, u.s. military officers said the battle cruiser richmond k. turner had a ``tense moment'' when the the firing and subsequent explosion of what was believed to be an iraqi missile could be viewed from the ship
there have been other instances in which iraqi missiles fired from long range at a mere radar blip have wound up devastating ships linked to their arab allies, such as kuwait and saudi arabia. iraq also once blasted a fishing trawler
the iranians aren't immune from mistakes. on jan. 22, iran attacked the norwegian-owned havpil as it headed toward the iranian port of bandar abbas with a shipment of refined petroleum products that were, in fact, for iran
so with the weapons changing _ and not necessarily being pointed in the right direction _ the gulf shipping community has now become more cautious about determining who is shooting what, and why
we tend to immediately say it's an iranian attack once a victim of the tanker war is related to saudi arabia or kuwait or when the location of the attack is away from the iranian shipping lanes, but we are growing more careful now,'' said the dubai executive
by ordinary northern ireland standards, the six roman catholics killed by police near the end of 1982 would not stand out among the 2,620 other people who have died during the 20-year conflict
but the six men were unarmed, and the murky circumstances of the police ambushes in which they died have left an ugly mystery that has resurfaced to batter britain's reputation for justice and fair play
critics allege that the shootings, in three separate incidents over a three-week period, were deliberate; that the policemen who did it escaped punishment; and that a senior police officer sent in to investigate was hounded out of uniform because he got too close to the truth
the controversy was rekindled on jan. 25 when the british government, while denying that police mounted a ``shoot-to-kill policy'' in northern ireland, admitted in a statement that there had been a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice
this admission, coupled with a refusal on national security grounds to prosecute the killers, has provoked outcry in britain and ireland, and plunged relations between the two governments to their lowest ebb in nearly six years
in february, the investigating officer, john stalker, published his book, ``stalker,'' a portrayal of northern ireland as britain's unruly backyard, where the normal rules of policing and justice are routinely flouted
critics say the book reaffirms the belief that british rule in northern ireland is unjust toward the catholic minority, and there are worries that the affair will set back recent progress toward reconciliation, most notably the 1985 anglo-irish agreement giving dublin a say in governing the province
on nov. 11, 1982, three guerrilla suspects were shot dead by police as they drove through county armagh. a month later, two more died in similar circumstances in the same area, notorious as a hotbed of guerrilla activity
in between, a teen-ager with no guerrilla connections was killed in a county armagh hayshed that served as a guerrilla explosives hideout, having apparently stumbled innocently into a police ambush
at first the police said all the deaths occurred in the normal course of anti-terrorist warfare. but subsequent evidence suggested the killings were deliberate and avoidable
sir john hermon, chief constable of the royal ulster constabulary, ordered an inquiry, and in may 1984, stalker, the deputy chief constable of the manchester police force, arrived from the mainland with a six-man investigation team
in his book, the lean, bespectacled englishman says he was put on his guard from the outset when hermon told him: ``remember, mr. stalker, you are in a jungle now.''
hermon has refused repeatedly to comment on stalker's book
stalker says he faced constant obstruction from a police force that resented him as an intruder, and from hermon who, stalker believes, was determined to protect his beleaguered force at any cost
nonetheless, after two years of investigation he felt he had uncovered enough to suspect the killings were ``the act of a central american assassination squad _ truly of a police force out of control.''
stalker writes that he had evidence that at least 11 officers were involved in a conspiracy to pervert justice and commit perjury
then, he says, ``the investigation came to an end for me like a car hitting a brick wall.'' in may 1986 he was abruptly dumped from the inquiry and suspended for ``disciplinary offenses.''
the offenses concerned his use of police vehicles and his past acquaintance with people who had minor police records. the panel that sat in judgment threw out the charges and immediately reinstated him
but he was not restored to the northern ireland inquiry. and he does not believe the government's insistence that his suspension had nothing to do with northern ireland
on march 13, 1987, just before his 48th birthday, stalker quit the force and began writing his book. partially serialized in a mass-circulation london newspaper, it has become an immediate best seller
the respected irish times of dublin calls it ``almost a morality play. on the one side, the dark, violent and brutalized struggle between a paramilitary police force and a ruthless guerrilla organization. on the other, the honorable, relentless quest for truth by the unarmed bobbies from manchester.''
stalker's critics say he was naive to think he could march into the middle of a terrorist war and apply his english standards. stalker responds: ``i'm a pragmatic, hard-nosed copper but i draw the line at murder.''
the royal ulster constabulary has issued a statement reiterating that no ``shoot-to-kill'' policy ever existed, and saying it had no hand in stalker's suspension
the statement denied stalker's investigation was obstructed, and said ``there are many other matters'' in his book and statements ``which the police do not accept as being accurate.'' it did not elaborate
stalker says he believes a high-level government decision was taken to oust him, and he says he can understand why. he says he recognizes that if his recommendations had been taken up, they would have devastated the police force at a delicate juncture in northern ireland politics
he believes that there was no ``formal, officially endorsed shoot-to-kill policy,'' but that the constabulary, under constant attack by guerrillas, was pervaded by ``a feeling of `let's do it to them before they do it to us.'''
he also agrees with the decision not to prosecute, saying too much time has passed for a fair trial to be held
stalker believes the problem lies in expecting policemen to be soldiers
in ireland, where stalker has received a hero's welcome, he told a tv interviewer: ``it was this hypocrisy that annoyed me. if somebody had said to me, `mr. stalker, these are soldiers fighting a war and this set of standards must apply,' then i could have taken that into account
but they didn't. they said: `this investigation is to be done in the same way as you would do in birmingham or liverpool,' and that's what i did.''
the government is going out of its way to dampen expectations for rapid change, in contrast to past years, when hints of political breakthroughs proved wrong
the pressures of unrest and sanctions are waning, white officials say, and there is time to crack down on pockets of opposition while trying to persuade blacks to accept less than majority rule
in the week since the 1988 parliament session opened, president p.w. botha and his cabinet have sought to turn the spotlight away from black grievances and focus it on a new economic program that advocates a public-sector wage freeze and privatization of state monopolies
during a string of speeches by cabinet ministers, scant mention was made of the persistent grass-roots struggle by blacks for political rights
instead, there were generalized endorsements of democracy coupled with explanations that it could be extended to blacks only in a slow, circumscribed manner that would leave whites with a final say on national policy
reform cannot take place at the same rate as one can brew instant coffee,'' said stoffel van der merwe, a deputy minister assigned by botha to woo black leaders into negotiations. ``the capacity for people to digest change is limited.''
compared with the hardline apartheid rhetoric of a decade ago, the current talk of sharing power with blacks borders on the revolutionary
but the government also has clarified its non-negotiable bottom line _ continuation of segregated schools, hospitals and living areas, and a political system in which whites could never be dominated by blacks
the nation's blacks number 26 million and their population growth rate is nearly triple that of the 5 million whites
the (political) model we will develop is not intended to seek the approval of the outside world,'' said one government official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``we can't have a political dispensation based simply on majority rule.''
anti-apartheid activists already have dismissed as inadequate one of the few pending pieces of reform legislation _ a proposal to allow communities the option of integrating, subject to approval by residents and the government
most of the official talk about reform is now presented in terms of the new economic program, which proponents say will free large sums of capital for projects benefiting blacks
reform costs money'' has become an unofficial government slogan, with the implication that economic progress must precede a major political shift
botha, in full-page newspaper advertisements sunday, called on south africans to ``tighten our belts'' to build the economic foundation for social and political change
but sampie terreblanche, a leading economist who last year quit botha's national party, suggested in a column in the nationally circulated sunday times that the economy was being stressed ``to detract attention from the tragic failure of the government's political reform.''
extreme-right politicians have condemned the economic plan as a disguised attempt to redistribute wealth from whites to blacks
the government's new approach contrasts with periods in the past three years when at least some officials indicated dramatic political moves were imminent
there were suggestions that nelson mandela, jailed leader of the african national congress, might be freed and that the government might negotiate with the outlawed guerrilla movement
particularly embarrassing was botha's highly promoted 1985 speech in which he said south africa was ``crossing the rubicon'' away from apartheid, then disappointed people who expected specific, momentous concessions
now government officials believe the anc's military strength is waning and claim to have triumphed over the international sanctions campaign
the white liberal opposition is in disarray and anti-government unrest in black townships is down sharply after 20 months of state-of-emergency detentions and security force patrols
there is breathing space, the government believes, to concentrate on long-term plans and confront the challenge by the extreme-right conservative party in three upcoming parliamentary by-elections
gerrit viljoen, minister for black education and development, told foreign journalists that the best way to counter the far-right threat is to promote orderly, effective reform
but the government also is preparing an array of tough moves against its political foes on the left _ moves which could boost its standing on the right. the targets include:
_ militant black trade unions. pending legislation would make it harder for unions to stage legal strikes and easier for employers to fire strikers
_ universities. state subsidies are being sharply reduced this year, and further cuts are threatened unless university officials crack down on anti-government campus protests
_ the press. home affairs minister stoffel botha defended regulations that have subjected anti-government newspapers to threat of closure, and he criticized mainstream english-language papers for a ``venomous vendetta'' against his censorship rules
_ anti-apartheid organizations. officials indicate that legislation is being drafted that would prohibit the receipt of foreign funds by certain anti-government groups, a move that could devastate those whose supporters within south africa are mostly poor
if one gets large amounts of money which is channeled from overseas into the south african political process, then one gets too many foreign shareholders,'' said van der merwe. ``if people want to be active on the south african political front, they must do so with money they raise in south africa.'' 
david crary, news editor for the associated press in johannesburg, has been reporting from africa since 1985
girls should be encouraged to exercise vigorously enough to delay their puberty, because this may help protect them from breast cancer and other diseases later in life, a researcher says
grade school girls who play strenuous sports often have their first menstrual period, or menarche, later than usual. even after adolescence starts, they may miss periods if they work out regularly
although delayed or missing menstruation is often thought to be abnormal, some experts now say that it is natural and even desirable, because it may protect the body from the damaging effects of sex hormones
american girls have been going through puberty at increasingly early ages throughout this century
dr. rose e. frisch of the harvard school of public health said sunday that typically american girls now have their first period at age 12{. but if they exercise in such vigorous sports as tennis, running, basketball or soccer, their average age at menarche is 15{, the same as it was 100 years ago
and frisch said a simple rule seems to apply: the more menstrual cycles a woman has over her lifetime, the greater her chance of breast cancer, the biggest cancer killer among u.s. women. so anything that delays the start of menstruation should lower the cancer risk
i suggest that regular exercise starting early in elementary school would have a long-term spin-off in reduced risk of breast cancer and, from our data, a reduced risk of diabetes and cancer of the reproductive system,'' frisch said
she and other experts who study the effects of exercise on reproduction presented their work at a meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
recent federal statistics suggest that the risk of dying from breast cancer may actually be increasing
dr. jack fishman of rockefeller university said breast cancer may take 40 years to develop. ``what you do in puberty can be very relevant to what happens in breast cancer after menopause,'' he said
frisch based her recommendation, in part, on a study she conducted on 5,398 women who graduated from 10 u.s. colleges. she found that those who had been athletic in college and high school had only about half as much cancer of the breast and reproductive system later in life as those didn't get regular exercise
those who have delayed or irregular periods during their teen-age years seem to suffer no long-term problems. frisch's study found that athletic women had just as many children as those who were less active
dr. tenley e. albright, a boston surgeon who was an olympic skating champion, said coaches and parents often consider delayed or missing periods to be a disorder, while young athletes often do not
she said the condition should be thought of as an ``appropriate adaptive response'' by the body, not a defect
the relationship between exercise and fertility is complex. experts believe that very lean and muscular women sometimes cannot get pregnant because their bodies do not have enough fat to nourish a growing fetus. they must slow down their exercise and put on some weight to become fertile
studies have also found that lean women make more of a non-potent kind of estrogen than do fatter women. estrogen is a key sex hormone that is essential for fertility but also plays a role in cancer of the breast and reproductive system
experts suggest that even though lean women may be fertile, they produce less active estrogen. and this may reduce the growth of cells in their breast and reproductive tissues. when these cells proliferate less, there is also less chance of a cell dividing abnormally and starting a tumor
some researchers also believe that among men, extreme exercise can diminish the production of male sex hormones and might interfere with sperm production. however, the effects of exercise on male fertility appears to be much less dramatic in men than in women. stroessner's rule, move up allegations of rigged balloting. picks up 7th graf pvs, `the colorado ...' edits thereafter to conform.</note>
gen. alfredo stroessner, the western hemisphere's longest-ruling head of state, won an eighth consecutive term as president by a landslide sunday. opposition leaders said the balloting was rigged
interior minister sabino montanaro, head of the ruling colorado party, said the party's list of candidates led by the 75-year-old president won 982,316, or 89 percent of the ballots counted
stroessner has ruled the nation of 3.8 million people since taking power in an army coup in 1954
the radical liberal party, whose candidate was sen. luis maria vega, received 78,141 votes, or 7 percent. the liberal party, led by candidate rep. carlos ferreira ybarra, was third with 32,403 votes, or 3 percent
a total of 1,445,822 voters in this landlocked country were registered to participate in sunday's national elections to pick a president, 36 senators and 72 members of the house of deputies
no one doubted that stroessner would win. the overwhelming majority of registered voters belong to his party and he won the last elections in 1983 with 90.06 percent of the vote
opposition leaders had urged voters to cast blank votes in protest. both ybarra, 54, and vega, 65, acknowledged beforehand that they had no chance of winning
the colorado party said it was suspending its unofficial count for the night. the official central electoral board was expected to release final vote tabulations monday
jorge hicks, election overseer at a polling place in the national university's law school in asuncion, said voting was peaceful
everything went normally,'' hicks said shortly before the polls closed at 6 p.m., 11 hours after opening
fifty official and unofficial observers from 12 countries monitored the voting
a u.s. observer, martin andersen of the washington-based national democratic institute for international affairs, complained to u.s. ambassador clyde taylor that a car in which he and opposition politicians were riding was stopped in ypacarai, 15 miles east of asuncion, by a group of men in plainclothes and police uniforms
we were mistreated without provocation and treated in a beastly fashion,'' said andersen. he said the car's driver, carlos romero perreira, leader of a dissident faction of the governing colorado party, was struck several times
jo marie greisgaber, a u.s. consultant for the institute, said she and a group of uruguayan observers witnessed several election violations in the col. oviedo area, including voting by underage voters
we also were told the area cotton farmers had been advised that cotton prices would not be increased if they did not vote or that they would not be able to sell their crops,'' she said
in col. oviedo, farmer froilan miranda told the associated press he was voting ``because we have a government that says you can't work if you don't vote.''
the small center-left febrerista revolutionary party urged voters to abstain or to cast blank ballots to protest what it said would be a fraudulent election
the party winning the largest percentage of votes gets two-thirds of the seats in congress. the rest are divided according to the percentage won by other parties
about 100 voters applauded when the president dropped his sealed ballot in a wooden box at a polling station in asuncion's middle-class san antonio neighborhood
he pointed to the box and said, ``this is democracy.''
in caaguazu, 110 miles east of asuncion, about 100 people at a roman catholic church chanted anti-government slogans and denounced the detention of domingo laino, president of the authentic radical liberal party
laino, the country's leading opposition spokesman, was placed under house arrest thursday for 24 hours in asuncion. police declined to comment
a new cbs-tv series looking for laughs in two languages will be the first prime-time network show produced with both english and spanish soundtracks, a production spokesman says
trial and error,'' the columbia television midseason replacement sitcom about a hispanic odd couple, is scheduled to debut march 15 with a spanish radio simulcast to the nation's six top hispanic markets
columbia officials are contacting radio stations in target cities and testing sound delivery, columbia's don demesquita said thursday. if it works, viewers in new york, chicago, los angeles, miami, houston and san antonio, texas, will be able to listen in english or spanish
cbs will feed to its affiliates the episodes of `trial and error.' they would feed the second language, spanish, on an audio channel,'' demesquita said. ``then the local cbs affiliate would feed the second audio channel to a participating radio station over a telephone line.''
hispanic homes would be able to turn down the volume on their tv and turn up the volume on the radio and watch the program in spanish,'' demesquita said
cbs has contracted for seven episodes of the program, which stars eddie velez as a young lawyer and paul rodriguez as a t-shirt vendor. while geared for a mainstream audience, the jokes and dialogue were written with an awareness they would also air in spanish
the show revolves around velez's position as the only hispanic lawyer in a prestigious los angeles law firm and rodriguez's steady wheeling and dealing to sell more shirts
the bilingual plans mark the first time an english-language network program has been produced with a spanish-speaking hispanic audience in mind, demesquita said
demesquita hopes cbs eventually sends the spanish soundtrack to all affiliates so stations elsewhere can arrange simulcasts. but network officials want to see if the bilingual broadcasts work in the test markets before making a broader commitment to spanish
it's something the studio brought to us. it's an experiment,'' said cbs spokeswoman ann morfogen. ``one would have to see how it works.''
mathematics, theoretical physics and oceanography are among the fields in which american scientists are likely to learn much from their soviet colleagues during upcoming exchanges, according to a delegation of soviet scientists
the soviet researchers were in boston sunday to describe current soviet research at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
seven administrators from the most prestigious soviet science institutes answered a wide range of questions from reporters in a rare meeting with the press saturday
the researchers seemed relaxed, and they answered questions without hesitation, including difficult questions on soviet development of a star wars defense system
the soviet union does not intend to develop a system like the united states is working on,'' said andrey a. kokoshin, deputy director of the institute for usa and canada studies
a few moments later, when another soviet researcher demonstrated a flashlight-sized laser pointer of the type used by speakers to call attention to details on projected slides, kokoshin elicited laughter when he said, ``this is our sdi (strategic defense initiative).''
asked about development of chemical lasers, which might be used in a missile defense system, kokoshin said, ``they are not very promising, i would say.''
on jan. 12, frank press of the u.s. national academy of sciences and guriy marchuk, president of the soviet academy of sciences, signed a five-year agreement providing for scientific exchanges and cooperation
under the terms of that agreement, joint scientific workshops will be held during the next two years on such topics as vaccine development, earthquake prediction, planetary science, biotechnology and astrophysics
konstantin v. frolov, vice-president of the academy of sciences of the u.s.s.r., said that mathematics, theoretical physics and laser and semiconductor technology are some of the traditional strongholds of soviet science
the soviet union has developed a number of sophisticated scientific instruments,'' he said, speaking through a translator
computer software useful in oceanography has also been developed in the soviet union, he said
in the upcoming scientific exchanges, he said, ``these are areas where the soviet side could bring something to the table.''
he proposed that joint ventures be established to develop computer manufacture. ``there was quite a gap in the introduction of computers in the soviet union, particularly personal computers,'' he said
yuriy a. ossipyan, director of the institute for solid state physics, said that soviet scientists had developed a new description of the interaction of materials in certain high-temperature superconductors. he said that research on superconductivity is being actively pursued at his institute and elsewhere in the soviet union
in a presentation sunday, mikhail v. ivanov, director of the institute for microbiology, said that the soviet union has built industrial plants for the production of animal feed through yeast fermentation
bacteria are being used to leach metals from poor quality ores, to decrease potentially dangerous levels of methane gas in coal mines and to enhance oil recovery, ivanov said
albert galeev of the institute for space research described the planned launch in july of a spacecraft to study the martian moon phobos, which may be an asteroid that got trapped in orbit around mars
as a 52-year-old divorced farmer, frank cook said he had little time left after caring for his cows, hogs, crops and children to find a date
so he has become one of more than 600 farmers, agribusiness workers or other people with rural backgrounds who look for friends and lovers through singles in agriculture, a nearly 2-year-old nonprofit group based in wisconsin
farm people are special people. they're busy and they don't have time to go to things,'' cook said in a telephone interview friday. ``it's hard to find someone when you're on the farm.''
cook, who runs a 1,000-acre dairy, hog, corn and soybean farm in baraboo, is vice president of singles in agriculture
the group, which has members in just about every state and canada, schedules outings such as a campout in missouri or a boat trip in the wisconsin dells and keeps a list of singles with rural backgrounds
it does not emphasize making matches or pushing people to the altar, but some of its members have married each other, said marcella gahm, 49, the group's president
she met marlyn gahm, a 53-year-old beef cattle and grain farmer from pearl city, ill., through the group, and they were married last june
after the death of her first husband on the couple's staceyville, iowa, farm in 1979, mrs. gahm said she was like many farm widows who find themselves in a small, rural town without many single people their age
most of her friends were still married. they invited her to dinner or dances but mrs. gahm said she felt like ``the odd one out.''
she helped start singles in agriculture when 23 farmers who had written to one another through a farm magazine gathered in peoria, ill., in june 1986
the group's members must be either be working in agriculture or have farmed in the past or have grown up on a farm. it includes farmers who lost their farms during tough financial times and now have other jobs, as well as secretaries who grew up on farms, mrs. gahm said
besides the time constraints to dating, farmers need people who understand rural life in order for a relationship to work, she said
i think the (agriculture) person needs someone who is more willing to give than anyone can imagine,'' she said. ``you can have a date all set and if something happens with the livestock or the weather changes, you have to cancel it.''
a forecast of rain may mean staying home to bale hay instead of going to a movie, she said
the group's members range from the early 20s to 77, mrs. gahm said. most are from the midwest _ wisconsin, illinois, iowa, kansas, missouri, nebraska and iowa _ but there are members in several other states, she said
marilyn roette, 50, of chippewa falls, said she believes it may be more difficult for young people on the farm to meet other single young people these days
years back there were more country get-togethers. now it's rare,'' she said
the gals go in the big cities to work and they don't want to come back to live and work on the farm,'' she said
our main goal in setting this up,'' mrs. gahm said, ``is to have people meet someone they have something in common with so that when they're lonely they can pick up a phone and call or write a letter.''
a hand grenade exploded prematurely during a u.s. marine training exercise in france, killing one soldier and injuring two others, a military spokesman said
killed saturday was marine lance corp. gustavo a. rodriguez, 19, of buffalo grove, ill., said capt. mark hughes, a spokesman for camp lejeune. the two injured soldiers were first lt. kevin m. kirwin, 25, of wilmington, del., and staff sgt. mark w. ellars, 28, of painesville, ohio, hughes said
all three marines were stationed at camp lejeune and were training at camp de la courtine in france, he said
kirwin was listed in good condition at a hospital in ussel, france, hughes said, while ellars was listed in stable condition at a hospital in clermont, france. he was expected to be transported to a u.s. naval hospital in naples, italy, for further treatment, hughes said
the three men belonged to the 22nd marine expeditionary unit, formerly called the amphibious unit, hughes said
the accident was under investigation, he said
talk show host oprah winfrey, whose battle with her waistline is waged on national television, admits she's addicted to food
eating is a drug for me,'' she said in an interview published in the march issue of ladies' home journal
it's what i do when i'm really happy, and it's what i do when i'm tired. it's what i do when i'm not sure if i'm happy or tired. it is a disease.''
her favorite food?
potatoes. fried potatoes, baked potatoes, any kind of potatoes,'' she said. ``i could go through my life and never eat a sweet thing. it's mostly potatoes, pasta, breads, fried things, and also that i just eat so much and add butter to everything.''
she said she remembers thinner days
i still have my calvin klein size-10 jeans hanging in my closet,'' she said. ``the last time i wore them was 1982, but i still hold on to them, saying, `well, one day. ...' but maybe never. i don't think i'm ever going to have a size-10 behind again.''
country music stars johnny cash and his wife, june carter, are to be among the performers helping roy acuff celebrate his 50th anniversary on the grand ole opry this weekend, show officials announced
cash and his wife will appear with acuff, 84, on the live country music show friday night. on saturday night, comedienne minnie pearl will be host of a special one-hour tribute featuring guitarist chet atkins, singer pee wee king and others. the tribute will be shown live on the nashville network on cable television
acuff, called ``the king of country music,'' is best-known for his song ``the wabash cannonball.''
thousands of people flocked to a book-signing appearance by hollywood legend bette davis, who basked in the attention by flashing her famous eyes and blowing kisses at photographers
the autograph session saturday at the b. dalton bookstore on hollywood boulevard was for the paperback version of her autobiography ``this 'n' that.'' the location was the former pickwick bookstore, a one-time hangout for charlie chaplin, bing crosby and charles laughton
the 79-year-old actress, wearing an elegant black dress, chain-smoked through a photo session and blew kisses at the photographers
it is wonderful you all came,'' the two-time oscar winner said in a throaty voice. ``i thank all of you, very, very much.''
the fans, many of whom brought flowers, stretched around the block to see the star of ``jezebel'' and ``dangerous.''
miss bette davis is a hollywood institution. she's a legend,'' said michael dreyer, 25, a data entry clerk from sacramento who waited for hours, then knelt as the actress signed his copy
i always wanted to meet her.'' said steve hutton, 30, a pasadena accounting clerk. ``i never thought it would happen.''
the nation's most famous avon lady is celebrating her 50th year of selling avon products door-to-door
avon products inc. planned to throw an anniversary party in minot today for rosie gries, 91, who gained attention in 1986 as a guest on ``the tonight show.'' she sold johnny carson $100 worth of avon products on the air
the company big shots are flying in to minot to give me 50 roses and a beautiful gold watch,'' ms. gries said
ms. gries continues to make regular visits to her avon customers and doesn't plan on retiring anytime soon
as long as my health holds out i want to work for avon,'' she said. ``what else would i do? the day is too long. all i'd have to do is crochet a bit, wash, bake my bread and can food. what would i do with the rest of the day?''
steel guitarist leon mcauliffe hopes a proposed state music hall of fame will immortalize all of oklahoma's big-time musicians, not just the ones who found fame and fortune in nashville
since 1986, mcauliffe has donated $25,000 in equipment and helped build a recording studio at rogers state college's hank thompson school of country music. now he is behind a drive at the school to establish a $10 million music learning and performing arts building that would include the first oklahoma music hall of fame
it's a dream maybe, but you don't get anywhere unless you follow your dreams,'' said mcauliffe, who played guitar for the bob wills western swing band from tulsa
it will honor all superstar oklahoma musicians, not just country and western,'' he said
theodor geisel, dr. seuss to millions of children of all ages for more than 50 years, spent his first carnival weekend here in a style befitting the monarch of a fantasy world
he arrived from his home in san diego on friday and was to leave monday, which recently has been revived in new orleans as lundi gras _ fat monday or the day before mardi gras, fat tuesday
the spry 84-year-old author and his wife, audrey, attended carnival balls, watched parades and at least once danced with a costumed figure representing his famous ``cat in the hat.''
whisked from the airport in a silver limousine to the new orleans museum of art, he was treated to a coffee-and-chicory news conference with reporters who had been raised on his works
one television reporter admitted idolizing him
don't stop now,'' geisel quipped
many west europeans feel the united states did little to protect their interests at the summit last december, but most believe america would keep its pledge to defend them, according to a survey sponsored by the u.s. government
the survey, conducted for the u.s. information agency, also found that most west europeans support the treaty signed at the washington summit to remove american and soviet medium-range nuclear missiles from europe
however, the agency did not repeat a question from a similar poll reported last june, which yielded results embarrassing to the reagan administration. that poll showed that a huge majority of west europeans gave credit for the treaty to kremlin leader mikhail gorbachev rather than to president reagan
the senate has been conducting hearings leading up to a vote on whether to ratify the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty
the new poll found overwhelming european support for the treaty, ranging from 97 percent in west germany to 78 percent in france, with most registering ``strong support'' _ 65 percent in britain, 79 percent in italy, 76 percent in the netherlands and 77 percent in west germany
most of those polled believe that, if the treaty is ratified and the missiles removed, the united states will remain ``committed to the defense of western europe''and ``will do whatever is necessary'' to defend their countries. fifty-nine percent felt that way in britain, 61 percent in france, 67 percent in italy, 57 percent in the netherlands and 56 percent in west germany. belgians were divided, 46 percent agreeing and 44 percent disagreeing
but many also said they believe the reagan administration did little to protect west european interests at the summit
asked how well they thought their country's interests were protected at the summer, 17 percent of the belgians said they thought they were protected ``a great deal'' or ``a fair amount,'' the response given by 16 percent in france, 28 percent in germany, 40 percent in italy, 34 percent in the netherlands and 31 percent in britain
those answering ``not very much'' or ``not at all'' were 68 percent in belgium, 61 percent in france, 65 percent in germany, 40 percent in italy, 55 percent in the netherlands and 56 percent in britain
a sizable minority of west europeans polled believe the treaty makes them more vulnerable to soviet attack: 29 percent in belgium, 26 percent in britain, 33 percent in france, 24 percent in italy, 34 percent in the netherlands, and 16 percent in west germany
majorities or pluralities in all six countries said the soviets signed the treaty, in part, because nato decided in 1979 to deploy u.s. pershing 2 and cruise missiles in europe to counter soviet ss-20's. responding that way were 45 percent in belgium, 51 percent in great britain, 46 percent in france, 72 percent in italy, 63 percent in the netherlands and 50 percent in germany
similar percentages believe that nato should halt the withdrawal of the u.s. missiles if the soviets are found to be cheating: 67 percent in britain, 65 percent in france, 50 percent in italy, 55 percent in the netherlands and 59 percent in germany. belgians were again divided, with 41 percent favoring a halt and 45 percent continued withdrawal
majorities ranging from 78 percent in france to 94 percent in italy described u.s.-soviet relations as good or very good
the survey was based on telephone interviews with about 500 citizens in each of the countries dec. 14-16, immediately after the summit at which the inf pact was signed
the associated press obtained an agency report on the latest survey last week. the agency analysis of the report did not provide a breakdown of those answering all the questions, but instead drew conclusions from the data and published some results
the u.s. information agency has polled west european public opinion since shortly after world war ii, and the results are circulated to american officials in washington and overseas to guide them in relations with foreign nations
the agency tries to promote the image of the united states abroad and advance u.s. views through programs such as the voice of america radio system and the worldnet television satellite system
the margin of error for results of the december poll was plus or minus 5 percentage points, agency polls are conducted by independent companies within each country
george bush and jack kemp, sitting pretty just 10 days ago as new hampshire voters finally turned their attention to presidential politics, are suddenly facing feast or famine in the state's snow-packed primary. and they aren't alone
for pete du pont, bruce babbitt, gary hart and maybe even paul simon, tuesday's elections shape up as a do-or-die test of their ability to stay alive in the 1988 presidential campaign
new hampshire has within its grasp the power of life or death over my candidacy,'' said babbitt, who fashions himself the last honest man among the dirty dozen who have outlasted alexander haig on the campaign trail
the tension is highest among the republicans, where the reagan revolution may ride on the coattails of bush and kemp in their race against bob dole, pat robertson and pete du pont
for just as surely as 12-year-old robyn perry carried the torch to begin the xv winter olympics, bush and kemp carry the torch for the silent, retiring fellow who'll be sitting by the fire in santa barbara
vice president bush, who held a huge lead in the new hampshire polls until he lost iowa in such embarrassing fashion, wrapped himself in the presidency throughout sunday night's debate. at one point he went so far as to defend the state department _ the state department! _ to punctuate the extent to which he hopes voters will put their trust in reaganism
bush must win _ that is, come in first _ tuesday or hope reagan will drop his neutrality and ride to his rescue. it isn't as if bush hasn't got a chance. the weekend polls show him in a first-place duel with dole and he benefits from new, lower expectations which have him fading away to his seaside home in kennebunkport, me
kemp, vowing to ``complete the reagan revolution,'' worked over the weekend to impress new hampshire voters with his pledge not to raise taxes, no matter what. at one point during the day he said, ``i am convinced that sen. dole has a secret plan to raise taxes on the american people.''
kemp can kick around bob dole all he likes but the dole-bush struggle is irrelevant, for now, to his bid for survival. he enjoyed strong poll figures on iowa eve, but his standing as conservative challenger to the front-runners is now being blocked by the emergence of pat robertson
kemp said sunday he'll beat robertson because ``the people of new hampshire want a conservative who can reach out beyond just one segment of the population and win.'' forgotten for the moment is du pont, who hopes to sneak up on everyone tuesday and live to fight another day. so far he has amassed respect but not much support
if bush beats dole, or kemp beats robertson, the topsy turvy gop campaign will be topsy again. it's a little known secret, but the other party, the democrats, are also holding a presidential primary tuesday in new hampshire
michael dukakis has to win big and he probably will, getting an honorable boost as it occurs to people that he handled the spotlight nicely and knows the issues better than his washington-based opponents like to let on
the massachusetts governor already has set up shop in the south and in minnesota (caucuses a week from tomorrow) _ keenly aware that the massachusetts and rhode island primaries give him a spearhead on super tuesday (20 states, march 8) that none of his opponents can easily match
richard gephardt is slugging it out for second place with simon. it's remarkable that simon is still in the hunt after half-a-dozen or so lackluster debates, but he touches a tender nerve among party liberals and gephardt has had trouble answering some of simon's negative ads which imply he isn't trustworthy. if the missouri congressman becomes ensnarled in the inconsistencies of his voting record, dukakis and albert gore jr. and jesse jackson will surely keep chipping away as the voting shifts south
i hope to do much better than people expect on tuesday,'' gore said during a strong anti-gephardt performance over the weekend
babbitt and hart trailed the pack in iowa last week and are expected to spend their last dollar in futility. babbitt has waged a human-scale campaign of humor and candor. but as du pont can tell him, you can't spend respect _ the former arizona governor is running out of money
hart is threatening to go the distance, no matter how pathetic his results may be. but he already has an uncontrollable campaign debt from 1984 and it's hard to see who'll extend him credit for the 48 states to come
jonathan wolman is ap's assistant bureau chief in washington
rock star bryan ferry, ``l.a. law'' actor corbin bernsen and abc-tv anchor peter jennings are among the world's snappiest male dressers, according to the international best dressed poll
prime minister margaret thatcher of great britain, ``60 minutes'' reporter diane sawyer, comedian joan rivers and actress anjelica huston were among the 12 best-dressed women, according to the poll released sunday
about a thousand fashion professionals, journalists and ``others with the daily opportunity to see fashion at its best'' participate in the annual survey held since 1940, said coordinator eleanor lambert
others on the women's list were: susan gutfreund, wife of financier john gutfreund; philanthropist sybil harrington of amarillo, texas, and new york; irith landeau of paris and tel aviv; novelist anna murdoch, wife of publisher rupert murdoch; victoria niarchos, daughter-in-law of shipping magnate stavros niarchos; socialite marina palma of new york and italy; judy taubman, wife of sotheby's chairman alfred taubman; and socialite alexandra theodoracopulos of new york
the men's list included david somerset, the duke of beaufort, england; mark birley, a london restaurateur; richard burt, u.s. ambassador to west germany; julio mario de santo domingo, former colombian ambassador to australia; publishing executive christopher forbes of new york; prince heinrich furstenberg of west germany; count sebastian de ganay of france; banker james niven jr., new york; and painter julian schnabel
researchers have identified a gene in fruit flies that is essential to the working of the biological clock that governs a wide range of bodily processes in humans and animals
the gene is associated with the generation or maintenance of the daily, or circadian, rhythms that presumably evolved to help animals and humans cope with night and day, said michael rosbash, a biologist at brandeis university in waltham, mass. he spoke sunday at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
in addition to controlling the length, or period, of the daily cycle, the gene _ called the period gene _ also governs minute-long fluctuations in the courtship song of the fruit fly, rosbash said
the gene is involved not only in the length of the rhythms but also seems to carry instructions regarding such things as the extent of activity during active periods of the cycle, rosbash said
circadian rhythms are a pervasive feature of human and animal life. they govern fundamental measures such as body temperature and hormonal secretions, and many other more subtle physical and mental factors
researchers do not yet know how the period gene works. that question is being studied intensively by rosbash and jeffrey hall and their colleagues at brandeis, and by michael young and associates at rockefeller university in new york city
rosbash said the period gene presumably triggers the production of a protein. that protein might be part of the clock mechanism, something that researchers know nothing about
or it could be the read-out of the clock, something like the hands on a wristwatch, which give you the information that was generated in the clock mechanism, rosbash said
a third possibility is that the period gene protein somehow controls the genes or proteins that form the clock mechanism, turning them on or off, for example
the two research teams are now working intensively to isolate the protein produced by the period gene and determine its function, rosbash said
among the curious features of the gene that they have identified is a string of 25 pairs of coding units in the gene's genetic message, which encodes proteins
this feature is highly unusual, but it occurs in only one of three species of fruit flies tested. and when it is removed, the gene appears to function well without it. ``the perfect repeat of 25 pairs appears not to be necessary,'' rosbash said
when the entire gene is removed from a fruit fly, the fly loses its circadian rhythms, but it is otherwise perfectly normal, he said
certain mutants of the period gene give flies a circadian rhythm shorter than 24 hours, rosbash said. those genes also reduce the 60-second cycling in the males fruit fly's courtship song, rosbash said
he has also found that the gene appears to be turned on in fruit fly embryos and adults, but not in the larval or pupal stages in the fly's life cycle that occur in between
republican presidential candidates, their prospects riding on the decision of new hampshire primary voters, head into a final day of campaigning after a debate in which the also-rans pounced on the front-runner in an 11th-hour effort to change the odds
sign it,'' pete du pont said to kansas sen. bob dole as the former delaware governor thrust a no-tax pledge in his face at one point in the sunday night debate
i'd have to read it first,'' snapped dole, reviving an old dispute over the inf treaty with vice president george bush. ``maybe george would sign it.''
bush was the target of jabs from kemp and du pont on arms control and prospects for soviet withdrawal of its troops from afghanistan
taking advantage of their last opportunity to impress voters before the polls open on tuesday, the gop contenders were spending the day at coffee shops, shopping malls and service club meetings
the latest polls indicated a bush-dole fight for first place in the republican primary and du pont, rep. jack kemp and former evangelist pat robertson fighting for third place
an abc news-washington post poll released sunday night said dole had the support of 31 percent of likely republican voters, while bush was backed by 28 percent. kemp was the choice of 13 percent and du pont and robertson of 11 percent each
a cbs news survey had it dole, 31; bush, 30; kemp, 11; robertson and du pont, 10 each
when bush said he expected the soviets to go forward with a promised troop withdrawal from afghanistan, kemp said heatedly, ``we have a state department that has run amok on this issue.''
wait and see,'' said bush. ``don't fight progress when you see it. don't be afraid.''
bush tried to close out the argument, saying, ``i don't jump away from the president when the going gets tough'' and then added, ``give peace a chance'' which brought another outburst from kemp
you should be embarrassed to use give peace a chance,'' he said. ``we're the party of peace.''
after the debate, kemp appeared in the press room to say republicans should be saying ``give freedom a chance.''
kemp said the debate showed ``we're looking at the old guard of the republican party versus the future of a party devoted to hope, opportunity and freedom.''
du pont also appeared in the press room to press his contention that dole would opt for a tax increase to deal with the budget deficit
we gave bob dole a chance to take the tax pledge,'' he said
the vice president made it clear he wasn't giving up no matter what happens on tuesday. ``here i stand warts and all,'' he said recalling the words of abraham lincoln. he said he's not the best of orators, but added, ``don't take that for a lack of passion.''
my work isn't done yet,'' he said
robertson appeared to startle his fellow debaters when he said the soviets have placed missiles in cuba. he said his source was the senate foreign relations committee
somehow in all this brilliant negotiation which these gentlemen are so proud of they left that out of the treaty.'' robertson said. ``and it seems like to me nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.''
after the debate, marc nuttle, robertson's campaign manager, said the candidate was referring to missile delivery systems, not warheads. he said the information did not come directly from the foreign relations committee ``but that's where some of the information was compiled.''
he refused to name the source of the information
on aids, dole questioned the value of routine testing for the disease
let's say you test false positive and the word gets out you have the aids virus and you don't have it,'' he said. ``we've got people who are suffering. this is one issue we shouldn't politicize.''
kemp immediately jumped in to say, ``we need routine testing.''
state and federal officials are fighting efforts by texas and california to keep out florida citrus fruit after the lifting of a federal ban imposed to keep a plant disease from spreading to other states
the issue is canker, a bacterial disease with the potential to seriously cripple an entire industry
florida has been battling a mild form of nursery canker for three years. industry leaders and scientists recently succeeded in convincing the u.s. department of agriculture it was not a threat to fruit or trees in commercial groves. officials had initially feared the disease was the virulent asiatic canker
after months of state and federal research and deliberation, the usda last week lifted its 3-year-old ban prohibiting shipments of florida fresh fruit to other citrus-growing states
relaxation of the ban means the reopening of markets valued at $25 million a year, said richard kinney, general manager of florida citrus packers inc., a trade association in lakeland
california, texas and arizona are the biggest producers outside of florida. but louisiana, hawaii, puerto rico and the virgin islands also are affected
texas growers immediately imposed their own embargo to keep florida fruit out for at least 30 days while they seek to overturn the federal order. the texas agriculture department plans to turn back any florida fruit at state borders
exporting florida's misery to texas is not going to be the answer,'' said jim hightower, the texas agriculture commissioner
california's reaction was more restrained. but there was talk of legal action, and an official for california citrus mutual said the usda had not followed proper procedures for public hearings and notification to the concerned states
everyone must go through the legal hoops, and we're not sure they jumped through all the hoops,'' said cliff holland, director of the california trade association's grower services
the usda pointed out that it had held hearings in the los angeles area, in mcallen, tex., and in florida last october on its proposal to lift the ban
nancy robinson, spokeswoman for the usda's animal and plant health inspection service, said she didn't believe the texas embargo would be legally enforceable since it would preempt a federal order
growers gearing up for a resumption of shipments are struggling with a variety of federal rules designed to ensure that no contaminated fruit leaves the state
willard roe, who has fruit packing houses in winter haven and haines city, expects to be one of the first to begin shipping truckloads of florida tangerines to california
but he and other shippers and growers have to undergo rigorous inspections by federal agents. inspectors walk the groves with owners and obtain compliance agreements before fruit is certified for shipment
fruit can only be taken from inspected groves, and must be treated with a bactericide and waxed to remove any surface contamination. growers have to attest that all harvesters and shipping vehicles are free of canker
the rigid requirements mean it will be a week to 10 days before shipments begin, said bobby mckown, executive vice president of florida citrus mutual, which represents more than 12,000 growers
the joint state-federal canker eradication project burned some 20 million trees, mostly seedlings and nursery stock. recent state court rulings raised the prospect that the state may have to pay as much as $200 million to nursery owners who received only $17.4 million as partial compensation for their trees
scientists now say the nursery strain of canker primarily produces mild spotting of fruit and leaves, adding that neither affects the quality of the fruit or juice and canker does not harm people
the asiatic strain, which can weaken trees and cause fruit and leaf damage, was discovered in 1986 in a small gulf coast area of mature groves, which was immediately quarantined. a usda order prohibits shipment of fresh fruit from that region
sen. gordon humphrey, r-n.h., spends his days in solitude with his computer and his headset, working in a ``hideaway'' office where he feels like he's back in a dc-9 cockpit
seventy-nine members of the senate are assigned to the existing 79 senate hideaways, little second offices where they are supposed to be able to reflect, away from the relentless demands of their time
but, unlike most senators, humphrey has turned his public, spacious office in the modern hart office building over to his staffers and turned his one-man capitol hideaway into a full-time, high-tech command center
there, he sits alone, communicating with his staff all day by electronic message, convinced he is ``pushing ahead of senate inertia.''
the circular room looks and feels like a cockpit, as humphrey, a former allegheny airlines pilot, punches up computer displays, talks through his headset, and fiddles with the dials on his radio
back at the hart building, every staffer sits at a computer terminal. there are no secretaries, no typewriters, and no paper except for computer printouts. soft computer beeps announce an incoming message
the staff calls the office the ``3c'' center, military jargon for command, control and communications
i love this stuff,'' humphrey says, as he sits at the computer controls. ``i find the detachment very useful. there isn't enough time to think and read around this place.''
humphrey says there are parallels between his office and a cockpit. ``i've got everything at my fingertips,'' he says. ``you reach for dials in front of you, and reach things above your head.''
when the television set and radio are off, ``there's only the sound of rushing air from the air conditioner. that's similar to the sound of a jet cockpit.''
humphrey boasts that his office is a wonderful time-saver, calculating it takes nearly 15 minutes for a round-trip between the hart building and the capitol for a vote. now, he's only a minute or two from the senate chamber
the hideaway, humphrey insists, is not a place where he hides from his staff and constituents
staffers ``see me when they need to see me,'' he says. any constituent desiring to see him is escorted to the hideaway
darryl fountain, the senator's former legal counsel who is now in private practice, says the system fits humphrey's personality as ``a very disciplined person.''
here's somebody who was an airline pilot who was elected to his first office as a senator,'' fountain says. ``he's not a back-slapper. he's not a b.s. artist. most of the other senators had long years in public life. he does not have the typical political personality that finds him operating surrounded by staff
he's a loner in the sense that he's somebody who has not been compromised by washington lifestyle, where you go to big receptions, parties and black-tie dinners. he doesn't care about his standing vis-a-vis the senate club.''
it's time for humphrey to check his phone messages. ``strongly oppose contras,'' one message says. ``will names be turned over to fbi?``
humphrey's staffers also have learned to make maximum use of the computer, punching in ``fashion notes'' about each other's clothes, ``wheels up'' invitations for after-work drinks, and contributing to an electronic suggestion box
will the person who brings in sandwiches neatly wrapped in wax paper please eat them,'' says one message. ``today we had to dispose of seven petrified sandwiches in seven individual greasy brown lunch bags.''
although current humphrey employees just chuckle when asked about it, former staffer fountain says when one staffer wanted to razz another, he or she would send ``the electronic finger.''
that was a computer drawing of a hand, with an obscene gesture. it started out as a small hand. ``some of us tried to outdo that with bigger ones,'' fountain recalls. ``no one ever sent it to the senator.''
we pride ourselves in taking technology to the limit,'' says administrative assistant frank bray, who wouldn't talk about the finger
humphrey isn't all business, either. when he cleaned out items from his home, he gave them away through the computer: a sofa, calculators, tape recorders, and even old cars
it seems more unusual from the outside,'' says paul young, a former special assistant now working for rep. jack kemp's presidential campaign. ``people have the perception he's sitting in a black hole with no interaction with his people.''
humphrey looks at one of the monitors. it reminds him to take his allergy shots and his vitamins
do you want to talk to the staff about the system?'' humphrey asks at the end of the interview
a reporter agreed, and humphrey tried to telephone his press secretary. no answer
this is the problem when you rely on the phones,'' says humphrey, who quickly sent a computer message that brought a fast response. subsidies</head>
thousands of u.s. farmers will be offered classes in futures and options trading this year in a government experiment to see if profits on the commodities markets can reduce farm subsidies
congress ordered the test project for 40 counties as part of the 1985 farm bill in an effort to find an alternative to expensive price supports
many people are frustrated with the high cost of the current program, farmers included,'' said rep. lane evans, d-ill., a member of the house agriculture committee
we need to have some sort of mechanism to help farmers,'' he said. ``but i think it has to fundamentally change. if it does, it will be good for the taxpayers, better for family-sized farmers and a better system, generally, for our whole country.''
a provision of the farm bill requires the agricultural stabilization and conservation service to try to teach farmers how to use the markets to hedge against risk and boost their income. the agency is to report back to congress on the results by december 1988
the goal is to reduce the amount farmers receive in federal support by whatever they make through commodities trading, in effect transferring part of their subsidy from the government to the private sector, ascs spokesman ray waggoner said recently
it could be the forerunner of a fancy new program, or it could flop,'' waggoner said. ``we don't know, and won't until it's tested.''
farmers will be invited to take classes explaining how to buy and sell their commodities _ wheat, feed grains, soybeans and cotton _ and will receive counseling as they make pre-harvest contracts to ensure a set price for the crops
if market prices go up, you benefit because you lost on the futures but gained on your crop,'' he said. ``if market prices go down, you make money on your contract.''
farmers have dabbled in commodities trading for years, but the business is complex and the practice is far from widespread among producers, said larry walker, director of analysis for the ascs in washington
all farmers would be better off if they knew how to trade on the futures and options markets,'' walker said recently. ``over time, they can make more money if they understand it
but all of this i preface by saying you better know what you're doing and don't try to get fancy unless you want to lose your shirt.''
to ease concerns about losses and encourage participation, he said farmers enrolled in the pilot program will be guaranteed a net return equal to the local loan rate for their crops
details remain sketchy, but he said agriculture secretary richard e. lyng is expected to announce final guidelines for the program by march 15
an advisory committee selected 40 counties in 22 states for participation, basing its recommendations in large part on requests from farmers
it wasn't hard to pick 40,'' walker said. ``it was hard to decide which of the 3,000 counties were not included.''
one of the requests came from gary whittaker, who raises corn, soybeans and hogs on the farm his family has owned for 100 years near toulon in north-central illinois
i've hedged some on the futures market, but the options i have trouble with. that's why i'd like to do this and learn more,'' whitaker said
if you're very acquainted with farming, you know it's just like going to las vegas: i throw my money out every spring and hope something comes up,'' he said. ``hopefully, we can cut down our risk a little bit by doing this.''
illinois, iowa and texas each ended up with four counties in the project, while california, indiana, kansas, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, nebraska and ohio have two each
arizona, georgia, idaho, louisiana, montana, north dakota, oklahoma, south dakota, virginia and wisconsin each have one
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,207.47 points, up 225.53 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on monday
residents here speak with awe about the changes facing this town, with its empty houses and idle plants, when the navy breaks ground this week for a $140 million home port for the battleship wisconsin
naval station ingleside, won in a bidding competition among gulf coast communities from texas to florida, is welcomed locally as a boost for a region that has endured hard times in the oil and shrimping industries
still, in a town with 5,000 people and one traffic light, there is a touch of fear in the voices of residents who know their lives may be changed forever by the thousands of people and millions in revenues the port is expected to attract by its scheduled completion in 1991. besides the wisconsin, the port will be home to the training carrier lexington and three other ships
i don't know if you can prepare yourself for that kind of change,'' said del lewis, manager of this town just north of corpus christi. ``i don't know if you can visualize the change and looking out and seeing the ships on the horizon.''
direct economic effects from the port will include a $155 million payroll for military personnel, $47 million in ship repair and $100 million in local procurement by the navy for the 482-acre project, according to navy estimates
in addition, local economies will enjoy an infusion of $300 million from a boom in real estate, services and other indirect effects of the station, said jimmy lyles, president of the corpus christi chamber of commerce
you'll have a good tax base, new housing, new shopping centers,'' said ms. lewis. ``in the meantime, it's going to be you pedal very fast and you don't fall over.''
local officials are concerned that the speed and breadth of the project will overwhelm city services like water and sewage treatment in a town with an annual budget of $2.5 million and 42 people on its payroll
although real estate growth eventually will drive up the property tax base and fill up vacancies resulting primarily from a decline in oil-rig manufacturing, the town has to accommodate a rapidly growing population before that money starts flowing in
i've been worried for quite a while,'' said mayor roy culver. ``that doesn't mean we're going to throw up our hands and quit. i'm concerned about expanding our police department. i'm concerned about infrastructure extensions. i'm concerned about whether our city hall is big enough.''
the navy, which chose the ingleside site in part because of the deep channel in its port area, estimates that the base will employ 4,665 military personnel and 574 civilians. an additional 3,200 off-base civilian jobs also are projected
at least 500 construction jobs at the naval station will be created this year, reaching a peak of 1,000 in 1990, lyles said
overall, as many as 18,000 new people are projected to live in the area after the base is fully operational in 1991, including those involved in non-military businesses that will serve the new military and civilian workforce and its dependents
already two commercial developments totaling more than $150 million in value have begun in ingleside
what it will do is take us off of being oil and gas dependent,'' the mayor said. ``it's going to be a big boon to ingleside if it's handled properly.''
one fear, however, is that the area will find itself filled with more unemployed construction workers than there are jobs available. others worry that the area's tranquility will be destroyed, culver said
there are a lot of people in ingleside who moved over here because it's quiet, it's a bedroom community,'' he said. ``they're worried about strip joints, you know. there's a lot of things that come into people's minds when they think of a navy town.''
a new study from the world bank says explosive population growth in sub-saharan africa is putting tremendous strains on primary schools that spend only $48 a year per pupil
the 39 countries in africa face the need to expand schools that can teach 51 million children to take care of nearly 91 million by the year 2000
the resources available have been stretched thinner as the population soared. per pupil spending, after discounting for inflation, fell from $67 a year in 1970 to $48 in 1983, the report said. in many countries people's average incomes also are declining
in four countries _ somalia, togo, mozambique and angola _ the number of youngsters registering for school actually went down even as population figures raced ahead
overall, one child in four in sub-saharan africa is not enrolled in school at all, and the ranks are growing
in the united states, spending on elementary and secondary schools averages more than $4,000 per pupil each year. the schools spend almost as much on each student in two class days as these african countries spend in an entire year
the bank is the biggest single source of aid to help third world countries raise their living standards. its report says donors should get together and help more
a child reaching school age in somalia, at the northeastern tip of the continent, had about one chance in six of finding a teacher in 1983
the number of high school students there has risen, but in 1983 there were still only about 63,000 in a population of 5 or 6 million
the report says, ``africa's explosive population growth greatly increases the number of children seeking access to schools and increases the number of potential illiterates
the stock of human capital in africa will determine whether africans can harness the universal explosion of scientific and technical knowledge for the region's benefit _ or whether africa will fall farther and farther behind the world's industrial nations.''
peter r. moock, who led the team that compiled the study, said in an interview that somalia is an extreme case. according to the report, fewer than 12 percent of adult somalis could read in 1983. primary school teachers were paid $985 a year. the government was spending about 6 percent of its budget on education _ less than $21 million _ and that share had been dropping for years
by comparison, it spent $114 million for its military, a figure that rose to $134 million in 1985
across africa, the number of students of all ages quintupled between 1960 and 1983. the report said that in 19 of the 39 countries, the primary-school age population, six to 11, was growing faster than the number of children entering school
in 13 countries _ including nigeria, the most populous on the continent _ a smaller proportion was enrolled in primary schools in 1983 than in 1980
in many respects, 1983 was the worst year of the economic crisis, and it is possible that a number of educational indicators have subsequently begun to improve,'' the report notes
it says improving education would pay off, even from a purely material point of view
farmers who have completed four years of education produce, on average, about 8 percent more farm output than farmers who have not gone to school,'' the report says
it quotes other studies as showing that babies are more likely to survive if their mother has at least a few years of education. educated people are more likely to be mobile, moving from less productive jobs to better ones and sending money back home when they migrate. they are also likely to be healthier, and to live longer
the report's recommendations include:
_ more spending on education by african countries themselves, with emphasis on books and materials, new methods such as radio broadcasts and correspondence schools
_ improvement of school principals, with more autonomy and better achievement testing
_ more foreign aid, and better coordination, with a larger proportion for primary schools, less for higher education and overseas fellowships
a man who held police at a standoff for hours by threatening to blow himself up in a lounge was charged with possession of a hoax bomb and making terroristic threats, authorities said
john james allgood, 33, of arlington, was jailed sunday under $3,000 bond, tarrant county officials said
police said the man surrendered four hours after he walked into the plaza lounge before a valentine's day party saturday night and threatening to blow himself up. a fake explosive device was found later, authorities said
bartender ina silloway said the man ordered a 12-pack of beer to go and then gave her a valentine's card with a note saying he had six sticks of dynamite strapped to him. the man indicated he wanted police to kill him, she said
lounge owner iris massey said allgood was a regular customer who had been upset over marital problems
the fbi's investigation of a group opposed to reagan administration policies in central america focused in part on fliers distributed at rallies and public speeches, even though the activities are protected by the first amendment
newly released fbi documents show that agents reported back to bureau headquarters on political literature and meetings by the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador
the 2,000 pages of bureau documents provide only a fragmentary look at the fbi probe since many of the pages are substantially blacked out or withheld entirely
but even fbi headquarters was disturbed at one point by the direction the investigation was taking, warning offices to stay away from reporting legitimate political statements and lobbying
the fbi investigation of cispes never resulted in any charges against the group or its members
one bureau document shows the fbi cited political literature to cast suspicion on cispes in connection with the still-unsolved november 1983 bombing of the u.s. capitol. the document notes that it is ``interesting'' that a flier claiming responsibility for the capitol bombing ``was passed out along with the cispes literature'' at a nov. 12, 1983, rally
another document indicates the fbi tried to find a connection between cispes and a may 1983 bombing at the army national war college in washington. the document says that ``an unidentified individual contacted a local radio station in washington, d.c., a few days after the bombing and advised that `we are in solidarity with the people of el salvador and guatemala.' at the time of the bombing, representatives of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador (cispes) were meeting in washington, d.c.''
cispes contends that the investigation amounted to political harassment
in a telephone interview, beth perry, cispes spokeswoman, called suggestions that the group might have had a connection to the bombings ``absolutely ridiculous.''
she said some literature on the capitol bombing was passed out at a cispes-sponsored demonstration, five days after the bombing, but that the group had nothing to do with distributing that material
other fbi documents show the bureau monitored a radio show on which a cispes member appeared and tracked down people named in newspaper articles
the files also show that the fbi switched from conducting an investigation of alleged criminal investigations of domestic security laws to an international terrorism investigation in 1983. at the time of the switchover, then-fbi director william webster was assuring the public and congress that the fbi would require more than political rhetoric before it began investigating domestic political groups
webster, now head of the cia, has refused to comment on the investigation, referring all questions back to the fbi
the international terrorism probe gave the fbi far more sweeping authority to investigate u.s. citizens. but a proviso in the attorney general's guidelines for such probes still states that ``no united states person may be considered a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power solely upon the basis of activities protected by the first amendment.''
fbi headquarters in washington apparently was concerned that the field offices did not understand that they could be infringing on first amendment rights
in a memorandum to all field offices, dated july 26, 1984, the fbi director writes, ``it is imperative that these investigations are closely supervised and monitored to ensure our investigations do not infringe upon the rights of these individuals or groups protected by the constitution
some offices have reported information recently regarding political statements and political lobbying by cispes or cispes affiliates,'' the director continues. ``supervisors ... must carefully monitor this and related investigations and assess operations within your respective divisions to ensure appropriate direction, targeting and reporting.''
still, a month later, the denver field office wrote that it ``concurs with new orleans that in spite of attempts by the bureau to clarify guidelines and goals for this investigation, the field is still not sure of how much seemingly legitimate political activity can be monitored.''
asked about the investigation, fbi spokesman ray mcelhaney denied it was political, saying it ``had a narrow focus and was limited to those leaders and key members of cispes to ascertain if they were involved in illegal support of the fmln, a foreign terrorist organization.''
the fmln is the frente farabundo marti para la liberacion nacional, a resistance group fighting the u.s.-backed government of el salvador. election</head>
san francisco's new mayor has spurned the battleship uss missouri, rekindling a rivalry among three ports eager to be home to the ``mighty mo'' and its sailors _ and their money
despite interest from long beach, san diego and honolulu, the navy says it wants to stick with an earlier decision to base the ship in san francisco, where former mayor dianne feinstein won a navy competition to host it by offering $5.5 million in port improvements
however, feinstein's successor, art agnos, made it part of his election campaign to oppose the port funds on environmental and other grounds, despite the estimated $100 million a year in revenues the ship could bring
evidently the people of san francisco don't want it _ and we've always wanted it,'' long beach mayor ernie kell said last week, when he joined local business leaders in launching a new campaign to host the ship
for some, affection for the world war ii-era behemoth, upon whose decks the japanese surrendered in world war ii, isn't all based on cold-blooded economics
it's a grand and glorious ship,'' said morrie dawkins, a bremerton, wash., councilman who is trying to drum up support to reclaim the ship for his city, where it was mothballed for 25 years and attracted 300,000 annual visitors
the missouri, one of four battleships recommissioned in recent years, now operates out of the long beach naval station, though it's officially based in san francisco and awaiting completion of port improvements there that were part the deal struck by feinstein with the navy
long beach is already official home port for one of the other newly active battleships, the uss new jersey
agnos, a liberal democrat, hasn't formally conveyed his feelings to the navy, said his spokesman, scott shafer. however, the mayor agrees with community activists who say the required dredging would pose an environmental threat to san francisco bay and that reactivating navy facilities at hunter's point would force eviction of artists and others who rent space there, shafer said
he's been very consistent all along,'' shafer said. ``he's opposed it, and he'll continue to oppose it.''
agnos has pledged to veto the $5.5 million if the money is approved by the city's board of supervisors, which endorsed the plan last august and can override agnos' veto. no date has been set for final approval of the plan
a navy spokesman in washington, lt. kippy burns, said earlier this month that if san francisco fails to provide the financial support ``then that would obviously stop the navy from going to hunter's point.''
the missouri leads a battle group that includes four cruisers and several frigates or destroyers, with a combined payroll of $60 million a year
elsewere, u.s. rep. duncan hunter, a republican who represents the san diego area, met tuesday with navy secretary james webb, urging that the ship berth permanently in san diego. an aide to hunter said the congressman is concerned about the economic impact of threatened cuts in the fleet in that city
the case for honolulu's pearl harbor was pressed by gov. john waihee in a meeting with webb last year, said carolyn tanaka, spokeswoman for the democratic governor
even when the navy decided to home-port the missouri in san francisco, the state has kept a little bit of an ember burning, telling them we're still interested,'' ms. tanaka said. ``i would imagine that based on what's happened recently, the embers are bigger now,'' she added
president reagan's goal of free trade throughout north america continues to elude him despite nine meetings with mexican presidents
reagan announced his dream of a north american free trade area embracing the united states, canada and mexico when he declared his presidential candidacy for 1980
in the intervening years he has presided over an agreement with canada that would eliminate all tariffs and most other trade barriers between the united states and its neighbor to the north by 1999
but after repeated meetings with mexican presidents his dream of extending such an agreement southward seems little closer to realization than when he first outlined it
the trade pact signed last month by reagan and canadian prime minister brian mulroney faces opposition in both countries, and saturday's meeting with mexican president miguel de la madrid in mazatlan produced scant movement in the trade area
as the two leaders, seated with their aides in cane-bottomed chairs at a long dining table in a seaside hotel, rose to toast each other, reagan said their countries have taken steps toward ``a special trade and investment relationship.''
one day, i hope these steps will be seen as part of the historic evolution toward free and unimpeded trade and investment on this continent and in the western hemisphere,'' the president said
there are, of course, obstacles to overcome,'' he added. both he and de la madrid, who devoted little of his lengthy toast to the trade issue, mentioned the problem of mexico's massive debt to commercial banks, estimated by u.s. officials at $105 billion
there are other obstacles. mexico's economy is declining, 3.5 percent in 1986 and 1.5 percent in 1987 as measured by gross national product, while the u.s. ecomomy is growing
canadian critics of the trade agreement with the united states argue that it could make canada an economic and cultural dependent of its neighbor to the south. between mexico and the united states, the mismatch is far greater
we are not ready for free trade with mexico. mexico is not ready,'' elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, told reporters aboard air force one as reagan flew to mazatlan
there was some progress. u.s. and canadian officials signed a four-year agreement that permits a 6 percent annual increase in quotas on textile and apparel imports from mexico. in return, mexico agreed to broaden access to its markets for u.s. textiles and apparel
administration officials also had expected a telecommunications agreement, covering mobile phone use along the border, to be signed. a last-minute hitch developed, however, after reagan mentioned the planned signing in a pre-recorded version of his weekly radio address
as the president flew north for three days of relaxation at his ranch north of here, secretary of state george p. shultz told reporters in mazatlan that the telecommunications agreement was ``basically completed'' but had not been put into final written form
the agreements follow a number of others between the two countries
mexico has drawn praise from the united states for lowering its trade barriers, and the united states has responded by opening up the u.s. market to mexican leather goods and other products
de la madrid has strongly pushed the market-opening moves as a way to help mend the sickly mexican economy and pull it out of its lengthy crisis
as abrams said, ``none of this is anything earth shaking, but it is part of a larger process to keep the movement going in the (direction of) ... freer and freer trade.''
reagan's meeting in mazatlan was his sixth with de la madrid. he also met three times with the mexican president's predecessor, jose lopez de portillo. both presidents will leave office in a few months and reagan said this meeting, quite likely their last, would help their successors to ``build on the foundation we've laid.''
abrams, however, conceded it was ``an open question'' whether the foundation would enable the next u.s. and mexican administrations to realize reagan's dream of a free trade agreement
associated press
they whetted their appetites with garlic soup, munched on whole-baked garlic bulbs, savored the fresh garlic sausage, and topped it off with ice cream flecked with minced garlic
as far as revelers at a weekend garlic fest were concerned, the menu was tastefully done
you all have such a nice aroma to you,'' restaurateur mick noll told the crowd that gathered at his covington haus for closing ceremonies saturday night, highlighted by a fourth-annual miss garlic competition
no one disagreed
i don't think i'd be able to live without garlic. i have it for breakfast, lunch and dinner,'' said eileen knarr, 73, of latonia, who won the miss garlic crown
about 400 people attended the three-day festival at the restaurant, directly across the ohio river from cincinnati. the smell of garlic pervaded the eatery, gaining strength with every garlic peeling contest held on the dance floor
they lined up for the peeling contests, wore headbands made of garlic cloves, and downed dishes spiced with 160 pounds of garlic imported from gilroy, calif., a garlic hot spot
nine women competed for the miss garlic crown, which carries a responsibility to try to improve the seasoning's reputation. mrs. knarr expressed her devotion to the clove and her plans for fulfilling her reign
i'll be on my toes,'' she said. ``if you eat a whole bunch of garlic for a year, you've got to keep running.''
that was enough for the judges, who compared notes on the contestants while the festival's first miss garlic, helen lewin of fort wright, sang a composition titled ``me and my garlic'' to the tune of ``me and my shadow.''
after an accordion fanfare, mrs. knarr was chosen the winner and received the crown and sash from patricia gorrasi of cincinnati, the defending queen who was forced to sit out this year's pageant
mrs. gorrasi gave up her plans to try to retain the crown because some of her family members sniffed at the title
my children said i was a source of embarrassment to them,'' she said
if pete du pont and bruce babbitt stumble in this week's new hampshire primary as badly as they did in iowa, future candidates may think twice before arguing for any changes in the $260 billion social security program
whatever the fate of their candidacies, it is almost certain that social security will remain an issue in this campaign, just as it has been in the last three national elections
what the surviving candidates are likely to be debating, however, is not du pont's idea for allowing young workers to open tax-free retirement accounts or babbitt's call for taxing all of wealthy retirees' benefits, but who can offer the most ironclad promise to keep those social security checks and cost-of-living increases coming
concern about social security ``is in the bone marrow of the electorate,'' said democratic pollster peter hart
six years ago, when social security had barely enough money in the till to pay benefits on time each month, senior citizens had something to worry about
but after the bipartisan rescue plan of 1983, which increased some taxes, froze benefits for six months and raised the retirement age to 67 in the next century, the social security system began rolling up big surpluses. the economic spurt after the 1982-83 recession and the sharp drop in unemployment hastened its recovery
social security's trust funds started this year with $67 billion. by next january, they will have grown to $104 billion. they will swell to $400 billion by 1994 and $1 trillion-plus before the turn of the century
those big surpluses are the main reason the so-called notch babies are mounting a widening campaign to have their benefits raised closer to those born in 1916 and earlier. congress made a mistake in 1972 that gave the latter group more than they were entitled to. the notch babies _ primarily the 7 million people born between 1917 and 1921 _ contend they got cheated when congress rejiggerred the benefit formula in 1977
several democrats and rep. jack kemp, r-n.y., have promised to look into the issue of equity for the notch babies, whose benefit increases would cost tens of billions of dollars
du pont, the former delaware governor who contends the system will crash in the next century under the weight of the retired baby boomers unless drastic changes are made, finished a distant fifth in iowa
republican pat robertson, who like du pont favors moves to privitize social security, finished a strong second, but it was his stand on moral issues, not pensions, that galvanized his iowa supporters
kemp, the republicans' most vigorous defender of the status quo in social security, was fourth, but hoping to move up in new hampshire with his unbridled attacks on sen. bob dole and vice president george bush for supporting a freeze on social security in 1985
dole tells voters everywhere he goes about his role on the national commission on social security reform in 1983, when the kansas senator helped hammer out a last-minute compromise that put social security back in the black
you don't have to worry about it being broke. you don't have to worry about getting your checks. and there i made a difference,'' says dole, who also points out that kemp voted against the social security rescue plan. the new york congressman says he didn't like its payroll tax increases
du pont has accused kemp of repeatedly misrepresenting his plan to allow workers to set up tax-free savings accounts if they relinquish future social security benefits. du pont says kemp's attacks ``remind me of the demagoguery practices by the democratic party in the 1982 elections.''
dole and other republicans have said it was the democrats' pounding on senior citizens' fear of social security cuts or freezes that cost the gop control of the senate in 1986
on the democrats' side, babbitt has called for ``a universal needs test to discipline government programs,'' including social security, and suggested making wealthier retirees pay income tax on all their benefits instead of half
gary hart also has suggested taxing 85 percent of the benefits
the other democrats generally have been vowing to safeguard social security and its colas. as rep. richard gephardt of missouri put it, ``we're going to keep it away from the republican budget knives forever.''
but social security's trust funds will always be tempting for budget knives. they are expected to peak at $12 trillion _ $2.5 trillion in today's dollars _ around 2020, then be drawn down to nothing by 2050 to help pay the baby boomers' retirement
du pont and robertson have argued that even when the trust funds are full, they will contain nothing but government iou's. to pay off those iou's _ actually, interest-bearing treasury bonds _ du pont says, ``we face a big tax increase.''
when du pont asked 80 people at a debate in manchester, n.h., how many thought social security would be there for them at 65, three people raised their hands
more scientific polls have shown young workers remain dubious about their personal prospects for social security
but that sentiment has not translated into support for politicians such as du pont and babbitt who suggest overhauling or even tinkering with social security
social security will always be a political issue, simply because it is such a massive part of what the government does, and the single largest source of income for 35 percent of the elderly
paul maslin, simon's pollster, said, ``the elites have attempted to move the debate in a direction the voters don't want to move yet.'' young voters don't expect to get social security themselves, maslin said, but they do expect it to be there for their parents
for all of the provocation, the voters are still on the side of protection,'' said maslin. ``they understand that if the government does not provide those benefits, they are going to have to pay for their parents' retirement or health problems.''
senate leaders say they have assured the european allies that the united states will not waver in its commitment to nato, regardless of who captures the white house this year
that commitment includes the presence of u.s. troops in europe and a resolve to maintain a nuclear deterrent, despite hopes for further progress in arms talks with the soviets, the senators said
senate majority leader robert c. byrd and three other senators flew back to andrews air force base on sunday following a nine-day, five-nation trip through europe, where they held talks with government leaders, opposition figures and opinion makers
byrd, a west virginia democrat, said the allies unanimously ``expressed support for the inf (intermediate-range nuclear forces) treaty without amendments.''
we left the message with these leaders that the united states will continue fully to support nato ... after the treaty is approved. those government leaders and the peoples of europe wanted to hear that reassurance,'' he said
there was an extraordinary amount of agreement among those leaders and ourselves as to what the alliance should do in the post-inf environment,'' byrd said
regardless of the various voices and noises and opinions that come out of washington during elections, the nato alliance can count on this country for stability and continued support,'' byrd said. ``we preached the message of cohesion and unity.''
byrd said the bumping of two u.s. navy ships by two soviet warships in the black sea friday was discouraging and ``feeds upon and contributes to the kind of skepticism that we found among european leaders'' about the soviets
here we're in this time of glasnost and detente and then all of a sudden we have one of these unprovoked confrontations. ... '' he said. ``perhaps it serves a purpose in that it makes us stop, look and listen and remember that caution is the watchword as we proceed with our relations.''
sen. david l. boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said, ``one of the things that we were most suprised about is there was less disagreement than we were led to believe before we went. we read these stories that there were people proposing denuclearization of europe ... we didn't find that anywhere.''
boren said the nato allies believe the soviets have two aims: to divide nato and to ``try to avoid conventional arms reductions where they have a clear superiority.''
byrd said, ``we're all agreed that there has to continue to be the strategy of flexible response. a nuclear deterrent must be an element of that strategy ... if it is to be credible.''
sens. claiborne pell, d-r.i., the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee, and john w. warner, r-va., the ranking minority member of the armed services committee, also flew back sunday. a fifth member of the delegation, sen. sam nunn, d-ga., the chairman of armed services, flew home earlier. the senate leaders visited germany, england, france, turkey and italy
among the leaders they met with were helmut kohl, the west german chancellor; margaret thatcher, the british prime minister; francois mitterand, the president of france; turgut ozal, the prime minister of turkey, and giovanni goria, prime minister of italy
ann pfoser darby and wayne green are locked in the least publicized, least competitive, least important race in the new hampshire presidential primary _ and if history is a teacher, neither one will win
darby and green are running on the republican ticket for vice president. david duke is unopposed on the democratic side, but that's no assurance of victory
in the past, the winner usually has been a write-in candidate with a bit more name recognition _ george bush in 1984, spiro agnew in 1972, richard nixon in 1956 and 1964, robert kennedy in 1964, hubert humphrey in 1968
and the winner gets nothing but a little publicity
unlike the presidential race that influences delegates at the national party conventions, the vice presidential race influences no one
the vice presidential candidates for the republican and democratic parties will be chosen, as usual, at the conventions by the presidential nominees. however, some vice presidential primaries have had a more lasting effect on the republican and democratic tickets
in 1956, president dwight eisenhower was considering whether to keep nixon on the ticket, and he used the primary as a sounding board. nixon attracted 23,000 write-in votes, 20,000 more than the runnerup, and stayed on the ticket
in 1972, there was some discontent with spiro agnew as nixon's running mate, but that was put to rest when agnew drew 45,524 write-in votes _ the most ever
darby, a high school teacher in new york city, paid the $1,000 filing fee to try to change all that. she wants the vice presidential candidates independently elected by the people
it's something that always bugged me,'' darby said in a telephone interview. ``the idea came to me that i can bring the issue to the people through the primaries. if i get a mandate in new hampshire, i'll take it to other states. if i don't get the votes, it means they didn't like the idea.''
darby, 53, a former gop district leader in new york and former school board chairwoman, campaigns in new hampshire on weekends and expects to spend more than $5,000 to get her point across
green, 65, is making his second run at the vice presidency. a magazine publisher from hancock, n.h., he freely acknowledges: ``me being vice president would be a disaster.''
he ran in 1964 when he learned that no one had ever filed for the job since the new hampshire primary first included candidates in 1952. write-ins for vice president got all the votes from 1952 to 1960
green's total campaign cost was $16 for bumper stickers, he said. but he did get media coverage, and attracted 8,030 votes _ 122 fewer than write-ins for nixon and 1,600 more than write-ins for henry cabot lodge
this time i have a message,'' he said. mainly, he wants to improve education, raise productivity and cut military costs
duke, 37, is a former ku klux klan leader and founder of the national association for the advancement of white people in metairie, la. duke, who says he is an author, also filed for the presidency
his coordinator, ralph forbes, said the vice presidential filing was a last-minute decision and a mistake because duke thought he could win binding delegates
duke wants to be president, and ``wants to have 2,000 delegates'' when the democratic convention begins, forbes said
forbes said duke believes the white middle class is no longer represented properly, especially in the areas of housing and jobs
the three hope for enough publicity and votes to promote their ideas
and in the words of richard upton, the man who introduced the legislation establishing a new hampshire candidates' primary in 1952: ``maybe lightning would strike.''
improved u.s. trade figures helped boost the dollar and prices on the tokyo stock exchange today, reflecting hopes for a shrinking u.s. trade deficit, traders said
the dollar closed at 131.00 yen, up 1.05 from friday's close. it opened at 131.40 yen and ranged between 130.95 yen and 131.60 yen
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 24,207.47 points, up 225.53 points, or 0.9 percent, from friday's close of 23,981.94
share prices on the tokyo stock exchange were higher across the board in response to the higher dollar and the lower u.s. trade deficit during december, dealers said
an analyst for goldman sachs who asked that he not be identified said profit-taking brought the dollar down from its higher opening figure, but said buyers were still apparently pleased with the u.s. trade figures
the u.s. commerce department said that in december, the u.s. trade deficit fell to $12.2 billion, down from $13.2 billion in november
traders at the tokyo foreign exchange said they believe the dollar will stay firm for the time being
there is no factor weighing on the dollar right now except commercial and profit-taking selling,'' an official of a japanese commercial bank said, speaking on condition of anonymity
as republican presidential candidates sat on a college stage debating the problem of aids, backers of presidential candidate pat robertson were outside jeering at victims of the deadly disease
it's your own fault,'' the roughly 25 students holding ``youth for robertson'' signs chanted at nearly 70 members of a group called ``cure aids now.''
one robertson supporter outside the st. anselm college debate hall said he heckled the aids victims and their friends because ``they don't live right.'' he refused to give his name
michael petrelis, an aids victim and coordinator of cure aids now, derided the roberston backers as ``real good christians.''
several members of the aids advocacy group retaliated by yelling and blowing whistles at the robertson supporters
the verbal skirmish occurred in a parking lot near the debate hall. the lot was filled with cheering supporters of robertson, kansas sen. robert dole and new york rep. jack kemp, as well as the aids group and a small group of opponents of the seabrook nuclear plant
petrelis said his group encountered robertson as he drove into the parking lot for the debate, but drew no reaction from the former television evangelist
the groups supporting the candidates dispersed as the debate began and about 10 minutes later police escorted the aids group from the st. anselm campus
earlier, a cure aids now rally in manchester drew a brief appearance from democratic presidential hopeful sen. paul simon, who said more educational efforts should be aimed at intravenous drug users, a high-risk group for the disease
we accomplished what we wanted, which was to get one of the candidates to say the a-word. now we hope to press the candidates harder on what they'll do about aids once the field is narrowed down some,'' petrelis said
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from new hampshire to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: primary date: tuesday, february 16
presidential filing deadline: friday, december 18, 1987
candidates filed: bruce babbitt, michael dukakis, richard gephardt, albert gore, gary hart, jesse jackson, paul simon
pledged delegates: 18 super delegates: 4 total: 22
delegates allocated: tuesday, february 16
selection of delegates: saturday, january 23 and sunday, april 24
all of new hampshire's 18 pledged delegates to the democratic national convention will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary on feb. 16
method: primary date: tuesday, february 16
presidential filing deadline: friday, december 18, 1987
candidates filed: george bush, bob dole, jack kemp, pat robertson, pete du pont, alexander haig
delegates: 23
delegates allocated: tuesday, february 16
selection of delegates: friday, february 26
new hampshire republicans choose their national convention delegates through the state's first-in-the-nation primary on feb. 16
delegates will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary. a candidate must receive at least 10 percent of the vote to qualify for delegates
the secretary of state will notify the candidates of the allocation, and the campaigns have 10 days to respond with a list of which people from their previously filed slates will be delegates
quotes and comments on the presidential campaign trail:
it's your own fault; it's your own fault,'' _ chant by pat robertson supporters jeering at aids victims outside republican debate in goffstown, n.h

george bush, commenting during the debate on his relationship with president reagan: ``i don't jump away from the president when the going gets tough.''
bob dole, on this week's new hampshire primary: ``some of us would like to see it end tuesday here with someone winning.''
jack kemp, on bush's use of the phrase ``give peace a chance,'' during the debate: ``you're using the same language as jim wright,'' he said in a reference to the democratic speaker of the house. ``you should be embarrassed to use `give peace a chance.' we're the party of peace.''
pat robertson, claiming that the soviets have nuclear missiles in cuba: ``somehow in all this brilliant negotiation which these gentlemen are so proud of they left that out of the treaty. and it seems like to me nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.''
there's no indication of any nuclear missiles or weapons in cuba'' _ white house official responding to robertson's claim. the official, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, was in california where reagan is taking three days off

bruce babbitt, ridiculing robertson's absence at candidate's forum in jewish temple in manchester: ``they told me he was too busy turning the next storm out to sea.''

pete du pont, saying the next president should be a man of clear vision and strong principle: ``that's not george bush's style and that's not bob dole's history.''
paul simon: ``i think it is increasingly clear that paul simon is now ahead of dick gephardt. what we want to make clear in these last few days here, there is a difference, and a clear alternative to mike dukakis.''
gary hart, defending his continued campaign as not just an ego trip: ``i'm not a dog in the manger. i'm not a spoiler.''
albert gore jr.: ``i don't want to say any democrat is unelectable. it is legitimate for democratic voters to ask who can best win.''
richard gephardt, on whether he was a supporter of reagan's tax and economics program: ``that's just balderdash. i have been the leader against reaganomics in the house.''
michael dukakis: ``if the next president is required to use force, it will almost certainly be conventional forces and not nuclear. ... the next president isn't going to be giving blank checks to the pentagon or to anybody else. if he did, the checks would bounce.''
the newly launched uss abraham lincoln will ``send a clear and unambiguous message to friends and foe alike that we have every intention of remaining true to our commitment to freedom,'' said defense secretary frank c. carlucci
carlucci spoke at the christening and launching ceremonies of the aircraft carrier saturday before 3,500 naval personnel and newport news shipbuilding co. workers shivering at pier side in 30 degree weather and gusting winds
the $2.7 billion, 1,092-foot ship is the navy's fifth nimitz class carrier, all built at the newport news shipyard. a sixth nimitz carrier, the george washington, is scheduled for completion in 1991
the lincoln, when commissioned in late 1989, will have a crew of 6,000, plus 80 aircraft. it is powered by two nuclear reactors
a businessman who wants to build a gambling casino in an abandoned shipyard says the project would spur economic recovery in this rust belt city, but opponents warn of the specter of organized crime
i thought they were nuts. i said, `what? a casino?''' mayor alex olejko said of the less-than-scenic site, which is downstream from a waste-water treatment plant and large piles of iron ore pellets straddling the mouth of the black river in this steelmaking city
even so, alan spitzer, who with his family runs 25 auto dealerships in ohio and florida, envisions a 1,000-room hotel that would create 5,000 jobs for lorain, which is in a county that state figures show has lost about 7,000 jobs since 1979
he says a year-round resort could draw tourists and conventioneers to lorain, about 30 miles west of cleveland, and visitors could go to nearby amusement parks, major league sporting events and cultural events
we think the industrial backdrop actually enhances and adds some ambiance,'' said spitzer, who last month disclosed plans for the $300 million vacation resort
casino gambling is not legal in ohio and spitzer has enlisted the help of state rep. joseph koziura, a lorain democrat, to sponsor legislation that would allow casino gambling in the city of 72,000 residents for a five-year trial period, if voters approved
from the high-rise hotel on the drawing boards, visitors would have a backdoor view of downtown, peppered with vacant storefronts or a large steel plant downstream
there are few places in the country that have so many entertainment options in such a short distance and so accessible,'' spitzer said
the only forms of gambling permitted in ohio are charity bingo, horse racing and the state-run lottery. casino gambling is legal in the united states only in nevada and atlantic city, n.j
william r. eadington, a professor of economics at the university of nevada-reno who studies casino gambling regulations, said he doesn't view the grimy lorain site as a problem
eadington, a consultant for the project, said the location of a casino is not that crucial because resorts tend to be self-contained and visitors have little reason to leave
reaction to the proposal has been mixed. local officials quickly embraced the project while others, including some ministers, promptly condemned it. others said they'd reserve judgment until the legislature acts
i really don't think the steelworkers will even think about this until it gets off the ground. we don't believe in talk. talk is cheap,'' said al pena, president of united steelworkers local 1104, which has 2,700 members working at the usx corp. plant in lorain
in an editorial, the (cleveland) plain dealer suggested developers might not be able to prevent organized crime from getting a foothold in the resort or service industries, despite tight controls in the legislation
for their part, ohioans have had their fill of corruption on the part of public officials and agencies, of lax enforcement of state regulations, of conflicts of interest and payoffs. why, now, should voters invite more of the same,'' the editorial said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis is emerging as the early odds-on favorite to win the democratic party's presidential nomination among union political activists gathered here for the afl-cio's annual winter meeting
but unlike 1984 and 1968, the last presidential elections when labor united early behind a single candidate _ walter mondale and hubert humprey, respectively _ there is no sense of urgency among their leaders to attempt playing the role of kingmaker this year
most of our folks are waiting to find out who the winner is and then jump on board,'' said sam dawson, political director for the 494,000-member united steelworkers union. ``the (afl-cio's 36-member policymaking) executive council is all over the lot; and within every union, the rank-and-file is all over the lot.''
only if dukakis had won the iowa primary, where he had the unqualified support of unionized public employees, could the afl-cio have made an endorsement before the democratic national convention next july in atlanta, according to dawson and several other union activists here
dukakis' third-place finish in iowa behind rep. richard gephardt of missouri and sen. paul simon of illinois makes it all but impossible for labor leaders to tell individual union members now to disregard their advice through 1987 and to get to atlanta as a delegate any way they can and for whomever they please
i had hoped we could make an endorsement after iowa and (tuesday's primary election in) new hampshire, but now it would take something cataclysmic for us to endorse,'' said rachelle horowitz, political director for the american federation of teachers
however, ms. horowitz, a dukakis partisan and one of 42 automatic labor delegates to the convention as members of the democratic national committee, is shedding no tears over the lack of an early consensus
if we learned anything from the mondale period when we needed a winner after reagan's union-busting, it's the danger of whipping ourselves into such a frenzy that we can't see when a winner is not there,'' she said. ``up until and including election day i believed fritz mondale could win.''
while preferring any of the six democrats in the race over any republican, unions continue to hedge their bets, dealing with contenders in both parties
none of them has plucked my heart yet,'' said william wynn, president of the 1 million-member united food and commercial workers union, the third largest in the afl-cio behind the newly reunited teamsters union at 1.6 million members and the american federation of state, county and municipal employees at 1.1 million
a plurality of ufcw members appears to prefer dukakis, said allen zack, a spokesman for the union. but jackson also demonstrated strong support among largely white members of his union in iowa because of his appearance over the past two years on picket lines in strikes at meatpacking plants in the state, zack said
afscme president gerald mcentee _ while abiding by the letter of afl-cio president lane kirkland's guidelines saying union presidents should remain neutral until the federation itself makes an endorsement _ leaves little doubt that dukakis is the preferred choice of his union's members
in some states like new york, we're running a two-candidate strategy with dukakis and jesse jackson,'' mcentee said. ``but the vast majority of our people are for dukakis.''
that sentiment, while dominant, is not universal among other leaders of the 91 unions belonging to afl-cio
the united auto workers is claiming the biggest role in iowa by helping gephardt win a plurality of votes there because of his advocacy of mandating tariffs on japanese and korean imports if they do not open their markets to more u.s. goods
uaw leaders, however, acknowledge they are not putting all of their eggs in gephardt's basket because he is pushing their version of restrictionist trade legislation
gephardt might crash and burn,'' said peter laarman, a uaw spokesman. ``we're playing by the afl-cio rules. our issue is trade and corporate accountability, but we have quite a few people, for example, in pennsylvania who are for simon.''
simon also is the most popular democratic candidate among steelworkers in pennyslvania and ohio, the union's two biggest membership states, according to dawson. but dawson and other union activists also see simon as an also-ran if he finishes behind dukakis and gephardt in tuesday's new hampshire primary
i'm running as a simon delegate in new york, if he's still alive after new hampsire,'' said joyce miller, a vice president of the amalgamated clothing and textile workers union and one of three women on the afl-cio executive council
meanwhile, nearly every union is treating black minister jesse jackson with deference this year, in contrast to their view of him as a spoiler who hurt their endorsement of mondale in 1984
according to ms. horowitz, jackson could easily win four states _ louisiana, mississippi, alabama and georgia _ in the super tuesday primary elections on march 8
gephardt, simon and dukakis all have big support in the trade union movement,'' she said. ``only al gore (a democratic senator from tennessee) is not slating our delegates.''
looking back on a life that spans nearly a century, james grote has no trouble deciding what he cares about most
the fire service is the closest to my heart outside of the almighty god,'' says grote, who at age 96 is the nation's oldest fire marshal
seventy-five years ago, grote helped form the fire department that protects this town of 3,200 residents on the lower connecticut river. he's been working to save lives and property here ever since
the fire service is something that i've given dedication,'' grote said recently. ``i've been loyal. i've been faithful.''
and he's been active
after the department was formed in 1912, he rose through the ranks to become chief. he was named fire marshal 66 years ago
although the appointment was for life, grote has never taken the job for granted. when the state mandated certification for fire marshals in 1972, grote _ then 80 _ undertook 12 weeks of training to gain his state license
he still functions as he did when he was 60,'' says chester first selectman robert blair
a photograph of grote hangs in the washington, d.c., office of robert b. smith, executive secretary of the fire marshals association of north america
grote is ``worthy of the recognition he's received,'' smith says
over the years, he has spoken frequently on fire safety before the state legislature. he advocated building sprinkler systems to legislators 50 years ago when the idea wasn't popular. later, he championed smoke detectors
although he doesn't respond to every fire call these days, grote still drives to most department meetings. his bright red car is mounted with red flashers, and his business card says ``the chief.''
grote, who lives alone, concedes to making a few concessions to age. his daughters prepare his meals, and he'll accept an occasional ride to a firefighters' meeting. two deputies often assist him on safety inspections, where grote admits he sometimes plays the tough guy
if i come into your place of business, and you may have half a dozen extinguishers, and i find one behind the door, i'll jump you for all the good ones that are in sight,'' he said
it's not that you try to be mean about it but you see this is an instrument that you might need,'' grote says
the fire marshal, who retired as the town's postmaster in 1970, has held every top office in every fire association in the state. he's also served as president of fire chief associations in new england and on the national level
grote's home is a monument to his second career and first love. his uniform, festooned with gold braids and stars, hangs where it can be quickly brought out for display. photographs, trophies and plaques decorate the walls. amid the memorabilia are birthday greetings from pope john paul ii and president reagan
grote says he'll give up his post _ when the time is right
let me be my judge,'' he says. ``i know when to back way from the table. i know when i've had enough of this, that and the other.''
highlights from the presidential campaign trial:
dead heat
polls showed republicans bob dole and george bush in a virtual tie heading into tuesday's first-in-the-nation presidential primary in new hampshire. a cbs survey issued sunday had dole at 31 percent and bush at 30 percent, while an abc-washington post poll showed dole with 31 percent and bush with 28. the gap in both cases was within the polls' margins of error

democratic front-runner
michael dukakis, the clear democratic front-runner in both polls, concentrated on foreign policy issues and ignored last-minute attacks by rivals. dukakis said he would defend u.s. allies in central america but would not fund the nicaraguan contra rebels

last-minute attacks
paul simon began television commercials attacking dukakis as a bureaucrat, while richard gephardt's ads called dukakis ``one of the biggest tax-raisers in massachusetts history.''

nuke claim
a republican debate sunday night was highlighted by pat robertson's claim the soviet union secretly has placed nuclear missiles in cuba. a white house official promptly disputed robertson's assertion, and a robertson aide said after the debate that the candidate had meant missile-delivery systems, not necessarily warheads

heckling aids victims:
youth for robertson'' students jeered at aids victims outside the debate hall, chanting ``it's your own fault.'' a coordinator for the group ``cure aids now'' sarcastically described the robertson backers as ``real good christians.''

jesse jackson toured on a 1930s train, drawing good crowds despite 20-degree weather. ``i've stood with you. on tuesday i want you to stand with me,'' jackson said from aboard his ``rainbow express.''
chancellor helmut kohl travels to washington on wednesday for talks with u.s. officials that are expected to focus on differences between the two countries on several key security issues
during the three-day visit, kohl is slated to meet with president reagan, secretary of state george p. shultz and leading members of congress
kohl is expected to urge swift senate ratification of the superpower agreement eliminating land-based intermediate-range nuclear missiles
differences between the two nations center on modernizing nato's short-range nuclear weapons and eliminating chemical weapons
u.s. officials and other nato countries have emphasized the need for modernizing short-range nuclear missiles that will remain in europe after intermediate-range nuclear missiles are scrapped
but west german officials have said that upgrading of short-range weapons systems should be linked to negotiations on reducing the warsaw pact's superiority in conventional weapons in central europe
short-range, or battlefield, nuclear weapons are primarily aimed at targets on west german and east german territory
kohl recently warned u.s. military planners against strategies that would limit a nuclear war to german soil
a strategy aimed at limiting the deterrent of nuclear weapons to europe, or worse, to german soil is not acceptable to us,'' he told a meeting of military experts feb. 6
kohl has urged that a higher priority be given to reducing the number of short-range missiles, which have a range of less than 300 miles
the superpowers, however, have indicated that future arms control talks will first concentrate on reducing strategic, or long-range, nuclear weapons arsenals
west german government sources said sunday that the main sticking point in kohl's talks with u.s. officials could be the issue of chemical weapons
kohl and foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher, who will accompany the chancellor, are expected to press reagan anew to work toward a superpower agreement for the worldwide destruction of chemical weapons
u.s. officials have said in recent months that such an agreement may be difficult to reach because of problems of verification
west german leaders reject that argument, saying the intermediate-range missile accord proves such problems can be worked out
kohl may also seek assurances that washington will make good on a pledge not to deploy a new generation of binary chemical weapons in west germany, government sources said
under an agreement reached between kohl and reagan during the economic summit in tokyo in 1986, aging chemical weapons now stationed in west germany would not be replaced
instead, the old weapons would be removed from west germany and the new systems held in readiness in the united states
there are indications, however, that the agreement may not be as firm as west german officials had hoped
the news magazine der spiegel, in its latest edition, quoted u.s. geneva arms negotiator max friedersdorf as saying the agreement might not extend beyond reagan's term in office
u.s. gen. john galvin, nato's chief commander in europe, told a west german newspaper on saturday that he favored stationing the new weapons in europe ``where the troops are.''
presidential candidates making their southern swing will address issues important to texans, say organizers of debates this week
the texas debates will be held thursday and friday at southern methodist university, weeks away from the march 8 super tuesday southern regional primary
the debates, coming on the heels of tuesday's new hampshire primary, will draw national attention to the regional primary of 14 southern and border states in which a third of both parties' delegates will be picked
the texas debates offer a chance to focus more closely on the remaining candidates and on the issues, especially the economic ones that are critical today in the southwest,'' said burl osborne, president and editor of the dallas morning news
sponsors include the news, kera-tv, and texas monthly magazine
tennessee sen. albert gore junior's quest for the democratic presidential nomination comes under the scrutiny of ``doonesbury'' cartoonist garry trudeau this week
beginning with monday's strip, trudeau takes a week-long look at gore's childhood, his tennessee political career and his bid for the white house
gore told the tennessean, nashville's morning newspaper, that he was a big trudeau fan
he's such a great artist and satirist,'' gore said. ``i think it's a lot of fun to be in the strip.''
in the strip, gore is called ``albert, prince of the tennessee valley.''
another presidential candidate, vice president george bush, has been savaged by trudeau in an off-again, on-again series. in the strips, bush is usually invisible
sen. bob dole of kansas is likely to win the republican nomination for president, according to former united nations ambassador jeane kirkpatrick
about 750 republicans attended the state gop's annual lincoln day festivities in kansas city over the weekend, where kirkpatrick was the keynote speaker
i don't have any crystal ball,'' kirkpatrick said. ``i know predictions are uncertain. if i had to choose, i would say it's likely it would be bob dole. it can change. i think today, that's the way it looks.''
much of the discussion centered on the chances of dole and vice president george bush, the top gop presidential contenders
unlike lincoln day weekends in past presidential election years, there was a generally harmonious atmosphere among republicans although there was no consensus candidate
the boston herald, calling republican presidential hopeful jack kemp ``a man of genuine vision,'' has endorsed the new york congressman in his effort to win the gop nomination
all the republicans have much to recommend them,'' the herald said in its lead editorial monday, one day before the new hampshire primary. ``but in terms of ideas, philosophy and potential for presidential leadership, we are persuaded that kemp would make a better occupant of the white house than any of his rivals.''
the editorial noted that kemp was not the favorite in the first-in-the nation presidential primary. vice president george bush and kansas sen. bob dole are favored to finish higher in the voting
although it looks like the new hampshire primary is a fight between bush and dole for first place, we hope kemp will do well enough to stay in the race,'' the editorial said
last week, the newspaper endorsed massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis in his race for the democratic nomination
faced with a two-year population boom, family planning authorities today said pressure will be increased on local cadres to enforce china's one-child-per-family limit, which has been widely defied
the authorities, while putting most of the blame for the birth surge on a peak in the number of childbearing women, also complained of a slackening off of birth control fervor in some places
from now on, cadres ``who implement the family planning policies well will get benefits, and those who do not do well will not get benefits and will even be punished,'' liang jimin, director of the state family planning commission's general office, told a news conference. he did not describe the punishments
he said the move was ordered by acting premier li peng
it follows two years in which the number of births jumped dramatically, in some places exceeding the planned level by 30 percent as more and more peasants have second and third children
the nationwide growth rate, which had been tamped down to 1.1 percent in 1985, hit 1.4 percent in 1986 and again last year, bringing the population to 1.07 billion or nearly 1.5 million more than planned
liang said the main reason for the surge is an increase in the number of women of childbearing age, themselves products of a baby boom during the 1960s. he said the effects of this ``boom echo'' would peak this year and next
but his deputy, shen guoxiang, acknowledged that more than 30 percent of the births each year were not part of the state plan, meaning the women defied regulations and married before the legal age of 20 or had more than one child
only members of minority groups, peasants in some very poor areas and couples whose first child is handicapped are allowed to have more than one child
earlier marriages and big families have become increasingly popular following the breakup of the communes in the early 1980s and the reinstitution of family farming. now that peasants can sell a large part of their crops for their own profit, extra hands translate into extra money
the peasants' new prosperity also means they can afford to pay government fines for having second, which vary from place to place but usually amount to 1,000 or more yuan per year for five years
the average peasant family earns 500 yuan ($135) per person per year, but in good farming regions incomes of 10,000 yuan ($2,700) are not uncommon
the state-run media have acknowleged that many peasants view fines as an acceptable price for having the much-desired big family
asked if the system encourged rich peasants to ``buy a second child,'' liang insisted, ``no, it's not like that. our emphasis has always been on publicity and education.'' he did not comment further
in a front-page article last month, the state-run people's daily said the trend toward having more than one child had reached crisis proportions, and warned that china might not be able to reach its goal of limiting the population to 1.2 billion in the year 2000
liang said the situation was ``acute'' and the task ahead arduous, but he said the limit of 1.2 billion was still possible
he said new emphasis will be put on signing family planning contracts with fixed birth targets. in some cases, women will be asked to sign contracts with local organizations to have only one child, a practice that has been used in the past
in other cases, he said, work units will sign the contracts. work units already play a significant role in urban areas in enforcing the one-child policy, and in many cases suspend workers for one or two years if they have a second child
asked if placing greater responsibility on local cadres to enforce the one-child limit could encourage coerced abortions, shen said: ``we are not going to take the number of abortions done as one of the indicators'' of a cadre's success
china already has 50 abortions for every 100 live births. liang said this is because most women in the countryside use intrauterine devices as birth control, and that these have a failure rate of about 20 percent
adolfo calero, a leader of u.s.-backed guerrillas in nicaragua is denying that his troops trained in panama or received funds from the panamanian government
we never had anyone training in panama,'' calero said. ``i don't know anything about it. we have absolutely nothing to do with panama, nor with the panamanian government.''
we have never received any money from panamanian sources,'' he said
calero's comments came in an interview over the weekend after appealing to a convention of u.s. conservatives to send donations to his cause. they were his first reaction to congressional testimony last week by a former top panamanian intelligence officer, jose i. blandon
blandon told a senate foreign relations subcommittee that panama provided military training for the rebels after a 1985 request from then-white house aide oliver north. at the time, direct u.s. assistance to the rebels was banned by law
after battling with local officials for the bodies of two people, advocates for the homeless conducted a funeral service which included the plain, wooden caskets of a man and woman on a downtown plaza across from city hall
bundled against sub-freezing temperatures and a bitter wind, about 40 activists prayed for a world where people ``do not die in the cold'' and held a service over the weekend that city officials dubbed ``tasteless'' after they lost the legal fight for custody of the corpses
mitch snyder, leader of the community for creative non-violence, said the public service, prior to cremation of the bodies, was designed to call attention to the deaths of 10 homeless people this winter on the streets of the capital. the city says 13 people have died of hypothermia, seven of them homeless
to make government more accountable, top party officials should be elected by all communist party members, more than one candidate should run and the balloting should be secret, a pravda article proposed
activists in the ukraine made the suggestions, which appeared in a front-page article in sunday's editions of the party's main newspaper, indicating the communist leadership is seriously considering them
the article said the issues will be formally taken up at the 19th all-union party conference, a rare gathering of the nation's communists to be held june 28 in moscow. mikhail s. gorbachev has raised the same issues the article suggested and has said electoral reform will be a key topic at the conference
at a plenary meeting of the party's central committee in january 1986, the soviet leader brought up the idea of secret ballots and discussed the possibility of giving party members a choice in voting for top party officials
gorbachev also criticized the current system for allowing bureaucrats to remain in party posts for life _ regardless of their productivity _ and discussed broadening the nomination procedure for government elections
some of the suggestions have been adopted experimentally
in what the government called democratization, ``multiple-candidate elections'' for local party posts were held in several areas in june. all of the candidates had to be approved by the communist party, the only party permitted to field candidates
in the june experiments, party members in one of every 25 voting districts chose among more than one candidate for local governing councils. runoff elections had to be held in 59 of the soviet union's 52,000 districts
whether the experiment will be expanded is not clear, but the continued media attention indicates the idea is still very much alive. the party conference in june could set the stage for making the system permanent and nationwide
gorbachev has also brought a little democracy to the working place. in june, the soviet parliament, or supreme soviet, approved competitive elections for managers of state enterprises. the idea is to make them more accountable
in its report sunday on a meeting of kiev university communists, pravda said there would be a diversity of views if more than one candidate were to run for party first secretary
what will remain is a struggle of opinions, a debate, a search for alternatives, variations and a choice of the best among them,'' pravda said
currently, only top party bodies elect the first secretary, and any debate about whom to choose is held behind closed doors. the first secretary is the top party official. the post exists at the city, regional and republic level
pravda also suggested that all communists take part in the voting, not just members of party committees, and that the balloting be conducted secretly
these electoral changes, the newspaper said, would help make top party officials more accountable to the people, and eliminate the ``cult of personality'' that surrounds them
another soviet newspaper, socialisticheskaya industriya, on sunday carried suggestions that the terms of party officials and their ages be restricted
when this or that person has been sitting in his ruling chair for dozens of years, then no experience he has garnered can compensate willy-nilly for a dulling of the feeling of newness, a fear of the risk of going forward,'' the newspaper said
officials at the canann valley ski resort say an explosion and fire that killed three maintenance workers may have been touched off by a compressor used for snow-making
the blaze, fed by at least five 55-gallon drums of fuel housed in the maintenance area, gutted the building sunday, authorities said
resort spokesman andy snyder said it appeared the compressor, part of a snow-making machine, exploded and set off the fire. it took firefighters about an hour to reach the victims. no other injuries were reported
i was on the slope opposite it when it blew,'' said bob gribbin of springfield, va. ``i heard an explosion, and fire came shooting out the back side of the building. flames shot out to the back wall (of the maintenance area). i guess it was about 40 feet.''
the maintenance shop, located at the base of the mountain, is used to repair resort vehicles and snow-making machines and also houses the compressors, said canaan valley state park spokesman steve drumheller
snyder said the compressors had been used to make snow as late as sunday morning, but were shut off sometime before noon when temperatures rose above freezing
firefighters from seven fire departments were called to help put out the fire in the stone and wood building, he said. the resort's beginners' area was closed for about three hours
authorities identified the dead as ronald l. hanlon, 33, dale w. liller, 25, and randy lee crowl, 24, all of davis
a runoff election will be held next week between a pro-western conservative and a communist-backed millionaire to determine who will replace president spyros kyprianou, who lost his bid for a third term
final results from sunday's presidential election in the greek cypriot part of this war-divided mediterranean island, put conservative glafcos clerides on top with with 33.3 percent, followed by businessman george vassiliou with 30.1 percent and kyprianou with 27.3 percent
kyprianou, 55, who remains head of the centrist democratic party, conceded defeat in a televised address and said he will ``continue striving on the basis of the same policy as before.'' he was running for a third five-year term
i see the result as approval by the people of a non-party, independent candidate to unite the people,'' said vassiliou, an independent backed by the communist party. ``i am sure next sunday will complete the renewal to enable us to face the difficult future for the settlement of our problem,'' said vassiliou, 56, founder of the largest market research firm in the middle east
the results made the feb. 21 runoff between clerides and vassiliou certain, since neither polled more than half of the vote as required by the constitution of cyprus, which gained independence from britain in 1960
clerides, 69, a proponent of an all-party national unity government, said: ``there has been no victor or vanquished in this election, since i will ask the other parties, including the democratic party, to participate in a coalition cabinet.'' his right-wing party is considered pro-western
the leader of the small socialist party, vassos lyssarides, polled 9.2 percent. with all 334,407 ballots counted, clerides had 111,491, vassiliou 100,635, kyprianou 91,262 and lyssarides 30,832. an independent, thrassos georghiades, had 187 votes, or 0.06 percent
voting was uneventful sunday, despite mudslinging during the campaign and warnings by the rival candidates of imminent assassination attempts, bombings and other violence. a midday car bomb explosion in the southern port city of limassol killed three senior palestinian guerrilla officers. but a cyprus government statement said the blast had nothing to do with the election
the candidates agree on only one thing: that the main issue is how to reunify the nation, divided into turkish and greek sectors after turkey invaded its northern third in 1974
dinos michaelides, the interior minister, said 95 percent of the 362,928 registered greek cypriot voters had cast their ballots when polling stations closed at 6 p.m. voting is compulsory
in previous presidential elections, the result was always a foregone conclusion, with the leading candidate either running unopposed or with insignificant opposition
since 1974, the northern third of the island has been under turkish military control. turkey invaded cyprus, ostensibly to protect the turkish cypriot minority, in the wake of a coup by greek cypriot extremists seeking union with greece. in 1983, the 150,000 turkish cypriots proclaimed their own breakaway state, which has been recognized only by turkey
a 2,300-man united nations peacekeeping force patrols a dividing line splitting the island east to west. efforts at reunification through a u.n.-sponsored federation plan have been deadlocked for more than two years
kyprianou's main plank was the rejection of any resumption of negotiations with the turkish side unless the 35,000 turkish troops and 65,000 settlers from mainland turkey withdraw from northern cyprus
his two main rivals also supported the withdrawal demand but did not make this a precondition for negotiations
a newlywed who said his wife was blown overboard while jogging on the deck of a ship during a honeymoon cruise was booked for investigation of murder when the ocean liner docked, an fbi spokesman said
scott robin roston, 36, of santa monica was arrested saturday after an intense u.s. coast guard search found the body of his wife, fbi spokesman fred reagan said sunday
roston was taken into custody when the cruise ship star dancer docked in los angeles harbor and was being held without bail at the terminal island federal prison. reagan said he couldn't release details of what led to roston's arrest
the cause of death of karen roston, 26, was to be determined by autopsy, said san diego county coroner's office spokesman robert grubb
the couple were married feb. 6 just before embarking on a honeymoon cruise along the mexican coast with 731 other passengers, the ship's staff captain said
roston told authorities that high winds blew his wife off the deck near the ship's jogging track, but ``the winds were not that strong,'' capt. thomas wildung said
chief purser ken ehlers said the track closed at 9 p.m. and he never heard the couple running, though the track is over his room
this woman was happy,'' ehlers said. ``she must have woke up friday morning thinking how happy she was to be on her honeymoon, on a cruise. she had no idea she would die ... and now she's gone.''
passenger dick heinrich, an assistant chief deputy at the cook county sheriff's department in chicago, said of the rostons, ``they seemed to be enjoying each other. they had a cake delivered to their table and everyone sang `happy honeymoon to you.'''
no one knows what really happened,'' wildung said. ``no one heard anything. the husband reported the accident. there were minor marks on his neck, but it's very difficult to tell how they got there. he said he got them when he tried to rescue his wife.''
the woman was reported overboard about 2 a.m. saturday when the ship was about 44 miles southwest of san diego, coast guard petty officer don roberts said
the coast guard said it immediately began a search, using a cutter, a helicopter and a jet
the star dancer, a bahamas-registered ship owned by admiral cruises of miami, fla., had also searched for the body, but the master of the vessel and the bahamian government requested that the fbi investigate the death, said coast guard lt. andy czapowskyj
they had some suspicion that there may have been some foul play involved,'' he said
the fbi has jurisdiction when crimes are committed against americans on the high seas in international waters
beirut's leftist daily newspaper as-safir today published valentine's day greetings addressed to american hostage terry anderson and other foreign captives
in a front-page report, the newspaper said:
the senders wish their messages would reach the hostages and that the captors will see them and free the captives whose parents and friends are waiting impatiently for their release.''
as-safir said its staff joins the senders' appeal for the release of the 22 foreign captives believed held by pro-iranian shiite moslem extremists. in addition, two scandinavians were recently kidnapped in south lebanon, but they are believed held by palestinian gunmen who do not belong to any plo faction
most of the 150 messages the newspaper received sunday were adressed to anderson, the longest-held foreigner. anderson, 40, of lorain, ohio, is chief middle east correspondent of the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
one message came from anderson's sister, peggy say of batavia, n.y. it said, ``terry, we love you so much and we'll never give up the fight for your freedom.''
in a video-taped message released by his captors on christmas eve, anderson said he had seen some christmas cards sent to him printed in as-safir and the independent newspaper an-nahar
other valentine cards were addressed to other hostages, including anglican church envoy terry waite. waite, 48, personal emissary of the archbishop of canterbury, the most rev. robert runcie, vanished after leaving a west beirut hotel jan. 20, 1987, for a meeting with the captors of anderson and another american hostage, thomas sutherland of fort collins, colo
sutherland, 55, acting dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, was abducted june 9, 1985
there are eight americans among the foreigners missing in lebanon
stock prices opened higher in london today and continued rising in early trading, buoyed by earlier rises on the new york and tokyo markets
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was up 8.3 points at 1,742 at 9:45 a.m. local time. when the market opened at 9 a.m., the index was up 6.1 points at 1,740.1
dealers said there was little trading taking place, following several quiet trading sessions last week
the early trend followed gains in new york on friday, where the dow jones industrial average rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, and gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 225.53 to 23,981.94
here are some of the best-known songs of the late lyricist alan j. lerner and composer frederick loewe, who died sunday at age 86. in parentheses are the musicals in which the songs were heard on broadway
the heather on the hill'' (``brigadoon'')
i could have danced all night'' (``my fair lady'')
the rain in spain'' (``my fair lady'')
get me to the church on time'' (``my fair lady'')
wouldn't it be loverly'' (``my fair lady'')
i've grown accustomed to her face'' (``my fair lady'')
thank heaven for little girls'' (``gigi'')
camelot'' (``camelot'')
if ever i would leave you'' (``camelot'')
i remember it well'' (``gigi'')
with a little bit of luck'' (``my fair lady'')
the night they invented champagne'' (``gigi'')
ascot gavotte'' (``my fair lady'')
i'm glad i'm not young anymore'' (``gigi'')
i'd always planned on staying and skating because that's what jane would have wanted.'' _ u.s. speed skater dan jansen, who fell and lost in an olympic race eight hours after his sister, jane jansen beres, died of leukemia
it seems like, to me, nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.'' republican presidential candidate pat robertson, who claimed that the soviets have nuclear missiles in cuba, a charge denied by the white house
we will continue to be anti-communist, and no one will surprise us flirting with marxism wherever it may be.'' _ gen. alfredo stroessner, after winning an eighth straight term as paraguay's president, amid charges of widespread election fraud
an assistant principal shot in the head by a high school student last week was fighting for his life today, a hospital spokeswoman said
richard w. allen, 53, has been in critical condition on a life-support system at bayfront medical center since the shooting in the pinellas park high school cafeteria, said hospital nursing supervisor bernadette tronzo
nancy blackwelder, 35, an assistant principal shot in the abdomen, was in good condition at humana northside hospital, where well-wishers have sent nearly 40 plants and vases of flowers
it only hurts when i move,'' she said this weekend. ``we're just taking it one day at a time.''
the two and a student teacher, who was released from a hospital, were shot after confronting two armed youths in the crowded lunchroom
jason harless, 15, and his friend, jason mccoy, 15, were arraigned friday on charges of attempted murder in connection with the thursday shootings witnessed by hundreds of horrified schoolmates
jason harless' mother, cheryl harless, a 34-year-old nurse, said she has received mostly supportive calls and visits from friends and relatives. but she also received hate mail addressed to her son
numb doesn't qualify. hurt doesn't qualify. confused doesn't qualify,'' mrs. harless wept
she said the shootings stunned her
it was a monstrous thing, but they are not monstrous,'' she said saturday. ``they're babies.''
communist laos and pro-western thailand say they are fighting a border war to win a remote jungle area they consider sacred
but the conflict that began in november appears to reflect deeper tensions fueled by centuries of enmity and more recent quarrels related to the flight of refugees, guerrilla warfare and smugglers' quarrels
the periodic confrontations on the 1,000-mile frontier are smaller than the battles being fought on the thai-cambodian border between china-supplied cambodian guerrillas and soviet-backed vietnamese
still, there has been no lack of drama and violence at thailand border with laos. more than 300,000 refugees have fled into thailand, including thousands of hmong tribesmen who once fought for the united states
in 1984, thailand and laos fought _ on land and in the united nations _ over three border villages. shootouts along the mekong river, which forms much of the boundary line, are common
in the most recent trouble, which began in november and has been steadily escalating, the two sides accuse each other of trying to grab a sparsely populated area astride thailand's phitsanulok province and sayaboury province in laos. the laotians claim 50 square miles of disputed territory
several hundred troops on both sides have been reported killed and wounded in the fighting, the largest such engagement since the laotian communists seized power 12 years ago
artillery barrages, infantry attacks and the downing of at least one thai warplane by a soviet surface-to-air missile have been described in official accounts by the two countries
today, prime minister prem tinsulanonda announced that a laotian military team would arrive in bangkok on tuesday for talks on ending the border battles. but he played down expectations for a solution
since the 1975 communist takeover in laos, both sides have taken some steps toward peaceful coexistence
in 1979, they pledged to turn the mekong into ``a river of genuine peace.'' but the poorly demarcated river and land boundary is itself a key source of friction. both countries pull out conflicting maps, some dating back to the early 1900s, to prove their claims to disputed territory
mutual suspicions are heightened by the activities of anti-communist laotian guerrillas
the vientiane government claims they operate from thai soil, drawing recruits from among the 75,000 refugees still in camps near the frontier. in turn, laos provided support for thailand's now impotent communist insurgency
lucrative two-way smuggling of items such as water buffalo, marijuana and consumer goods also have led to disputes that escalated into armed clashes
although thailand denies laotian accusations that the ongoing fighting was sparked by illegal log poaching by senior thai army officers, cases of corrupt dealings invovling thai or laotian officials have surfaced in the past
in legal trade, landlocked laos has tried to decrease its once nearly total dependence on the thais for the transit of imports and exports by opening up transport routes to ports in vietnam. but a quarter of all official imports still pass through thailand, which prohibits passage of 61 ``strategic goods'' including bicycles, some medicines and building material
the list was reduced from more than 200 items a year ago
macallister brown, a u.s. political scientist, wrote recently:
thailand controls three instruments that can seriously hamper the development of laos: the reception of refugees and economic migrants from laos, the tolerance of and cooperation with armed resistance elements, and the ban on transit to laos of `strategic goods.'''
although the two countries are very similar in language, culture and ethnic origin, the laotians have been controlled by the thais and the vietnamese, from the 15th century until france colonized the area in the late 19th century
vientiane, a royal capital, was brutally sacked by the thais in 1827
for nearly eight centuries the thai authorities continuously pursued an expansionist and hegemonist policy, carried out tens of atrocious aggressive wars...,'' said a laotian government position paper published in 1984
in recent decades, thailand has grown into an economically strong nation of 53 million, while colonial repression, war and mismanagement by the communists has relegated laos, with barely four million people, into the ranks of the world's poorest countries
these differences tend to increase laotians' resentment at being depicted by the thais as their ``little brothers.''
the dollar fell slightly against most major currencies in light european trading this morning as dealers reported some profit-taking
gold prices were little changed
foreign exchange dealers said today's announcement that the japanese trade surplus had narrowed sharply to $3.072 billion in january from $8.601 billion in december had reinforced the market's more positive recent view of the dollar
however, dealers said a national holiday in the united states and a holiday in the northern part of west germany meant trading would be limited and they predicted little movement for the dollar
the japanese trade figures were very promising, even if not exceptional,'' said one trader with a major italian commercial bank in milan. ``but they solidified the feeling that the dollar may have turned the corner.''
but dealers also warned that in such a thin market, any profit-taking would exaggerate rate movements
there are no other factors except profit-taking that could send the dollar lower,'' said a trader at a major west german bank in frankfurt
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar rose 1.05 yen to a closing 131.00. later, in london, it was quoted lower at 130.40 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late friday's rates:
_ 1.7090 west german marks, down from 1.7123
_ 1.4047 swiss francs, down from 1.4065
_ 5.7710 french francs, down from 5.7865
_ 1.9165 dutch guilders, down from 1.9225
_ 1,257.50 italian lire, down from 1,260.75
_ 1.2660 canadian dollars, up from 1.2624
in london, the dollar fell against the british pound. it cost $1.7450 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.7401 on friday
gold was little changed from friday's prices, but lower than its opening levels. dealers said it was pressured by light profit-taking
bullion markets in hong kong were closed for the chinese new year
gold opened in london at a bid price of $446.70 a troy ounce, up from friday's late bid of $443.00. but it fell back at mid-morning today when the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $443.60
in zurich, the bid price was $443.30, down from $443.50 late friday
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.34 a troy ounce, unchanged from friday
nora astorga, the nation's u.n. ambassador and a heroine of the sandinista revolution, died of cancer in managua, the government announced. she was 39
during the revolution, ms. astorga gained fame for luring a top general into her bedroom, where he was killed by rebels. in 1984, the reagan administration rejected her as nicaragua's ambassador to the united states
ms. astorga, who died sunday, was a lawyer and a member of the sandinista assembly, one of the leftist movement's highest consultative bodies
she had returned home from new york early last month because of her illness and was living on a small farm near the capital until sunday, the government said in a communique
the ambassador ``will be rendered all the honors of a heroine of both the fatherland and the revolution in her funeral,'' the communique added. it did not say when the ceremony will be held
in a separate communique, the ruling sandinista national liberation front, of which ms. astorga had been a member since 1969, said she ``took a heroic part in the struggle to overthrow the dictatorship'' of president anastasio somoza, whose family was in power for 42 years
she was awarded the sandinistas' highest decoration for her role in the struggle that brought them to power in 1979. the sandinista communique called her ``an efficient and disciplined revolutionary worker.''
julio icaza, nicaragua's deputy representative to the united nations, is serving as acting ambassador, said a spokesman for agendas international inc., a new york-based public relations company representing the government
in managua in 1978, ms. astorga induced gen. reynaldo perez vega, deputy commander of the national guard, into her bedroom, where anti-government guerrillas cut his throat
ms. astorga said sandinista accomplices tried to subdue perez vega, but that when he resisted, they killed him. the original plan was to kidnap perez vega and release him in exchange for 59 sandinista prisoners, she said
in 1984, the united states rejected her as the proposed ambassador to the united states. she held the rank of deputy foreign minister at the time
u.s. officials said the reagan administration regarded her as unsuitable in view of her involvement in the slaying of perez vega. she was appointed ambassador to the united nations in february 1986
before the revolution, ms. astorga earned a doctorate in law at the catholic university in managua, and directed legal and personnel matters for an engineering firm there. she also studied at catholic university in washington and was fluent in english and italian
after the overthrow of somoza, ms. astorga became a special minister of justice for the trials of former members of the national guard
in an april 10, 1987 speech to the american society of newspaper editors in san francisco, she talked about the problems between nicaragua and the white house, which has supported the contra rebels in their six-year battle against the sandinistas
she said relations were poor because of a ``theory of domination that says that a small, poor, underdeveloped country has to depend on one of the two superpowers.''
decades of dependency on the united states, she said, had brought nicaragua poverty and ``the most cruel dictatorship in latin america. ... so we are not willing to do that again.''
ms. astorga represented nicaragua in deliberations of the contadora group, which attempted to end insurgencies in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala. she also headed nicaraguan delegations to international women's conferences in denmark and kenya, the 1985 latin american economic system in caracas, venezuela, and the latin america economic conference in quito, ecuador in 1984
she was married twice and had four children
valentine's day sprints by all too quickly for some lovers, but peter and maryellen polichetti were prepared to make it a marathon
the couple from nearby lewisville took a week's vacation to compete in the 1988 great dallas kiss-off, mindful that it took them 58{ hours last year to win the marathon kissing contest
but the polichettis licked this year's competition in just 4{ hours when the couple's most serious challengers had to leave to relieve their babysitter early sunday morning
i couldn't believe that it would end so quickly,'' said peter polichetti, 38. he and his wife, maryellen, 39, won a vacation in jamaica for their latest victory, which involves continuous kissing except for short breaks every hour
nine of the 14 couples who registered for the valentine's day contest, which raises funds for the american heart association, decided not compete after learning that the reigning champs had taken a week's vacation for the same purpose
hank zecca, peter polichetti's employer at an area construction company, and his wife vickie proved to be the most serious competition for the polichettis
our big thing was we didn't want them to win it in an hour,'' said zecca, 38. ``we thought we'd put up a little token resistance. it got to be around 1:30 (a.m.) and we said we have to go home for the kids.''
at age 70, an illinois woman says she's seen it all as a former truck driver, waitress and restaurant owner. now she's letting customers see it all _ or almost _ as a stripper
the 5-foot-2, 147-pound decatur woman, who calls herself fleta and performs for especially for you dancing strip-o-gram, takes off her feather boa, sleeves, fur-throated elastic top and shimmies out of a ruffled skirt to music from the 1920s
she ends her seven-minute act clad in a black leotard and mesh stockings
i enjoy it. if i didn't like it, i wouldn't do it,'' says fleta, who refused to give her last name during a recent interview with the decatur herald and review. she has entertained at more than a dozen parties in her budding four-month career
fleta's new career got started by accident when she was keeping house for strip-o-gram's owner, marilyn bernhardt
at first fleta objected, but she changed her mind when i told her she would get $20,'' bernhardt said. ``she can charleston a whole nine yards and has great looking legs.''
the london zoo has appointed an entertainment director for its caged creatures, reasoning that bored animals are boring to watch
among the projects he'll consider to amuse and stimulate the animals are:
_ showers for pigs and apes and food dispensers for fish and other animals which they can operate themselves;
_ musical keyboards on which orangutans can practice;
_ a playback tape for gibbons to recreate the duets they enact in the wild and an artificial termite mound for chimpanzees
david shepherdson is the first behavioral enrichment research fellow appointed by the 162-year-old zoological society that runs the zoo and the universities federation for animal welfare
the federation said today that shepherdson is charged with ``developing and assessing devices to enrich the animals' environment and to reduce abnormal behavior associated with captivity.''
shepherdson, 29, attended sussex university where he studied the behavior of badgers in the wild
there has been very little research into the problems suffered by animals in captivity,'' he said
the federation said: ``to give animals freedom to exercise their instincts and their intuitive powers not only increases their contentment but also adds to the enjoyment and appreciation of visitors.''
one of three brothers who were banned from school because they had been exposed to the aids virus has developed aids-related complex, but his doctor says he can remain active
ricky ray, 11, does not have a severe or life-threatening illness stemming from acquired immune deficiency syndrome, said jerry barbosa, a specialist in pediatric hemotology and oncology at all children's hospital in st. petersburg. ``ricky's arc is stable and he is showing no signs of progession,'' said barbosa. ``he never posed a threat (of spreading the aids virus) in the past, and he doesn't pose a threat to anyone in the present.''
if anything, ricky is feeling better,'' barbosa said. ``he's full of energy.''
ricky's brothers, 10-year-old robert and 8-year-old randy, remain in good health, barbosa said. all three are hemophiliacs
gail lloyd, a spokeswoman for the federal centers for disease control in atlanta, said a patient who has arc does not necessarily develop aids, a fatal disease that destroys the body's immune system
arc is caused by the aids virus and has a specific set of symptoms, barbosa said. those symptoms, often less severe than symptoms of aids, may include weight loss, loss of appetite, fever, night sweats, skin rashes, diarrhea, tiredness, lack of resistance to infection or swollen lymph nodes
the aids virus is transmitted by sexual contact, sharing intravenous needles or by receiving a transfusion of infected blood. doctors believe the ray brothers were injected with tainted plasma-based medication they received to clot their blood
information about ricky's condition came seven weeks after it first was reported that he was taking azt, a drug approved for the treatment of aids
the boys' medical records are on public file as part of a lawsuit filed against the desoto county school board by their parents, louise and clifford ray. barbosa filed the latest test results in court friday
the doctor said he prescribed azt because early use of the drug should increase the chance of retarding arc symptoms
the ray brothers were banned from regular classes in desoto county in august 1986 after they tested positive for aids antibodies. a federal judge ordered their return to the classroom
less than a week after they started school last fall, a fire destroyed the rays' home. authorities ruled the fire arson but no arrests have been made
the rays moved to sarasota, where the boys now attend school
flooding on major french waterways has paralyzed river traffic, inundated some homes and submerged the seine river expressway
about 800 barges on the seine, marne, yonne and sambre rivers were unablie to operate in ``the biggest crisis since 1982,'' the boatmen's union said today
the state bridges and roads department last week prohibited barge traffic on the seine where the high water level made it impossible for many barges to pass under the bridges of paris
the water level, swelled by unusually high rainfall, has been rising for the past two weeks, washing out the expressway that runs along the seine in central paris
the river brigade said the seine water level monday morning had exceeded 16.5 feet. an alert is given when the water level hits five meters or 16.4 feet, the level reached in 1982
water was rising above the haunches of the zouave, the statue of an infantryman in oriental dress at the foot of the alma bridge near the eiffel tower
in 1910 the seine lapped at the zouave's chin in the worst flooding this century
about 100 homes were flooded in villeneuve-saint george, in the val de marne region east of paris, and eight villages were inundated in the essonne region, authorities said
small boats have been relaying bread and mail to flooded communities
the boatmen's union said the loss to bargeowners, who transport things like sand, coal and even cars, would be ``important,'' but could not estimate a figure. essay</head>
the american medical association will challenge any subpoena demanding the identity of a doctor who wrote a controversial essay on a purported mercy killing, the association's top lawyer said
a cook county grand jury reportedly has subpoenaed the manuscript of the jan. 8 article in the journal of the american medical association, in which a doctor described injecting a fatal dose of morphine into a young woman suffering from ovarian cancer
the ama's general counsel, kirk johnson, has said that while he would honor a court order demanding the documents, the association would challenge subpoenas under first amendment protection
dr. george lundberg, the journal's editor, said that he has not received a subpoena. a spokesman for the state's attorney's office, terry levin, would not comment on any reported grand jury action
the chicago sun-times said sunday the grand jury has requested any in-house memos about the essay and minutes from editorial staff meetings linked to the article as well as the cover letter sent by the doctor and the original manuscript
ama officials said they did not verify the purported mercy killing but believed it was based on fact. they said the author requested anonymity
there has been speculation by outsiders that the article, titled ``it's over, debbie,'' was a hoax
the essay describes how an exhausted gynecology resident gave a fatal injection to a patient he had never seen before
the essay has sparked debate about the ethics of euthanasia, which editor lundberg said was the purpose of publishing it
state's attorney richard m. daley became involved because the journal and the ama are based in chicago. the essay did not indicate where the author lived or where the purported incident took place
it's presidents' day and time for a party in this central washington town
george's 260 people planned a community lunch complete with birthday cake, children's games and a lengthy bingo session
it's a big deal,'' said winnie davey, of the george exxon service station, which is running a special on packaged cherry pies today. ``the whole community is involved.''
george, located near the columbia river, was apparently named after the first president, although some people assert that the town was actually named after a dog belonging to one of the founders
you shouldn't believe everything you hear,'' said ms. davey, which may be a sad commentary on the day celebrating the birth of a man who could not tell a lie
but there is no doubt the town has taken much of its identity from george washington and the symbols surrounding him
for instance, many streets are named after types of cherries, including royal anne, montmorency and bing, said ms. davey
businesses have names like the martha inn, the colonial market and the cherry tree
a highlight of today's activities at the community center will be an 18-square-foot birthday cake in the shape of a mountain with george washington's face drawn on it, said glenda jenkins, president of the organizing group known as the georgettes
the theme is george washington's head on mount rushmore,'' she said of the cake, which she believes will feed 1,000 people, although about 800 showed up last year
george actually throws a bigger celebration, including a parade, during the fourth of july, because the weather is better, said carol michael, another organizer
with shamrocks on the shutters and grecian columns at the entrance, the house that once belonged to the late mayor james michael curley is for sale
the 18-room house has three full and two half-baths, a three-story circular staircase, and a heated garage. sophie tucker, rodgers and hammerstein, eleanor roosevelt and madame chiang kai-shek all have visited the house, said francis curley, the sole survivor of the mayor's nine children
curley, 64, said he can remember the vienna boys choir lined up on the curved staircase, singing to the accompaniment of a piano and string quartet
his family had owned the house for more than 40 years when they sold it to the roman catholic church for $60,000 in 1956. the oblate fathers have lived there since but find the upkeep too much and plan to auction the house april 23. they hope to receive about $2 million
curley said the oblate provincial invited him for dinner recently. it was his first visit back in over 30 years
there are just too many ghosts,'' he said. ``there had been nine kids there, and the house used to be filled with people constantly.''
curley was first elected mayor of boston in 1914 and served four terms, the last one 1946-50. he also was a member of the u.s. house and governor of massachusetts
in 1938, he was fined $30,000 in a fraud case and thousands of people donated money to help pay the fine. he was convicted in a mail fraud case in 1947 while serving as mayor and sent to prison, where he served five months
president harry s. truman pardoned him in 1950. he died in 1958
no charges have been filed against a woman who fatally shot a naked man who allegedly chased her through a parking lot to the door of her apartment, police said
ronald winford fisher, 27, an air force sergeant from the 3202nd civil engineering squadron at eglin air force base, was found face down and nude outside the women's apartment, okaloosa county sheriff's capt. phil irish said
karen stiles said she shot at fisher with a .44-caliber magnum pistol through a screen door because he was trying to break into her apartment, according to irish
fisher died early saturday from a single gunshot wound to the chest, said edmund kielman, who performed an autopsy
ms. stiles said fisher chased her from her car to her building, she told police. update with jdl comment in jerusalem. picks up 8th graf pvs, `cypriot security ...'</note>
an explosion blew a hole in a ferryboat at limassol today as it was being readied to carry palestinian deportees on a plo-sponsored protest voyage to israel, a palestine liberation organization official said
a man claiming to speak for the jewish defense league said the u.s.-based group was ``responsible for bombing the ship at limassol.''
this is only a warning. next time we will bomb it with all the people on it,'' he said in a telephone call to the associated press in nicosia. the man spoke english with an american accent and the call sounded long-distance. but he would not say where he was calling from
there were no immediate reports of injuries
when asked if the jdl also was responsible for the killing of three plo officers in limassol on sunday, he said: ``no comment,'' and quickly hung up
the jdl was founded in the early 1960s by meir kahane, now a member of the israeli parliament and head of extremist, anti-arab kach party. both kach and the jdl espouse violence in the arab-israeli conflict
there was no way to verify the identity of the purported jdl spokesman or to authenticate the claim
in jerusalem, kahane spokesman baruch marzel told the ap, ``i think this is a great act to sanctify the lord. this is an excellent deed and i bless the people who did it.''
asked whether the jdl bombed the ship, marzel said he could not comment on such issues. he said kahane was abroad and could not be reached for comment
cypriot security sources, insisting on anonymity, said the plo men killed in a car-bombing in limassol had been negotiating for the boat
the slain officials were identified as mohammed sultan; mohammed buheis, also known as abu hassan kassem; and marwan kayyali
limassol port manager john jijis, interviewed by israel radio, said the craft, the 6,151-ton sol phryne, formerly sailed between limassol and haifa, israel. he said it was bought on saturday but ``definitely not (by the) plo.''
he said the explosion occurred ``at about a quarter to six this morning ... there will be ... an underwater survey to find out exactly what happened, how big a hole there is and what repairs may be necessary.''
one plo official, who spoke in nicosia on condition of anonymity, told the ap: ``we are waiting for a decision by the (plo) command. we have to see if there is an alternative ship for the voyage.''
plo officials in athens, greece, confirmed the vessel they had planned to use on the voyage to israel was damaged by a bomb in cyprus
the plo had tried to launch the voyage from greece, but it was repeatedly delayed. before today's explosion, the plo had ordered the 130 palestinian deportees and hundreds of observers and reporters that had planned to make the voyage to gather at athens airport to fly to cyprus
after the blast, plo officials stopped some reporters from boarding the plane to cyprus, where the voyage was due to start tonight
plo officials blamed israel for the car-bomb killings and also linked the attack to the plo's efforts to find a vessel for the voyage to israel
israel started this open war after losing the secret war concerning the ship,'' the plo's chief spokesman, bassam abu sharif, said in athens
the planned voyage carries echoes of the 1947 trip of the exodus, in which jewish refugees from nazi death camps were turned back by british forces as they tried to emigrate to palestine
in jerusalem, israeli officials had no immediate comment on the ferryboat explosion, but defense minister yitzhak rabin said israel had decided, within the framework of various constraints, not to let the plo ship reach israeli shores, israel army radio said
rabin, speaking before the report of the explosion, said israel would stop the boat ``in the ways it sees suitable,'' the radio said
the ship's captain, cleanthis vlahopoulos, a greek from athens, told reporters at limassol that he heard ``a loud bang at about 5.30 a.m.''
the crew, he said, quickly abandoned the vessel, which began taking on water. ``the boat was shaking and then it listed,'' he said. the crewmen later returned to the vessel
cypriot authorities, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the 40-year-old ferryboat was the only ship presently in cyprus that would have been suitable for the voyage trip to israel
the plo voyage, called the ``ship of return,'' was designed to focus condemnation of israel's policy of deporting palestinians from the occupied west bank and gaza strip, seized from jordan and egypt in 1967
the deportees includes taxi drivers, laborers, a university professor, an anglican bishop, several mayors and city council members
the voyage was supposed to end in haifa, but israeli officials have said they will refuse to let the vessel enter their waters
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir has condemned the voyage, saying it was ``a declaration of war.''
gen. manuel noriega's american lawyers, maintaining u.s. drug trafficking charges against the panamanian military leader are politically motivated, said they would seek a dismissal of the indictment this week
lawyer raymond takiff said sunday that the defense team would meet tuesday with prosecutors but refused to say why
he also said he would seek access to the minutes of the miami grand jury that indicted noriega, panama's military leader and de facto ruler
general noriega told us that he has always been a friend of the united states and is still a friend of the united states,'' takiff said sunday after arriving at miami international airport
he had been consulting with noriega about the federal indictments handed up earlier this month in tampa and miami. takiff shrugged off a key witness' testimony against noriega
jose blandon, the former panamanian consul general in new york, ``wants to be the next president of panama,'' takiff said
blandon, who was fired in january, testified before the miami federal grand jury and before a u.s. congressional subcommittee about noriega's alleged involvement in cocaine trafficking
he also said the cia had provided noriega with confidential information on sens. edward kennedy and jesse helms, which the cia denied
the defense team has ``material which portrays the long and intricate involvement of jose blandon ... with the communist party in both panama and puerto rico,'' takiff claimed
noriega's lawyers also claimed their client has information that could influence the u.s. presidential election
we were given access by general noriega to files which contain political dynamite _ files which could affect the upcoming presidential election in the united states and the positions of other nations,'' said takiff, who refused to elaborate
right now, we're just going to sit tight with them (the files). if we have to use them, we'll use them,'' vowed defense lawyer frank rubino
a comet slamming into earth may have triggered a yearlong storm of acid rain as poisonous as battery acid that killed off dinosaurs and other creatures, a scientist says
animals deep in their burrows and creatures living in lakes with limestone bottoms might have been among the few survivors of the catastrophic collision 65 million years ago, according to a theory outlined by ronald g. prinn of massachusetts institute of technology
the new theory is a variation on a hotly debated hypothesis that an asteroid from space doomed the dinosaurs
prinn suggests that a large comet _ one that makes halley's comet look like ``a little speck of sand'' _ struck the earth with 1 million times more force than the world's entire nuclear arsenal
this would be a very unusual event, something that might happen once in a billion years,'' prinn said sunday at a meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
the idea that an asteroid wiped out the dinosaurs was first proposed in 1980 by physicist luis alvarez and his son walter, a geologist. they said that dust and soot thrown into the air would have blocked out the sunlight. temperatures would have plummeted, and many animals, including the dinosaurs, would have frozen to death
prinn noted that while there was a large extinction, not all animals fared equally badly. the great land reptiles and many kinds of sea life were decimated, but many mammals and plants survived reasonably well. he said his acid rain theory may explain ``the peculiar selectivity of the extinctions.''
since limestone would neutralize the acid, fish in limestone lakes might have lived. hibernating animals deep in burrows might also have waited out the worst of the acid rain storm, and eggs laid in the ground could also have survived
plants would have been killed, but their seeds remained to sprout after the acid storm cleared. however, plant-eating animals, such as large dinosaurs, would have starved to death or been asphyxiated
prinn theorized that all calcium-containing ocean animals down to a depth of about 500 feet would have been annihilated. deeper sea creatures would have survived, as would those with skeletons of silica
many scientists doubt that something from space caused the massive destruction of species. they note that dinosaurs and other long-gone creatures died out over many centuries, not all at once, so a single catastrophe cannot be the culprit
david raup of the university of chicago argued that there have been many extinctions over the eons, but only one has been shown to have occurred about the same time as an apparent heavenly collision. he said this might simply have been a coincidence
others have suggested that gigantic volcanic eruptions were to blame for the mysterious extinctions
prinn theorizes that when the comet hit, it blasted out a crater, spewing water and rock into the air at supersonic speeds, suddenly heating the atmosphere to enormous temperatures. the heat made oxygen and nitrogen in the air combine to form nitric acid, which rained on earth for a year
a top chinese foreign affairs expert today criticized the united states for what he said was interference in china's internal affairs
huan xiang, director of the center for international studies under the state council, condemned the u.s. congress for its support of tibet's exiled religious leader, the dalai lama, and its criticism of china's handling of pro-independence unrest in tibet
huan, writing in today's edition of the authoritative weekly beijing review, also criticized congress for passing a resolution in support of taiwan independence and denied that china supplies silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran
some people in the political and press circles in the united states have a very strong sense of national chauvinism, believing they have the monopoly on truth without considering the changing world situation and the interests of other countries,'' huan said
anti-chinese protests in tibet late last year left at least 14 people dead and dozens injured as tibetan monks battled chinese security forces
meanwhile, in the central province of shanxi, delegates to a provincial legislature have called for an investigation of a top legal official in an unprecedented display of their powers, an official report said today
eighty-six delegates to the shanxi people's congress signed a motion to oust the procurator general, one of the province's top legal officials, for incompetence, the xinhua news agency said
it is the first time such a high-ranking official has been subjected to the scrutiny of the deputies,'' xinhua said
but the motion was defeated by a majority of delegates who voted to allow the procurator general, who was unnamed, to keep his post while the congress investigates the case. xinhua did not say when the vote took place or what the count was
the official was accused of failing to act according to the law and mishandling a number of cases
people's congresses serve as legislative bodies at all levels of government in china, from the municipal to the national. citizens actually elect delegates to only the lowest-level local committees, which in turn send delegates to higher congresses
the congresses long have been rubber-stamp bodies, with real power concentrated in the hands of the communist party. in the past year, however, the official media have portrayed them as having a larger role under political reforms intended to separate the party from government functions
former minister walker railey says the peace he sought by moving to san francisco has eluded him as questions persist about the near-fatal strangling attack on his wife
railey says he is weary and resentful of the scrutiny of his private life, attention which grew after his in-laws filed a civil lawsuit accusing him of attacking margaret ``peggy'' railey
i'm kind of between the devil and the deep blue sea,'' railey told the dallas morning news in an interview published sunday
and in a situation like that, it's hard to know what is the best, most honest and responsible way to respond,'' said the former senior minister at the first united methodist church
railey has told police he found his 39-year-old wife, strangled nearly to death the night of april 21, 1987, in the garage of their home. mrs. railey is now comatose in nursing home
on feb. 2, railey's in-laws filed a lawsuit that accused railey of maliciously and knowingly trying to choke his wife to death. the petition seeks unspecified damages to cover mrs. railey's past and future pain, suffering and anguish from the attack
railey says he is innocent, and police have not filed charges
in november, railey moved to san francisco after giving guardianship of his wife to her parents and custody of his two children to friends. since the lawsuit was filed, he has stayed in hotels and with friends instead of his apartment, saying he is trying to avoid reporters and photographers
in the interview, railey refused to give an account of his actions on april 21
i get the impression that most people's minds have been made up a fairly long time. i give the press credit for that. i was tried and convicted by the public media very early,'' he told the newspaper
railey also declined to discuss his relationship with psychologist lucy papillon, who told a grand jury she had dated railey and who jointly signed the one-year lease on railey's san francisco apartment
the former minister said he sought job opportunities and a chance to regroup emotionally when he moved to san francisco
he said he is living off savings and from his share of equity from the sale of the dallas house that he shared with mrs. railey and their two children
the main opposition party today urged rival leader kim dae-jung to step down to pave the way for a merger of south korea's splintered anti-government factions
lawmakers in the reunification democratic party harshly denounced kim after his breakaway party for peace and democracy boycotted a joint meeting to discuss the proposed merger
the parties remain at odds over the issue of rewriting election laws, with the reunification democratic party favoring a system in which up to three lawmakers would represent each district
party for peace lawmakers boycotted the meeting after demanding that a resolution endorsing a system of one lawmaker per constituency precede other items on the agenda
reunification democratic party lawmakers insisted the two parties first solve thorny issues involving basic rules, such as power sharing, to accelerate the merger
reunification spokesman kim tae-ryong urged kim dae-jung to step down immediately to take ``political and moral responsibility,'' and denounced his reluctance to compromise on the unification
in a surprise move feb. 8, kim young-sam resigned as president of the reunification democratic party, saying he wanted to help unite the opposition. his resignation put strong pressure on kim dae-jung to do likewise, but he refused to step down
supporters have urged the opposition to field united candidates to regain public confidence and defeat the governing democratic justice party in the national assembly elections in april
roh tae-woo, the government's candidate hand-picked by outgoing president chun doo-hwan, won the presidential election in december after kim dae-jung and kim young-sam split the opposition vote
the opposition's failure to field one candidate in presidential election is believed to have caused its defeat
rutgers university has banned fraternity and sorority parties pending an investigation into the death of a freshman after a drinking party, officials said
middlesex county prosecutor alan a. rockoff said he will meet with investigators tuesday to determine if charges will be filed in the death of james c. callahan, 18, of north bergen
callahan died friday after a pledging ceremony at lambda chi alpha and a celebration in which a ``tremendous amount'' of liquor was consumed, rockoff said
an autopsy saturday indicated fluid and congestion in callahan's lungs led to circulatory and respiratory failure, but did not determine if alcohol played a part in his death, rockoff said
rutgers administrators on saturday told fraternities and sororities to cancel parties and closed lambda chi alpha pending results of the investigation of callahan's death, a school spokeswoman said sunday
another student who attended the party said pledges were told by fraternity members ``to drink until you were sick,'' according to a published report
john deliso told the central new jersey home news of new brunswick fraternity members ``kind of had bags on'' to catch vomit
deliso was treated for several hours at st. peter's medical center for an alcohol-related illness following the party
rockoff has said that although drinking was not mandatory, many participants were under the state's legal drinking age of 21
callahan and 13 other students were invited to join the fraternity during a brief ceremony thursday night, said peter hendricks, an attorney representing his former fraternity. the party followed. about 40 students attended, authorities said
a man who shot his estranged 15-year-old wife to death while she was walking home from school carrying valentine's day gifts has died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, officials said today
johnny gallardo, 27, who shot himself once in the temple after shooting his wife twice in the head friday, died sunday at wilford hall air force medical center, said spokesman tech sgt. lowell cook
janie gallardo died shortly shortly after she was shot. the couple had married in 1986, but had been separated since december
police reports say gallardo assaulted his wife at school in late january, and friends said she was also attacked another time near where she was killed
mrs. gallardo was carrying a box of valentine's candy, two carnations and a small stuffed bear when she was killed. authorities speculated gallardo may have thought someone had given them to her at lowell middle school
it appears this is what enraged him. it appears it was jealousy,'' police homicide detective john campa said saturday
mrs. gallardo did not run when her husband approached, said lulu gamboa, 17, who was walking with mrs. gallardo
johnny said, `janie, where did you get those roses?' but janie didn't say anything. she just kept walking with her head down,'' miss gamboa said saturday. ``then he pulled out a gun. i thought he was just playing because he was smiling, but he shot her and we ran.''
gallardo then shot himself, campa said
miss gamboa said the flowers and candy were given to numerous girls by male classmates at a school party friday. mrs. gallardo's brother, santos arocha, said his sister was allowed to marry at 13 because she kept running away with gallardo
arocha said she returned to her parents' home in december after repeated abuse and because she wanted to return to school
arocha said the family had been unable to get a restraining order against gallardo after mrs. gallardo said she wanted a divorce
miss gamboa said mrs. gallardo was lonely
she needed a lot of attention and love and she thought she would get it from him, but she didn't,'' miss gamboa said
uniformed and plainclothes police today flooded key sites where dissidents planned demonstrations tuesday to mark the anniversary of lithuania's declaration of independence after world war i
the police, accompanied by citizens' patrols, gathered around historic and national sites in vilnius, capital of the lithuanian republic
an officially sponsored demonstration by workers was arranged today to protest what the government considers u.s. incitement of lithuanian dissidents
vilnius city government recently announced that all demonstrators must obtain an official permit in advance. city officials said no one applied for a permit
moscow dissidents, however, said lithuanian nationalists planned to lay wreaths tuesday in vilnius and kaunas, the republic's two largest cities
western reporters were barred from traveling to lithuania on their own, but the foreign ministry took a group of moscow-based foreign correspondents to vilnius on an organized tour
authorities cut telephones of leading lithuanian dissidents, and human rights activists in moscow said police blockaded the apartments of some would-be demonstrators in vilnius
last august, widespread demonstrations marked the 48th anniversary of the non-aggression pact between nazi germany and the soviet union that led to the 1940 soviet takeover of the three baltic states, lithuania, estonia and latvia. the states had a stormy independence between the two world wars and were occupied at various times by the germans, poles and russians
moscow dissident valery senderov said police began blockading lithuanian dissidents' apartments sunday, preventing them from attending catholic church services, which have become an outlet for expressing opposition to soviet control over lithuania
senderov said one whose apartment was surrounded was nijole sadunaite, who spent time in a labor camp for disseminating religious literature. sadunaite found a note in his mailbox warning, ``we shall finish you off,'' senderov said
senderov and religious activist alexander ogorodnikov said they contacted fellow dissidents in the republic and reported that other lithuanians did attend church services sunday and sang nationalist hymns. they said police stopped and searched some worshipers as they returned home after church
two u.s. navy warships which u.s. officials said were bumped by soviet vessels in the black sea last week passed through the bosporus strait today bound for the mediterranean, port sources reported
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the destroyer caron and the cruiser yorktown crossed the bosporus about 7:30 a.m
the ships have to cross the dardanelles strait before heading into the aegean sea and then into the mediterranean
the u.s. defense department said two soviet frigates intentionally bumped the u.s. vessels friday as they were conducting routine operations and exercising their internationally recognized right of innocent passage
the soviets said the collision took place as a result of ``dangerous maneuvers'' by the u.s. warships
a 42-year-old french-trained army officer has been named the new prime minister of madagascar to replace desire rakotoarijanoa, who asked to be removed from the post
president didier ratsiraka named lt. col. victor ramahatra to the post during a meeting friday of the ruling supreme revolutionary council, the government announced
rakotoarijanoa, 54, who has served as prime minister since 1977, asked to be removed for reasons of health. he returned to madagascar, an island in the indian ocean off the southeast coast of africa, on feb. 7, after two months of medical treatment in paris
no details were provided on the nature of rakotoarijanoa's illness
the new prime minister has served as minister of public works since 1982. he studied at universities in lyon and paris and took his military and engineering training at a variety of french schools
his replacement in the public works job is andrianaivomanana razafindramisa, who was the former head of the national military office for strategic industries, involved primarily with mineral production and development of the petroleum industry
madagascar, a french colony until 1960, is made up of malaysians, indonesians, arabs and african ethnic groups on an island slightly larger than texas
britain's foreign secretary told his soviet counterpart today that arms reductions between the superpowers would be unacceptable if they give the soviets an edge in mobile nuclear missiles and conventional and chemical weapons
sir geoffrey howe said the west wanted to see cuts in those areas as proof of what soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev calls ``new thinking.''
we in the west will be happier ... when we can point to concrete evidence that new thinking does in practice make the soviet union an easier neighbor,'' howe said
his remarks were prepared for delivery at a luncheon hosted by soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
howe arrived in moscow on sunday, met with shevardnadze today and planned to speak with gorbachev tuesday
howe and shevardnadze also today planned to sign a memorandum in which their two countries pledge to work together to curb drug abuse and trafficking. it is the first accord formalizing drug cooperation between east and west, british diplomats said
in his remarks, howe said western europeans are deeply concerned about their security now that the united states and soviet union have agreed to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear weapons
in advance of howe's visit, the official news agency tass said without elaborating that the british government had taken a ``non-constructive stand on the issue concerning further arms control measures.''
tass also criticized the british government for saying it supports a ban on chemical weapons but not denouncing the production of such weapons by the united states
the anti-drug agreement says britain and the soviet union should jointly work to educate people about the evils of illicit drugs and cooperate in stopping the cultivation and trafficking of narcotics
the accord also proposes cooperation in treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts and legal cooperation in tracking suspected drug traffickers
details of the accord were spelled out by a moscow-based british diplomat, speaking with the associated press on the condition he not be named
the soviet union only recently officially admitted having a drug problem, particularly in the central asian republics where the climate is favorable for growing hashish. previously, the official media contended drug abuse was only a western problem
the british government estimates 50,000 britons are dependent on heroin, cocaine and other controlled substances not including marijuana. 0718</first>
pat robertson repeated his claim today that the soviets have nuclear missiles in cuba and vice president george bush said it was an outrageous charge ``designed to scare the american people.''
i'm confident this is not true,'' bush said in an interview on a manchester radio station today
robertson first made the startling allegation sunday in a republican presidential candidates' debate in goffstown, n.h. a top robertson aide later qualified the claim, saying the former television evangelist meant missile delivery systems, not warheads themselves
but this morning at a candidate's forum sponsored by the dover, n.h., chamber of commerce, robertson said, ``the least we can do in this is get those nuclear weapons out of cuba,'' though he conceded he had ``no first-hand evidence of this.''
bush said he could not confirm or deny the claim, but said, ``i think you'll see it knocked down hard in the next few days.''
this is a very serious allegation,'' he said. ``you keep hearing these outrageous charges from people, which are designed to scare the american people.''
in california, a white house official traveling with president reagan said: ``there's no indication of any nuclear missiles or weapons in cuba.'' the official spoke only on condition of anonymity
the soviet union did place missiles in cuba in 1962, but agreed to remove them after a tense showdown between nikita khrushchev and president john f. kennedy that brought the world to the brink of nuclear war
robertson said this morning he based his claim on testimony by adm. william j. crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, before the senate foreign relations committee
at the league of women voters debate he said he obtained his information from a source in the senate foreign relations committee he declined to identify
robertson said, ``some information came to me that the soviets, in violation of the so-called khrushchev-kennedy accords, have put some ss-4s and -5s in cuba, which are intermediate-range nuclear weapons. and somehow, in all this brilliant negotiation that these gentlemen are so proud of, they've left that out of the treaty
it seems like, to me, nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe,'' robertson added
the surprised moderator, edwin newman, said, ``you say you have learned that soviet ss-3s and ss-4s have been placed in cuba?''
twenty-five of them, fours and fives, that's correct ... you can check it,'' said robertson. ``this may be a major flaw in that treaty we certainly should look into, if there are nukes in cuba.''
after the debate, marc nuttle, robertson's political director, said the candidate was referring to missile delivery systems, not warheads themselves. nuttle said he didn't know how many of these systems are in cuba and he said the information did not come directly from the senate foreign relations committee, ``but that's where some of the information was compiled.''
sen. jesse helms of north carolina, the top republican on that committee and leading opponent of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, recently introduced an amendment demanding that the soviets allow the united states to inspect cuban missile sites
at a committeehearing feb. 4, helms grilled crowe about the possibility that the soviets are sneaking missiles into cuba
crowe said that although cuba is under constant and intensive surveillance by u.s. satellites and other intelligence-gathering devices, he could not say with 100 percent certainty that new soviet missile deployment would be detected
but crowe said u.s. surveillance is effective enough that, ``we have high confidence that we know whether or not there are soviet missiles in cuba.'' he said he could not discuss the matter further in public
helms said, ``my amendment on cuban inspection rights would eliminate this gaping loophole.''
jim lucier, the republican minority staff director on the committee, said in a telephone interview that cuba reneged on a promise the soviets made in 1962 to allow the united states to inspect the missile sets
the kennedy-khrushchev agreement was the first inf treaty,'' said lucier. ``there's been repeated violations. we need to go there and look and see what's there.''
a court today released on bail a couple sentenced to be stoned to death for adultery
the additional sessions court set no date for the next hearing of the case, in which shahida parveen, 25, was accused of committing adultery by marrying her cousin while she was still legally married to her first husband
an islamic court convicted ms. parveen in november, ruling she was still married to khushi mohammed, 52, when she wed mohammed sarwar, 35. ms. parveen and sarwar were sentenced to stoning
ms. parveen said khushi divorced her in 1986 because she could not have children and he wanted to marry another woman. but the court ruled that the divorce papers she presented were forged
ms. parveen was 13 years old when she married khushi, who brought the case against her
on feb. 4, a higher islamic court ordered that ms. parveen and sarwar be released on bail and ordered a retrial of the case. it said the prosecution had not investigated thoroughly before bringing the case against ms. parveen
it said a retrial should decide the case within three months
social worker maulana abdul sattar edhi put up bail of 10,000 rupees each (totaling about $1,140) for ms. parveen and sarwar
last month, prime minister mohammad khan junejo intervened in the case, asking the interior secretary in a note to examine ms. parveen's sentence
alabama's naacp president, who was arrested during an effort to remove a confederate battle flag from atop the state capitol, has vowed another ``day of reckoning.''
i can tell you there will be another effort,'' state rep. thomas reed said sunday following a strategy meeting with other black leaders in montgomery
you have not seen anything yet,'' reed said, but he did not provide details of his plans
on feb. 2, reed and 13 other black legislators were arrested on trespassing charges when they tried to climb a fence around the capitol
during the news conference, the estimated 70 people who attended the ``black summit'' stood and clapped in support of a motion to continue efforts to remove the flag
the meeting was attended by earl shinhoster, southeastern regional director of the national association for the advancement of colored people; presidents of naacp branches throughout the state, and representatives of other black groups, including the alabama democratic conference and the southern christian leadership conference
shinhoster asked those attending to wage an intensive lobbying effort and also to gather support from the heads of their local chambers of commerce. he also said the naacp will consider legal action concerning the confederate flag in alabama and three other states
last year, the naacp called for the removal of the confederate flag that flies on state capitols in alabama and south carolina and is incorporated into state flags in georgia and mississippi
shinhoster said the effort to remove what he called an ``odious symbol of a bygone era'' has the most promise in alabama because black legislators ``took the lead and hit the fence and went to jail.''
reed said the flag dispute could have been quickly settled by gov. guy hunt. but hunt has refused to remove the flag, saying it has historical significance and should remain until the legislature decides otherwise
reed said the rebel flag is the ``last psychological weapon'' signifying oppression of black people. he vowed that the oldest person attending sunday's meeting would ``live long enough to see that confederate battle flag come down from the capitol.''
a man accused of killing a cash courier in a case featured on television was being held without bond after his extradition from washington state, authorities said
jerry strickland, 26, was arraigned saturday before a 51st district court magistrate in waterford township, said an oakland county jail spokesman
strickland was charged with murder, kidnapping, armed robbery and two counts of felony use of a firearm in the death last may of elmer deboer, who was kidnapped and robbed after making a pickup at a service station
strickland faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all charges. a preliminary hearing is scheduled feb. 23
strickland also was arraigned on a felony warrant out of manassas, va., where he is wanted for allegedly passing $321.36 in bad checks on may 9, 1986
strickland and his wife were arrested feb. 6 in moses lake, wash., hours after authorities received tips from residents who saw the case featured on nbc-tv's ``unsolved mysteries,'' a series based on open cases. the two were flown to michigan on friday
strickland's 17-year-old wife, who was the service station's assistant manager at the time of deboer's death, was being held in a youth home
waterford township police sgt. donald g. bailey said prosecutors will request a waiver of juvenile court jurisdiction so she may be tried as an adult
a quick-thinking 12-year-old boy used his thumb, a wad of bubble gum and a sock to plug a gas leak after the toddler he was baby-sitting pedaled a toy fire engine into the pipe
jim bliemeister was taking care of 3-year-old david higgins on saturday at the higgins home when the incident occurred
david was playing in the basement,'' said jim. ``he's the kind of kid who likes to jump around a lot, and he just pedaled his fire engine into the gas line
jim said he heard hissing from the pipe
then i smelled the gas and said, `david, get upstairs and get me that gum on your dresser.' then i just waited, with my thumb in the hole in the line
david didn't understand at first. first he brought me baby wipes. then he brought me some of his toy cars. i was getting worried. but then he came through _ he brought me the gum
i chewed it really fast, then i stuffed it into the leak. it was a little smaller than the size of a dime, but it was making noise. and then i tied the whole thing with a sock. there were dirty clothes right by, and the hot water heater. ...''
jim then called his father, james, who arrived just before david's mother, judy, who promptly called national fuel
a guy came almost right away,'' jim said. ``he said i did the right thing, and he seemed very surprised that i'd sealed it all up myself. but i didn't know that. i just did it. he said that, if i'd waited, the whole house could have blown up.''
arthur k. coon, spokesman for national fuel, concurred sunday, saying, ``the boy responded in a responsible way. what he did was not what we'd recommend anyone doing himself. but the situation was potentially very dangerous, and he took care of it.''
about 75 homosexuals held a st. valentine's day kiss-in outside st. patrick's cathedral to protest the roman catholic church's attitude toward homosexuality
the display of hugging and kissing during sunday mass was the latest in a series of demonstrations at the cathedral by dignity, an organization of gay and lesbian catholics that has been barred from using church facilities
in contrast to the previous week, when two dozen demonstrators were arrested, there were no arrests sunday as protesters kissed each other, blew kisses toward the cathedral and handed out chocolate kisses
this is for solidarity and the unity of the gay and lesbian community,'' said one organizer, neil broome. ``we feel we have the right to assemble before the church to show the affection between us without fear of reprisal. besides, it's valentine's day. what's more appropriate than doing it in front of a cathedral?''
mayor maureen o'connor has accused fbi officials of trying to spoil her proposed soviet arts festival with their suggestion that residents be wary of kgb spies in artists' clothing
local fbi officials last week said they would encourage residents who take in soviet house guests during the proposed monthlong cultural exchange to report any suspicious activity to the bureau
they're just putting a big wet damper on it, if that's what they're saying,'' said o'connor, who is organizing the event for 1989 or 1990
the mayor said her office is working with the u.s. state department and the u.s. information agency to arrange the exchange
agent bob harman said the fbi is worried the festival will lure spies bent on befriending and cultivating residents for espionage
our experience is that they (the kgb) use these cultural groups on a regular basis,'' harman said
the fbi is particularly concerned about festival organizers's proposal to house soviets with residents of san diego, he said
san diego is a natural espionage target because of its military base, which includes the miramar training facility for navy pilots and many defense contractors, fbi agents said
soviet diplomats are watched closely and are forced to follow their itinerary, but tourists can travel at will
with that dancer, there very well may be someone standing around with no apparent purpose,'' harman said. ``and if i were involved in hosting that group, there might be a little funny feeling there that something isn't right
it's that `something-isn't-right-here' feeling that we want people to call us about,'' he said
the mayor said she has discussed the festival with soviet officials in san francisco and will travel to moscow this spring to set plans. byline and updating with palestinian questioned about burial allegations, jerusalem protests. changes byline.</note>
army investigators today questioned a palestinian teen-ager who said soldiers used a bulldozer to bury him and three other arabs alive
troops in shufat refugee camp on the outskirts of jerusalem meanwhile today shot and wounded a palestinian in the stomach, a hospital official said _ the known first case of a rioter being hit by gunfire in the holy city since demonstrations in the occupied territories began dec. 8
the army detained two soldiers sunday and said other soldiers would be taken into custody soon for allegedly taking part in the burial incident
abdel latif mahmoud ishtiah, 19, was interrogated for half an hour inside a white police van parked on a muddy road just outside this village of 4,000 palestinians, 40 miles north of jerusalem
relatives had charged in a complaint filed with the army that 20 soldiers grabbed four palestinians after a violent demonstration in kfar salem on feb. 5, beat them, forced them to lie on the ground and then poured sand over them with a bulldozer
the four were unconcious when relatives rescued them after several minutes, according to villagers quoted in israeli newspapers. three were treated at a west bank hospital and released the same day and the fourth was hospitalized for eight days, the reports said
limping badly and with both hands bandaged halfway up the forearm, ishtiah was helped from the van by arab villagers today after the interrogation
i am afraid,'' he told reporters, saying he still dreams about the horror of being buried alive and believes he was very close to death. ishtiah said police also threatened to arrest him if he didn't tell the truth
the villagers said one of the four youths was too badly injured in the legs to walk to the van and the other two were not at home at the time of ishtiah's questioning
in continuing violence today, riot police fired tear gas in the arab east jerusalem village of sur bahir to subdue palestinian protesters who erected roadblocks. associated press photographer max nash saw police detain two arab youths
police have arrested 21 palestinians in jerusalem since sunday, including five arabs from the old city suspected of throwing firebombs and others from sur bahir held in the burning of an israeli car, israel radio said
in an army communique today, west bank commander maj. gen. amram mitzna ordered military police to investigate the kfar salem incident
this investigation is receiving the highest priority. so far two soldiers have been detained and other detentions are expected in the near future,'' said the communique. under israel's system, charges are not filed until probes are completed, but suspects may be placed in custody pending the outcome
army radio quoted mitzna as saying a sergeant-major from the military government established by israel in the west bank and two or three other soldiers were involved and would be brought to trial
while supervising an arrest operation of suspected arab agitators in the west bank village of abu dis today, mitzna told army radio: ``even in my worst dreams, i would never imagine such a thing even though i constantly warn commanders to expect the most awful things that could happen when soldiers find themselves all of a sudden commanding and deciding the lives of citizens.''
a reporter for the yediot ahronot newspaper said he saw on sunday a foot-high mound of earth where the incident allegedly took place. reporters for the jerusalem weekly kol ha'ir said friday they dug out a shoe from the dirt
army officials on sunday said they were investigating a similar incident in the gaza strip refugee camp shati. they would not elaborate
anti-israeli protests in the occupied west bank and gaza strip have entered their 10th week. according to u.n. figures, 54 arabs have been killed by israelis since demonstrations began
prime minister yitzhak shamir today left on a visit to italy after telling reporters he did not agree with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz's statement that arab-israeli negotiations must involve a land-for-peace trade
the concept of territorial compromise underpins the latest u.s. proposals for starting a peace process but has led to opposition from shamir's likud bloc, which is against the return of the occupied lands to arab sovereignty
on sunday, riot police in the golan heights fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse hundreds of stone-throwing druse protesting israel's annexation of the area
cardinal john o'connor says mail criticizing his decision to set up a scholarship fund for blacks reflects deep-seated racism
o'connor read 10 letters from critics on sunday in st. patrick's cathedral at a packed mass celebrating black history month
we may not realize it but deep in our consciousness there is racism,'' the roman catholic archbishop said
the letters ranged from threats to withhold financial support from the church to anger to what one writer referred to as special treatment for black people. o'connor, 68, said he will answer each letter
one writer accused o'connor of ``stirring up racism.'' someone else suggested that the money should go to white people with large families they are trying to put through parochial schools
o'connor announced last month that he would donate his social security checks _ $6,000 to $7,000 per year _ to the scholarship fund. second</head> ``the cbs...</note>
republicans george bush and bob dole head into new hampshire's primary on tuesday in a virtual dead heat while michael dukakis maintains his lead among democrats, new polls suggest
a gallup survey released today shows dole at 36 percent to bush's 28 percent. given the poll's 5 percent margin of error, they are essentially tied
rep. jack kemp and pat robertson had 12 percent each, former delaware gov. pete du pont 7 percent, and 6 percent were undecided. gallup polled 589 likely republican voters friday and saturday
according to a poll for the boston herald and wbz-tv, dole leads bush 32 percent to 31 percent. on feb. 9, one day after dole's victory in the iowa caucuses, bush led dole 32 percent to 23 percent. the other gop candidates were in single digits, according to the survey of 500 likely republican voters. the margin of error was 4 percent
on the democratic side, dukakis held comfortable leads in the gallup and herald-wbz surveys
the gallup poll showed the massachusetts governor at 39 percent, followed by richard gephardt at 18 percent and paul simon at 16 percent. the other democrats trailed far behind among the 424 likely democratic voters surveyed. the margin of error was 4 percent
the herald-wbz survey put dukakis at 38 percent. next came gephardt at 19 percent and simon at 13 percent among the 500 likely voters polled
a cbs news poll and a abc news-washington post survey, both released sunday, also suggested that dole, who is coming off a convincing win in last week's iowa caucuses, is now even with bush
among the democrats, dukakis remained the runaway leader with simon, of illinois, and gephardt, of missouri, fighting for second. the cbs poll gave gephardt a slightly higher level of support
the cbs survey was conducted feb. 12-13, while the abc-post poll was based on interviews feb. 11-13
among republicans, the cbs survey ran down the race this way: dole, 31 percent; bush, 30 percent; kemp, 11 percent; robertson, 10 percent; dupont, 10 percent; and undecided, 8 percent
given the 4-percentage-point sampling error margin for the survey, dole and bush are essentially tied. in a previous cbs survey on feb. 10-11, dole had 32 percent and bush had 29 percent
in the abc-post interviews among republicans, here was the breakdown: dole, 31 percent; bush, 28 percent; kemp, 13 percent; robertson, 11 percent; du pont, 11 percent. former secretary of state alexander haig, who dropped out friday, drew 1 percent and 4 percent were undecided
the abc survey was based on interviews with 374 likely gop voters. the cbs survey was based on interviews with 594 likely gop voters
among democrats, the abc poll laid out the race in this fashion: dukakis, 40 percent; simon, 17 percent; gephardt, 16 percent; jesse jackson, 7 percent; sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, 7 percent; former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, 6 percent; former colorado sen. gary hart, 3 percent; undecided or others, 5 percent
the cbs survey gave gephardt a bit of an edge and simon a smaller number: dukakis, 42 percent; gephardt, 18 percent; simon, 12 percent; jackson, 4 percent; gore, 4 percent; hart, 4 percent; babbitt, 3 percent; undecided, 13 percent
the cbs survey was based on interviews with 483 likely democratic voters. the abc survey was based on interviews with 383 likely gop voters
as with all random sample surveys, these polls are subject to variations because of chance fluctuations in the sample
for polls based on about 400 interviews _ such as both abc polls _ that sampling error margin is 6 percentage points either way. that is, if all likely new hampshire voters with telephones were interviewed, the results of these polls would vary by 6 percentage points simply because of chance variations in the sample
for polls based on aout 500 interviews _ like the cbs democratic survey _ the sampling error margin is 5 percentage points. for polls based on about 600 interviews _ like the cbs republican survey _ the sampling error margin is 4 percentage points
prince edward arrived 10 minutes early this morning for his new job as a theater production assistant, a pack of teabags under his arm and a bodyguard in his limousine
queen elizabeth ii's youngest son, who abandoned a career in the royal marines last year, was hired by composer andrew lloyd webber's really useful theater company
his job as a production assistant is the theater's lowest rung. it involves everything from running errands to making tea, but it's the first time a close male relative of the british monarch has landed employment outside the military
the 23-year-old prince, casually dressed in a blue sweater and collarless tweed jacket, arrived with his personal bodyguard in a limousine at the palace theater in the heart of london's west end
sian watling, a 29-year-old beautician, handed him a single rose which she said she bought ``on impulse'' from a nearby flower shop
before the prince's arrival, police with sniffer dogs checked the theater
the palace is currently playing ``les miserables,'' the smash-hit musical of victor hugo's novel of the same title, which won eight tony awards
the theater building also houses the offices of lloyd webber's company, one of the most dynamic forces in the business, responsible for a string of successes including ``cats'' and ``phantom of the opera.''
the prince won't be treated as a member of the royal family but as an employee,'' bridget hayward, the company's executive director, said when he got the job. ``he has said he wants to be treated as a worker, that is his understanding of the job. he has a lot to learn and we have plenty of work for him.''
but being there will show the prince the complexities of what makes a successful show
his pay, if any, hasn't been disclosed
iraq said today its gunners downed two iranian drone planes in the southern sector of the war front, confirming for the first time that tehran is using pilotless reconnaissance aircraft
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said both drones were downed sunday night. it quoted an unnamed military spokesman as saying the first plane crashed in iranian territory and the second in iraq
on sunday, iran reported that it fired on u.s. helicopters flying ahead of a convoy of reflagged kuwaiti ships escorted through the persian gulf by american vessels. the pentagon said it had no evidence of the confrontation
iran recently reported that home-built drones have been successfully tested and that its war factories now were working on drone fighter planes. it was not clear from the iraqi report if the drones reportedly downed had been manufactured in iran
iranian officials had boasted that the drones would boost the country's air force. iran's u.s.-supplied air force is outnumbered by the iraqis by eight to one
iran has had difficulty finding spare parts for its warplanes because of sanctions imposed on the islamic republic after militants stormed the american embassy in tehran in november 1979 and held 53 american hostages for 444 days
western military analysts say iran has 60 to 70 working warplanes
in recent weeks, iranian warplanes have been action in the war with iraq, suggesting tehran may have bought some of its air force needs on the black market
iranian officials also say iran now makes its own version of the chinese-made, long-range surface-to-surface missiles and other projectiles as part of a drive toward self-sufficiency
iran stepped up efforts to manufacture its own weapons after the united states proposed an international arms embargo of iran to force its rulers to agree to a u.n. security council call for a cease-fire in the 7-year-old gulf war
iran claimed this weekend that its forces opened ``direct fire'' on u.s. navy helicopters that were carrying out reconnaissance operations friday ahead of a convoy of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti ships in the gulf, forcing the american helicopters to flee
but a pentagon spokesman in washington denied the report
we have no reports ... that indicated that event occurred,'' said u.s. air force maj. randall morder. in minnesota, picking up 8th graf pvs, beginning `a band...'</note>
wind-whipped snow that stranded hundreds of travelers fell today on much of the upper mississippi valley and across the northern great lakes region, while rain dampened parts of the south
wind blew up to 20 to 30 mph early today in iowa and minnesota, creating wind chills of 15 to 30 degrees below
hundreds of travelers were stranded overnight in motels and armories in southwest minnesota, where near-blizzard conditions existed today as high wind whipped snow into drifts and cut visibility
all the roads are blocked,'' said a police dispatcher in redwood falls, minn. ``nobody can leave town ... and i don't think anybody can get into town.''
the wind was dying down in other parts of the state and some highways reopened
in wyoming, wind gusting to 60 mph whipped up blinding clouds of loose snow and closed interstate 80 between laramie and rawlins
six to 10 inches of snow fell overnight at wakefield, mich., and advisories for snow and blowing snow were posted today over northwestern and north-central upper michigan. one to 3 inches of snow was expected in southeastern wisconsin
freezing rain fell over parts of northwestern pennsylvania and upstate new york
rain extended from southern lower michigan across parts of the ohio and tennessee valleys into alabama. in the six hours up to 7 a.m., 1.9 inches of rain fell at the meridian naval air station in mississippi
a band of showers and thunderstorms extended from west-central alabama across southeastern louisiana. street flooding was reported early today in houma, la
elsewhere, scattered light rain and mountain snow extended from the northern pacific coast across the northern rockies
today's forecast called for snow northern new england, upstate new york and michigan, the northern rockies and across northern montana and north dakota; rain and snow mixed over southern new england; rain changing to snow across the lower great lakes and western ohio valley; rain from the eastern ohio valley across the mid-atlantic states; showers and thunderstorms from alabama and eastern tennessee across the southern atlantic coast; scattered showers along the northern pacific coast
highs were expected to reach 20s and 30s from the missouri valley across the great lakes and the lower ohio valley; teens from minnesota into upper michigan; 30s over upstate new york, northern new england and the northern and central rockies; 60s and 70s from california across the desert southwest and from florida through the eastern carolinas; and 60s over new mexico and western and southern texas
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 11 below zero at warroad, minn., to 70 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 52 cloudy; boston 27 fair; buffalo 45 showers; charleston, s.c. 46 partly cloudy; cincinnati 46 showers; cleveland 43 windy; detroit 41 rain; miami 67 fair; new york 35 fair; philadelphia 30 fair; pittsburgh 43 cloudy; portland, maine 23 partly cloudy; washington 35 fair
_central: bismarck -7 fair; chicago 29 freezing drizzle; dallas-fort worth 41 windy; denver 29 fair; des moines 11 snow; indianapolis 34 cloudy; kansas city 20 cloudy; minneapolis-st. paul 15 fair; nashville 47 rain; new orleans 54 cloudy; st. louis 26 windy
_west: albuquerque 32 fair; anchorage 30 snow; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 58 hazy; phoenix 56 fair; salt lake city 33 cloudy; san diego 57 fair; san francisco 50 fair; seattle 45 partly cloudy
hundreds of motorists were stranded by blowing and drifting snow today in southwestern minnesota, filling motels and national guard armories
elsewhere in the state, however, the wind had died down after closing major highways
the winds are going down, but we're at a standstill yet,'' said lorren simon, a dispatcher for the state patrol in marshall
interstate 90 from the south dakota border to 10 miles east of jackson, a stretch of about 120 miles, was still closed this morning, simon said. it was closed at 11 a.m. sunday
simon said authorities were worried some motorists might still be stranded in their cars
finding stranded travelers is a frustrating process,'' he said. ``you can't use strong enough language on them. they'll go out anyway and then they think the public officials should come out and rescue them when you can't go up and down the road. they get real perturbed when someone doesn't go out there. but i'm sure there are going to be people out there in those cars.''
authorities said the near-zero visibility in the blowing snow, along with high drifts, made it impossible for rescue vehicles to go out
all the roads are blocked,'' said a redwood falls police dispatcher. ``nobody can leave town ... and i don't think anybody can get into town.''
there were numerous traffic accidents, many of them with injuries, but no fatalities were reported
more than 300 people sought shelter overnight in national guard armories in worthington, redwood falls and jackso, said lt. col. dave pearson. food was provided by the national guard and members of the community, 1st sgt. ron balster said
we lost count at about 212,'' said balster. travelers signed in from iowa, minnesota, south dakota, tennessee, kansas and chicago
`we got 200 furniture blankets from u-haul,'' balster said. ``we got paper towels from campbell soup. and people have brought in all kinds of food. there are sandwiches, chicken. one person just brought in two gallons of milk.''
by 2 p.m. sunday the worthington best western motel was directing travelers to the armory. ``just about all the motels were filled up by 3 p.m.,'' said clayton johnson at the best western
we had 12 cars up here at one time fighting to get in the door for one room,'' said lucille thorn, manager of the oxford motel
worthington holiday inn general manager connie bruns said 75 to 100 people spent the night in the lobby and meeting rooms
in southeastern minnesota, conditions were much improved today with wind still gusting up to 35 mph but with little snow
there's some drifting on ramps and on side roads, but it shouldn't be too bad,'' said bill henke, a dispatcher for the state patrol in rochester
conditions also improved in northwestern minnesota and minnesota 2 was reopened at crookston. interstate 94 and minnesota 210 at fergus falls reopened sunday night, said dayle peterson, a supervisor with the state patrol in detroit lakes. graf pvs, simon began</note>
vice president george bush today predicted victory in the new hampshire primary and said rival bob dole has fallen into the same ``momentum'' trap that snared bush after the 1980 iowa caucuses. democrat paul simon told his supporters to look for ``a real surprise'' in the nation's first primary
i want new hampshire to do what it did in 1980'' when president reagan turned around an iowa defeat and beat bush in the new hampshire primary, bush said on abc's ``good morning america.''
in 1980, ``i came into new hampshire talking momentum. reagan got the issues out. and now it's the opposite _ bob dole is talking momentum and i'm talking issues ... we're doing better getting out those differences with bob dole on the issues.''
on the eve of the nation's first primary, the gallup organization released a poll showing dole leading bush in new hampshire by a 36-28 margin, with jack kemp and pat robertson tied for third at 12 percent and pete du pont fifth with seven percent. the poll of 589 likely republican voters was conducted friday and saturday and had a five-point margin of error
other polls also showed the race a virtual tie, with the vice president's once substantial lead vanished into new hampshire's frigid air and the trend moving in the kansas senator's direction
on the democratic side, michael dukakis remained the leader and the target of sniping by richard gephardt and simon, who are still dueling for second. the gallup poll of 424 democrats showed dukakis with 39 percent, gephardt 18 percent and simon 16 percent. its margin of error was four points
simon, campaigning in hollis, n.h., claimed the race ``is between michael dukakis and me'' and ``i think it is tightening. i think there is a possibility of a real surprise coming tomorrow.''
simon began television commercials attacking dukakis, the governor of next-door massachusetts, as a bureaucrat. gephardt's new ads lashed at dukakis too, calling him ``one of the biggest tax-raisers in massachusetts history.''
dukakis ignored the criticism, devoting much of sunday to stating his views on foreign policy issues including central america and nuclear arms control. he emphasized his opposition to funding for the nicaraguan contras, but said he would use military force, if necessary, to thwart a military attack on a central american ally
bush cast himself as president reagan's strong loyalist in a debate with his five rivals sunday night, while pat robertson offered the startling assertion that the soviet union secretly has placed nuclear missiles in cuba _ ``nukes pointing at the united states,'' he said
a white house official promptly disputed robertson's claim, and a robertson aide said after the debate that the candidate had meant missile-delivery systems, not necessarily warheads
dole displayed the confidence of a candidate who has seen all the breaks go his way for the past week since trouncing the vice president in the iowa caucuses
some of us would like to see it end tuesday here with someone winning,'' dole said. he gently boasted later, ``i have come a long way in the last 30 days.''
mindful that a secon loss after his iowa debacle would be devastating, bush acknowledged his own shortcomings as a campaigner and made clear he didn't intend to give up, no matter the outcome tuesday
he insisted he has no ``lack of passion'' and declared, ``my work isn't done yet.''
for robertson, the former television preacher, the missiles remark was one of a series of attention-getting statements over the past several days that provoked jack kemp to say in the debate, ``he has said some off-the-wall things.''
robertson said in separate television interviews sunday that he ``wouldn't have hesitated to kill'' libyan leader moammar gadhafi, and that he wants to gradually abolish the social security system ``over 40 years, moving it into a private system.''
robertson failed to show up at a candidate's forum held at a jewish temple in manchester where he had been scheduled to speak just after the debate. his state campaign director, david d. randlett, told leaders of the temple adath yeshurun that he didn't know why robertson never showed up. after hurried telephone calls randlett said he couldn't find anyone with robertson who could tell him
some 150 people had waited for an hour at the same temple where, four years ago in an emotion-packed session, jesse jackson tried to explain his embarrassing reference to new york as ``hymietown.''
democratic darkhorse bruce babbitt, arriving as scheduled, ridiculed robertson
they told me he was too busy turning the next storm out to sea,'' babbitt said, provoking laughter. after talking for an hour, babbitt said, ``i'm willing to stay here till the sunrise _ whether it comes at the usual time or pat robertson makes it a little earlier.''
robertson, the surprise second-place finisher in iowa, was in a struggle with kemp for third place in most new hampshire polls. his campaign manager mark nuttle said after the debate that robertson had meant to say missile delivery systems _ not warheads _ were in cuba. he wouldn't give the source of his information other than that some of it had been ``compiled'' by the senate foreign relations committee
outside the debate at st. anselm college, about 25 ``youth for robertson'' students jeered at about 70 members of ``cure aids now,'' a group that includes aids victims. the robertson backers chanted, ``it's your own fault.''
republicans kemp and pete du pont, and democrats babbitt and gary hart all faced the prospect of having little choice but to drop out if they fall short tuesday _ although du pont and hart vowed to go on in any event. third place seemed to be the line that determined the future for kemp and du pont
in the gop debate, kemp and du pont both attacked dole as harboring a secret desire to raise taxes. du pont thrust a piece of paper in dole's face and asked him to sign a no-tax-increase pledge while accusing him of pushing through higher taxes in the senate
that was to close loopholes on big companies like dupont,'' dole said in sharp reply, a reference to the giant corporation that was begun by du pont's ancestors and is the source of his wealth
the democratic candidates held their final debate of the new hampshire campaign on saturday night, with gephardt drawing criticism from his rivals for changing positions on taxes and a range of other issues
albert gore jr. asked for and got a televised apology from gephardt for a profane denunciation of himself and his staff made by gephardt campaign manager bill carrick earlier in the week
jesse jackson boarded a 1930s train for a whistle-stop tour through the lakes region of the state and drew hundreds at each stop despite 20-degree temperatures and gusty winds
i've stood with you. on tuesday i want you to stand with me,'' jackson said from aboard his ``rainbow express.'' other statements, edit to conform; picks up 9th graf, `duffey acknowledged...'</note>
minority demonstrators occupying a building to protest campus racism sent a sympathy card to the university's chancellor today after learning that his brother was ill, and the chancellor responded with a basket of fruit
roscoe robinson, a spokesman for the group occupying new africa hall, also said the group had revised the language of its demands to make them more acceptable to the administration. however, he said the thrust of the demands remains unchanged
he refused to say anything further and said he wanted to give umass chancellor joseph duffey a chance to review them
an estimated 125 demonstrators have held the four-story brick building on the umass campus since friday to protest an alleged beating of two black students by whites feb. 7 and other recent racial incidents at the school. their demands include the suspension of five white students allegedly involved in the beating
protesters are to meet with duffey on tuesday, robinson said. duffey said he was unable to meet with them today because he had to visit his hospitalized brother. no further information about the brother was available
the protesters this morning sent duffey a card expressing sympathy and wishing duffey's brother a speedy recovery. duffey responded by sending the protesters a fruit basket
i send affection and respect,'' a card attached to the basket read
with classes scheduled to resume tuesday at the building, an afro-american studies center, duffey is trying to avoid a confrontation, said university spokesman james langley. the students say they won't leave until duffey meets their demands
we're being as patient as we possibly can,'' langley said. ``i don't think you'll see any arrests. they are being very peaceful.''
the black, hispanic, american indian and asian students who took over the new africa hall said sunday a church had pledged money and restaurants had donated hot meals for the protesters
we haven't even had to leave the building to buy food,'' said rio gabriel, 21, a junior from toronto
other demonstrators left briefly for showers and breakfast at home, ms. gabriel said. the campus has been shut down since saturday for the holiday weekend
she said the leaders of the group talked with black administrators sunday in preparation for a meeting with the chancellor on their demands, which have been increased to include more financing for minority activities and increased hiring of minority faculty
duffey acknowledged over the weekend that racism continues to be a problem at the school
i think we've got a continuing problem with harassment and abuse,'' although it is not just racial, he told reporters
last year, the university disciplined six white students who pleaded no contest to charges stemming from a racial clash in which a black student was chased and beaten after the final 1986 world series game between the boston red sox and the new york mets
a report issued afterward by the civility commission, a group of faculty and staff members that reviews campus confrontations, called for hiring more minority faculty and administrators and urged anti-racism education for administrators, among other recommendations
the report cited the investigation into the racial clash by frederick hurst, the head of the state commission against racism, who had criticized ``the administration's historical denial of racial problems'' on campus
according to the school, 41 of its 1,339 faculty members and 5 percent of the 20,000 undergraduates are black, mirroring a nationwide decline in the number of black applicants in the last several years
boy scouts of america officials voted to allow women in leadership positions because fighting continual court challenges had become too costly and damaged the organization's image, a spokesman said
for 12 years, the boy scouts fought challenges to its policy of providing only male leadership, spokesman david corti said saturday
corti cited the ``great cost to the organization, both in terms of money and in the perception of what we are'' as reasons for the reversal
i'm very happy that other women will have the opportunity,'' said phyllis gibson, a california woman who was a troop committee chairman and who was one of several who filed suit over the old policy
corti said the organization had ``won our court cases and probably would continue to do so.''
the organization's national executive board voted for the change during a thursday meeting in washington, d.c., said barclay bollas, a spokesman for the boy scouts, which is based here
our volunteer hierarchy felt boys of this age group should have the opportunity to be associated with male role models,'' he said
women had been barred from becoming scoutmasters _ leading a boy scout troop _ as well as assistant scoutmasters, varsity or assistant coaches, or leaders of webelos, a program for the age group between cub scouts and boy scouts
some officials were critical of the reversal
experts are saying men must spend more time nurturing and providing male role models for youth and boy scouting has provided this in spades,'' said ron phillippo, executive director of the indianhead council, which includes eight counties in eastern minnesota and four in western wisconsin
many positions were open to women, including the job of leading a cub scout troop, officials said. of 1.1 million volunteers nationwide, about 500,000 are women, bollas said
there was never a question of the ability of women. it was just that the boy scouts felt there ought to be male role models for boys,'' phillippo said
the value in scouting's former policy has been that it provided boys with a nurturant male role model,'' said judith erickson, a consultant for minnesota councils and an associate professor at the university of minnesota's center for youth development and research
with this change in policy, men must be serious about taking on the nurturant role in this and other organizations, or this will be one more instance of women alone developing that type of close relationship,'' erickson said
ms. gibson, of goleta, calif., said she doesn't believe there is any reason why a woman can't be in a scout leadership position
i have enjoyed working with the boys. i've been a good motivator of boys. i think it's very important for boys to be around men and women,'' she said
her son, chad, also saw no reason for women to be banned from leadership
some of the older scoutmasters care but none of the kids care,'' he said. speech. no pickup</note>
president kurt waldheim today defied widespread calls to resign because of his wartime past and vowed not to retreat before ``slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations.''
his decision, announced in a prepared text for a nationally televised speech, seemed certain to deepen austria's growing political crisis
the 69-year-old president was addressing the fierce controversy that reached flashpoint last week when a historians' report questioned waldheim's moral integrity and said he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities during his world war ii service in the balkans
today, waldheim declared, ``i cannot but state that parts of the report do not correspond to the facts but are built on presumptions and hypotheses. for that reason, the conclusions drawn cannot be upheld.''
waldheim stressed that he will cling to his embattled presidency despite calls from across the political spectrum that he should step down
in the course of the renewed discussion, the question was also put about my premature departure from the office of federal president,'' waldheim said
i want to take a stand in all clarity: you, my dear austrians, have elected me federal president with a convincing majority in a secret and direct election for six years
thus it is no longer a matter of the man kurt waldheim.''
waldheim ruled out resignation, saying: ``it is a fundamental principle of our democracy that an election result cannot be subsequently corrected.''
a head of state must not retreat in the face of slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations,'' he said
earlier today, alois mock, the foreign minister and chairman of the conservative people's party, reiterated his support for the president as some other conservatives appeared to back away from waldheim
on sunday, socialist chancellor franz vranitzky sharply criticized waldheim in a televised interview and made it clear the controversy was threatening the government coalition between socialists and conservatives
vranitzky runs the government in austria, while the presidency is a largely ceremonial post. the socialists are the senior partner in the coalition government with the conservative austrian people's party, which backed waldheim when he won the presidency in 1986
vranitzky said he himself would consider resigning if his leadership continued to be affected by the controversy over waldheim
the chancellor won rare praise from some conservatives for what the generally pro-waldheim tabloid kurier called ``a great moment of television.''
vranitzky has made a huge gamble,'' the tabloid added
robert graf, a top conservative politician and economics minister, voiced impatience over waldheim's failure to act
the president must take a decision which is very important for our country,'' graf emphasized in an austrian radio interview
graf, who represents influential conservative business interests, said he was concerned about austria's battered image abroad and had no idea how to get out of the crisis
the 202-page historians' document suggested there was no proof that waldheim took part in war crimes while with the german army, but said he had made every effort to conceal his wartime past until his balkans service was first disclosed in march 1986
the report, commissioned by the government at waldheim's request, also seriously questioned waldheim's moral integrity as a lieutenant in the german army in yugoslavia and greece
about 1,500 austrians, including the nation's most prominent intellectuals, signed a three-page advertisement in the news weekly profil demanding waldheim's resignation. about 5,000 waldheim opponents staged a demonstration in downtown vienna
on sunday, vranitzky questioned waldheim's ability to perform his duties, saying ``the federal president must be an integration figure, not a disintegration figure.''
on friday, former foreign minister karl gruber stirred outrage by claiming that members of the commission were waldheim's enemies because they were either socialists or jews
referring to gruber's statement, vranitzky said: ``the president must in the very next hour distance himself from such statements as gruber's'' and not wait until the chancellor sends a public apology and other officials express their dismay
in an interview with the kurier, waldheim belatedly described gruber's comments as ``unacceptable,'' but he qualified his remarks by saying, ``gruber was a resistance fighter, i believe he did not want to express an evil sense.''
the commission of historians was appointed to investigate waldheim's wartime record after the u.s. government put him on a list of undesirable aliens, which effectively bars him from entering the united states
u.s. officials said waldheim was a lieutenant in a german unit that sent thousands of jews to nazi death camps. the charges, originating with the world jewish congress, had first surfaced during waldheim's candidacy. ready for startup, picking up 7th graf pvs, `ip officials...' subs 10th graf pvs, `ip spokesman...' to conform</note>
a union official today called for the closing of a strikebound international paper co. mill as company officials said they were ready to resume operations following a chlorine gas leak that injured seven workers
sunday's leak, the third poison gas leak at the mill since late january, lasted 10 to 15 minutes and was largely contained in a mill building, said willis lyford, a spokesman for gov. john r. mckernan jr
two bleaching plants at the complex remained idle while officials from the state department of environmental protection investigated and said they would remain indefinitely to monitor operations. a chlorine dioxide leak on feb. 5 forced thousands of residents to evacuate
the latest leak prompted a renewed call for a plant shutdown from more than 1,200 striking paperworkers, who say the accidents are being caused by inexperienced replacement workers
we're still demanding that the mill be closed down,'' said brian doughty, a spokesman for local 14 of the united paperworkers international union
ip spokesman rick ouellette said operations at two bleaching plants closed by the leak would resume later today
i can just say that modifications are being made,'' said ouellette. ``i couldn't give you specfics at this point.''
state environmental officials will remain at the mill to oversee repairs on the part of the bleaching operation that resulted in the leak,'' the governor said sunday. ``and the officials will remain after repairs are completed and the plant resumes normal operation to evaluate whether those repairs are satisfactory.''
lyford said the chlorine escaped when a valve failed to shut off automatically following a cutoff of electricity that halted the bleaching process. another similar plant was closed while the damage was assessed
ip officials said there was no exposure outside the mill, and jay town manager charles noonan said no evacuation was required
the feb. 5 chlorine dioxide leak was caused when workers severing a pipe accidentally dropped a piece on a valve. no cause has been given for a jan. 28 hydrogen sulfide leak that injured eight workers
the federal occupational safety and health administration has been investigating the leaks, which the striking unions blame on inexperienced workers
ouellette said the latest leak ``wasn't a human error.''
of five workers taken to franklin memorial hospital in farmington, three were admitted for mild to moderate exposure to chlorine and were in stable condition, said spokesman kevin flynn
a spokeswoman at central maine medical center said two people exposed to the gas were released sunday afternoon
noonan last week criticized legislators for doing too little to defuse what he sees as a volatile situation in a town already tense over a nine-month labor dispute at ip
more than 1,200 members of united paperworkers international union and the international brotherhood of firemen &amp; oilers at the ip mill have been on strike since mid-june
ip has kept the mill in operation, staffing it with outside contractors, supervisory personnel and hundreds of replacement workers
the u.n. human rights commission condemned israel today for its policies in occupied arab territories, the 20th straight year the commission has leveled that criticism
the measure, sponsored by 26 third world and communist countries, condemmed israel for ``physical violence in occupied palestine, breaking the bones of children, women and men and causing women to miscarry as a result of severe beatings.''
in another matter, the commission's special investigator issued a report expressing concern over the deadlock in talks between the government of el salvador and guerilla organizations. it also said it was concerned about a resurgence of death squads
the u.n. commission assailed israel for ``killing, wounding, arresting and torturing thousands of palestinians'' and for alleged ``attempts to kidnap palestinian children ... and transfer them to unknown places.'' the vote was 31-8 with four abstentions
the united states, france, west germany, italy, norway, portugal, britain, and belgium voted against the measure described by speakers as containing excessive language. costa rica, ireland, japan and spain abstained
the u.s. delegation was alone in voting against a second measure condemning israel for its refusal to apply the geneva conventions to the civilian population and to palestinian prisoners. belgium, costa rica, france, west germany, ireland, italy, japan, norway, portugal, spain and britain abstained
a third resolution, declaring as void israel's annexation of syria's golan heights, was approved by an identical vote, 31-1 with 11 abstentions
a separate vote was held on one paragraph singling out the united states for its ``pro-israeli position'' that prevented ``appropriate'' security council measures against israel. it was adopted 19-15 with nine abstentions
the 30-page el salvador report, compiled by the commission's special investigator, jose antonio pastor ridruejo of spain, said the dialogue between the government and leftist guerillas seemed constructive in its initial stage but that a recent deadlock was a source of concern
the report also expresses concern at indications of a resurgence of the ``death squads'' despite efforts by the government to control such activities
it lists a decline in the number of politically motivated executions by members of the armed forces and civil defense forces while saying that guerilla organizations continue such practice on a widespread scale
it also said guerrillas have continued to ``to be responsible for maining and killing civilians coming into contact with mines they have planted.''
the salvadorian regular army has tried to apply humanitarian standards, the report said, but this doesn't ``prevent unjustifiable civilian fatalities from time to time.''
here is the full text of president kurt waldheim's speech on austrian television monday night, as translated from german by the associated press
dear austrians;
for several days, you have all heard and read a renewed debate concerning the person of the federal president; that is, concerning my person
the discussion is not just being conducted in the media, but confronts us almost everywhere. questions are being put about mutual trust, morality and understanding one another
i understand these questions _ especially from young people. the great majority of my fellow citizens did not live through the time in question. i also wouldn't wish it on anybody to have to live through this experience of war. thank god, the living conditions that existed then cannot be compared in any way with those of today, so that it's difficult for many people to identify with what i feel. perhaps you are also tired of hearing this theme with all its accusations and contradictions
my dear fellow citizens, you have the right to hear from me myself where and how i stand in this debate. it is a personal concern of mine to speak with you about these questions because i want to be understood and because you have called me to the office of federal president in a secret, direct vote
let's look back: everything that is now being discussed again, began two years ago. then, some weeks before the first ballot (in the 1986 presidential election) we were all suddenly confronted with severe charges against me
it was a question of my wartime service and people tried from the very beginning to prove that i had committed war crimes and covered up war crimes. my accusers came from austria and abroad. they stopped at nothing, manipulations, lies and forgeries were used against me. my accusers called me a murderer, a war criminal and a liar. without mercy i was interrogated day after day about events which took place 40 and more years ago
my countrymen, you will remember much from the election campaign and will perhaps have believed some of the charges. i tried to reconstruct my war service of 40 years before as well as i could. much, too much, remained open. often for the sake of truth i had to say that i cannot remember something or that i do not know it. my accusers kept coming with more new charges and always promised proof. but the proof did not come. finally, i could only counter the dirt of my enemies with one thing: i said it then: i have a clean conscience
my fellow citizens, you trusted me and at the end of these bitter weeks called me into the high office of the federal president of our republic
as i took up my office, i said that it was my concern to place what unites us above what divides us. i continue to seek reconciliation with those who were insulted but also with those who pursue me with hate
my opponents did not let go. it was not enough for them, that my respected predecessor dr. (rudolf) kirchschlaeger took it upon himself to examine the validity of the material against me. he established then that there was no proof for the charges. nonetheless, the attacks continued
for this reason i finally asked the federal government to appoint a commission of historians to establish whether there is any personal culpable conduct on my part during my wartime service. some of my opponents, as a precaution, said then that the commission was only there to serve me. now anyone who reads the report of this commission or who has seen the television interviews of some of the commission members will confirm that they in no way wanted to be of service to me. i cannot but state that parts of the report do not correspond to the facts, but are built on presumptions and hypotheses. for that reason, the conclusions drawn cannot be upheld
my fellow citizens, you can nonetheless look at this commission report from all sides and you will not find the proof that has been sought for two years of personal guilt and involvement in war crimes. this proof does not exist. the actions of the last two years have ended in the same way as those of the last few days (i mean) that telegram from yugoslavia which was presented against me as conclusive proof and which has now turned out to be an obvious fake
my fellow citizens, in this terrible second world war, in this curse for my generation, i saw and experienced endless suffering, destruction and pain. i was then a young man of barely 20 years. in 1938, a few days before hitler's march into austria, i took part in desperate actions with which we fought against the annexation. then came what i two years ago called _ in a phrase that was misunderstood _ ``fulfillment of duty:'' i was drafted into hitler's wehrmacht. one must see this without illusions and in all truth: there were not many chances to escape military service. in the ns (nazi) dictatorship, hundreds of thousands, indeed millions, had no other option
i have great respect for the heroes and martyrs of that time, but they were, as always in history, only a few
more
surgeons transplanted a heart into a 3-week-old pennsylvania boy today, while a week-old california boy began his first full day with a new heart
at children's hospital of pittsburgh, jonathan stowe went into surgery around midnight and emerged at 10:15 a.m., said hospital spokeswoman sue cardillo. he was in critical condition
jonathan, the son of tabatha and david stowe of beaver falls, was born jan. 25
in california, a boy identified only as christoffer received a new heart in a five-hour operation sunday at loma linda university medical center in loma linda
i have a valentine's day story for you,'' said hospital spokesman dick schaefer. the baby was listed in critical but stable condition after the operation, performed by leonard bailey
christoffer's family was identified only as an air force family living in southern california
both boys were born with hypoplastic left-heart syndrome, a lethal underdevelopment of the left side of the heart, the hospital officials said
the pittsburgh hospital's youngest transplant patient before jonathan was a 24-day-old boy from wyoming who received a new liver in july 1986
the loma linda hospital has done several transplants on babies, including 13 heart transplants on children under 4 months, counting christoffer's surgery. ten of those 13 children are alive
bailey, a pioneer in infant heart transplant surgery, stirred controversy in 1984 when he transplanted a baboon's heart into a child known as baby fae in an effort to save her life. the girl died 20 days after the transplant
tourists are harassing the uniformed sentries at st. james' palace, according to lawmakers who want the government to do something about it
i have quite often seen pretty girls putting their arms around soldiers on duty outside st. james' palace, while their friends take teasing photographs of them,'' said legislator harry greenway
sometimes they hug the soldiers round the neck and squeeze them. it requires the patience of job for a young soldier not to react angrily _ or indeed in any other way,'' he said
at buckingham palace, queen elizabeth ii's official residence, sentries were moved in the 1960s from outside the gates to the courtyard, where the public cannot enter, after one soldier got fed up with being pestered and banged the butt of his rifle on a woman's foot
but there's no courtyard at st. james' palace, which houses court officials and is less famous, and tourists can touch the sentries there, if they dare
greenway and sir john biggs-davison said they will raise the matter in parliament. biggs-davison said he will ask home secretary douglas hurd for a police report on steps being taken to stop sentries being ``tantalized.''
it is very unfair that soldiers have to endure these unpleasant attentions without in any way responding and it is not good for the dignity of royalty or, for that matter, the army,'' biggs-davison said
greenway said tourists also bothered the horses of mounted sentries on duty at the horse guards in whitehall, the center of government offices
i have often seen tourists prodding the horses with their fingers,'' he said. ``that is not only most unfair and demeaning but highly dangerous too.''
the deputy soviet foreign minister expressed his nation's satisfaction with the ``upward trend of bilateral relations'' with iran after discussions with tehran officials, it was reported monday
the visit to iran by deputy foreign minister vladimir petrovsky came one week after a trip by a soviet envoy to iran's enemy, iraq
iranian prime minister hussein musavi said after meeting with petrovsky on sunday that high-ranking officials of both countries had decided to implement major joint economic projects, the official iranian news agency reported
during his four-day visit, petrovsky reiterated to iranian foreign minister ali akbar velayati the soviet union's willingness to withdraw from afghanistan starting may 15, irna reported
musavi praised the soviet move, the agency said
iran, which shares borders with the soviet union and afghanistan, has been supporting afghan moslem guerrillas who are fighting the soviet army and the communist government in kabul
gaibnazar pallayev, vice chairman of the presidium of the supreme soviet, pledged during his visit to iraq that moscow was ready to consider an arms embargo aginst tehran for ignoring a u.n. resolution calling for a cease-fire in the iran-iraq war. moscow is iraq's major arms supplier in the 7-year-old war
the senate majority leader called today for his colleagues to scrap a plan to meet privately during the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham
the decision to allow for closed meetings had been criticized by mecham's lawyer and had touched off protests and editorials from news organizations
it has become evident after several days of comments regarding the adopted court of impeachment rules from both the public and the press that the intent of our actions has been misinterpreted,'' robert usdane said in a letter to senate president carl kunasek and minority leader alan stephens
it appears to me that the benefits to the senate would be significantly outweighed by the detriments to the process,'' he added
usdane, like mecham a republican, suggested that the rules be changed to require that all deliberations in public and to either ban secret meetings or require a majority vote before any closed meeting
kunasek declined to say whether he would support the change. but several rank-and-file republicans said they favored it and stephens said he believed his caucus would go along with it
a two-thirds vote is needed to change the rules
usdane said deliberating in the open ``will erase any question as to the fairness and honesty of the outcome of the senate vote.''
mecham is accused by a house resolution of having broken laws by concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, lending $80,000 to his car dealership and obstructing justice. mecham, who also faces a may 17 recall election and a criminal indictment over the $350,000 loan, has said repeatedly that he is innocent of any wrongdoing
rules approved thursday by the senate require a closed conference at the request of any single senator.   
greek and u.s. negotiators resumed talks monday on a new operating agreement for american military bases in greece after 1988
during this week's third round of talks, the americans were expected to respond to greece's demand that a new accord be linked to progress on greek-turkish problems, officials said
the five-year agreement expires in december. premier andreas papandeou has said greece is willing to negotiate a new accord, but it must be approved in a referendum
it was not clear how a recent improvement in greek-turkish relations would affect negotiating positions in the talks
papandreou and turkish premier turgut ozal last month agreed to start regular bilateral discussions and to set up a ``hot-line'' telephone link between athens and ankara. in march, the two nato allies came to the brink of war over oil-drilling rights in the aegean sea
since the early 1950s, the united states has operated four military bases in greece: two near athens and two on the southern island of crete. greece gets more than $300 million annually in u.s. military credits. behavior''</head>
the reagan administration's policy of keeping military and espionage blow-ups with the soviet union from slowing a drive for better overall relations is back in operation following the collision of u.s. and soviet warships in the black sea
the united states complained about soviet actions in last friday's incident by summoning soviet ambassador yuri dubinin to a 20-minute protest meeting with the state department's third-ranking officer
the department issued a public condemnation
yet secretary of state george p. shultz has no plan to dwell on the incident when he goes to moscow next week to discuss arms control, regional issues like afghanistan and the superpower summit envisioned for the spring, according to an aide who spoke on condition of anonymity
how much damage will the black sea incident do to the broad range of u.s.-soviet relations?
not much,'' the aide said
indeed, the state department's on-the-record reaction to what navy officers called the deliberate and dangerous soviet bumping of american warships operating innocently in the black sea included comments that conveyed more exasperation than outrage
as secretary of state shultz said just a week ago, we are prepared to deal with the best and worst of soviet behavior,'' said spokesman rudolph boone
it is, after all, ``a competetive relationship,'' boone said
the statement reflected the administration policy, since the rise of soviet leader mikhail gorbachev in 1985, of keeping distasteful and bitter bilateral disputes from poisoning efforts to elicit from moscow a better human rights record, arms control compromises and a withdrawal of troops from afghanistan
over the past three years, whether the issue has been alleged soviet spying, the jailing of u.s. journalist nicholas daniloff, or attacks on american military observers in east germany, the reagan administration has complained _ taken retaliatory action in some cases _ and then gone back to the bargaining table
the most serious bilateral blow-up in recent years _ and the one that came closest to upsetting overall relations _ was the daniloff case. the u.s. news &amp; world report moscow correspondent was arrested in august 1986 on espionage charges and held in prison for several days, despite president reagan's unwavering denials that daniloff was a spy
daniloff was arrested after u.s. authorities jailed gennady zakharov, a soviet united nations employee, who the united states said really was a spy
after long negotiations, the affair was settled by both men being sent home in a deal that paved the way for reagan to meet soviet leader mikhail gorbachev at a summit in iceland a month later
another major controversy erupted over charges that soviet intelligence had compromised secrecy at the u.s. embassy in moscow _ first by planting bugging devices in a new chancery building and then by compromising marine guards responsible for security at the existing embassy office
concern about the two breaches of security reached their height in early 1987, after three former marine guards at the embassy were arrested on suspicion of letting soviet agents prowl through secure areas of the embassy
at the time, shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze were trying to achieve a breakthrough on a deal to limit intermediate range nuclear missiles
although shultz considered calling off a planned conference with shevardnadze in moscow to work on the arms pact because of the security problem, he went forward with the meeting
by all accounts of his sessions with gorbachev _ in geneva in 1985, in iceland and in washington last december _ reagan has raised the bilateral issues and complained about the alleged spying and bugging
he also has protested attacks by soviet troops on u.s. military observers operating in east germany under post world war ii peace agreements
yet the complaints remain in a separate compartment from the other issues
as rozanne ridgway, the assistant secretary of state for european affairs, has put it: ``there will always be set-backs in a relationship that is continuously evolving. we will always have our problems with the soviet union; that is inevitable. when they do things we don't like we tell them; often very forcefully
the goal is to try to manage the relationship.''
if there's anything local school boards usually don't like, it's orders from above. but many are finding they need strong state leadership to overcome community obstacles to teaching children about aids
this is a unique situation,'' said katherine fraser, co-director of the aids education project at the national association of state boards of education
in a lot of instances, state requirements are resented and are counterproductive,'' said fraser. ``but this is a case where many local boards are facing opposition in their communities and they're looking to the state for a requirement. they want to go back to the community and say, `look, this is something we're required to do. let's figure out how.'''
eighteen states require that schoolchildren be taught about the incurable disease, the school boards group found in a survey last december. among those without specific aids education requirements are some states with high concentrations of aids cases, including california, new jersey and florida
fraser predicted a flurry of activity in many states in the next few months, not all of it constructive
there are states where legislators are putting bill after bill in front of the legislature, and some of them are not well considered,'' she said. ``the people putting them forward are not really familiar with the facts. there's a great deal of confusion about what ought to be done.''
one state, alabama, has a mandatory statewide aids curriculum. but most educators and health professionals, including the national centers for disease control, say the key to a successful program is broad community involvement
there's nothing wrong with saying there are the topics you have to cover. but getting into curriculum, that should be local,'' said fraser. ``if parents and the community don't support what the schools are teaching, the program won't work. kids have to be getting the same education at home and at church as they are at school for it to work.''
kansas is a state with what some experts consider a model policy. the state board requires aids instruction and teacher training. the general goal is to promote sexual abstinence and fidelity. but what is taught, who teaches it and how it is taught are decisions made at the local level
local school boards were not offering aids education because of local pressure opposing it,'' kansas state board member connie hubbell told a house committee last week. ``i don't think that local districts would be teaching about aids now without strong state leadership on the issue.''
hubbell said aids education ideally should be within the context of health instruction, because if students don't understand germs and the immune system, they will not understand aids and how to avoid it
but if schools don't already have a comprehensive health program, they can't afford to wait. young people need information about aids now,'' said hubbell, a member of the board of directors of the state school boards group
simply requiring aids instruction is not enough, hubbell added. she said few states have provided funds for their education efforts; few have figured out how to reach youths at high risk of infection, many of whom are not in school; and few have systems to evaluate and monitor the success of aids education in local schools
hubbell said public misconceptions, even among policymakers, are a formidable barrier to the development of successful aids education programs. for example, she said, a 1987 survey of california school principals in 47 districts showed that most could not correctly answer more than seven of 14 factual questions about aids
the state school boards group and two other national education groups have received grants this year from the centers for disease control to help states develop or strengthen aids prevention policies
the grants are part of the $30 million cdc will spend this year on state prevention efforts targeted at school-age and college youth. financial and technical help will be available to all state departments of education, a cdc official told a house committee last week
the center publishes a bibliography of aids teaching resources and last month published ``guidelines for school health education to prevent the spread of aids.'' the guidelines recommend broad community participation and prescribe instruction in preventive behavior ranging from abstinence to condom use. the guidelines also graphically describe what students should know at various age levels. picks up 9th graf pvs, `the government ...</note>
gen. alfredo stroessner's landslide victory in the presidential election was achieved through widespread fraud, according to opposition leaders and foreign observers
the 75-year-old president and his governing colorado party on sunday won an eighth straight term, receiving 88.6 percent of the vote, interior minister sabino montanaro announced. montanaro is also party president
stroessner, elected to a five-year-term, has governed the nation of 3.8 million people since taking power in an army coup in 1954
one opposition leader was detained during the voting
opposition groups and foreign representatives invited to observe the voting said they witnessed irregularities that included: the absence of opposition ballots at polling stations, a lack of closed booths to ensure secret balloting, voting by underage voters and ballot box stuffing
stroessner is the western hemisphere's longest governing head of state. among current world leaders, only north korea's kim-il sung, who came to power in 1948, has led a country longer
the unofficial final vote tally, announced by the party today, gave the colorado party and stroessner 1,186,693, or 88.6 percent of the total cast. a total of 1,446,665 voters were registered
the radical liberal party, whose presidential candidate was sen. luis maria vega, 65, was a distant second with 96,231 votes, or 7.18 percent. the liberal party, led by rep. carlos ferreira ybarra, 54, was third with 42,056 votes, or 3.14 percent. final returns were expected to be released later today
the government said voter turnout was high, but did not provide a figure. the opposition said turnout was lower than 50 percent in many urban areas
the victory, which montanaro called proof ``the colorado party with stroessner holds an absolute majority in the countryside and the cities,'' also gave the party two-thirds of the 72 house of deputies and 36 senate seats
the remaining one-third will be split among the two other parties according to the proportion of votes the two losers received
the opposition candidates who participated sunday represented two of the country's three officially recognized opposition groups
the third party, the febrerista revolutionary party, has not participated in elections or government since 1973
three unrecognized parties, the authentic radical liberal party, the christian democrats and the colorado popular movement, had urged voters to boycott the elections
domingo laino, president of the authentic radical liberal party, was detained most of sunday at a government office in col. oviedo, 80 miles east of asuncion, and released when the polls had closed
he then held a news conference to denounce the elections
the fraud of feb. 14 will not be like others,'' laino said. ``it will be stroessner's burial ground.''
jo marie greisgaber, a u.s. consultant to the washington-based national democratic institute for international affairs, a democratic party entity, said she witnessed underage voters casting ballots in col. oviedo
we also were told that area cotton farmers had been told cotton prices would not be increased if they did not vote or that they would not be able to sell their crops,'' she said
a u.s. observer with the same institute, martin andersen, said a car in which he and opposition politicians were riding was stopped in ypacarai, 15 miles east of asuncion, by a group of men in plainclothes and police uniforms
we were mistreated without provocation and treated in a beastly fashion,'' said andersen
he said the car's driver, carlos romero perreira, leader of a dissident faction of the colorado party, was struck several times
uruguayan lawmaker daniel lamas said he saw voters barred from casting ballots in secret as well as individuals casting ``up to 10 ballots.''
most opposition rallies at asuncion and a half-dozen other towns were peaceful. but in carapegua, 30 miles south of asuncion, police armed with clubs broke up a demonstration, and a rally at col. oviedo was suspended due to fear of violence
last week, the u.s. state department criticized stroessner's government in its 1987 human rights report, which said ``paraguay has not had a democratic government since its independence in 1811.''
in the victory speech, montanaro promised the government would promote investment of domestic and foreign capital, combat unemployment, eliminate slums and shantytowns and distribute land to poor farmers
we will continue to be anti-communist,'' he emphasized, ``and no one will surprise us flirting with marxism wherever it may be.''
from gypsy moths in the shenandoah to wild pigs in the great smokies to creeping kudzu in the west, an invasion of exotic animal and plant species is threating the nation's national parks
a draft summary of a major, just-completed national park service assessment of the condition of natural and cultural resources lists ``encroachment by plants and animals not native to park environments'' ahead of any other ``major issues and threats'' to natural resources
sometimes the invasion is part of the ebb and flow of nature, as with gypsy moths attacking trees in virginia's shenandoah national park. sometimes it is the end of a complex process kicked off by humans, as in the replacement of sawgrass with cat-tail plants in the everglades national park in florida as a result of fertilizer-laden water entering the swamp. that changes the whole food chain in the park
sometimes it isn't easy to decide, as with the ravages of vegetation caused by wild pigs in the great smoky mountains national park in tennessee and north carolina or goats in olympic national park in washington state, or the invasion of kudzu or eucalyptus at several sites in the south or west
sometimes nothing can really be done as nature slowly replaces one species with another over the course of a century or so
in an interview, parks director william penn mott said: ``in the florida everglades we have the invasion of the brazilian pepper; we have the invasion of the australian pine. ... it may be there is no way on god's green earth that we can eliminate the pepper, for example. ... over a period of time, it may be that will be the ecology of the florida everglades.''
mott's deputy, denis p. galvin, added, ``it seems to me one of the roles of the national parks is to illustrate that kind of process.''
there are few really new individual facts about exotic species in the study, just their appearance in different places
what the assessment points out is that exotic plants and animals are a problem in more places than we would have thought,'' said galvin
the study, launched by mott when he took over the service two years ago, is the first of its kind since park managers were asked to list threats to their units in 1980. results of the exercise, which will be repeated every three years, have been computerized for easy access throughout the park system
funds from new and increased visitor fees will be directed at what park managers judge the most important problems uncovered in the assessment. this will mean an extra $52 million a year before collection expenses, with 10 percent of the net reserved for a special director's discretionary fund, to be spent on research and protection of resources or interpretation for visitors
nearly 60 percent of park managers said their installations were threatened in one way or another, one-third of them by activities outside park boundaries
most natural resources were judged in fair condition, with only 15 percent described as poor. but the managers said they needed to undertake 2,500 projects over the next three years at what the service estimated would be $250 million to $300 million, a sum it noted ``far exceeds the current nps budget.''
for cultural resources _ roughly half the units in the system commemorate something _ managers said a quarter of the sites, a third of the buildings and a third of the collections were in good condition. most sites and structures that are well-documented ``are relatively free of serious adverse impacts.''
but the status of many cultural resources is unknown because of an enormous backlog of historical research, documentation, inspections and cataloguing,'' the summary said in noting that only 12 percent of its museum collections had been catalogued
major problem categories for natural resources _ many also listed in the 1980 report _ were described as scars from mining, grazing or farming; overuse; hunting or poaching; legal mineral exploitation; loss of water and air quality, as from acid rain; and development near park boundaries
cultural resources were said to be threatened by weathering and erosion; vandalism and looting; deficient storage of artifacts; a paperwork backlog; lack of vegetation control and lack of specialized expertise
president mauno koivisto was re-elected to a second six-year term today, winning a second-round victory in an electoral college
koivisto, a social democrat, garnered 1.5 million votes in a general election two weeks ago, but fell just short of the absolute majority he needed to be directly elected without referring the vote to the 301-member electoral college
koivisto's return to office was never in doubt, and he planned a reception for 500 people at the official presidential residence later today to celebrate his victory
conservative prime minister harri holkeri, who challenged koivisto along with three other contenders, released his delegates to vote freely after the first round of voting gave koivisto 144 ballots, 7 shy of a majority
in the second round, koivisto picked up 45 of holkeri's delegates for a total of 189. opposition leader paavo vayrynen of the center party won 68 votes and leftist candidate kalevi kivistoe got won 26. nineteen delegates remained loyal to holkeri. the fifth candidate two weeks ago, jouko kajanoja, had no electors
a senior magistrate on monday criticized the u.s. consulate for granting a new passport to an american who faces drug charges
it is hard to imagine a greater act of irresponsibility by a foreign official,'' said deputy chief magistrate bruce brown at sydney's central local court
brown heard that richard stephen rotaru, a 30-year-old law student from cleveland who is charged with possessing and supplying cocaine, was issued a new passport by the consulate after his application for the return of his old one was refused
rotaru was arrested again during the weekend by an off-duty detective who recognized him as they were boarding a flight bound for honolulu
after his arrest jan. 20, he was released on bail, which included the surrrender of his passport. he applied for its return on feb. 5, but was refused
prosecutor sgt. ron broadhead told the court the u.s. consulate then granted rotaru's request for a new one
rotaru's lawyer said his client believed he was within his rights in using the passport, thinking he was acting under the direction of u.s. officials
rotaru was ordered to appear to in the central court on feb. 22
nine years ago the forces of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini overthrew the peacock throne of iran and instituted a fundamentalist islamic regime. now khomeini is old and sick, and a bloody war with neighboring iraq continues. here is a look from within iran by an associated press correspondent who visited it recently
ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's regime is in firm control as his fundamentalist islamic revolution begins its 10th year, but a power struggle looms when the 87-year-old patriarch dies
his lieutenants appear to be preparing for khomeini's death, which will be a major test for the revolution at a time of war, economic hardship and increasing international isolation
khomeini is reported in poor health and has sought recently, after years of reluctance, to eliminate obstacles to economic and social reform
he remains the revered imam, symbol of an islamic resurgence that toppled the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi and brought khomeini home in triumph feb. 1, 1979, after 15 years in exile
the old man's messianic charisma and authority have held the revolution together through the long war with iraq, and iran's other pressing international and domestic problems
jockeying for position in the misty world of iranian politics has intensified because of elections for the 270-seat majlis, or parliament, scheduled for april 8
chief among the rival camps are the revolutionary purists personified by prime minister hussein musavi and those called pragmatists, who are led by the parliament speaker, hashemi rafsanjani
no threat is evident to the regime itself despite political rivalries and domestic grumbling
senior revolutionary leaders acknowledge public discontent but say economic hardship stems from the war, not the revolution. iraq invaded iran in september 1980 after several border incidents
they also claim more public projects have been completed than under the shah and more has been done for the ``mostathafeen'' (deprived), the millions of slum dwellers and peasants who formed the bedrock support for khomeini
streets are full of people searching for bargains in the well-stocked stores, which are prohibitively expensive, or standing in long lines outside shops that sell rationed goods at government-controlled prices
everything is available on the black market _ or ``free market,'' as the iranians call it _ at 10 times the official price
hojatoleslam sadeq khalkali, a former islamic prosecutor who ordered the execution of hundreds of opponents in the revolution's early days, had this to say about political disagreement during a recent majlis debate: ``the brave troops at the front should not be worried by what may appear to be irreconcilable disagreements.''
security remains tight, there is great distrust of foreigners, and the united states still is the ``great satan.''
revolutionary guards, fanatical followers of khomeini who are present in every village and city neighborhood, appear to have stifled resistance
islamic puritanism, pervasive in the early days after khomeini's return, has been relaxed somewhat
many women still wear the black head-to-toe chador. a sign outside tehran's main bus terminal declares in english and farsi: ``women not wearing islamic garb will not be allowed to enter.''
others appear in public wearing only headscarves, however, and many women use lipstick and makeup. such ``western decadence'' a few years ago would have meant arrest and humiliation by the gashte zahrah, the religious vigilantes who patrol the city in unmarked cars watching for moral turpitude
gashte zahrah patrols have not disappeared, but they are less active
enforcement of the ban on alcoholic beverages also has eased. whisky, vodka and other liquor are readily available on the black market
crowds are large at movie theaters, where the fare generally is patriotic epics, sagas of ancient persian glories, or feature films from japan or the soviet union
state-run television's two channels are dominated by religious and political discussions, war footage and documentaries extolling iranian victories
the government's efficient security network extends to village level. cities, offices, schools and businesses are governed by islamic councils, run by loyalists of the regime
by western count two million iranians, many of them middle class, have fled rather than put up with islamic restrictions, economic privation and sending their sons to the war
an estimated 600,000 iranians have been killed and 750,000 wounded, but foreign diplomats say the conflict has helped strengthen the revolution despite the cost
it has built patriotic fervor in the mass of persian iran's overwhelmingly shiite moslem population of about 50 million against the iraqis, who are arabs and ancient enemies
there's dissatisfaction with the strict islamic rules imposed on people and with the economic hardship, but at the same time most people are proud that iran has resisted the iraqi invasion and so much pressure from the united states,'' one western diplomat said privately
people realize there's little they can do. they live in hope the war may end soon, either through victory or a settlement, so that at least their economic hardship will be alleviated.''
relations among the three surviving beatles have improved but paul mccartney is ``too moody'' to allow any joint performances to take place, george harrison said monday
our relationship is quite good but there's no reunion of any beatles,'' he told reporters after returning from los angeles. ``we have been having dinner together. we are friends now, the first time we have been this close for a long time. but it doesn't mean to say that we are going to make another group or anything.''
harrison has had hits recently in britain and the united states. mccartney also has had a successful solo career but ringo starr's last album in 1985 was considered too ho-hum for issue
on his feelings towards mccartney, harrison said: ``i am more friendly with other musicians. paul is a bit too moody for me. anyway there will never be a beatles concert because there's only three of them left.''
sports stars like mike ditka donated items for auction and the cast of a musical comedy waited tables at a fund-raising benefit for a 9-year-old girl who lost her lower legs after being locked in a freezing room
the staff of a new pizza restaurant donated all of sunday's receipts to a fund to help pay medical expenses for darlwin carlisle. she was found jan. 17 trapped in an attic room of an abandoned house in gary, ind
many of the sports figures couldn't attend because they were out of town, but they donated uniforms, equipment or autographed pictures, said cher patrick, a spokeswoman for edwardo's natural pizz
we got an autographed basketball from michael jordan of the chicago bulls, a hockey stick from troy murray of the chicago blackhawks and an autographed t-shirt from wrestler hulk hogan,'' she said. ``a number of the chicago bears gave autographed pictures _ (coach) mike ditka, jim mcmahon, mike singletary and walter payton. we also got pictures from the chicago cubs and sets of tickets from the chicago white sox.''
local television personalities took turns waiting tables and were joined by the cast of a long-running revue, ``pump boys and dinettes.''
the women in the cast all play waitresses, so they were right at home on the floor,'' said ms. patrick
she said the amount of money raised wouldn't be known for a day or two
restaurateur-entertainer sonny bono faces stiff competition from seven other hopefuls in this resort town's upcoming mayor election, but he has the backing of his ex-wife, singer-actress cher
when bono, who turns 53 tuesday, announced his candicacy more than a year ago, some opponents called it a ploy to boost business at his italian restaurant. when he filed candidacy papers earlier this month for the april 12 election, some said he lacked the experience to guide a city with an annual budget of $47 million
but cher, who rocketed to fame as half of the rock group sonny and cher in the mid-1960s and then co-hosted a hit television show with bono in the 1970s, says he's got plenty of experience
when we were together, we must have grossed 50, 60 million dollars,'' said the star of the current hit film ``moonstruck.'' ``i don't know very many idiots who can boast that.''
the two split up 14 years ago but have remained friends, recently appearing on the tv show ``late night'' with david letterman, where they sang their signature song, ``i've got you, babe.''
princess caroline of monaco opened a $6.1 million, state-of-the-art hospital wing bearing her name monday at a hospital named for her mother
the three-story extension to the 116-bed princess grace private hospital in west london contains some of the most up-to-date equipment in london
it's the first time anything's been named after me,'' caroline said after unveiling a commemorative plaque
caroline became the hospital's patron after her mother, the former american actress grace kelly, died in a car crash in 1982
country music singer charlie daniels is encouraging radio disc jockeys to give all artists a chance when deciding which records to play on the air
there's a lot of new music coming up that's very good,'' daniels told participants in the 19th country radio seminar over the weekend
please listen to as many of them as you can. a record is not a cold piece of plastic. it's very much a piece of somebody's life,'' he said
daniels, a fiddler and guitarist, is best known for the hits ``the devil went down to georgia'' and ``long-haired country boy.''
queen elizabeth ii has appointed nobel prize winner dr. max perutz and distinguished art historian sir ernst gombrich to membership in the order of merit, buckingham palace announced monday
the honor is a personal gift of the queen and is limited to 24 holders, who can use the initials om after their names
other members at present include violinist sir yehudi menuhin, choreographer sir frederick ashton and composer sir michael tippett
perutz, 73, a molecular biologist who deciphered the structure of hemoglobin, was co-winner of the nobel prize in chemistry in 1962 for his pioneering research into biotechnology
gombrich, 78, is the author of ``the story of art,'' which has sold more than two million copies. he was slade professor of fine art at oxford from 1950-53 and director of the warburg institute and professor of the history of the classical tradition at the university of london from 1959-76
u.s. soldiers based in west germany successfully launched six pershing 2 battlefield missiles monday during a training exercise
army spokesman dave harris said all the two-stage missiles hit their targets during a three-hour training period for soldiers of the 2nd battalion, 9th field artillery
harris said about 80 members of the unit flew here from europe for the launchings
there are 108 pershing 2s in west germany. all would be removed if the senate ratifies the intermediate range nuclear force treaty signed in december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev. correct that a stand-in, sted rex, arrrives on boat; picks up 3rd graf pvs, `television star...' subs grafs 4-6 pvs, `three men...' with 3 grafs to correct that two people arrested were bystanders, booked with interference, sted on float and booked with drunkenness, and delete reference to chaney being booked with drunkenness, which cannot immediately be confirmed.</note>
the party spread throughout the french quarter today as clear skies and 60-degree weather brought revelers into the streets for the last day of carnival before mardi gras
many people had the day off for presidents' day, and the french quarter filled with hard-drinking crowds
much of the party today was aimed at the river front, where a stand-in for rex, king of carnival, was to arrive aboard a coast guard cutter on the mississippi river to celebrate mardi gras eve, or lundi gras
the real rex won't show up in public until fat tuesday, when he parades through the streets
on sunday, police said even rain didn't seem to affect the number of people who turned out for the traditional parades on the sunday before mardi gras
television star alan thicke, who plays jason seaver on ``growing pains, reigned as this year's god of wine, bacchus 1988. the krewe of bacchus, in a flashy super-parade that capped the night's processions, celebrated ``20 years of bacchus'' by honoring previous celebrity gods such as william shatner, bob hope and danny kaye
three men were arrested sunday after one allegedly dumped a soft drink onto a police officer and then threw the bottle into the crowd, where it hit a 3-year-old girl in the face, police said
the child was reported in good condition today at a hospital
krewe of bacchus member robert chaney was booked with battery on a police officer and resisting arrest, police said. in addition, two bystanders were booked with interfering with a police officer
earlier sunday, the big street party known as carnival delighted parade-goers but made life difficult for florists making valentine's day deliveries
it hinders delivery and we can't make full service,'' said ronnie scheinuk, vice president of scheinuk the florist, a company started by his grandfather. ``we're right on a parade route.''
scheinuk said he had to have a delivery crew of 10 start at 6:30 a.m. to finish by 11:30, a half-hour before the first parade rolled in front of his store. but there were compensations to being on a major parade route
we've had tremendous walk-in business,'' he said
nbc plans a one-hour, prime-time special on the new hampshire primary tuesday night, and cbs' weekly documentary show ``48 hours'' will include live updates on the results
cnn will offer extended prime-time coverage of the nation's first presidential primary of 1988
abc will interrupt its coverage of the winter olympics for updates and broadcast a special half-hour wrap-up at midnight est
nbc scheduled a 1-hour special at 10 p.m. at 8 p.m., cbs will air ``48 hours on the campaign trail,'' a videotaped show that will include live reports from new hampshire
merrill pollack, a sculptor, writer and former editor of the saturday evening post, has died after a short illness at the age of 63
pollack, a new york city native and a resident of grantsville, died sunday at st. joseph's hospital in parkersburg. his family did not disclose the cause of death
in addition to working as editor of the saturday evening post in philadelphia, he worked as an executive editor for viking press and was an editor for simon &amp; schuster
in 1977, pollack moved to grantsville, where he sculpted and did wood carvings. from 1981 to 1986, he was editor of a local newspaper, the calhoun county chronicle, and served on the art faculty at west virginia university
pollack is survived by his wife, jeanne, five children and a brother
unexcused absences at aurora central high school will be punished with three-day suspensions as the school begins a crackdown on truancy starting tuesday
principal marc stine said the new policy was prompted in part by an absenteeism rate that at times has seen 350 of the school's 1,600 students absent in a single day
our policy is no different from that of 95 percent of the employers in the world,'' stine said. ``if you're not going to be in, they expect you to call. those are lessons that kids _ that everybody _ has to learn.''
a second offense brings a five-day suspension, and more infractions escalate the penalty to consideration by the superintendent of ``further action.''
stine said the new policy is liberal because officials accept all kinds of excuses for absences, as long as school work is made up and parents approve
for some people the annual elk hunting event is as significant as christmas,'' stine said. ``we will excuse a child as long as he has his parents' knowledge and approval.''
a businessman today publicly tied a key haitian military official to drug trafficking, and said officials of that nation's government also were involved
osvaldo quintana, 35, of miami told a news conference that he was going to the media because the federal government was stalling on promises to protect him
quintana, who said he ran a seafood operation here until he became involved with the smuggling effort in august 1986, has been testifying before a federal grand jury in miami about the haitian drug connection
he said he met with col. jean-claude paul, commander-in-chief of the dessalines battalion in port-au-prince, in december 1986 and arranged for 100 kilograms of cocaine to be shipped to the united states. the battalian was blamed for repression of anti-government demonstrators last summer
we flew (the shipment) out of his own personal ranch in haiti,'' said quintana. the cocaine was flown through the bahamas to florida, he said
asked if higher haitian government officials were involved in the smuggling, osvaldo said ``yes,'' but refused to identify them. he and said he would make the names public later
quintana said he was twice tracked by haitian hit squads, with one following him the to the u.s. drug enforcement administration office in miami where he was meeting with an agent
that group was arrested when they were spotted waiting outside the dea office, he said, but were released a few days later. a second group later ran him off a highway. those men were frightened away by a florida highway patrol officer who happened by, said quintana
quintana's attorney, ellis rubin, said quintana had been warned by the u.s. attorney's office in miami in january that he would not get into the federal witness protection program if he talked to the media about his case. but despite waiting four weeks, no protection was arranged for him or his family, he said
quintana testified here last month for the defense in the trial of self-styled haitian-american freedom fighter joel deeb, on trial for weapons violations in a plot to overthrow the haitian government
quintana testified then that high-level haitian officials were involved in drug-smuggling
sources in the u.s. attorney's office have told the associated press on condition of anonymnity that a grand jury here is investigating haitian officials allegedly involved in drug-trafficking. the miami herald has identified paul as a target of the probe
opening of negotiations and relative quiet on the warfront have sparked a glimmer of hope that two decades of savage conflict in cambodia can be solved through political compromise rather than more bloodshed
after an 8-year-long stalemate, two rounds of peace talks were recently held between key protagonists: cambodian resistance leader prince norodom sihanouk and prime minister hun sen of the pro-hanoi regime in cambodia
vietnam, which invaded cambodia in 1978, now says that if an acceptable political solution is reached, it may withdraw its troops before an announced 1990 pull-out. and moscow has indicated it wants to heal itself of two festering asian sores: cambodia and afghanistan
although negotiations in paris last december and january did not produce a mutually acceptable blueprint for peace, both sides say they are working toward freedom from outside interference and an end to cambodia's cycle of agony. since 1970, cambodia has suffered a devastating five-year war; a reign of terror by the khmer rouge; the vietnamese invasion; and a continuing guerrilla war. millions have perished
deep suspicions of vietnam's motives remain, as do fears of a return to power of the brutal khmer rouge. and analysts are puzzled by the moves of the unpredictable prince, who on jan. 30 resigned as head of a three-party resistance coalition and who regularly lashes out at his partners-in-war
the 65-year-old sihanouk _ onetime king, consummate survivor, enduringly popular leader _ headed a coalition of the communist khmer rouge, the khmer people's national liberation front and his own followers fighting the vietnamese. china arms the coalition. the soviet union fuels vietnam's war machine
stressing that vietnam was eager to attract investment from the west, hanoi adviser nguyen xuan oanh admitted recently the war in cambodia was ``a very costly proposition. it has drained our resources.'' besides the burden of keeping about 140,000 troops in cambodia, the opportunity costs are great: most non-soviet bloc nations continue to shun vietnam, insisting on a troop withdrawal before engaging in full trade and aid relations with hanoi
also widely seen as helping the process of political settlement are the rise of seemingly more flexible leaders: mikhail gorbachev in moscow, deng xiaoping's followers in peking, and vietnamese communist party chief nguyen van linh in hanoi. china cites the vietnamese grip on cambodia as a key barrier to detente with moscow, which appears to be seeking closer ties with peking
changes are also perceived in the military situation. ``i can't tell you who is winning the war in cambodia ... but presently both sides are turning to political means instead of fighting on the battlefield,'' says lt. gen. sihadaj bunnag, spokesman of thailand's military command
several western analysts interviewed agree that in recent months fighting has decreased substantially, although reasons given for this are largely speculative
rather than seeking combat, one theory says, the resistance guerrillas are concentrating on grass-roots organization and propaganda, trying to solidify support for their respective groups in event action shifts to the political arena
militarily, the balance appears to be unchanged from recent years: the estimated 50,000-strong fighters of the coalition can't defeat the vietnamese but would probably rout the weak, pro-hanoi cambodian army if hanoi pulled out. the khmer rouge remains the most powerful military force within the coalition
for many western and thai analysts a ``worst case scenario'' would be vietnamese entrenchment in cambodia; continued warfare; the indefinite existence of 250,000 cambodian refugees along the thai-cambodian border
perhaps the most optimistic future envisioned by western observers is a vietnamese pull-out; a coalition government in cambodia with sihanouk as a major figure; and a withering away of the khmer rouge through defections of younger conscripts and general hatred of a force robbed of its major appeal: fighting a foreign invader
sihanouk himself outlines a ``quadripartite provisional government,'' including the three coalition members and the hun sen side. this foursome would work on organizing general elections under international supervision and be backed by a four-party national army
sihanouk appears to be key to the question of peace or war in cambodia. he still enjoys widespread domestic popularity and by far the greatest backing internationally among the coalition's leaders. his latest maneuvers may be designed to get the fractious coalition solidly behind his negotiation efforts
since his resignation, the two coalition partners have come begging for his return. china, although the staunchest backer of the khmer rouge, stressed its support. communist party chief zhao ziyang praised sihanouk as ``a great patriot and experienced politician.'' should the coalition sides ever compete for power in phnom penh, sihanouk would need peking's help in curbing the khmer rouge
denis d. gray, bureau chief for the associated press in thailand, covered cambodia during the indochina war and visits the country from his base in bangkok.  
trial opens tuesday for a former conrail engineer accused of 16 counts of manslaughter by locomotive in amtrak's worst fatal crash, a january 1987 accident that killed 16 people and injured more than 170
rick l. gates was operating three linked conrail locomotives that prosecutors say ran a stop signal in chase, md., on jan. 4, 1987, and ended up in front of an amtrak passenger train that was traveling about 120 mph
federal investigators say gates, 33, failed to notice the stop signals because of drug and possibly alcohol use. gates has denied smoking marijuana while operating the train
testimony likely will focus on drug use, warning whistles and lights in the cab, and a series of approach signals to the switch where four tracks converge to two at the gunpowder river railroad bridge crossing
jury selection is scheduled to begin tuesday in baltimore county circuit court for gates' trial on 16 counts of manslaughter. each count carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $1,000 fine
a county grand jury's indictment accuses gates, of essex, md., of ``gross negligence'' in the operation of the locomotives
gates' charges fall under the same law normally used against people accused of negligence in automobile accidents. prosecutors have said this is the first time the manslaughter by locomotive statute has been used in maryland
gates, who worked for conrail for 14 years, has said signals indicated he should slow down and proceed through the switch
but the national transportation safety board concluded that gates failed to notice track signals or emergency warnings in the cab because he was impaired by marijuana and possibly alcohol
blood tests taken immediately after the accident showed both gates and brakeman edward cromwell had traces of marijuana in their bodies, but a recent court ruling in a different case could hamper prosecutors
the men were tested under a federal railroad administration rule requiring urine or blood samples of any worker involved in a serious accident, but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals in san francisco ruled last week that such tests are unconstitutional
the railroad administration has said it will appeal and the ruling's effect on the trial remains uncertain. it stands as official precedent only in the circuit court's area, but may affect judicial thinking elsewhere
even if the evidence is allowed, prosecutors must prove gates was impaired by the drugs, not just that he was using them
the trial could have implications for government control over train operators and for more than $294 million in civil suits arising from the crash. the railroad administration has said the crash already has helped it in its battle for jurisdiction over licensing and training of engineers
the federal government had no authority to punish gates or cromwell, both of whom resigned from conrail. cromwell has been granted immunity and is expected to testify that he and gates fabricated a story to cover up their marijuana smoking on the train
defense attorneys, according to chief public defender donna shearer, will try to discredit cromwell by pointing out he ran from the scene while gates stayed to ``help save lives.''
gates' attorneys also say they will present evidence that the track signals often malfunction, contrary to official statements
sen. terry sanford gave the traditional reading monday of george washington's farewell address to a nearly empty senate chamber monday
the first-term democrat from north carolina took 52 minutes to read the 7,641-word address, which is traditionally the only item on the senate's agenda when the chamber celebrates washington's birthday. the senate has followed the tradition since 1896
the fastest reading was 39 minutes by sen. jake garn, r-utah, in 1975, while the slowest was an hour and eight minutes in 1962 by sen. jennings randolph, d-w.va
only three other legislators were present monday: senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va.; sen. john stennis, d-miss.; and sen. john melcher, d-mont
washington's farewell address, which includes his famous admonition against entangling alliances with europe, was originally written, not spoken. it was first published in the philadephia daily american advertiser on sept. 19, 1796
vice president george bush stumped through new hampshire monday from fast food restaurants to a retirement home appealing to voters to help him turn back the challenge from bob dole in tuesday's primary
i'm going to win tomorrow,'' he told a cheering crowd at daniel webster college. ``believe me.''
he said in a television interview that dole was making the same mistake bush himself made in 1980 when he thought that winning the iowa caucuses would give him the momentum to carry new hampshire. ronald reagan soundly defeated bush here eight years ago after being upset in iowa
i want new hampshire to do what it did in 1980. ... '' bush said on the cbs morning news. ``bob dole is talking momentum and i'm talking issues on taxes and holding the line on the oil import fee and on presidential leadership, and i think it's working, so i want new hampshire to correct iowa's mistakes
bush's once strong lead in new hampshire polls has evaporated and polls now show the race as a virtual dead heat between the vice president and the senate minority leader from kansas
bush, who finished third in iowa behind dole and pat robertson, called dole's proposal for a budget freeze ``a cop-out because it avoids the tough decisions.''
speaking to elderly residents at a nursing home, bush called dole's plan a ``straitjacket'' that would limit social security cost-of-living increases to two percent
dole has said a two percent cola cap is one possibility, but he has also suggested exempting social security from a freeze
bush said his own ``leadership freeze'' would achieve a balanced budget by 1993 without touching social secutiy or raising taxes
at bush's side were large posters sitting on tripods that outlined the two plans in big letters
bush's theme all day was that he was a leader with experience who had been loyal to president reagan for the last eight years
crowds were sparse on this washington's birthday holiday morning as bush, informally dressed in a blue ski jacket, made three breakfast stops
he joined two families on a ski trip at a bickford's family restaurant for pancakes and bacon, sipped coffee with the customers at a dunkin' donuts, and munched an egg mcmuffin at mcdonald's while chatting with an army sergeant
at the retirement home, bush said, ``i stood with our president through thick and thin and some suggested that hurt me in one state or another. but you see, in our family, loyalty is a strength. it's not all weakness.''
on the cbs morning news, bush said, ``you can't live by the polls. i've got more delegates now than the rest of them by far _ new york, pennsylvania, michigan. whoever gets the most delegates will be nominated, but i want to do well here.'' 
the government of the bophuthatswana tribal homeland has ``unleashed a reign of terror'' since a coup attempt was crushed last week, a prominent clergyman said monday
the rev. frank chikane, general secretary of the south african council of churches, said hundreds of people from the home area of the coup leaders had been harassed or detained by soldiers of bophuthatswana and south africa
south african troops put down the coup hours after rebel soldiers in the nominally independent black territory seized its president and several top officials wednesday
col. david george, police spokesman in bophuthatswana, said 374 people had been detained in a continuing police operation
he would not comment on reports that most belonged to the progressive people's party. party leader rocky malebane-metsing was installed briefly as president during the 15-hour coup and remains at large
the star newspaper in johannesburg quoted sources it did not identify as saying five members of the homeland parliament from the party were taken from their homes thursday
the highest-ranking soldier in the rebellion, warrant officer timothy phiri, and other alleged army rebels were charged with treason, which carries the death penalty, the south african press association reported
it said later that phiri was not among the first 33 accused soldiers, who appeared in magistrate's court monday in mmabatho, capital of the homeland
chikane said those detained included members and officials of malebane-metsing's party abd people thought to have voted for it last year
he said a crackdown could provoke ``massive resistance that may result in a violent confrontation between the south african-backed bantustan (homeland) forces and the people of bophuthatswana.''
anti-apartheid activists condemn the homeland system as an attempt by white authorities to divide and weaken the black majority. about half south africa's 26 million blacks live in the 10 tribal homelands
bophuthatswana, with a population of 1.7 million people in seven separate parcels of land, is one of four homelands south africa has designated as independent. they are not recognized abroad
two air force f-15 eagle jet fighters from king salmon intercepted a soviet short-range transport plane 56 miles southwest of cape romanzof, the air force said monday
master sgt. jack hokanson of the alaskan air command said the f-15s intercepted the soviet il-crate at about 3:35 p.m. sunday off alaska's southwest coast and escorted the aircraft for about an hour
so far this year, the command's jets have intercepted six soviet planes in four separate incidents, hokanson said
hundreds of snowbound motorists spent the night in their cars, on farms and in national guard armories when a blizzard clogged major roads for nearly 24 hours in southwestern minnesota, authorities said monday
we had numerous people, a hundred would not be stretching it, who spent the night away from home on farms, in addition to the people who got to town and stayed there,'' said les muck, a state patrol dispatcher in marshall
less than an inch of snow actually fell, but wind blowing up to 45 mph picked up more than a foot of snow cover from the ground sunday afternoon. the blowing snow cut visibility to zero and piled up in drifts up to seven feet high, muck said
the state patrol closed about a 100-mile stretch of interstate 90 from the south dakota border to 10 miles east of jackson on sunday afternoon and did not reopen it until late monday morning, muck said. several other highways and county roads also were closed during that period, he said
there were numerous multi-vehicle accidents with injuries, but no fatalities were reported, he said
elsewhere, snow blown by wind gusting to 60 mph cut visibility and forced wyoming police to close a 99-mile stretch of interstate 80 between cheyenne and laramie for about four hours monday morning
more than 300 motorists sought shelter in minnesota national guard armories in worthington, redwood falls and jackson, muck said
the worthington armory had travelers from as far away as tennessee, said national guard 1st sgt. ron balster
we got 200 furniture blankets from u-haul,'' balster said. ``we got paper towels from campbell soup. and people have brought in all kinds of food. there are sandwiches, chicken. one person just brought in two gallons of milk.''
we had 12 cars up here at one time fighting to get in the door for one room,'' said lucille thorn, manager of the oxford motel in worthington
many people spent the night in motel lobbies and meeting rooms
tim and julie burns of luverne and their three children _ ages 11 months, 5 years and 8 years _ were among those stranded on i-90 for hours before reaching the armory in jackson
mrs. burns said traffic came to a standstill in near zero visibility sunday afternoon about 10 miles east of worthington
we were on empty (gas tank) and i was really nervous about that and i told my husband we had to get to another car,'' she said in a telephone interview from the armory monday morning
a couple from st. paul offered to let them get in their car, ``so the five of us sat in the back of their car for almost nine hours, just keeping warm,'' mrs. burns said. ``they had a full tank.''
temperatures in the area were in the single digits sunday afternoon and 0 to 10 below zero overnight with a wind chill of 20 to 40 below, the national weather service said
finally, plows were able to clear the opposite side of the highway
around 1 a.m., we saw cars going in the opposite direction and one of them stopped,'' she said. ``it was two guys from sioux city (iowa) ... and they said they'd take us to jackson. and, with our kids, we wanted to get out of the car and to the armory in jackson where we had some space.''
the family got to the armory around 3 a.m
the low visibility and high drifts kept plows and rescue vehicles off many roads until early monday, said lorren simon, another patrol dispatcher in marshall
finding stranded travelers is a frustrating process,'' he said. ``you can't use strong enough language on them. they'll go out anyway and then they think the public officials should come out and rescue them when you can't go up and down the road. they get real perturbed when someone doesn't go out there.''
muck said it appeared that all motorists who stayed in their cars overnight made it out safely when the roads were reopened monday morning. ``we've gotten no calls that anybody is missing,'' he said
strong wind also hit sections of northwestern and western minnesota on sunday, forcing the patrol to close i-94 at fergus falls and u.s. 10 in detroit lakes for a time. but outside of southwestern minnesota, the wind died down overnight in most areas of the state
army troops will guard polling places during next month's national elections to prevent a repeat of the violence that left at least 100 people dead in last week's local balloting, president hussain muhammad ershad said monday
anti-government leaders and at least two former members of ershad's cabinet are urging voters to boycott the march 3 voting, contending that ershad is incapable of holding free and fair elections
ershad said the army, local police and other security will be deployed nationwide to prevent similar clashes next month
they have a special role to play in ensuring free and smooth exercise of the right of franchise by the voters,'' he told a meeting of the village defense forces at shafipur, about 25 miles northwest of here
political leaders have demanded the army be posted during the polling. main opposition leaders, however, have urged citizens to stay away from the polls
the opposition's four-month campaign against the government is led by sheik hasina of the awami league and khaleda zia of the bangladesh nationalist party. the two women have led several protest marhces and strikes to demand ershad's resignation
ershad, a former army general who seized power in 1982, has refused to resign and dissolved parliament in december in the face of the opposition campaign
two former cabinet ministers in ershad's government, who resigned last month in protest, also have called for scrapping the elections
the forthcoming elections will push the country on to the path of dangerous confrontation,'' said former health minister salahuddin quader choudhury and information minister anwar zahid
ershad's jatiya party, which held 212 of the 330 seats in parliament, and 73 minor parties are taking part in the elections. the main opposition contends elections held under ershad in 1986 were rigged
fear seems to be a key factor in whether people would risk a trip to the polls. while the government says 100 people died in the violence wednesday, hasina claims 500 people were killed and 15,000 injured
giasuddin ahmed, 40, who was seriously injured last week, said he would ``never go for the voting ever in my life.''
recovering in the dhaka medical college hospital, he said: ``hooliganism, bombings and killings have destroyed elections as a means to change the government. i shall never be a party to such an exercise.''
a politicial commentator, amanullah kabir, said last week's violence showed the government did not have the resources to keep the peace at polling places
opposition leaders say the government may make mass arrests before the national elections
the government has two options: either postpone the polls or go for a direct crackdown on us,'' said dilip barua, a member of the eight-party alliance led by hasina
the election commission had to reschedule the local contests. the commission said balloting would be held at 4,414 voting centers on march 16
fear of retribution pervades this arab village, which the israeli army sealed off after four palestinian youths claimed soldiers buried them alive with a bulldozer
seven men and four women dug up the kids,'' said rasmi said hamdan, a teacher who reported seeing everything from his home on feb. 5. ``they used their bare hands. two of them were completely buried and two had their heads sticking out, their mouths full of mud
usually this is a very quiet village. a lot of people worked with the israelis. but because they (the villagers) have talked to the press, there is a feeling that the authorities will take revenge.''
the army detained two soldiers sunday and an official investigation began monday. roads into the community of 4,000 people are blocked with huge piles of dirt, and villagers said the only two telephones in kfar salem have been cut off
maj. gen. amram mitzna, military commander of the west bank, said: ``even in my worst dreams, i would never imagine such a thing even though i constantly warn commanders to expect the most awful things that could happen when soldiers find themselves all of a sudden commanding and deciding the lives of citizens.''
mitzna said on army radio a sergeant-major from the military government and two or three other soldiers were involved and would be brought to trial. military sources said the army did not learn of the alleged burial until a week after it happened
i am afraid. i thought i was going to die,'' said one of the four young men, 19-year-old abdel latif mahmoud ishtiah, soon after a military investigator questioned him on monday. ``i dream about it all the time.''
ishtiah was interrogated in a white police van parked on the muddy road just outside the village entrance
he and the others claim israeli soldiers seized them after a demonstration in kfar salem that became violent, as have so many since riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. he said the soldiers beat and kicked them and forced them to remove rocks from the main road
finally, they say, they were ordered to lie on the ground and a bulldozer covered them with 12 to 16 inches of mud and dirt
assam shafi taher ishtiah, 20, from the same family as abdel latif, said he spent eight days in the hospital after the burial recovering from cuts and bruises on both legs
on monday, he was in bed at his home, surrounded by friends and family members. he said four soldiers had burst into the house and arrested him
they took me to the entrance of the village, beat me with clubs and kicked me,'' he said, and more soldiers brought the three other youths. ``they told us to take the stones from the road,'' he said. ``after they were removed, they told us to move them five meters farther.''
about 40 soldiers were at the scene under the command of an officer, assam ishtiah said. he said a jewish settler also was present, and accused the settler of complicity
the officer took us one at a time and beat us,'' he said
all four say they were ordered to lie on the ground, face down, and the bulldozer covered them
i didn't know what was going to happen,'' assam ishtiah said. ``i thought they would arrest us. i thought they would arrest me and take me to jail.''
the soldiers left quickly and neighbors ran to the scene and began digging the young men out
after interrogation monday, abdel latif ishtiah emerged from the police van helped by two villagers. both his hands were bandaged to midforearm
ishtiah said the jewish settler had kicked him in the groin and incited the soldiers to bury the four palestinians. he said another of the young men, 25-year-old mustapha abdelmajid hamdan, speaks hebrew and heard the settler tell the soldiers: ``well done.''
villagers claimed an official from the israeli military government told the muktar, or village leader, the piles of dirt would be removed from the roads when the village apologized for the stone-throwing that started the trouble
residents of elon moreh, a nearby jewish settlement, expressed shock
i heard about it last night and i said it cannot be,'' said a settler who guards the gate and would identify himself only as eliezer. ``they (the army) will punish them.''
daniel binun, another settler, said: ``we have a basic argument with our (arab) cousins about whose place this is, but we don't have to take the law into our own hands.''
we others in my generation went under in the machinery of war, in fear and in the effort to survive. in the dreadful run of a war, only one thing is certain: death knows no fronts. i say that because at the end of a war, there are always the wounds, the widows and the families without fathers. above all, let us never forget that the systematic and perfected destruction of european jews by the ns (nazi) regime was added to the horrors of this war. it must be a holy duty for us to do everything so that the crimes of this time are never repeated again
the war years were a bitter period of learning which i have not spoken much about and did not want to speak much about. perhaps that was a mistake, but it was certainly not a strategy of covering up. we were all happy then, when the war was over, and tried together to build a better and more humane world
i drew one lesson from this time: i wanted to help assure that there would never be war again. i wanted to work for peace. i was able to do this as an ambassador and foreign minister of austria and as secretary-general of the united nations for 10 years
my fellow citizens: you can measure, on the basis of my life since 1945, whether or not i have overcome the bitter apprenticeship of the war
you can judge for yourselves whether your president is the young lieutenant _ or even the distorted picture of this officer of the wehrmacht _ or whether your president is a man who, for decades of his life, worked for justice, tolerance and peace. i ask you to form your own judgment
my austrians: in the course of the new discussion the question was also put about my premature departure from this office of federal president. i want to take a stand in all clarity: you, my dear austrians, have elected me federal president with a convincing majority in a secret and direct election for six years. thus it is no longer a matter of the man kurt waldheim. in view of the slanders, i have often asked myself in the last two years, whether i should carry on all that
it is a fundamental principle of our democracy that an election result cannot be subsequently corrected. it is, however, also a question of justice and fairness toward the person, as well as the respect for the highest office in the state. a head of state must not retreat in the face of slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations. we certainly don't want such methods to be used against other democratic institutions in other situations. let us not endager the self-respect and self-consciousness of our state. it is a question of belief in our fatherland
i see my duty as president in ensuring the functioning of the basic principles and the institutions of our republic. it cannot serve this duty if the president retreats in the face of outside pressure and so puts into question the meaning of democratic decisions. such a step could become the beginning of a development which would bring new and much more serious difficulties. since the beginning of my term in office, i bound myself to the thought of reconciliation and cooperation and continue to profess these principles very deeply _ despite all the intolerance of my opponents
at the same time, i would like to make clear that i will decisively confront things i cannot be expected to bear. there must be no doubt about one thing, only if the polemics stop in austria itself, can we expect the debate abroad to calm down. therefore i appeal to all austrians, in particular to all politically responsible (leaders) in our homeland not to pour oil onto the fire and to put the interests of the state before party political interests. the consciousness of the state must always be stronger than that which may divide us
my dear countrymen, you can trust me as you trusted two years ago when you elected me as federal president. those people who spread intolerance and discord cannot be allowed to prevail, but rather the great majority of those for whom it is a question of our homeland, of our common austria. if we want this, we will do it together and can form the future with new strength
a leftist guerrilla group that has launched the biggest rebel offensive in colombia has claimed responsibility for the weekend kidnap of eight mayors and three reporters, police said monday
the national liberation army, known as the eln, said the abductions are linked with nationwide march 13 mayoral elections, according to gov. eduardo assaf of northern norte de santander state, who spoke in a broadcast interview with the colombian radio chain rcn
the radio chain caracol's station in northeast cucuta city reported that a person claiming to be with the eln said in an anonymous telephone call saturday that the kidnapped people would be used to carry messages to the government
the kidnap victims would be released soon, the eln reportedly told caracol
the rebel group was commemorating the 22nd anniversary monday of the death of its founder, a catholic priest, camilo torres. torres was killed in a battle with army troops
torres was an admirer of cuba's fidel castro. the insurgent group still looks toward castro for ideological leadership
all eight mayors and three reporters were kidnapped in northeast colombia between friday night and sunday afternoon, the police statement said
the last three mayors to be kidnapped on saturday night and early sunday, were jairo camargo, of chitaga in norte de santander, and edilberto mejia of cerritos and gonzalo duarte of carcasi, towns in santander state
kidnapped earlier saturday were the mayors of two more norte de santander towns, jorge suarez of convencion and ricaute paez of ocana
also kidnapped early saturday was daniel palacios of morales, in bolivar state. he was released hours later
kidnapped friday were eduardo solano of aguachica, in cesar state, and ramiro numa of teorama in norte de santander
a mayoral candidate in the norte de santander town of gambita, antonio hurtado, disappeared and his family fears he, too, was kidnapped by the guerrillas, the bogota daily el espectador said
in cucuta, the eln kidnapped two cucuta radio reporters and a correspondent for the daily vanguardia liberal of bucaramanga, the police said
police in bucaramanga raided an eln hideout sunday night and arrested six people, col. orlando montenegro, the chief of national police in that northeast city, said in an interview with rcn
the police found 776 pounds of dynamite and a car bomb that was being assembled, the colonel said
the eln began an offensive last month, setting off bombs, attacking towns and ambushing army patrols
the drive keyed on colombia's main oil pipeline that carries 215,000 barrels of crude a day from the canon limon field in northeast arauca state
the field, along the venezuelan border, is operated by the occidental petroleum company of bakersfield, calif
the 500-mile pipeline goes to puerto covenas on the caribbean coast
the eln blew up the pipeline 12 times in the last two weeks. colombia had to suspend its oil exports of 180,000 barrles a day for three weeks because of the bomb damage
the eln also set off a car bomb feb. 5 in bogota, damaging occidental's colombian offices and injuring two guards
tens of thousands of documents were stolen from a u.s.-run nazi records center, prosecutors said monday, but there was no evidence to back a report they were used to blackmail former members of the nazi party
volker kaehne, spokesman for the berlin justice department, said investigators suspect the deputy director of the nazi archives was involved in the theft of nazi-era documents from the american-run berlin document center
our investigation so far indicates that the documents were stolen for profit,'' he said. ``there is no evidence to indicate suggestions that they were used for blackmail.''
kaehne said investigators suspect tens of thousands of documents were removed from the center, a former telephone tapping center for the gestapo, or nazi secret police
the berlin morgenpost newspaper, in its tuesday editions, said west german authorities have been told for years of suspicions that documents were being taken from the center
an unidentified dealer offered british historian david irving, an expert on the nazi era, documents that allegedly came from the center nearly a decade ago, the newspaper said
irving told west german authorities of the incident, the paper said; the officials launched an investigation, but the probe was later dropped due to a lack of evidence
the newspaper cited no sources for its report, which was given in advance to the associated press
on monday, kaehne acknowledged an investigation into missing documents at the center was begun in 1983 but dropped for lack of progress in 1986. he said that inquiry was resumed last summer after an anonymous tip to authorities
the berlin morgenpost said sunday that 80,000 files were missing from the center and former nazis paid millions to keep their pasts secret and the documents from being made public
it said many documents contained ``secret information about leading figures in the third reich.''
in its tuesday report, the newspaper said those blackmailed included lawyers, doctors and artists who belonged to nazi-approved professional organizations during adolf hitler's third reich
kaehne said prosecutors believe the missing documents may have been sold to dealers and collectors around the world for considerable sums
there is evidence that some of these documents were sold for sums of up to 5,000 marks ($2,900) apiece,'' he said in a statement
kaehne said several west german dealers are targets of the investigation
he said authorities recovered about 1,500 documents, including a letter from hitler's doctor and correspondence from high-ranking nazi leaders
he did not say where the documents were found, but morgenpost said some documents were seized during a police raid on a hamburg dealer
thomas homan, spokesman for the u.s. mission in berlin, could not be reached for comment on monday, a u.s. holiday
on sunday, he confirmed a criminal investigation into missing documents was under way and said u.s. officials were cooperating with west berlin prosecutors
robert redford has at least a few things in common with the average moviegoer. for starters, he's awed by paul newman. and he'd like to see his name alongside newman's on a movie marquee again
if i had to,'' he said in an interview with esquire magazine, ``i'd probably say that newman's my best friend. he's the greatest. not much i wouldn't do for him.''
after a recent evening with newman, redford said, he found himself thinking, ``god, here's old paul. ... he looks great, feels great, has lots of money, gives to great causes, he's in love with his wife, he races his cars when he wants to, makes a movie when he wants to, he's incredibly happy and still has that face that looks the way it did when he was 20
god, by the time we got home, i wanted to shoot myself.''
i'd love to make one more movie with him,'' redford added. ``just one more. the two of us.''
the first announced nuclear weapon test of 1988 rocked the nevada desert monday and sent a shudder through some high-rise buildings in las vegas, 105 miles from ground zero
the device produced an explosive punch up to 11 times as powerful as the atomic bomb that devastated hiroshima
the test was conducted three weeks after a team of soviet nuclear scientists visited the top secret nevada test site _ a visit that could lead to the monitoring of each other's tests and a possible test ban
and it came the same day the second round of u.s.-soviet negotiations on nuclear testing began in geneva with the soviets calling for agreement by june on anti-cheating provisions. that would permit ratification of two superpower treaties limiting the yield of test blasts
the test, code named kernville, was delayed two hours because of unfavorable wind conditions, then another 10 minutes because of technical problems, according to department of energy spokeswoman barbara yoerg
the experiment was buried 1,800 feet below the surface of pahute mesa, about 105 miles northwest of las vegas
managers of tall buildings in las vegas were warned in advance not to have workers in precarious positions at the time of the blast, a standard warning when tests are close to the upper test limit of 150 kilotons of explosive force
motion was recorded on doe seismographs at the riviera hotel on the las vegas strip, the regency towers apartments here, and scotty's castle in death valley, calif., southwest of the test site
a telephone operator at the high-rise fitzgerald hotel in downtown las vegas said hanging plants swayed in the seconds after the 10:10 a.m. pst detonation. but a controller at mccarran international airport control tower reported feeling no motion
ms. yoerg said she felt no ground motion at the control point, 41 miles from ground zero
the blast measured 5.4 on the richter scale of ground motion at the national earthquake information center, golden, colo
everything was fully contained. that makes it a successful test,'' she said
ms. yoerg said the test was ``weapons-related'' and sponsored by livermore national laboratory in california
it brought to 675 the total number of announced blasts at the nevada test site since testing began there in 1951. it was the 470th test announced by the united states since the limited test ban treaty of august 1963, she said
the most recent previous test was mission cyber, fired on dec. 2, 1987. there were 15 announced tests last year and 12 announced tests in 1986. not all tests are announced for security reasons, the doe says. controvery</head>
georgia tech shut down its controversy-plagued nuclear reactor monday and the school's president said it would remain idle at least until safety concerns are resolved and might never be restarted
tech president john p. crecine said the school was voluntarily suspending all reactor operations not already halted by the nuclear regulatory commission, pending full nrc approval of the school's reactor operations
the nrc already has suspended irradiation experiments at the 24-year-old reactor on tech's intown atlanta campus, following a mishap resulting in some apparent contamination in the reactor building last summer
this move does not in any way reflect concern on my part with the safety of the reactor operations now or in the immediate past,'' crecine said at a news conference. ``it does reflect my belief that normal, safe and efficient operations of this research facility are becoming increasingly difficult with the publicity ....''
crecine, who characterized the reactor's troubles as ``basically internal staff problems,'' said the reactor will not resume operations until its staff is upgraded and the nrc lifts the irradiation experiment ban and favorably reviews safety procedures
he said a permanent shutdown of the troubled reactor operation is ``certainly a possibility.''
continuing operation of the reactor is dependent on the operating and political costs incurred by georgia tech,'' crecine said
crecine also defended last thursday's firing of two reactor staff physicists who had complained about safety problems. tech had already decided to ``upgrade the professional quality'' of the reactor staff, he said, and the two technicians were dismissed as part of that effort
the two workers were among three members of the health physics staff directly responsible for reactor safety, crecine said. the third, a manager, has been transferred
the irradiation experiments which the nrc ordered halted constituted about 20 percent of the work done at the reactor. much of the reactor's other operations are conducted for ``non-georgia tech interests,'' such as other universities and for medical researchers, crecine said
shutdown of the reactor ``will have an impact'' at tech, where about 100 undergraduate students participate in nuclear engineering classes utilizing the facility, he said
the nrc last week blasted tech, saying safety conditions at the reactor had not improved significantly since last may, when the school said it would correct numerous problems at the facility. ``lack of adequate management'' at the reactor apparently jeopardized the safety of workers and the public, the nrc said in a report
heat and hot water have returned after long absence to the rundown brooklyn apartment building where the landlord is serving a 15-day sentence of house arrest, tenants said monday
but no other repairs are apparent, tenants said
landlord morris gross, 76, entered the building friday to serve his sentence for failing to correct housing violations. he also was ordered to apply $137,900 in fines to repairs of more than 400 violations that include roach and mice infestation, lack of heat, flooding and crumbling ceilings
the first night (of his stay) heat was on all night. i had to get up and open my windows,'' said m. campbell, a fourth-floor resident in the building
but ``nothing is being done to my apartment,'' said ms. campbell, who cited numerous problems within her apartment. she also said she hasn't seen any repairs being done to the building itself or in the hallway
but apartment 5c was replastered and painted before gross moved in with two bodyguards. angry tenants and a banner reading ``welcome reptile'' greeted gross when he arrived
an ankle bracelet gross is wearing lets authorities know he is staying in the apartment because it sends an electronic signal to a transmitter if he wanders more than 100 feet from it
joyce stewart, tenant association president, said residents had been unable to talk to gross about problems in the building and feared the heat will disappear once he does
ms. stewart had charged that cosmetic repairs had been done on only 10 to 12 apartments. ``when you subtract that from 113 apartments, you'll see the real mccoy.''
president reagan relaxed at his mountaintop ranch monday, enjoying a second straight day of sunny, clear weather
the president, who arrived here saturday evening, had breakfast with his wife, nancy, and then the two of them went horseback riding
he planned to spend the day doing ranch chores and reviewing paperwork, according to a white house statement
reagan will return to washington on wednesday, the day before his administration submits its new budget to congress
soviet generals said monday the experience of the afghan war will not keep the soviet union from supporting other pro-kremlin governments around the world
the generals appeared at a news conference in moscow to mark the 70th anniversary of the soviet armed forces
they refused to say how many soviet soldiers have been killed in afghan fighting since december 1979, but western observers have estimated soviet dead may number about 10,000
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said a week ago moscow wants to start withdrawing its soldiers from afghanistan by may 15 if u.n.-sponsored talks can reach a final agreement this spring. gorbachev said the estimated 115,000 soviet soldiers could be out of the country in 10 months
army gen. yevgeny ivanovsky said monday the experiences of afghanistan would provide tactical lessons for the soviet military
he said most soviet casualties in afghanistan came not in traditional combat, but from ``mines in the roads, shots from around the corner and surprise attacks.''
col. gen. dmitri volkogonov, deputy head of political administration of the armed forces, said the soviet military is drawing lessons from the stalemate with afghan guerrillas. but he added, ``this does not put in doubt our readiness to provide moral, diplomatic, political and other forms of help to a friendly regime.''
asked if sending soviet soldiers to afghanistan was a mistake, he said: ``it was an act of assistance based on a request of a legitimate government. therefore it was not a mistake. it was the fulfillment of our duty.''
soviet soldiers entered afghanistan in december 1979, oversaw the replacement of one pro-soviet government with another, and since then have been engaged in fighting the anti-marxist, islamic guerrillas
the guerrillas are backed by the united states, among others. the soviet union and afghanistan have said the soviet soldiers cannot be withdrawn until military aid to the insurgents is cut off
gorbachev said the soviets would make no demands about the composition of a future government, putting the role of president najib's pro-soviet government in doubt
meanwhile, pakistan's minister of state for foreign affairs, zain noorani, left his country for america on monday for talks with secretary of state george shultz and other u.s. officials on reaching an accord on the afghan issue
he said the recent shuttle by u.n. mediator diego cordovez between pakistan and afghanistan; gorbachev's announcement on soviet troop withdrawal plans and a visit to pakistan by soviet deputy foreign minister yuli vorontsov had brought the afghan issue forward
it was not clear if noorani's departure for washington was prompted by a sharpening of differences between the stands taken by pakistan and the mujahedeen guerrillas
the pakistanis, who represent the guerrillas in the u.n.-sponsored geneva talks with the kabul government, have agreed that some communist figures could participate in a future interim government in afghanistan
the guerrillas have refused such a compromise and have insisted on an all-mujahedeen-run government
most of the presidential candidates in tuesday's new hampshire primary were struggling not just to win, but to avoid losing so badly that it could virtually eliminate them from the race
democrat bruce babbitt, who finished a dismal fifth in the iowa caucuses, managed a joke about the precarious existence of his campaign
bruce babbitt frankly did not start out as a household name, and some would say he'll end this race as not a household name,'' the former arizona governor said at one stop sunday night
but for most of his rivals and for those at the back of the gop pack, the prospect that the nation's first primary could also be their last was no joking matter
nearly to a man they were vowing to press on no matter what, but facing the prospect that a resounding defeat in new hampshire might force them to abandon their white house ambitions in the snow, just as alexander haig did on friday
george bush, the acknowledged front-runner here until a third-place iowa finish threw a wrench into the gears of his campaign machinery, has the money and resolve to continue even should he sustain a second loss to bob dole
but a primary defeat here would evoke the memory of walter mondale's loss in the democratic primary four years ago _ an outcome that ensured a long, brutal struggle to the convention and a nomination that proved worthless
democrats jesse jackson and albert gore jr. campaigned knowing they had a ticket to super tuesday, the next major campaign three weeks hence across the south. republican pat robertson is sure to go on, too
but there's no such assurance for democrats gary hart, paul simon, richard gephardt and babbitt, who need badly to beat somebody. gephardt, a winner in iowa, seemed to need a second place finish here to sustain a candidacy badly in debt _ and simon needed the same. michael dukakis, governor of neighboring massachusetts, needed not only to win, but by a respectable margin
republicans jack kemp and pete du pont needed to beat each other
babbitt told a crowd at a jewish temple in manchester sunday night, ``new hampshire this tuesday has within its grasp the power of life and death over my candidacy
there are people who tell you my candidacy is over. they're the same people who tell you your vote doesn't matter,'' said babbitt, who fielded questions for more than an hour and even then seemed reluctant to go
i'm willing to stay here till the sunrise, whether it comes at the usual time or pat robertson makes it a little earlier,'' he joked
what kind of finish would it take to allow babbitt to stay in the race? ``we're looking for a reason to hang on,'' babbitt spokesman mike mccurry said over the weekend
babbitt's campaign has put up some of its computers for sale back home in phoenix. campaign spokesman scott phelps said they were surplus now that the iowa caucuses are finished, and did not signify an impending campaign shutdown
du pont went into iowa's caucuses saying all he needed to do was to beat kemp to establish himself as the conservatives' alternative. he failed to do that, so how could he withstand failing to beat kemp here too?
i'm going south in any case,'' du pont insisted
in concord on monday, du pont dismissed the pundits' prognostications. ``oh, you remember pundits. they're the ones who told us president dewey would soon be taking the oath of office, that president muskie had this nomination under control, that walter mondale was facing the biggest election victory'' here four years ago, he said
i dont know where all those poitical pundits are today but they ran for cover four years ago and they're likely to run for cover tomorrow,'' said du pont
a six-year series of criminal trials has left the public with an image of the county sheriff as an uneducated redneck in reflector sunglasses who doesn't mind bending and even breaking the law, officials say
the sheriffs don't talk about it much publicly, but i think it's embarrassing to them when these other sheriffs get in trouble with the law,'' said lawson white, executive director of the tennessee sheriffs association
they talk privately about how dang stupid it is,'' lawson said last week after henderson county sheriff jack fowler pleaded guilty to charges he sexually abused inmates in his jail in lexington, near memphis
the string of arrests has left other officials wondering how to prevent further tarnishing of their ``walking tall'' image
the 1973 movie about mcnairy county sheriff buford pusser's fight against crime depicted the southern sheriff as a courageous, tough individual who risked his life for law and order
fowler is among 12 tennessee sheriffs or ex-sheriffs indicted on criminal charges since 1982. most of the cases stemmed from charges they sold confiscated drugs or received bribes to protect drug runners
officials say the arrests point to the need for changes in the way voters choose their county's top law enforcement leader
the sheriff's association _ anxious to boost its image and performance in tennessee _ voted in 1986 to ask the legislature to set stricter standards for anyone seeking the office. but the bill was rejected 50-42 by the state house
right now, the only requirements to be a sheriff in tennessee is to be at least 18 years old, live in the county you run for office in _ and be alive,'' white said
the bill would have required sheriffs to hold at least a high school diploma and to have lived in the county for 18 months preceding an election or appointment. it also would have set training standards and require that a candidate for sheriff not have a felony record
state rep. mayo wix, a former sheriff and sponsor of the legislation, contends such standards are needed because of the delicate balance of duties entrusted to sheriffs
in the more populated counties, the sheriff is considered mainly an administrator. but in smaller ones, they must be administrator, investigator and jailer, among other things
it was the hardest job i ever had,'' wix said of his six years as sumner county sheriff
he says the public should remember that the days of the ``good ol' boy sheriff'' _ when the county's top law enforcement officer was elected on the basis of popularity than qualifications _ are slowly dying as populations increase and voters demand more
it's changing little by little,'' he said. ``the bad sheriffs are getting weeded out, and the good sheriffs are running on their record and getting re-elected.''
despite support for the bill from all but two of the state's 95 sheriffs, wix says he has no plans to reintroduce it immediately. lawmakers were hesitant to tamper with the system, wix said
they felt that anybody should be able to run for public office _ regardless of their education,'' he said. ``even the president of the united states doesn't have to have a high school degree.'' adds detail on controversy in 9th and 10th grafs. picks up 10th graf pvs, tyson did ... with authorities. note contents of 7th graf bgng ``she was''</note>
heavyweight boxing champion mike tyson said monday he will donate $50,000 for the college education of tawana brawley, who says she was the victim of a racially motivated attack near her dutchess county home
tyson also announced plans for a foundation to aid young crime victims. the foundation would be supported by an annual fundraiser, possibly including a boxing exhibition by tyson
tyson said details would be worked out by boxing promoter don king, who joined tyson at a news conference and promised to match the champion's pledge of $50,000
tyson, his wife and king visited miss brawley at her home for several hours saturday. she told the boxer, ``i always wanted to go out with you,'' and gave him a handwritten note of thanks, king said
the foundation ``starts with her, but it's open to any kids that are abused,'' tyson said. ``they need the necessities to make it in this world. that means education.''
miss brawley, a 16-year-old high school student in wappingers falls, n.y., says she was assaulted, raped, and smeared with racial epithets in december by six white men, one of whom allegedly flashed a police badge
she was found stuffed in a garbage bag with ``nigger'' and ``kkk'' etched in charcoal across her breasts
she had refused to cooperate with investigators on the advice of her lawyers, black activists alton maddox and c. vernon mason
but after a meeting with gov. mario cuomo last week, they said they were willing to let her cooperate with an investigation headed by state attorney general robert abrams. they are scheduled to meet with abrams on tuesday
tyson did not comment monday on the criminal investigation, but commented, ``it looks as if no one's going to get caught'' because residents of such a small town might be reluctant to talk with authorities
last week comedian bill cosby and essence communications owner ed lewis announced a $25,000 reward for information about her case
tyson denied a published report that he had volunteered to act as miss brawley's personal escort. but the boxer said she asked him, ``are you gonna beat people up for me?''
i'll do whatever you want me to,'' he said he responded. word ``and.''</note>
prince edward may be fifth in line for the british throne, but he didn't risk being late monday on his first day at work as a theater production assistant
he arrived 10 minutes early at his new job, which appropriately is at the palace theater
edward, who abandoned a career in the royal marines last year, arrived with a confident grin on his face, a royal bodyguard at his side and, most importantly, a box of teabags tucked under his arm
production assistant is the most junior job, and the 23-year-old prince will be expected to perform the most humdrum of backstage errands, including making tea for his new co-workers at composer andrew lloyd webber's really useful theater co
asked if he was looking forward to his first day on the job, edward said only: ``of course i am.''
edward, the youngest son of queen elizabeth ii, is the first member of britain's royal family to choose the theater as a career, according to buckingham palace
most of the monarch's male relatives select a military career. edward's father, prince philip, served in the royal navy in world war ii and his other sons followed him: prince charles, heir to the british throne, has commanded a mine sweeper and prince andrew was a helicopter pilot in the 1982 falkland islands war
edward arrived in a limousine at the palace theater in the heart of london's west end, casually dressed in a blue sweater and tweed jacket. police with sniffer dogs had earlier searched the theater
the palace, which houses the offices of lloyd webber's company, is currently showing ``les miserables,'' the hit musical based of victor hugo's novel
the really useful theater company is behind a string of hit musicals, including ``cats'' and ``the phantom of the opera.''
lloyd webber offered edward a job after the prince resigned from the royal marines in january 1987, four months into a year-long course to become a commando officer. fellow marines said he was ranked in the top 10 of his class, but british news reports at the time called him a wimp and said his father was furious
bridget hayward, the company's executive director, said when edward's hiring was announced last month: ``the prince won't be treated as a member of the royal family but as an employee
he has said he wants to be treated as a worker, that is his understanding of the job. he has a lot to learn and we have plenty of work for him.''
edward's salary has not been disclosed. the bachelor prince lives with his parents at buckingham palace and receives about $34,900 a year from the government
edward studied history for three years at cambridge university, and took part in amateur theater productions. he is patron of the national youth theater, cambridge symphony orchestra and the 1988 festival of london
wind blew over a 30-foot-high wall at a condominium complex under construction monday, trapping 18 workers for about five minutes, authorities said. ten workers were injured, three of them seriously
fire lt. james hagerty said the crew was using long wooden poles to manually raise the sheetrock-and-plywood wall when it collapsed
basically what they were doing was raising the exterior wall to the second story of the building,'' he said. ``the wind caught hold of the framing and becauseitions they lost their footing and everything came on top of them.''
three workers were ho of the icy condspitalized with back injuries. seven others had minor cuts and bruises
the mayor of baghdad signed an agreement with the former mayor of jerusalem monday to make the two cities sister cities ``in an act of solidarity and for the cause of peace.''
mayor khalid abdul munim rashid of baghdad and the former mayor of jerusalem under jordanian rule ruhi al-khatib signed a document during a ceremony attended by sharifuddin pirzada, the pakistani secretary general of the organization of the islamic conference
in an address at the ceremony, al-khatib, who was expelled by the israelis, after the 1967 war said the move ``is a blessed move to boost the morale position of al-quds (jerusalem) as the city of peace and a meeting point for the divine faiths,'' he said
an islamic foreign ministers meeting held in morocco in 1981 decided to urge islamic capitals and cities to declare themselves sister cities with occupied jerusalem in recognition of the role the city played in islamic history and in affirmation of ``its status as the capital of palestine.'' heart</head> ^by the associated press</note>
a three-week-old boy underwent more than 10 hours of heart transplant surgery in pittsburgh monday and a week-old infant was upgraded from critical to serious condition, 24 hours after he was given a new heart in california
both infants were born with hypoplastic left-heart syndrome, a lethal underdevelopment of the heart
jonathan stowe, born jan. 25, entered the operating room at children's hospital of pittsburgh around midnight and emerged at 10:15 a.m., said hospital spokeswoman sue cardillo. he was the youngest heart transplant patient at that hospital
at loma linda, calif., baby christoffer, son of a u.s. air force family, received a new heart in a 5-hour operation performed sunday by dr. leonard bailey, the surgeon who transplanted a baboon heart into the infant girl known as baby fae in 1984
christoffer's condition was upgraded this morning from critical to serious,'' said dick schaefer, spokesman for loma linda university medical center, the hospital 60 miles east of los angeles
the boy had been in loma linda's neo-natal intensive care unit for six days, three of them on life support, before the transplant surgery
in both cases, the identity of the donor was not released. and christoffer's family asked that no more information be released, schaefer said
doctors in pittsburgh could not immediately assess the chances that jonathan's operation would succeed, said miss cardillo
jonathan, son of tabatha and david stowe of beaver falls, pa., was in critical condition, which is normal immediately after transplant surgery, she said
the operation was a very delicate procedure to perform,'' said miss cardillo. ``right now the major concern is with overall function of the organ. he'll be monitored very closely over the next several days.''
the stowes, both 20, have one other son, chad, 3. stowe is unemployed
the youngest transplant patient at children's before jonathan was a 24-day-old boy from wyoming who received a new liver in july 1986. ``he's doing well today,'' ms. cardillo said
christoffer was the 13th baby under four months of age to undergo human heart transplant surgery at loma linda. of the 12 previous infants, nine have survived, including paul holc, the world's youngest heart transplant patient who was given a new organ hours after birth. leslie caron</head>
composer frederick loewe was fondly remembered by friends monday as a sentimental and caring man whose classic tunes from the musicals ``gigi'' and ``my fair lady'' will be immortal
loewe, whose partnership with lyricist alan jay lerner produced such romantic standards as ``i've grown accustomed to her face,'' ``if ever i would leave you'' and ``on the street where you live,'' died sunday at desert hospital here of a heart attack. he was 86
his music will be immortal,'' said comedian red skelton, his friend of 45 years. ``the world will always hear him speak, feel his emotions, for he has only put on a shroud that makes him invisible. he broke hearts on valentine's day. but perhaps, at last, he found his camelot.''
skelton will deliver the eulogy this week during a memorial service here. the comedian said loewe was much loved by members of this exclusive desert community, and was also friends with area residents bob hope and frank sinatra
i'm very sad. he was an adorable person under his very rough manner,'' said french actress leslie caron, who starred in ``gigi.'' ``i was quite fond of him. he looked a bit like edward g. robinson playing a gangster ... when i first met him he put me off. then i realized he was a softy.''
he was a very sentimental and gentle man. he was always happy and never gloomy,'' skelton added
the lerner-loewe team enchanted audiences with tunes from such classic musicals as ``gigi,'' ``camelot,'' ``my fair lady'' and ``brigadoon.''
some of the other songs the team produced were ``almost like being in love,'' ``i could have danced all night,'' and ``get me to the church on time.''
actor-dancer gene kelly, who starred in the film version of ``brigadoon,'' praised loewe as ``a fine musician who did great things.''
i was lucky to do `brigadoon,' because it was a singer's picture,'' kelly recalled. ``but frederick helped make it a dancer's picture with my small irish tenor called upon to sing all those wonderful songs. he was a fantastic man, an eccentric and an adventurer.''
loewe, known as fritz, died sunday at 1:51 p.m. at desert hospital, where he had been admitted wednesday for chest pains
loewe had strong ties to the hospital, donating most of the funds to build the frederick loewe pediatric pavilion in 1971, said bob barcklay, the hospital's acting chief executive officer. loewe also donated royalties from some of his songs to the pediatric unit, which are used each year to buy christmas gifts and toys for sick children there, he added
lerner died in 1986. his widow, actress liz robertson, was in manchester, england, on monday performing in a revival of ``my fair lady.'`
he was just a wonderful generous man who wrote the most extraordinary, beautiful music. i'm pleased to be performing `my fair lady' on stage in manchester so that i can celebrate his life by singing his music tonight,'' she said
lerner and loewe's partnership began with a one-night flop in detroit in 1942. they parted bitterly after ``camelot,'' their last broadway hit, in 1960. after a 1973 reunion for the broadway production of ``gigi,'' originally written in 1958 as a movie, they remained friends
loewe was born june 10, 1901, to a distinguished musical family in vienna, austria. he began piano lessons as a boy and at 13 was the youngest pianist to appear as soloist with the berlin symphony. loewe was 15 when he published ``katrina,'' a song that sold 2 million copies on sheet music in europe
he came to the united states in 1924 and later wandered the country prospecting for gold, herding cattle, delivering mail on horseback and teaching riding at a new hampshire resort. as a bantamweight boxer in brooklyn, he won eight of nine professional bouts
in 1931, loewe married ernestine zerline, whom he divorced after 26 years together with no children. he has no survivors
he began his collaboration with lerner after accepting an offer from a stock company in detroit to adapt a farce, ``the patsy.''
lerner's fascination with the scottish writer sir james barrie led to the team's first hit show, ``brigadoon,'' and their first hit song, ``almost like being in love,'' in 1947
loewe and lerner went their separate ways for a time, but reunited in 1951 to produce ``paint your wagon.''
next came ``my fair lady'' in 1956, a musical adaptation of george bernard shaw's ``pygmalion.'' the cast included rex harrison and julie andrews and ran for 2,717 performances
it won loewe the first of two tony awards and the 1964 film adaptation won several academy awards, including best picture
the team also produced a film musical, ``gigi,'' based on a novella by colette, in 1958. it was the first film to win nine academy awards, including an oscar to loewe as co-writer of the title song
the next project was ``camelot.'' critics were hard on the musical when it arrived in 1960 but it was greatly loved by president john f. kennedy, whose short-lived administration was later dubbed camelot by admirers
rep. jack kemp said monday that the republican presidential race will come down to him and bob dole, whose campaign he derided as one of ``pain, sacrifice and bitter medicine.''
kemp said one-time gop front-runner george bush's campaign is losing ground, based in part on his performance in sunday night's republican debate
i'm saving second (place) for kemp,'' the new york congressman said at a news conference on the banks of the rushing merrimack river in downtown manchester. ``i wouldn't be surprised if we surprised a lot of people in new hampshire and surprised a lot of the bush staff.''
kemp criticized bush and dole, generally believed to be in a tight race for first place, as well as pat robertson, who has been gaining ground since his surprising finish ahead of bush in iowa last week
kemp said he believes the republican race ultimately will come down to a contest between himself and dole _ ``a pain, sacrifice and bitter medicine bob dole campaign versus a growth, hope, opportunity, progressive, populist, conservative jack kemp campaign. we're going to win the nomination of the republican party.''
kemp said bush television ads accusing dole of having a history of raising taxes should be pulled off the air
it is consumer fraud for george bush, who has gone along with every major tax increase of the 1980s, to accuse bob dole of being a tax increaser,'' he said
george and bob never saw a tax they didn't hike.''
during a sunday night debate, kemp assailed bush for saying ``give peace a chance'' in afghanistan
that was the rallying cry of the liberal democrats (in congress) to kill aid for freedom fighters'' in central america, kemp said
he said peace alone should not be the goal of american foreign policy
there's peace in cuba, peace in vietnam and peace in poland, but there is no democracy,'' he said
that facist regime in managua needs to be replaced with democracy and freedom, and i was embarrassed that the vice president would make that type of statement that sells short the cause of democracy and freedom in this hemisphere.''
aids has stricken 41 italian children under the age of 12, and 23 of them have died, the institute of health said monday
the institute, a division of the ministry of health, said that as of the end of september, 23 girls and 18 boys had come down with the fatal disease. the majority of them were the children of drug addicts
health minister carlo donat cattin said earlier this month that 800 people have died of aids in italy. the ministry said 1,478 cases of aids had been reported in italy through dec. 31
the government has appropriated $145 million to fight aids through research, the training of health workers and distribution of information on the disease
democrat paul simon, shifting his focus to michael dukakis, said monday he was gaining on the leader and looked for ``a real surprise'' in new hampshire's leadoff presidential primary
dropping his attacks on richard gephardt, with whom he was dueling for second place, simon sought to cut into dukakis' support and contended he could win outright
polls have shown the massachusetts governor holding a two-to-one margin over gephardt and simon
i think increasingly the race is between michael dukakis and me,'' the illinois senator said. ``what is clear now is we have moved into second place in contention with michael dukakis.''
simon stood on a snowy roadside at the new hampshire-massachusetts border and pleaded for voters to ``assert their independence'' and not back dukakis merely because he is a neighboring governor
there is a difference between me and michael dukakis _ a difference in experience, a difference in commitment,'' he said
simon came to new hampshire a week ago after finishing a close second behind gephardt in iowa. with his campaign in debt, simon went on the attack with television commercials that accused gephardt of flip-flopping on a range of positions
he dropped those ads on sunday and replaced them with commercials that portray dukakis as a colorless bureaucrat lacking in vision
simon stuck to his theme of being an unrepentant liberal as he tried to chip away at dukakis's lead on the final day of the campaign
he cited education, jobs, long-term care for the elderly and infirm, arms control and foreign policy. ``where is the michael dukakis program for long-term care?'' he asked
we need more than talk of a miracle,'' simon said in a deliberate reference to dukakis' claim to have engineered a ``massachusetts miracle'' economic turnaround
simon is widely believed to need to finish second in order to continue a viable campaign. he acknowledged his vulnerability even while predicting a good showing
i think it is tightening,'' he said. ``i think there is a possibility of a real surprise come tomorrow.''
does that mean you could win, he was asked
that is correct,'' simon said
but he added later: ``we have to do well in new hampshire, and i am going to do well. if we were to do poorly, we would have to re-evaluate.''
bruce babbitt, campaigning hours before tuesday's democratic presidential primary, pledged monday to pass national legislation to curb acid rain and take the issue to an international summit
the time for research has passed,'' babbitt said at a rally at the statehouse. ``the time for procrastination is over. it's time for action now.''
the former arizona governor told reporters after the rally he anticipates doing better than expected in the state's leadoff primary
asked what he would consider a strong showing, babbitt, who has been consistently in the single digits in polls, said, ``i honestly don't know. it depends in some measure on what the prognosticators and commentators have to say.''
i'm anticipating a strong showing and a surprise, but i can't put a number on it,'' he said
babbitt was the only candidate to show up at the rally sponsored in part by the league of conservation voters, who last week gave babbitt the highest marks among the candidates for his efforts to clean up the environment
babbitt said that when he thinks of acid rain he remembers the ``immortal words of a president called ronald reagan, who once stood up in a public place and proclaimed that it's trees that cause pollution.''
babbitt said reagan, as governor of california, once was greeted by a sign on a pine tree on a college campus that said: ``chop me down before i kill again.''
the ``silent tragedy'' of dying forests and lakes is not confined to new england, he said
babbitt described his own fight as arizona governor to demand that two copper-smelting plants that were causing acid rain obey environmental laws. when they refused, he went to the legislature and eventually shut them down, he said
but afterwards, babbitt said, ``i looked over my shoulder and 60 miles across the border in mexico they were building a copper smelter which, the day it opened, would erase all the gains we had made in 10 years of fighting in the west.''
when he sought help form the reagan administration to stop the plant, he claimed, ``they said that's none of our business.''
environmental problems ``are our problems but they're also the planet's problems,'' babbitt said. he pledged that as president he will put environmental issues such as acid rain on the agenda of an international summit. says</head>
the united states has told the soviet union that verification procedures worked out for medium-range missiles will not suffice for the strategic arms talks that begin again this week, senior arms control adviser edward l. rowny said monday
we are calling for tough measures which will assure that we can verify soviet compliance,'' rowny told the american association for the advancement of science in boston. the text of the speech was released in washington
the soviets, he said, can expedite progress on strategic arms reductions by abandoning their effort to link the reductions to america's pursuit of star wars technology
rowny accused the soviets of delaying tactics, which he said are jeopardizing reaching an agreement on strategic arms in time for president reagan's meeting with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev in late spring or early summer
they appear to believe delaying tactics will reward them with a start treaty imbalanced in their favor,'' rowny said. ``i hope they will recognize that their intransigence is only dimming hopes for an agreement before the moscow summit meeting.''
even with the tough verification procedures approved two months ago as part of the treaty banning medium-range missile, rowny said, ``it would be misleading to suggest we are on a roll toward a start agreement.''
we are concerned that the soviets' heavy reliance on very large icbms may give them a sense of confidence that they could gain a critical advantage by striking first,'' rowny said
by seeking a limit that permanently reduces both the number and the proportion of intercontinental ballistic missiles in the soviet armory, he said, ``we are asking the soviets in effect to renounce any motion that nuclear war is winnable, even if initiated pre-emptively.''
richard gephardt's campaign manager apologized monday for profane comments he made last week about democratic presidential opponent albert gore jr. and his campaign staff
gore's campaign released a statement that said gephardt top aide bill carrick ``formally apologized'' to the senator and his campaign manager, fred martin
both gore and martin accepted the apology and agreed with carrick that the matter was over,'' the statement said
in a debate saturday, gephardt also said he regretted carrick's words
in a washington post story last week, carrick used obscenities to describe gore and his aides
a message for pat robertson and jesse jackson, two ministers running for president: a new poll says 39 percent of the public believes it is a ``bad thing'' for a minister to make a white house bid
the nationwide poll of 2,109 adults for the times mirror company said 16 percent thought it was a good thing and 41 percent said it didn't make any difference
in the poll, 69 percent agreed that a minister president would ``press his religious position on moral issues,'' and 78 percent agreed that ``in our system of government, church and state should be separated.''
the poll was conducted jan. 8-17 by the gallup organization
supporters of a presidential primary for washington state said monday they fear the measure has been killed by pressure from the two political parties and will die without coming to a vote
the bill, which would allow voters to decide whether to scrap the complicated caucus system, remained bottled up in the house rules committee on monday
the two main backers of a primary, republican secretary of state ralph munro and democratic rep. ruth fisher charged that house speaker joe king, a democrat, was holding up the bill at the behest of democratic state officials
both munro and mrs. fisher said reports that former television evangelist pat robertson may win washington's republican caucuses on march 8 show how easily the caucus system can be manipulated
said mrs. fisher, ``if robertson wins, you can bet we'll have a presidential primary (created) next year.''
mrs. fisher said washington's caucus turnout is usually no more than 3 percent of the registered voters, but that a primary would easily attract 50 percent
munro said more people attend a seattle seahawks game than their precinct caucuses. saying campaign manager nuttle is not on staff; picks up old graf 13, robertson also</head>
pat robertson, defending his stance on women's issues, says women hold top posts in his campaign and he expects to appoint women to a robertson cabinet
robertson, in a republican presidential debate sunday night in goffstown, n.h., rejected criticism from the national organization for women, but said that if working women are given tax deductions for child care then homemakers deserve tax breaks, too
the former television evangelist called now ``a very militant, rather left-wing organization'' and said he would not trust ``one word that they said'' about his positions on women's issues
now vice president sheri o'dell responded monday, ``i'd have more cause for concern if he said something complimentary about us.''
she said that robertson has made clear in his writings, speeches and sermons over the years that, as a now summary of the candidates' positions put it, he ``advocates old-fashioned `family values' and the return of women to the `traditional' roles.''
what that means is he believes women are to be submissive to men in the home, in the workplace, in anyplace,'' said o'dell. ``he tries to use biblical references to support that position.''
the fifth chapter of paul's letter to the ephesians says wives must be submissive to their husbands. robertson has cited the verse in writings and on the religious television show he used to host, ``the 700 club,'' according to o'dell
if the top campaign person on his staff is a woman, i congratulate him. maybe he's making some progress on his point of view,'' said o'dell
robertson was asked by moderator edwin newman about a now political summary that concluded he favored a return of women to their ``traditional'' role
robertson replied: ``i have more women in my campaign right now than any other presidential candidate sitting here or any of the democrats. the highest paid staff member i have is a woman.''
his campaign headquarters in chesapeake, va., said he was referring to connie snapp, his national director of communications
asked if snapp earned more than marc nuttle, robertson's campaign director and chief political strategist, teresa george, a campaign press aide, said nuttle ``is a consultant. he is not actually on our staff, so she is the highest paid person on the staff.'' she said the campaign would not disclose snapp's salary or nuttle's compensation
she added that women hold 160 of the 300 paid positions in the robertson's national office and field staff
robertson also said his advertising was run by a woman, and that mary ellen miller runs his national voter identification drive
all of the candidates except michael dukakis have men in charge of their campaigns. harvard law professor susan estrich is dukakis' campaign manager
robertson said he would appoint women to his cabinet, and added, ``as a matter of fact, there's one of those doles would make a fantastic vice president.''
when the moderator pressed him, robertson said, ``i would say that the national organization for woman with all due deference is a very militant, rather left-wing organization. i don't know that i would trust one word that they said.''
i do not feel that radical feminism is necessary for us today. and what i think we should have in this society, if a woman wants to work, i want absolutely to maek sure that she gets the same pay as a man. but if she wants to stay home, for example, and look after children, i am advocating that if we can give tax deductions for child-care support for working women, we can also give tax deductions to women who want to stay home and look after their children.'' to afghanistan, not central america</head>
jack kemp calls the vice president of the united states an ``embarrassment'' to the republican party. paul simon asks whether democrats can trust a man who has supported nuclear power and the b-1 bomber
candidates are on the attack as the new hampshire primary campaign rushes to its climax tuesday
for several of the dozen candidates bidding for support in the first presidential primary of this election year, wednesday looms as a day for unpacking and putting their white house dreams in storage
that prospect lends an air of desperation to their tactics and heightens the temptation to lash out at the opposition, especially those leading in the polls
kathleen hall jamieson, a university of texas professor, said negative ads are appearing earlier than in past presidential contests
while candidates may get some short-term benefit from savaging their opponents, she warned, ``anyone who goes on the attack risks looking non-presidential.''
sen. bob dole of kansas chipped away at vice president george bush's once formidable lead in national polls by suggesting that bush was more bystander than participant in reagan administration councils
that tactic worked well in iowa and now bush, looking more like an underdog, has adopted it in new hampshire and is portraying dole as a senate leader who has failed to produce the votes to sustain reagan vetoes or to get robert h. bork a seat on the supreme court
most of the attacks stay within a limit that enables the attacker to claim he's using comparative, not negative advertising
the most egregious example of an attack that went beyond normal bounds was material distributed by supporters of former television evangelist pat robertson that suggested a member of rep. jack kemp's family had an abortion
the material, distributed to fundamentalist christian voters, asked, ``does he deny that his own family was involved in an abortion?'' kemp aide mary brunette said the allegation was ``a lie. there's absolutely no truth in it whatsoever.''
connie snapp, a robertson spokeswoman, said there was a possibility a campaign worker in illinois was involved in distributing the anti-kemp material
during sunday's gop debate, kemp acted outraged when bush said, ``give peace a chance,'' in afghanistan
that is a embarrassment,'' said kemp, ``a republican talking about give peace a chance.''
on monday, kemp elaborated on his wrath. ```give peace a chance' was the rallying cry of the gephardt-simon-jim wright-wing of the democratic party that cut off all aid to the freedom fighters in central america,'' the new york congressman said. ``it was an embarrassment to our party to have our vice president talking like jim wright or dick gephardt.''
kemp also has attacked bush and dole with literature claiming both would raise taxes and cut social security benefits
jamieson said the rule is that front-runners don't attack
she cited an ad run by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis as a classic front-runner appeal
i'm for more trade,'' says dukakis, the leader in all polls of new hampshire democrats
dukakis comes across as taking a positive position that quietly reminds voters that another candidate _ rep. richard gephardt of missouri _ has a trade policy his opponents have called protectionist
gephardt came out of iowa a winner and quickly was attacked in ads run by simon. those ads cited gephardt votes in favor of nuclear power and the b-1 and said they were inconsistent with the congressman's current positions
during the democrats' debate saturday, gephardt complained to simon:
when you say in a tv ad, `who do you trust?' you're really bringing into play motives, motivation and whether or not somebody is reliable and i think that goes over the line. we can disagree on issues.''
jesse jackson called the complaints about attacks ``campaign fatigue, this tit for tat on how bruised i am.''
but ms. jamieson said there was a legitimate distinction
i don't like distinction between positive and negative,'' she said. ``you have fair and unfair. anything that distorts one's own or an opponent's record is unfair.''
once dole became the big winner in iowa and erased bush's big lead in new hampshire polls, he became the target of attacks
du pont, on the brink of extinction if he doesn't score a breakthrough tuesday, contends dole would raise taxes. that's about the worst thing a republican can say about another republican in this campaign
to prove his point here in notoriously anti-tax new hampshire, du pont thrust a no-tax pledge at dole during sunday's debate and said, ``sign it.'' dole refused
bush also has taken up the tax cry against dole, though he left it to surrogates
at a news conference, rep. don sundquist of tennessee, a bush backer, described dole as ``a waitin', walkin', talkin' tax increase about to happen.''
former gov. william w. scranton is trading his briefcase for a bookbag as he phases out his ties to corporate america and prepares to return to college
the 70-year-old scranton, who sought the republican nomination for president in the 1960s, will enroll at the university of scranton this fall as a student of latin and italian. after sharpening his linguistic skills, scranton plans to study the italian renaissance, the 15th and 16th century explosion of knowledge that led man out of the middle ages
i've always been fascinated with the italian renaissance ever since i took a course on the subject in my first year in college,'' scranton told the scranton times in a recent interview
scranton, the recipient of 35 honorary doctorate degrees, said he has always placed a premium on knowledge for knowledge's sake
while on vacation in maine about a year and a half ago, scranton said he thought a lot about becoming old and decided to follow his own advice _ the best way to remain young is to mingle with young people
for scranton, that meant returning to college
i'm looking forward to it,'' scranton said, even though it will mean sitting in a classroom for the first time in 42 years since he got his degree from yale law school in 1946
at the university of scranton, scranton will study latin under dr. john wilson and italian under frank cimini. scranton had some latin in high school and college but italian will be completely new to him
scranton has pared down his involvement with corporate boards from 21 to just four and plans to be off those boards by june 1. however, he said he will continue to remain active in boosting initiatives that can help the city that bears his family name
a coroner's official monday termed suspicious the death of a newlywed whose husband said she was blown overboard into the pacific ocean while jogging during their honeymoon cruise
an autopsy was performed sunday on karen waltz roston, 26, of santa monica, but the cause of death probably won't be released until tuesday, said deputy coroner robert grubb of the san diego county coroner's office
right now, it's pending,'' grubb said. ``however, we can tell you the death occurred under suspicious circumstances.''
the woman's husband of one week, scott robin roston, 36, a chiropractor who moved from florida to santa monica in june, was held monday by federal officials in los angeles following his arrest for investigation of murder
roston was taken into custody saturday when the cruise ship star dancer docked in los angeles harbor. he was held without bail at the terminal island federal prison
they were very much in love. he really adored her. i can't imagine that he would want to hurt her, let alone kill her,'' roston's roommate told the los angeles herald examiner. she asked that her name not be used
fbi spokesman fred reagan declined to release details of what led to roston's arrest. roston was expected to appear in federal court later this week
the couple were married feb. 6 before embarking on a honeymoon cruise of the mexican coast with 731 other passengers
roston told authorities that high winds blew his wife off the deck near the ship's jogging track about 2 a.m. saturday, but ``the winds were not that strong,'' star dancer capt. thomas wildung said
also, chief purser ken ehlers said the track closed at 9 p.m. and he never heard the couple running, even though the track is over his room
and passenger dick heinrich, an assistant chief deputy at the cook county sheriff's department in chicago, told authorities he noticed what appeared to be hair and earring posts when he went for a walk on the deck where mrs. roston allegedly went over
the woman was reported overboard when the ship was about 44 miles southwest of san diego. the coast guard found her body later that day
iraq said its air force attacked iranian troops along the front monday, while iran claimed its warplanes blasted a petrochemical complex and military installations in southern iraq
iraq also claimed its forces shot down two iranian drones
reports by iran and iraq, which have been at war since september 1980, cannot be independently verified because they rarely allow access to combat zones
the official iraqi news agency quoted a military communique as saying iraqi jets flew 60 combat missions along the war front, ``inflicting substantial losses in men, weaponry and equipment, then returned safely to base.''
it said iraqi helicopter gunships rocketed and strafed iranian military posts in 39 sorties, destroying ``many of the enemy's troop buildups and positions.'' it gave no details
the agency, monitored in nicosia, reported that iraqi anti-aircraft gunners shot down two iranian drones at different times sunday night. one fell inside iranian territory and another crashed in iraq, according to the communique. it did not elaborate
iran did not comment on the iraqi claims. a communique issued in tehran said the iranian air force ``effectively carried out reconnaissance flights over the persian gulf and the sea of oman sunday to provide air cover for the navy and reconnoiter positions of foreign vessels in the waterway.''
the iranian communique, carried by the official islamic republic news agency, said iranian warplanes ``heavily bombarded iraqi positions and fortifications'' along the southern front east of the iraqi city of basra, and in faw peninsula farther south
iranian warplanes also attacked a petrochemical complex in basra in one of five raids carried out by early afternoon monday, irna said in a dispatch monitored in nicosia
all the attacking fighters returned safely to bases after inflicting heavy casualties and losses on the enemy,'' the agency quoted a communique as saying
iran's air force is outnumbered 8-to-1 by iraq's fleet of soviet- and french-made aircraft. but in recent weeks, iran has used its u.s.-made planes in several raids, suggesting tehran may have bought spare parts on the black market
iran has 60-70 operational warplanes, according to western military analysts
iraq has previously reported shooting down other iranian drones
iran recently reported successful tests of domestically built drones, but it is not known whether it is producing its own pilotless aircraft yet. it also has reported its war factories are preparing to manufacture fighter planes
the iranians apparently stepped up efforts to manufacture their own weapons after the united states proposed an international arms embargo against the islamic nation to force its rulers to agree to a u.n. security council cease-fire resolution
iraq has accepted security council resolution 598, which passed on july 20. iran said it wants baghdad condemned as the aggressor before any settlement can be reached
watching a rerun of a television sitcom may not sound like the most romantic activity, but jeff smith decided he couldn't think of a better time to pop the question
smith, 25, bought 30 seconds of air time during a local station's broadcast of ``it's a living'' to propose to rhonda munn
smith made sure ms. munn was at home watching station weto with him sunday night when his advertisement appeared midway through the show. the commercial showed smith sitting in a chair listening to the beach boys' song ``help me rhonda'' as he proposed marriage
the hopeful groom said ms. munn was so bewildered by the sight of him on television that he had to get down on one knee and ask a second time for her to marry him
it was like she couldn't quite understand what was happening'' when the ad ran, he said. ``she was laughing and confused.''
it only took ms. munn a few seconds before responding in the affirmative to smith's real-life proposal, he said
both smith and ms. munn, 26, live in kingsport. they work as chemical engineers for different companies and began dating about 18 months ago
taking the twang out of texas is the job of a diction teacher from detroit who helps natives rid themselves of regional speech, with an accent instead on efficient communication
for $225, margo manning is offering texans a chance to remove the twang from their talk
is your texas showing?'' the diction teacher from detroit asks in a newspaper advertisement for her six weekly lessons
students are taught to drop the drawl and pronounce words fully, speak in more clipped fashion and breathe from the diaphragm
since texas became more of a melting pot in the last six or seven years, people are more aware of the need to sound less regional,'' said ms. manning, who operates an acting studio in las colinas
carol huckin, born and reared in dallas, was a recent student
my accent was always so strong that people listened to my voice rather than what i was saying,'' she said. ``people at parties looked at me and smiled when i wasn't saying anything funny,'' she told the dallas morning news
theirs is a love match sparked at a car wash, and that's where judith couch and robert barker tied the knot on valentine's day
florida car wash cashier ms. couch and manager barker met in june at work. when he proposed several months later, owner bob harrington suggested they wed where the romance began
they work here, they met here, they fell in love here. i thought it was a natural kind of thing,'' said ray barker, father of the groom
wedding guests pronounced the site romantic, although one had a wry observation
this is one of the few car washes in florida that's `touchless,''' noted robin king. ``let's hope the marriage is not.''
a concrete contractor looked uncomfortable monday amid cameras, microphones and crowds of people waiting for him to accept an oversize copy of a $6,814,823 check for hitting the world's largest slot jackpot
i don't know what to say,'' cammie j. brewer told a news conference at the cal-neva club in downtown reno. ``i know i have the money now. it feels pretty good.''
brewer, 61, usually feels at home at the small casino where he became an instant multimillionaire on sunday by lining up four ``7s'' on one of four megabucks progressive slot machines. brewer and his wife, jo, have been regular visitors at the cal-neva since they moved to reno in may 1962, a month after the club opened
brewer said he comes to the cal-neva nearly every sunday morning to eat the club's 99-cent breakfast and to play the slots. since 1987, he's been playing the megabucks machines, more than 200 progressive slots linking 54 nevada casinos
i figure if i'm going to play, i may as well play for the big dollars,'' brewer said of megabucks, billed as nevada casinos' answer to the california state lottery
on sunday he ate his 99-cent breakfast with his 81-year-old father-in-law, then played about $20 before he hit the four 7s. after the third reel showed a 7, he pointed a finger at the fourth reel and remembers saying ``come on, let's hit the other one.''
i think i bumped the change girl waving my arms around when that fourth seven fell into place,'' brewer said
brewer will receive his winnings in annual $680,000 payments over the next 10 years. he said he is going back to work on tuesday, but plans to semi-retire and spend his money on his 11 grandchildren from his three children
our grandkids are going to have a ball,'' brewer's 59-year-old wife said. ``i just couldn't believe it. when they called me yesterday, i just started shaking and crying then called a taxi to get down there.''
brewer wants to look at some motor homes before investing his money
hitting the jackpot might have made up for forgetting to buy his wife a valentine's day card for the first time in their 25-year marriage
this did kind of settle her down,'' he said
he can do anything he wants now,'' mrs. brewer added
sunday's megabucks payoff surpassed the record jackpot of $4.9 million won by terry williams of los gatos, calif., at harrah's reno on feb. 1, 1987
a lawyer for john demjanjuk used an israeli example monday in contending all secret services are ``insidious'' and the soviet kgb could have fabricated evidence that his client commited war crimes
during closing arguments at demjanjuk's trial, lawyer yoram sheftel cited a judicial commission report published in october that showed agents of israel's shin bet agency routinely perjured themselves in court for 16 years in order to convict palestinians and conceal violent interrogation methods
sheftel said the kgb had more sophisticated ways of fabricating evidence against demjanjuk
defense lawyers claim a key piece of prosecution evidence, an alleged nazi identity card for demjanjuk, was forged by the soviet union. six prosecution experts have authenticated the card, which says demjanjuk was trained as a death camp guard at trawniki in nazi-occupied poland
secret service agencies everywhere are insidious and resort to fabrication and treachery,'' sheftel told the associated press during a recess. ``i wanted to show that intelligence services can and have in the past fooled courts in israel.''
demjanjuk, 67, is accused of being a ukrainian guard called ``ivan the terrible'' who brutalized prisoners and operated gas chambers at the treblinka death camp in poland, where 850,000 jews were killed in 1942-43
the defendant, born in the ukraine, emigrated to the united states after world war ii and was a retired auto worker living in ohio when the united states extradited him for trial. he says the kremlin framed him because he fought in an anti-soviet unit at the end of the war
sheftel said the identity card was suspect because it came from soviet archives closed to the west
dov levine, the presiding judge, said the card was assumed to be authentic because it was an archival document, and the defense must prove forgery
to that, sheften replied: ``in the soviet union they use deceit, even in archives. this document does not come from well-organized western archives.''
hard-drinking crowds poured into the french quarter on monday to herald the coming of mardi gras _ fat tuesday _ as the pre-lenten carnival season that began jan. 6 headed for its raucous, often raunchy end
revelers started wandering into pat o'brien's bar between bourbon and royal streets at about 10 a.m., said judy polgar, a bookkeeper at the famous watering hole. by midafternoon, the line outside the door of the popular tourist spot stretched for half a block
we've got a good crowd,'' said polgar, who was in an office just off the establishment's open patio bar. ``i can hear them. when i can hear them i know we've got a pretty good crowd.''
shoulder-to-shoulder crowds made it difficult to walk down bourbon or royal
out-of-town revelers started trickling into new orleans last week and they came in droves during the weekend, undaunted by cold, windy weather or sunday thunderstorms
on monday, sometimes dubbed ``lundi gras'' or fat monday, the thunderstorms gave way to sunshine and mild temperatures
police spokesman john marie said tuesday's crowds could surpass the estimated 1 million people that jammed the metropolitan area streets last year
we do anticipate the crowds to possibly be record crowds as the weather forecast looks great,'' said marie
crowds on fat tuesday usually stretch from the stately uptown area, where families gather before sunrise to stake out picnic areas on the parade routes, to the central business district, where business virtually shuts down, and on to the french quarter, scene of carnival's raunchiest goings-on
in the quarter, women on wrought-iron balconies bare their breasts, and gay bars play host to male cross-dressers barely clad in various combinations of women's underwear, hosiery, high heels, feathered headresses and beaded gowns
there's a high degree of tolerance by the police on mardi gras day,'' marie explained. ``sometimes the costumes can be outlandish
but if there are lewd or obscene gestures made, then the police have to take action.''
parades this past weekend featured the usual mix of staid, 19th century tradition and 1980s bawdiness. the mostly female krewe of iris _ formed in 1917 _ featured fairy-tale themes and its masked riders tossed the traditional plastic beads, cups and other trinkets to the thousands who lined city streets
by contrast, the 20-year-old krewe of tucks featured a king and queen aboard huge golden toilets. its maskers threw underwear
as usual, the krewe of bacchus made the biggest splash in its sunday night parade. along with its huge animated floats and celebrity king, actor alan thicke, it featured a huge moving aquarium filled with water and a dozen young women in scanty mermaid attire. 9.</note>
actor matthew broderick was fined $175 on monday for careless driving in a crash that killed a woman and her daughter
broderick, star of the films ``wargames'' and ``ferris bueller's day off,'' pleaded guilty to a charge of careless driving after it was reduced from the charge of causing death by careless driving
broderick was in new york when the fine was levied in a northern ireland court in enniskillen. he had been been excused from attending the trial after the charge was reduced
his publicist's office was closed for presidents' day and he could not be reached for comment
broderick and his girlfriend, jennifer grey of new york, were on vacation and driving near enniskillen on aug. 5 when they collided with an oncoming car driven by anna gallagher, 28. she and her mother, 60-year-old margaret doherty, were killed
the 25-year-old actor was accused of driving on the wrong side of the road
broderick spent a month in a belfast hospital with a badly fractured leg. a court convened in the hospital to charge him with causing death by careless driving and free him on bail
broderick subsequently returned to new york, where he has undergone therapy and made few public appearances
in statements to police, broderick said he remembered nothing about the collision, the court was told. grey told police she was putting a cassette tape into the car's stereo and was not looking out the window when the crash occurred
defense attorney david smyth and prosecutor jim scholes agreed in court that it was not known why broderick was on the wrong side of the road
it is a tragic situation and no one will ever know exactly what happened. i am instructed to indicate that broderick will always feel extremely upset,'' smyth told magistrate robert porter
a miami businessman who has accused top haitian government officials of involvment in cocaine trafficking said monday he was going public with details on the charges because of two attempts on his life
osvaldo quintana, 35, said at a news conference that he personally arranged a cocaine shipment with haitian army col. jean-claude paul, the powerful commander of the key batallion in port-au-prince, the nation's capital
quintana said he knew of involvement by higher haitian officials, including those in the ruling government council, but refused to give any names
his attorney, ellis rubin, said he was trying to arrange for quintana to testify before the same u.s. senate committee investigating alleged drug smuggling by panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
rubin said quintana, who operated a seafood company before becoming involved with drugs, has testified before a federal grand jury in miami investigating haitian drug connections, including paul's role
sources in the u.s. attorney's office have told the associated press on condition of anonymnity that a grand jury here is investigating haitian officials allegedly involved in drug trafficking. the miami herald has identified paul as a target of the investigation
the colonel ``was the one who supplied us with the landing field, the equipment, the whole thing,'' said quintana. he said he met with paul to arrange a 100-kilogram cocaine shipment in december 1986
we flew (the shipment) out of his own personal ranch in haiti,'' said quintana. the cocaine was flown from the ranch, 90 miles outside of port-au-prince, through the bahamas to florida, he said
quintana was eventually turned in to the u.s. drug enforcement administration by the owner of a plane he hired, he said, and then agreed to cooperate with the dea
after testifying in a trial here last month, quintana told reporters he had once seen 9,000 kilograms, or 19,800 pounds, of cocaine in duffel bags in the palace of haiti's then-president-for-life, jean-claude duvalier, before he was deposed in early 1986
quintana said monday he was twice tracked by apparent haitian hit squads, including one that followed him to the dea office in miami
that group was arrested when they were spotted waiting outside the dea office, he said, but were released a few days later. two months later, a second group ran him off a highway. those men were frightened away by a florida highway patrol officer who happened by, said quintana
rubin said quintana was warned by the u.s. attorney's office in miami in january that he would not get into the federal witness protection program if he talked to the media about the case
but since then, no protection has been arranged for him or his family, rubin said
we've given the federal government four weeks in which to do something for mr. quintana,'' said rubin. ``they have not done so.''
assistant u.s. attorney william norris, who head's miami's major drug traffickers prosecution section, confirmed monday that quintana ``has been a source of information and is a potential witness'' but refused to say if the investigation involved haiti
he said the u.s. attorney's office was not in a position to promise protection for quintana because that program is handled by the u.s. marshal's service
messages seeking comment from the miami dea office were not answered by midafternoon monday
rubin blamed the lack of action for his client on a division in the u.s. government on whether to proceed against haitian officials and possibly destabilize a friendly government
it does no good to expose narcotics coming from, panama, colombia, honduras, unless you also shut off the haitian connection,'' the attorney said
quintana testified here last month for the defense in the trial of self-styled haitian-american freedom fighter joel deeb, who was on trial on weapons violations charges in a plot to overthrow the haitian government
south loop elementary school opened its doors monday to 335 youngsters from a rainbow of racial and economic backgrounds, following two years of controversy over the makeup of its student body
there are no more hilliard homes children and dearborn park children. they are all south loop children,'' principal joan fron declared
the $5.5 million inner-city school features special fine arts and science facilities and a staff of teachers that parents helped choose
but there are problems
some low-income youngsters can't attend until third grade, which parents fear will put them at a disadvantage. and there may be problems maintaining the required racial balance among the student body without overcrowding
but bob saigh, the city board of education's spokesman, is optimistic
they won't allow that school to fail. ... it's being set up to succeed instantly _ in fact, i think it's already succeeded,'' he said
parents from dearborn park and printers row, growing middle-class bastions reclaiming an inner-city wasteland, had fought two years for a new school, saying it had been promised when redevelopment changed the neighborhood. meanwhile, their children attended classes in a modified townhouse and other schools
but residents of the chicago housing authority's low-income hilliard homes project angrily reminded the chicago board of education they had been awaiting a new school for more than 20 years
in the end, the board devised a plan that allows children from both areas to attend the school. it calls for a student body of 540 _ 30 percent white and 70 percent minorities. class size is to remain at an average 30 students
classes began monday with about 85 youngsters from hilliard homes, 70 from the dearborn park area, 45 from two middle-income high-rises and about 135 others, including 15 hispanic children, from around the city
the school serves pupils from kindergarten through sixth grade, and eventually will be expanded through the eighth grade
as long as integration is maintained and there's no overcrowding, we're satisfied,'' said judy hoch, leader of friends of dearborn park school
but the board's plan gives preference to youngsters from adjoining neighborhoods. that means hilliard homes children will attend nearby haines elementary until third grade, when they can transfer to south loop
hilliard parents say this will put their youngsters at a disadvantage
we don't think we can be sure to get the same education until we go to the same school from kindergarten through eighth grade,'' parent jacqueline russell said
the united states' resumption of chemical weapons production sabotaged talks on banning the arms, foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze charged monday
british foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe told shevardnadze the west will not settle for a soviet advantage in mobile nuclear missiles or conventional or chemical arms
the west wants to see more evidence of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's ``new thinking'' in foreign policy, said howe, who arrived sunday for a brief visit. he is to meet with gorbachev on tuesday
we in the west will be happier with (the ussr) when we can point to concrete evidence that new thinking does in practice make the soviet union an easier neighbor,'' howe said at a luncheon shevardnadze held in his honor on monday. a text of his remarks was made available to the associated press
the soviet foreign minister urged a ban on chemical weapons, saying they are ``the only weapon of mass destruction which is most probably intended for use in the area from the atlantic to the urals.''
last december the united states began producing binary chemical weapons, which produce a toxin by combining two relatively harmless agents, following an 18-year moratorium on production of chemical weapons
talks on a worldwide ban on chemical weapons were close to concluding with an agreement before the u.s. decision to begin producing binary weapons, shevardnadze said
the binary sabotage, and it cannot be described in any other way, may push us ... to a new spiral of the chemical arms race,'' said shevardnadze, according to the tass news agency
binary weapons, in our judgment, precisely mark the boundary line between the interests of the united states and its european allies. not an imaginary boundary, but the one inherent in the capabilities of these weapons and their delivery vehicles,'' shevardnadze said
in his speech, howe said western europeans are deeply concerned about their security now that the united states and soviet union have agreed to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear weapons
they see soviet pressure for a nuclear-free europe, which in reality means a nuclear-free western europe, with our eastern neighbors still in possession of a large mobile nuclear arsenal, in addition to your preponderance in conventional and chemical weapons,'' the british foreign secretary said
howe dismissed what he called ``any artificial linkage'' between a u.s.-soviet agreement to cut strategic weapons and the u.s. ``star wars'' program
disputes over president reagan's plan for a space-based shield against nuclear attack still stand in the way of an agreement to cut both sides' arsenals of long-range nuclear missiles by 50 percent
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz will be discussing that issue with soviet leaders after he arrives in moscow on sunday
howe ruled out any negotiation with the soviet union over british and french nuclear forces, urged soviet support for sanctions against iran to end the iran-iraq war and welcomed gorbachev's announcement last week of a timetable for removing soviet soldiers from afghanistan
howe and shevardnadze signed an agreement monday committing their countries to working together to fight drug abuse and trafficking
shevardnadze and howe last met dec. 7 at brize norton royal air base, where gorbachev stopped off on his way to washington. the soviet leader and reagan signed an agreement to eliminate their intermediate-range nuclear weapons
precipitation in the form of snow, sleet, freezing rain and rain was scattered across much of the eastern third of the nation monday as warmer air pushed northward ahead of a cold front
temperatures warmed slowly across new england, causing a mix of wet snow, freezing rain and sleet across the st. lawrence valley, the adirondacks and champlain valley of eastern new york state into vermont. the mixture changed to rain farther south into the mohawk valley. winter weather advisories covered much of new york state and vermont as roads become icy and slick
showers were scattered into the upper ohio valley with snow, sleet and freezing rain across north-central pennsylvania, and the mixed precipitation changed to rain during the afternoon
snow showers were scattered from the central areas of the great lakes into the middle mississippi valley. the heaviest snowfall was across northeastern lower michigan, where up to 11 inches of snow had accumulated at rogers city in presque isle county since sunday night
showers were scattered from eastern areas of the lower ohio valley through south carolina and georgia, and showers and a few thunderstorms were scattered across northern florida
another cold front was moving across the northern rockies with gusty wind and some freezing rain
livingston, mont., clocked wind gusts to 74 mph and wind blew at nearly 50 mph at helena, mont. east-central and southeastern wyoming also had high wind, blowing at 30 to 40 mph and gusting to 50 to 60 mph at times at casper, cheyenne, laramie and rawlins. wind along interstate 80 along the passes reached 70 mph during the morning, and part of the highway had to be closed for about four hours because of blowing snow
high wind across sections of minnesota whipped up snow from the ground and low visibility and high drifts closed roads and stranded travelers in the southwestern corner of the state. some major highways closed at midday sunday and did not reopen until 24 hours later
blizzard-like conditions were reported across parts of east-central idaho during the morning near the montana border, with wind reaching around 45 mph at pocatello with occasional snow. besides the snow at pocatello, rain fell during the morning across north-central idaho
rain and gusty wind also were reported across western washington state during the night. the town of forks received 2.50 inches of rain in 24 hours ending at 4 a.m. pst. wind gusted to more than 50 mph at the hood canal and evergreen bridges
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 4 degrees at grand forks, n.d., to 80 at vero beach, fla. the low for the day was 23 degrees below zero at warroad, minn
for tuesday, scattered snow showers were forecast from eastern north dakota across the upper mississippi valley and upper great lakes. scattered snow also was forecast from the eastern half of new york state into maine, with rain or snow across parts of massachusetts and rain scattered along coastal southern new england. scattered showers also were forecast across southern florida
highs in the 20s were predicted from the upper half of the northern plains through the upper mississippi valley and much of the great lakes region into northern new england; in the 50s and 60s from western oregon and the central pacific coast across the southern rockies, the southern plains, the lower mississippi valley and the southern half of the atlantic coast into the northern half of florida; in the 70s over the southern california coast and the desert southwest, west-central and southern texas and southern florida; and in the 30s or 40s across most of the rest of the nation. after 17th graf pvs, bgng: the margin, to update with cbs numbers</note>
last-minute polls released monday indicated george bush and bob dole were locked in a very close battle in new hampshire's republican primary
one poll suggested dole had edged ahead, but another said the battle in the nation's first primary tuesday had tightened
among the democrats, richard gephardt and paul simon are struggling for runner-up honors behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in new hampshire
the latest abc news-washington post tracking poll from friday through sunday gave dole a slim lead, but the day-to-day numbers in the survey suggested the race had tightened since friday
the interviews with 572 likely gop primary voters gave dole 34 percent, to 27 percent for bush. given the poll's 5-percentage-point margin of error, that is a small dole margin
the poll put rep. jack kemp of new york at 14 percent, former television evangelist pat robertson at 10 percent, and former delaware gov. pete du pont also at 10 percent. others had 2 percent and 3 percent were undecided
tracking polls are samples taken each night and then added together for the three-day results
the sunday night results from the abc-post survey suggested a tightening race. those one-night numbers gave bush and dole 32 percent each among the 319 voters interviewed. abc's analysis said dole surged last week, but that the race closed up saturday and sunday
the latest cbs news poll of 588 likely gop voters in the state gave bush 32 percent and dole 31 percent. kemp, du pont and robertson were tied with 9 precent each. ten percent of those interviewed saturday and sunday were undecided, even after the leaning undecided voters were subtracted. the sampling error margin was 4 percentage points
a poll conducted for the boston herald and wbz-tv had results similar to the one-day numbers
this survey, conducted thursday through sunday, had dole at 32 percent and bush at 31 percent. in less than a week since iowa's caucuses, dole has closed a gap that stood at 32 percent to 23 percent in bush's favor
far behind were kemp at 9 percent, and du pont and robertson tied at 8 percent of the survey of 500 likely gop voters
a gallup poll conducted friday and saturday put dole at 36 percent, his largest margin to date over bush, who was the choice of 28 percent of the 589 likely gop voters surveyed
kemp and robertson each had 12 percent in the gallup poll, while du pont had 7 percent and 6 percent remained undecided ahead of tuesday's primary
the gallup organization reported a 5 percent margin of error among the gop voters
among democrats, all the polls put dukakis far ahead as always
the abc-post survey of 591 likely democratic voters gave dukakis 40 percent. simon had 17 percent and gephardt 15 percent
then came sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee with 8 percent; jesse jackson, 6 percent; former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, 6 percent; former colorado sen. gary hart, 4 percent; others, 2 percent; and undecided, 2 percent
the margin of error was 5 percentage points
the latest cbs survey saturday and sunday put dukakis at 37 percent. gephardt had 15 pecent and simon 14 perent. jackson had 8 percent; gore 4 percent; hart 4 percent; babbitt, 3 percent; and undecided 15 percent. the poll, based on interviews with 475 likely democratic voters had an error margin of 5 percentage points
the herald-wbz survey put dukakis at 38 percent. next came gephardt at 19 percent and simon at 13 percent among the 500 likely voters polled. jackson was at 6 percent, hart and gore at 4 percent and babbitt at 3 percent
the margin of error of the survey, conducted thursday through sunday, was 4 percent
the gallup poll gave dukakis 39 percent, followed by gephardt at 18 percent and paul simon at 16 percent. jesse jackson was picked by 7 percent of the 424 likely democratic voters surveyed, bruce babbitt by 5 percent, albert gore jr. by 5 percent, and gary hart by 3 percent
the gallup organization reported a 4 percent among democratic voters interviewed friday and saturday
opposition leaders on monday challenged the lopsided vote totals that gave gen. alfredo stroessner his eighth straight term as president
the ruling colorado party's final, unofficial tally released monday showed that stroessner won 88.6 percent of the vote
the party's count also showed a 7.4 percent absentee rate, but opposition leaders contended that up to 40 percent of the 1,446,665 eligible voters boycotted sunday's balloting
opposition leaders had urged voters to abstain and accused the ruling party of stuffing ballot boxes, not providing opposition ballots, failing to guarantee voting secrecy and allowing ineligible voters to cast ballots
the 75-year-old stroessner, the longest-serving head of state in the western hemisphere, has led paraguay since a 1954 military coup
the colorado party also won two-thirds of the 72 house seats and 36 senate seats. the remaining one-third will be split proportionally between two participating opposition parties
the radical liberal party received 96,231 votes, or about 7.2 percent, the ruling party said. the liberal party got 42,056, or 3.1 percent
the party tally listed 8,838 spoiled votes and 5,627 blank ballots and said 107,220 people did not vote. voting is obligatory for all citizens between 18 and 60 years old
miguel abdon saguir, a vice president of the unrecognized authentic radical liberal party, charged that ``voting booths were lacking in the majority of voting places and the vote was public and not secret, polling officials handed out sealed envelopes with the official candidate list already inside and opposition parties had few or no observed overseers at the polls.''
luis andrada nogues, secretary-general of the christian democrats, also an unrecognized party, told the roman catholic broadcast station radio caritas that the majority of polling places lacked opposition observers and in some cases no opposition ballots were provided
as a result, this is a de facto government,'' he added. ``yesterday's elections were a joke and the radical liberal and liberal parties allowed themselves to be used in a farce.''
stroessner on sunday described the unrecognized opposition as ``liars.'' justice minister jose eugenio jacquet referred to them as ``insurrectionists and subversives.''
sabino montanaro, interior minister and party president, said that the government plans to combat unemployment, eliminate slums and shantytowns and promote domestic and foreign investment
the colorado party ticket led by stroessner garnered 1,186,693 votes, or 88.6 percent of the total, the party said. in 1983, stroessner won slightly more than 90 percent
spokesmen for the national election board, which has a majority of colorado party members, said final official vote totals probably would be available tuesday. 02-15 0817</first> town</head> he hasn't read the book; subs 16th graf, `pulitzer, who ...' to add further comment.</note>
roxanne pulitzer, whose version of life in exclusive palm beach hit the new york times bestseller list this week, says she feels no bitterness toward her ex-husband five years after their tawdry, well-publicized divorce
this is my valentine's day present,'' ms. pulitzer said of reaching no. 10 sunday on the national non-fiction bestseller list with ``the prize pulitzer: the scandal that rocked palm beach _ the real story.''
the book, which on its first page calls palm beach a ``buffet society babylon,'' is full of gossip about the rich and famous, from alfred bloomingdale to barbra streisand
there are also descriptions of her cocaine use and sexual fantasies and realities. she says that the first time she slept with publishing heir herbert ``peter'' pulitzer, she fantasized about making love to o.j. simpson, the former star running back for the buffalo bills football team
ms. pulitzer, 36, is surprisingly favorable to pulitzer, who has remarried and says he has not read his ex-wife's book
i married him because he was the sexiest, smartest, funniest, strongest, most intriguing and interesting man i had ever known,'' she says in the book. they met when her first marriage, to an upstate new yorker with a home in palm beach, broke up
in an interview, she said she and pulitzer, 56, no longer have any personal conversations. she says she once loved him and does not bear him any bitterness
sadder but wiser, i've learned that the rules are different in palm beach, just as the rich are different. both are more ruthless. my story is about that difference and my failure to appreciate it, whether out of foolishness, love, passion or all three,'' she says in the book
at the 1982 divorce trial, pulitzer and other witnesses testified about her cocaine use, affairs, occult experimentation and in general, ``gross moral misconduct,'' in the words of circuit judge carl harper
harper awarded custody of their twin sons to her husband. ms. pulitzer, who has visitation rights, got to keep her porsche, jewelry and some other items, and received $2,000 a month alimony for two years
stunned by the ruling and outraged by the portrayal of her as, she recalls in her book, ``a sex-crazed, cocaine-addicted disciple of witchcraft,'' ms. pulitzer refused all interviews and book offers
her money gone, she posed nude in ``playboy'' in 1985, received more calls from publishers and changed her mind
a lot of it had to do with the headlines of 1982, which left a negative taste in everybody's mouth. it just gnawed at me constantly that that was a negative situation i hadn't taken care of,'' said ms. pulitzer, a native of cassadaga, n.y
kleenex heir james kimberly, whose former wife jacquie plays a prominent role in the book as the third person in an alleged menage a trois with the pulitzers, says the book is ``garbage.''
do you eat garbage? it's utter garbage, as far i'm concerned,'' kimberly told the palm beach post
i have no comment on that,'' pulitzer said of his ex-wife's literary success when contacted monday at his estate in okeechobee. ``i have two young boys to bring up. that's a full-time job.'' before hanging up, he added that he hasn't read the book
other prominent palm beachers have said the book is just another in a string of attacks on the high-society enclave that prides itself on exclusivity, including ``doonesbury'' cartoons by garry trudeau comparing id requirements to south african laws that enforce apartheid
ms. pulitzer said she has written ``an upbeat book that's not revenge-oriented'' for villard books with help from kathleen maxa
she also says she wanted to provide a set-the-record-straight account for her sons mac and zac, now 10, and to present her arguments for joint custody in divorces, although she admitted few people are buying the book for her opinions on divorce law
she saves her venom for palm beach. although she lives in an apartment here, across a shipping channel from her old stomping grounds, she still shops and gets her hair done in palm beach, she says
the reactions she receives vary from insults to congratulations for her courage, she says
palm beachers as a whole have always thought of me as an intruder, that i married into a lifestyle i didn't deserve, that i didn't go to the right boarding schools,'' she said
in palm beach you have to be episcopalian; you can't be catholic, you can't be jewish, you can't be black. i find that all to be very wrong,'' she said
indian troops screened 30,000 men in a search for tamil rebels and detained 131, india's chief diplomat in sri lanka said monday
ambassador jyotindra nath dixit also said nine people believed to be rebels died in the operation
he said some rebels likely evaded indian forces during the sweep that began thursday in the batticaloa district, about 140 miles northeast of colombo
investigations are continuing and we believe that some tamil rebels have escaped batticaloa and moved north and west of the town,'' he said
he said similiar searches were under way in the vavuniya district in the north and the trincomalee district in the northeast
meanwhile, a curfew imposed by indian troops in and around batticaloa was lifted for 12 hours monday. shops and businesses were crowded as people emerged after a weekend restricted to their homes
tamil rebels are fighting for a separate nation in the northern and eastern portions of the island. tamils, who are predominantly hindus, say they are face discrimination from the majority sinhalese, who are mostly buddhist
thousands of indian troops have been sent to the island to disarm the rebels and enforce a july pact aimed at ending the four-year tamil separatist war
tamil rebels have rejected the accord, which was signed by india and sri lanka. the pact grants limited autonomy to tamil-dominated areas in the north and east
on friday, indian troops herded hundreds of men into a football stadium and conducted house-to-house searches in the eastern region
the operation is aimed at finding members of the largest tamil militia, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam. a statement issued by the tigers said no tiger rebel had surrendered or been captured by the indian troops
dixit wouldn't elaborate on the detentions, but said up to 31 of the 131 held were ``hard-core'' members of the tiger group
an indian helicopter sunk a boat in the batticaloa lagoon during the operation and about nine people died, he said
we believe they were tamil tigers. our helicopters fired warning shots but the boat did not stop and we had to sink it,'' he said
dixit said that between 45,000 and 48,000 indian troops were in eastern and northern sri lanka. he denied media reports that nearly 100,000 troops were deployed
he said less than 2,000 troops were involved in the searches in the east. sri lankan officials say nearly 15,000 indian troops were involved
it is in no way a major military offensive as the media both here and in india has made out,'' dixit said
more than 360 indian soldiers have died since indian forces began battling the tigers in october, according to official figures
tamils make up 18 percent of the island's 16 million people
president mauno koivisto won a second six-year term monday in a vote by the electoral college, which acted when no one got a majority in the general election
koivisto, a social democrat, won 1.5 million votes in the election two weeks ago. he was 3 percent short of a majority and the decision went to the 301-member electoral college, where his victory was never in doubt
the conservative prime minister, harri holkeri, challenged koivisto in the electoral college along with three other contenders, but released his electors after the first round gave the president 144 ballots, 7 shy of a majority
in the second round, koivisto picked up 45 of holkeri's delegates for a total of 189
opposition leader paavo vayrynen of the center party won 68 votes, leftist candidate kalevi kivistoe got 26 and 18 stuck with holkeri. the fifth candidate in the general election, jouko kajanoja, had no electors
hundreds of law enforcement officers from throughout colorado and surrounding states formed a procession monday to pay last respects to an officer killed in a dramatic, nationally televised police chase
robert w. wallis, 51, a 21-year veteran of the denver police department, was killed feb. 9 when he was struck by a vehicle driven by an armed man fleeing from a robbery. he was hit when he got out of the unmarked police car that he had used to try to block the escape
the robber, phillip hutchinson, 24, later was shot to death by officers after he took an elderly man hostage. the incident was captured on videotape by the crew of a television news helicopter, who helped foil the escape by landing their craft on the ground in hutchinson's path
funeral services were held monday morning at the basilica of the immaculate conception in denver, then streets were closed to traffic along a five-mile stretch of city streets as the funeral procession moved to crown hill cemetery in wheat ridge
about 1,200 of the estimated 1,500 people at the funeral were police officers, said denver police department spokesman john wyckoff
bob died doing what he did best, serving and protecting,'' said the rev. raymond jones, police chaplain who officiated at the funeral mass. ``bob was a good friend, a fair man in judgment, a person who also made you feel better.''
following the service, the hour-long procession to the grave site included hundreds of police cars and about 700 police officers, most in uniform. at one point, the procession was four miles long
the afl-cio said monday it will ask congress to give government inspectors the power to close unsafe workplaces and make it easier to file criminal complaints for violations resulting in death or injury
holding its annual winter meeting here this week, the labor federation's 36-member executive council said the 17-year-old occupational health and safety act is ``badly out of date'' with other job and community safety laws
reforms are needed to expand protections to workers not currently covered, to expedite standard setting and to require working training and education,'' the council said
although the details of the requested legislation have yet to be worked out, margaret seminario, deputy director of the afl-cio's occupational safety and health department, said it will include a provision broadening coverage to several groups of workers now exempted
among them are workers in the nuclear industry, some 3 million transportation workers and more than 14 million employees of state and local governments
the 14.3-million-member labor federation said it also wants to give inspectors for the occupational safety and health administration the same authority that a sister agency, the mine safety and health administration, has to shut down a plant or other workplace when there is a significant hazard posing an immediate threat to workers
osha inspectors can do that in some limited cases now, but they first have to obtain a court order. some companies also have refused to allow osha inspectors to even enter their plants without such an order
by contesting an osha citation for a violation, companies effectively can postpone abating or correcting an unsafe condition until all appeals are exhausted, ms. seminario said
the afl-cio measure also would require safety and health committees with union or other worker representation at each job site. the committees would be given the right to conduct inspections, review an employer's hazard control measures and direct a shutdown of a dangerous job
business groups also want the law changed, but in a different way. the u.s. chamber of commerce has called for legislation that would mandate cost-benefit analyses, now being practiced as policy under the reagan adminstration, before osha can issue new or toughen existing health and safety regulations
the chamber also wants to prohibit osha from ``interference'' in issues that it says more appropriately belong under the jurisdiction of the national labor relations board
in the past year, unions have succeeded in getting osha to levy fines up to more than $2.5 million against companies such as ibp corp., the nation's largest meatpacker, and international paper co., during strikes and other labor disputes
the government said monday an american television journalist and his associates were expelled for ``twisting the facts'' and having an ``openly partial'' stand
the government of panama and its people reiterate their position of open doors to all news media of the world ... within the legal, ethical and moral concepts that govern the area in our country,'' said a statement from the justice and interior ministry.d tyrone and della rae franklin
the correspondent said an agent came to his hotel room saturday night and told him to pack his bags, and he was put on the first available flight to miami. he was the second cnn correspondent expelled from the country since last summer
he and the network denied panama's charges
reporters for the washington post and the miami herald have been refused entry to panama in recent weeks
according to the government statement, ``from the first moment of his arrival in panama, lamotte worked diligently to misinform the audience of that network about the political developments of panama, twisting the facts, placing a morbid sensationalism on his reports and projecting a negative image of the country and its daily events.''
it said the reports were ``openly partial to elements that seek instability and chaos in panama.''
burt reinhardt, president of cnn, issued a statement at the network headquarters in atlanta saying: ``the reporting by correspondent larry lamotte was fair and accurate. the real problem is that cnn is widely watched in panama as the only u.s. news service carried by satellite in that country and the government objects to any unfavorable reports
last week cnn carried extensive live testimony by former members of the noriega government who appeared before a senate committee investigating the flow of drugs and money through panama.''
lamotte said monday in atlanta: ``i was objective, fair and balanced. i went down to panama with the intention of covering a news story _ not with a chip on my shoulder or anything _ and that's exactly what i accomplished in panama. but objective, balanced reporting is not what the government of panama wants.''
in another development, a pro-government newspaper said monday an official request would be made soon for the u.s. army southern command to leave its base in the former canal zone. the southern command runs u.s. military operations in latin america
el matutino, citing foreign ministry sources, said the demand awaits only the approval of president eric arturo delvalle
under the 1977 panama canal treaties, the canal is to be turned over to panama at the end of 1999
washington has been exerting pressure on gen. manuel antonio noriega, military commander and the power behind delvalle's government, to step down
public demonstrations against noriega began last june after the colonel who retired as second in command accused him of illicit activities ranging from corruption and narcotics trafficking to the assassination of political opponents
noriega was indicted by federal grand juries in florida earlier this month for drug-related activities
nora astorga, nicaragua's ambassador to the united nations, was buried monday with the honors of a national heroine and a martyr of the leftist sandinista revolution
mrs. astorga, who died of cancer sunday at age 39, gained fame during the revolution by luring a general into her bedroom, where he was killed by rebels
she gained more publicity in 1984, when the reagan administration rejected her as ambassador to the united states
in a eulogy at the the government house hall of heroes and martyrs, where the body lay in state monday, president daniel ortega said:
we have to accept her death, filling the void she left with her example. at the time she fought, victory and triumph were only hopes, but she was there, watching as he companions were killed our wounded, but she always went ahead in combat
that was her conduct always, committed to the cause of the poor and the workers and the freedom of nicaragua. she was outstanding as an examplary militant on the political front, among the masses and the sandinista women's organizations, and in action as a commando.''
ortega recalled the ``commando'' action of 1978, at the height of the sandinista revolution, when she lured gen. reynaldo perez vega, deputy chief of the national guard, into her bedroom and rebels cut his throat
mrs. astorga, who was married twice and had four children, later explained the original plan was to kidnap perez vega and release him in exchange for 59 sandinista prisoners. she said the rebels tried to subdue him, but perez vega resisted and they had to kill him
ortega said monday: ``that was nora, always firm, always advancing, always assuming the post the revolution assigned her during the times of struggle against the somoza dictatorship and afterwards, when it triumphed.''
she was buried at the general cemetery in managua's old quarter
mrs. astorga was a lawyer and a member of the sandinista assembly, a consultative body
ortega appointed her ambassador to the united nations in february 1986
the sandinistas ousted president anastasio somoza, whose family had ruled for 42 years, in july 1979. goldwater quote and updating with dole reax</note>
vice president george bush, pulling out all the stops in his bid to block bob dole from a second straight victory, campaigned monday on the eve of new hampshire's primary with conservative hero barry goldwater
i believe in george bush. he's the man to continue the conservative revolution we started 24 years ago,'' goldwater, the party's 1964 nominee, said in a campaign ad. ``he's the best-qualified candidate for president in my lifetime, other than me, george.''
in a furious day of campaigning, bush said he has turned the tide that began running against him with dole's victory last week in the iowa caucuses
i'm going to win tomorrow. believe me,'' bush told one campus rally, discounting polls that gave dole a small lead
in the five-minute commercial with goldwater, the vice president added, ``i sense a rising tide...with your help, it will carry me to the white house.''
in the election-eve ad taped and broadcast monday, bush suggested dole is too much a creature of washington carry on the reagan revolution
this election is really a question: who can you most trust to continue the reagan revolution? who can you rely on to build on what we have done?'' bush said in the ad
bush slammed dole for backing an oil import fee and suggested dole would raise taxes in other ways if elected
my closest opponent, sen. dole, says he believes in our revolution....sen. dole is a popular and respected figure in washington. but that's where the pressure is most intense to repudiate reaganism with a tax hike,'' bush said
goldwater, 79, the retired senator, flew six hours from his home in arizona to be at bush's side on the final day of the primary campaign
i served with bob dole for many, many years in the senate,'' said goldwater, who walked with a cane. ``i think he's done a very good job. but running the political affairs of 47 people (in the senate) is not like running the lives or helping in running the lives of 250 million-odd people.''
dole shrugged off the goldwater endorsement, saying: ``he can't vote in this state.''
legendary boston red sox slugger ted williams, the hall of fame outfielder, also posed at a news conference with the vice president
gov. john sununu of new hampshire, bush's state chairman, said sunday's night debate turned the tide. he said the polls ``show great movement since the debate. the polls are catching up with reality. we're ahead. we're going to win.''
bush said monday morning in a television interview that dole was making the same mistake bush himself made in 1980 when he thought that winning the iowa caucuses would give him the momentum to carry new hampshire. ronald reagan soundly defeated bush here eight years ago after being upset in iowa
i want new hampshire to do what it did in 1980. ... '' bush said on the cbs morning news. ``bob dole is talking momentum and i'm talking issues on taxes and holding the line on the oil import fee and on presidential leadership, and i think it's working, so i want new hampshire to correct iowa's mistakes
bush's once strong lead in new hampshire polls has evaporated and polls now show the race as a virtual dead heat between the vice president and dole
bush, who finished third in iowa behind dole and pat robertson, called dole's proposal for a budget freeze ``a cop-out because it avoids the tough decisions.''
speaking to elderly residents at a nursing home, bush called dole's plan a ``straitjacket'' that would limit social security cost-of-living increases to two percent
dole has said a two percent cola cap is one possibility, but he has also suggested exempting social security from a freeze
bush said his own ``leadership freeze'' would achieve a balanced budget by 1993 without touching social security or raising taxes
crowds were sparse on this washington's birthday holiday morning as bush, informally dressed in a blue ski jacket, made three breakfast stops
he joined two families on a ski trip at a bickford's family restaurant for pancakes and bacon, sipped coffee with the customers at a dunkin' donuts, and s while chatting with an army sergeant. subs 4th graf, `the jet ...' with 3 grafs to update with number of passengers, crew, new quote; picks up 5th graf, `meanwhile, the ...'</note>
a turbine blade from an eastern airlines jet shattered on takeoff monday and sparked a brush fire just outside the airport, but the plane returned safely and no one was injured, authorities said
flight 8 from miami to newark, n.j., was taking off from miami international airport about 11 a.m. when the incident occurred, said jack barker, regional spokesman for the federal aviation administration
right after takeoff the pilot had a problem with the no. 2 engine and shut it off,'' said barker. ``parts of the turbine blade came out and landed on airport property, and some of them landed in a parking lot.''
the jet, a twin-engine european-built widebody a-300 airbus, can fly safely on one engine, and the pilot returned to the airport 10 minutes later without incident, said barker. the plane carried 249 passengers and 10 crew members
some passengers said they feared for their lives when the turbine disintegrated
it sounded like it hit something,'' one unidentified woman passenger told miami's wplg-tv. ``there was a loud crash and it just dropped for a few seconds, and then everybody just clutched each other.''
meanwhile, the hot pieces of the engine had ignited a small fire in a wooded area outside the airport, but no buildings were threatened and no one was injured
the fragments ignited rubbish and tires in the lot, and four fire engines were still fighting the blaze four hours later, said metro-dade fire department disptacher joanne davis
barker said the cause of the turbine failure is under investigation, and said there have been only rare problems with a-300 engines previously
it could be something sucked into the tube or it could be a turbine failure,'' he said
republican presidential hopeful bob dole was upbeat monday on the eve of the nation's first primary, but he refused to predict flatly that he would notch a second straight win in tuesday's new hampshire balloting
it feels good, like it did in iowa last monday,'' dole said at the windham town hall, his last stop during a day of last-minute campaigning
flanked by olympic gymnast peter vidmar, former baseball commissioner bowie kuhn and his chief new hampshire backer, sen. warren rudman, the kansas senator dodged repeated questions about the outcome tuesday
i don't know how we're going to do ... that's up to you,'' he said
speaking to several hundred people in the town hall, dole used the analogy that monday as primary eve was akin to christmas eve
it's one hour before the stores close. you might as well take me. i'm the last one who came along today,'' he said
dole trailed bush here in the polls by a substantial margin before dole won the iowa caucuses last monday. since then, he has surged in the polls, some of which gave him a small lead. but others suggested his surge had abated, leaving the race too close to call
william brock, dole's campaign manager, said that no matter what the outcome, bush was a loser in new hampshire. ``you can't have a campaign that collapses this fast and have any credibility,'' he said
while bush bid to salvage new hampshire, brock already was looking beyond
as for the bush campaign's claim to have a ``fire wall of support'' in southern states which hold primaries and caucuses next month, brock said, ``it's made of straw. straw burns pretty fast.''
returning to the theme that has dominated his effort, dole said he stands behind his 27-years of public service and nearly 12,000 congressional votes _ a record bush has said does not mean dole has the ability to lead a country
dole chided bush for blaming congress for america's deficit ailments
bush bashes congress all week and then brings up 35 congressmen to help him out'' in new hampshire, referring the people who came to the state sunday to help spread bush's message
i'm not someone who's been on the sidelines, i'm someone who's been in the arena,'' dole said
earlier in the day, dole and his wife, elizabeth, autographed copies of their book ``the doles _ unlimited partners'' while at the fox run mall in newington. babylon; subs 4th graf to explain possession count, picking up 5th graf, `other protests...'.</note>
one diehard puffer threw a kicking and hitting tantrum on the long island rail road, but otherwise, no-smoking rules took effect monday with grumbling acceptance by new york commuter rail riders
the violent reaction came on the 6:10 a.m. train from manhattan to babylon when william mackney, 30, of island park was asked to put out his cigarette, according to lirr spokesman brian dolan
he became abusive, and then allegedly kicked the assistant conductor, and the conductor then became involved, and the man kicked the conductor, and then the passenger allegedly struck the assistant conductor in the face,'' dolan said
railroad police took mackney off at jamaica, queens, and charged with one count each of harassment and criminal possession of a controlled substance, dolan said. the possession charge was filed when mackney could not provide a prescription or other documentation for seven valium pills in his possession, the spokesman said
other protests were verbal
i think we're more discriminated against than anyone else around,'' said julie sullivan of danbury, conn., who lit up while waiting for a metro north train at the north white plains station
kathleen macklowe, who sells computers, pulled strongly on a cigarette as she waited to board her lirr train in mineola
i have one, maybe two, before i board,'' she said. ``i light up as soon as i get off.''
the metropolitan transportation authority, parent of the railroads, voted last month to outlaw smoking under threat of losing federal mass transit funds
among those welcoming the ban was jan schoenfeld, a salesman and onetime pack-a-day smoker from mineola
i literally quit smoking because of the putrid smoking cars,'' said schoenfeld. ``we were caged in that smoking car and couldn't breathe. i had to quit to survive.''
dan brucker of metro north said the law would be enforced in a ``gentlemanly manner,'' and that smokers would be get summonses only if they refuse to put out their cigarettes when asked. there were no plans to put smokers off trains, he said
violators face fines of up to $100
a hearing has been scheduled for feb. 25 in a suit against the ban filed in state supreme court in white plains
the lirr collects 272,000 fares on an average day, and metro north collects just under 190,000
ten more people have been killed in black facitional violence in natal province, including an elderly couple who were stabbed to death, police reported monday
six of the deaths reported overnight occurred in black townships near pietermaritzburg. among them were a 70-year-old man and his wife, 60, and 61-year-old woman, all stabbed
more than 400 people have been killed in the pietermaritzburg area since early 1987 in a power struggle between two black organizations
four blacks were killed in kwadengezi, a township near the port city of durban, the police reported monday. they said attackers hurled a firebomb at a house, then fired at occupants who fled
most of the natal violence stems from a feud between the united democratic front, south africa's largest anti-apartheid coalition, and inkatha, the more conservative organization of zulu leader mangosuthu buthelezi
buthelezi, chief minister of the kwazulu black homeland, opposes apartheid but condemns the coalition's advocacy of boycotts and other militant strategies. front leaders consider buthelezi too cooperative with white authorities
on sunday, buthelezi released the text of a letter to archie gumede, co-president of the united democratic front. in it, he proposed peace talks and blamed both sides for letting the violence continue
men, women and children are being butchered,'' he wrote. ``apartheid continues to kick us in the guts. and yet we are pathetically shouting at each other from public platforms. it shames me, it shames us both
do you and the udf want a measure of sanity to prevail? you and i know that for this to happen, we will have to reach some sort of accord.''
on the eve of the first-in-the-nation new hampshire primary, massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis ignored polls showing him far ahead and said the democratic race is tightening
dukakis said he believes the attacks of his chief rivals _ missouri rep. richard gephardt and illinois sen. paul simon _ may have cut into his support
i haven't been watching a lot of television lately, but i'm told people have been saying some pretty nasty things about me,'' dukakis said. ``i assume that's going to take its toll.''
at a campaign stop in concord, dukakis lashed back at some criticism he has been taking from simon in recent days. dukakis bristled at the charge by simon that he is a technocrat who doesn't care about people
ask the people who know me best,'' dukakis said, ``if there is another state in the country that is seriously proposing universal health care. i don't think you'll find that in illinois.''
simon, dukakis said, ``obviously does not know what he's talking about.''
dukakis criss-crossed new hampshire in a whirlwind final day of campaigning. he said he would not speculate whether he will achieve the 10 percentage point margin that some observers have said is the dividing line between a convincing and a disappointing victory margin for the governor
in the closing days of a campaign, things always tighten,'' dukakis said. the governor repeatedly exhorted his charges to take nothing for granted tuesday and to work until the polls close to get out the dukakis vote
looking ahead to primaries in the southern states _ including super tuesday, march 8, when nearly all the southern states hold primaries _ dukakis said he will write off no region or state
i want to be a candidate who demonstrates that he can do well in all parts of the country,'' he said
in a speech in claremont, n.h., to about 2,000 students from several school districts, dukakis abandoned a prepared text in which he planned to take direct aim at gephardt and simon
in one particularly pointed line directed at gephardt in the prepared text, dukakis quoted from a speech by missouri native harry s. truman in which the late president said:
the policy of reducing barriers to trade is a settled policy of government ... it is a policy from which we cannot and must not turn aside.''
instead, dukakis free-wheeled, giving a brief, standard campaign summary and then taking questions
the government traded one new cordoba monday for 1,000 old ones and raised paychecks to five times their former level in an attempt to control inflation, which reached at least 1,500 percent last year
president daniel ortega announced the currency reform in a broadcast address sunday, declaring that 10 new cordobas will buy one u.s. dollar
he said the plan was ``the best-kept secret of the people ... so that it would not be discovered by the cia.''
other measures in the leftist sandinista government's economic package made salaries five times december levels and increased prices of several staples
gasoline, for example, rose from three new cordobas a gallon to 15. pay rates had not been adjusted to balance last year's rampant inflation
because of inflation, the government had been collecting 50-cordoba notes and converting them to 50,000 by stamping on three more zeroes
until monday, a dollar cost 70 cordobas in the official market used to import machinery, petroleum and other essential goods, 21,000 cordobas in the parallel market and up to 60,000 in the black market
for the currency changeover, the government opened more than 2,000 booths. thousands of people lined up, bringing sacks stuffed with the old notes
new currency is offered in denominations of 10, 20, 50, 100, 500 and 1,000 cordobas. the government retired the old cordoba denominations of 500, 1,000 and 5,000, and the stamped 20,000, 50,000 and 100,000 notes
ortega said a nicaraguan could exchange up to 10 million old cordobas, equal to 10,000 new ones, and bank deposits would be adjusted automatically
three days are allowed for the exchange, during which only newspapers, fuel, medicine and medical services can be purchased with the old bills
the government established a temporary radio service to provide information on the currency exchange
according to the defense ministry, a helicopter crashed in central chontales province sunday because of ``mechanical failure,'' killing five soldiers, a government official and a local representative of the sandinista national liberation front. vice president sergio ramirez said the helicopter was carrying new currency
rides on public transport are free during the exchange period. the national telephone company suspended cordoba payment of international calls until a new rate schedule could be prepared
ortega has blamed nicaragua's economic problems on the 6-year-old war with u.s.-supported contra rebels and the american trade embargo. according to government figures, the two factors have cost nicaragua $3.8 billion in lost income
dinicio marenco, the budget and planning secretary, said monday currency reform ``puts the country in a better position to administer the economic situation.''
on sunday, vice president roberto gutierrez of the central bank said the new economic measures would ``benefit production, the fiscal situation and the external trade of the country.''
an opposing view came from enrique bolanos, president of the higher council of nicaraguan private enterprise. he predicted ``more inflation in the costs of agricultural production'' and ``unprecedented'' price increases for consumer basics
the government said monday short-range nato missiles should not be upgraded now, underscoring differences with the united states as chancellor helmut kohl prepares to visit washington
chief government spokesman friedhelm ost also said the chancellor will call for an east-west treaty banning chemical weapons, another point of dispute between west germany and the united states
in recent weeks, u.s. officials have urged the implementation of a 1983 nato decision to upgrade the short-range nuclear weapons in central europe
u.s. and other nato officials say short-range missiles gained added importance with the superpower agreement to scrap intermediate-range rockets
the west german government says nato must develop overall arms control strategies first and it insists on reductions in superior soviet conventional arms before it upgrades the short-range missiles
the federal republic sees no need for an isolated decision on modernizing or not modernizing particular nuclear weapon systems at this point,'' ost said monday. ``such decisions should be taken only after new overall (disarmament) concepts are worked out.''
the short-range and battlefield nuclear weapons in central europe have a range of less than 300 miles and thus primarily reach targets on west german and east german territory
kohl, who travels to washington on wednesday, has urged repeatedly that higher priority be given to reducing the overall number of short-range weapons rather than upgrading particular systems
ost also said: ``during his talks in the american capital, the chancellor will once again press for a worldwide ban on chemical weapons.''
u.s. officials have said in recent months that it would be difficult to verify such a ban, but west german officials contend problems can be worked out
verification is certainly a difficult question which needs to be solved, but it should not lead us to question the basic feasibility of a chemical weapons agreement,'' ost said monday
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel on monday defended his country's policies in the occupied territories and blamed arab countries for ``horrendous'' conditions in palestinian refugee camps, an israeli spokesman said
shamir told italy's president, francesco cossiga, that he does not consider an international middle east peace conference a good idea but is interested in the latest u.s. peace initiative, an italian official said
shamir arrived in rome monday for a two-day visit, his first trip outside israel since the start of palestinian demonstrations in the israeli-occupied territories dec. 8
his schedule includes talks with italian political leaders but not with pope john paul ii
the prime minister met at a hotel with about 60 leaders of italy's jewish community, which numbers about 40,000. the meeting was closed to the media
avi granot, an israeli embassy spokesman, said shamir described the situation in palestinian refugee camps in israel as ``horrendous'' and blamed ``the arab countries that have not only refused to solve the problem of refugees but continue to do everything possible to prevent an amelioration of the situation.''
we are constantly working for new initiatives for peace,'' granot quoted shamir as saying
we have very clear ideas and proposals that will be presented at the negotiations once they are convened,'' the spokesman quoted shamir as saying. ``we will never give in to the demands of our enemies who are trying to destroy us ... with war and terror.''
bianca finzi, president of bologna's jewish community, handed shamir a letter signed by 500 jews which expressed concern over israel's ``repressive'' measures in the territories and the ``paralysis'' of the coalition government
shamir was scheduled to meet tuesday with premier giovanni goria and leaders of various political parties
during a 30-minute meeting with cossiga at quirinal palace, shamir said he did not consider an international conference ``the best formula'' for solving the arab-israeli conflict, said an italian official at the talks, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity
however, the official quoted the israeli president as saying he found ``useful elements and ideas'' in the latest american initiative
according to israeli officials, the plan calls for an international conference to launch arab-israeli talks by april
negotiations would first focus on a temporary plan to give self-rule to 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
by december, talks on the final status of the territories would begin even if autonomy was not implemented
cossiga visited israel two months ago
anti-israeli protests in the west bank and gaza strip are now in their 10th week. according to u.n. figures, more than 50 arabs have been killed by israelis. agenda</head>
u.s. and soviet negotiators on monday discussed ways to test anti-cheating measures as they began a second round of talks on limiting nuclear test explosions
agreement on verification measures would permit ratification of two superpower treaties limiting the yield of test blasts
the talks are due to last six to eight weeks
the chief soviet delegate, igor palenykh, said on arrival saturday that the two sides are expected to agree on the dates and details of joint nuclear test explosions, one in each country, to be held by june
each side will demonstrate its detection technology in the experiments. palenykh said the tests will help the two sides agree ``preferably in the first half of 1988'' on verification measures for the 1974 threshold test ban treaty and the 1976 peaceful nuclear explosions treaty
both pacts limit test explosions to 150 kilotons. a kiloton equals the explosive force of 1,000 tons of tnt
the u.s. senate never ratified the pacts because of concerns they were unenforceable
palenykh said he hoped the two sides would agree on a combination of anti-cheating measures that would include both on-site detection, which washington favors, and the remote monitoring system moscow wants
washington has not set a deadline for agreement
during the session, preparations for the experiments will continue at the main soviet test range at semipalatinsk and the u.s. site in the nevada desert, palenykh said
the round opened with a meeting at the u.s. mission. the u.s. delegation is headed by robert barker
at the first round in november, the two sides agreed in principle to the joint tests
both sides agree the negotiations should eventually focus on reducing and ultimately banning nuclear tests
more than 200 youngsters tromped through woods in cold and snow up to 2{ feet deep monday in search of two hatchets hidden in an annual game to remind youths of the honesty of the nation's first president
the 66th washington's birthday hatchet hunt sent children racing through the kennebunk woods to find the hatchets and other prizes, including flashlights and compasses, said billy curtis iii of the athol fire department, one of the sponsors of the event
they were a brave little lot,'' curtis said
tisha mallet, 10, of athol emerged from the woods two hours later with the prize of the day _ the george washington memorial hatchet
an hour later, david leger, 11, of nearby hubbardston found the johnny johnstone memorial hatchet, named in honor of the late alexander ``johnny'' johnstone. he was general secretary of the local ymca, which started the event
legend has it that the young george washington chopped down a cherry tree with his little hatchet and then admitted doing so, telling his father, ``i cannot tell a lie.''
the panchen lama, tibet's no. 2 religious leader and generally a supporter of chinese policy, says beijing's ``leftist ideology'' helped spark last fall's violent anti-chinese riots in the province
the 49-year-old high priest, speaking to tibet's legislature last month, also contradicted chinese statements that no tibetans were shot by police in a riot on oct. 1
western journalists reported as many as 14 tibetans and ethnic chinese were killed
the panchen lama said most police followed orders not to fire on crowds in central lhasa, the tibetan capital, but that warning shots ricocheted, injuring or killing people. one person died after being hit directly by a bullet, he said
the demonstrations called for an end to chinese domination over the remote mountain area. china, which claims tibet has been an integral part of chinese territory for seven centuries, gained firm control after its army entered tibet in 1950
the panchen lama's jan. 19 speech was carried by radio tibet and seen monday in a report by a british broadcasting corp. monitoring service. he returned to his home in beijing from tibet this week after a monthlong inspection tour
when we arrived in tibet, we found that comrades of the han nationality were angry, as were comrades of the tibetan nationality,'' he said. hans are ethnic chinese
the panchen lama agreed with chinese officials that ``the incidents were mainly caused by `splittists' inside and outside tibet who colluded with each other.''
but he added that ``over a period of more than 20 years under the guidance of erroneous leftist ideology, we did many wrong things that we should not have done and we should correct these mistakes. we left wounds in the minds of many people and need to cure such wounds.''
tibet was devastated in the 1966-76 cultural revolution, during which red guards destroyed buddhist temples, persecuted people for their religious beliefs and tried to suppress the customs and language of the remote mountain area
the panchen lama was critical of chinese reports on the disturbances, saying there were many misinterpretations because few chinese journalists spoke tibetan
reporters ``wrote their reports in chinese according to these inaccurate interpretations, and the editors or editors-in-chief revised the reports according to the requirements of such reports,'' he said
the official chinese media, in a campaign to emphasize the government position on tibet, has carried hundreds of reports about tibetans who condemn the rioters, monks who regret their actions in the riots and social and economic progress in the area
the reports have increased this week with the approach of a two-week religious festival that attracts thousands of tibetan pilgrims to lhasa. the panchen lama confirmed that officials considered canceling the festival because of concerns of possible violence
the panchen lama is a loyal supporter of chinese policy, in contrast to the man considered tibet's religious leader, the dalai lama
the dalai lama fled tibet in 1959 and lives in exile in india. the chinese government says his anti-chinese statements and calls for tibetan independence were the main cause of the riots, which were led by monks
the panchen lama spent nine years under house arrest for refusing to denounce the dalai lama, and was not permitted to visit tibet again until 1982
no one knows how large the underground economy is, but it functions in countries throughout the world at considerable direct and indirect costs, according to a new study
under the table and off the books, millions of persons worldwide are engaged in jobs that evade the relevant tax and labor laws _ frequently with an official scowl, but a tacit wink, from their governments,'' says the report released monday by johns hopkins university
titled ``the informal economy: studies in advanced and less developed countries,'' it includes essays by 19 authors from italy, spain, uruguay and bolivia as well as the united states
one author estimates the size of the underground economy at 4.4 percent, another 10 percent, another 33 percent of total production. the size also varies by place and industry
negative consequences of the (underground) process are endured not only by workers _ who must cope with low wages, insecure jobs and lack of occupational safeguards _ but also by entire industries,'' they say
bolivian cocaine processors, soviet vodka distillers and thousands of new york unregistered cabdrivers are all considered part of a growing underground world economy that the says skews statistics as well as producing huge unreported and untaxed profits
whatever the amount, the underground activity rarely if ever shows up on the official statistics used by nations and world organizations in making crucial economic policy decisions
a decade ago the size of the underground economy in new york city alone was estimated at more than $16 billion
saskia sassen-koob, director of the urban planning program at columbia university's graduate school of architecture and planning, says a survey in 1981 of four blocks in manhattan found 90 percent of all interior construction being done without permits. she estimates that there are 21,000 ``gypsy'' taxicabs not licensed by the city, twice the number of legal cabs
a study based on a survey of 1,000 recent soviet immigrants to the united states estimates that in soviet cities of the late 1970s, 40 percent of the households received more than a quarter of their income from ``informal'' activities. these ranged from distilling vodka to market gardening, and from bootleg medical services to repairing private cars with parts stolen from government garages, according to former residents
in latin america about 40 percent of the workforce is believed to be ``informally'' employed, the editors say. tenhold.</note>
a dentist facing charges stemming from the discovery of a man's mummified body eight years after his death asked a circuit court judge monday to withdraw a guilty plea, his lawyer said
when he pleaded guilty, he didn't have a lawyer and wasn't familiar with court procedings,'' attorney john pepmeyer said. richard g. kunce had pleaded guilty feb. 1 on a misdemeanor charge of failing to report a death
kunce, 56, a former aurora dentist, was charged in the case of carl l. stevens, whose body was found last month at his knoxville-area home
stevens' widow, carole, 42, also pleaded guilty to charges of failing to report the death. the charge carries a maximum of one year in prison and $1,000 fine. the pair were awaiting sentencing
both also are charged with forging stevens' name on legal and bank documents. kunce also is charged with cruelty to the stevens' teen-age son and daughter who also lived in the house with the corpse, authorities said
kunce, who had been in custody since jan. 29, was released from knox county jail on sunday after posting 10 percent of his $55,000 bond. mrs. stevens also is free on bond
stevens died at age 40 on may 12, 1979, but his body was preserved through a natural dehydration process, officials have said
judge ronald tenold will schedule a hearing on the request to vacate kunce's guilty plea in the next few days, pepmeyer said. exaggerated</head> not involve all 100 teen-agers, picking up 5th graf, `people were...'.</note>
police agreed monday to beef up security at a sprawling shopping mall after fights broke out among some teen-agers
i can't give you any numbers, but we are going to have some more officers out there this weekend,'' moline police capt. thomas marxen said monday after meeting with officials of southpark mall
we are confident there won't be any more problems out there,'' he said
but police said early accounts of the incident were exaggerated; though an estimated 100 teens were on hand, they were not all involved, police said
all 100 kids were not fighting. a scuffle broke out here and there among the group,'' moline police lt. ken hanger said
they found one barbecue fork and one piece of wood _ very few weapons,'' he said
three 15-year-olds from nearby rock island were arrested on disorderly conduct charges saturday after teen-agers started fighting near a drug store at the mall, police said. those arrested were released later that day
people were scared in here,'' said one merchant, victor meeks. ``i had people crowding around this booth and asking me if they could get inside because they were scared.''
disturbances have been escalating for weeks at the 135-store mall, merchants said, with some saying it involved high school rivalries and others saying it was a deliberate diversion to provide cover for shoplifters
two or three people were fighting and some other gang members came down and got involved in it,'' mall employee dan kreiter said. ``it's been building every weekend and every time a few more people get mad. it just built up until ... everything let loose.''
mall officials hired police officers to work saturday because they were expecting problems after minor fights had broken out the weekend before, marxen said
we weren't expecting such a large number of kids,'' police sgt. barry schmelzer said. ``we had two officers in the area but they weren't able to contain the crowd, not only the people who were fighting but the people who gathered.'' waldheim interview. pickup 7th graf pvs ``chancellor franz...''</note>
president kurt waldheim rejected the ``slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations'' of those who want him to resign, and urged the nation monday to unite behind him
his televised speech appeared certain to deepen divisions caused by the report of an international panel of historians last week. it questioned the president's moral integrity and said he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities during world war ii and did nothing to stop them
on monday, waldheim claimed without giving specifics that ``parts of the report do not correspond to the facts but are built on presumptions and hypotheses. for that reason, the conclusions drawn cannot be upheld.''
waldheim, 69, used highly emotional language in appeals both to world war ii compatriots and those too young to know ``the horrors of this war.''
he said he might have erred in not discussing his wartime past but said he never tried to conceal it. ``i have a clear conscience,'' the former u.n. secretary-general told austria's 7.5 million citizens
in their 202-page report, the historians concluded that waldheim tried to cover up his service as a german army lieutenant in the balkans. the government appointed the panel at waldheim's request in september, after the united states put him on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens
in an interview broadcast monday on abc's world news tonight, waldheim appealed to the american public for understanding
if i have misled my friends in the united states because i didn't say anything as far as my military career is concerned, i am sorry. ... it was not done purposely. believe me. and i hope this will be understood because i have so many friends in the united states. and i hope they will believe me that i haven't done anything wrong.''
waldheim also said that resigning would be against the wishes of those who elected him
do you really think that a clear decision by the austrian people on the presidency _ who should be president _ should be corrected? accusations which are completely wrong, which have no foundation. why should then the president resign, leaving the country in disaster?,'' he said
chancellor franz vranitzky said in a televised interview sunday, which was praised even by conservative critics, that waldheim ``did not deal exactly with the truth'' and must restore his credibility
vranitzky said he would consider resigning if the conflict over waldheim continued occupying time the government should devote to other matters. the socialist chancellor leads a coalition with the conservative people's party, which supported waldheim for election in 1986
socialist party secretary heinrich keller said after the 14-minute speech monday it was ``a great disappointment'' and means waldheim ``will continue to be an unbelievable burden for our country.''
a petition drive for waldheim's resignation has obtained more than 2,000 signatures, including those of most leading intellectuals, according to an employee of the news magazine profil. it printed the first 1,496 signatures on three pages monday
about 5,000 opponents of waldheim demonstrated in downtown vienna on sunday, and about half marched to his office in the hofburg palace, calling for his resignation
the president has consistently denied wrongdoing since austrian and u.s. media first disclosed his balkans service in march 1986, during the presidential election campaign. as the controversy continued, he has refused all demands that he resign
waldheim reiterated his stand on monday, arguing that resignation would undo a decision fundamental to austria's democracy
in the course of the renewed discussion, the question was also put about my premature departure from the office of federal president,'' he said. ``i want to take a stand in all clarity: you, my dear austrians, have elected me federal president with a convincing majority in a secret and direct election for six years
thus it is no longer a matter of the man kurt waldheim,'' he said. ``in view of the slanders, i have often asked myself in the last two years whether i should carry on
it is a fundamental principle of our democracy that an election result cannot be subsequently corrected,'' waldheim said. ``a head of state must not retreat in the face of slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations.''
in a runoff election in june 1986, waldheim won with 53.6 percent of the vote
hans rudolf kurz, the swiss chairman of the historians' commission, said in a magazine interview published monday he thinks waldheim would do austria a service by resigning
alois mock, deputy chancellor of austria and head of the people's party, reiterated his support for waldheim but economics minister robert graf, another leading conservative, expressed impatience
graf said waldheim ``must take a decision which is very important for our country.''
in a radio interview several hours before the president spoke, graf said he was concerned about austria's tainted image and praised the comments vranitzky made sunday
conservative commentators who once stood solidly behind the president also were complimentary about the chancellor
in an apparent reference to vranitzky, waldheim asked political leaders monday ``not to pour oil on the fire'' of debate
he said the debate abroad would abate if ``the polemics stop inside austria itself.''
to ``my dear countrymen'' he said:
you can trust me as you trusted me two years ago when you elected me. ... those people who spread intolerance and discord cannot be allowed to prevail, but rather the great majority of those for whom it is a question of our homeland, of our common austria
if we want this, we will do it together and can form the future with new strength.''
a court sentenced seven men to labor camps monday for running a crime ring that used african diplomats to smuggle paintings, icons and jewelry out of the country, tass said
the official news agency said the sentences ranged from four to eight years
during the arrest and search more than 200 paintings of the 15th-20th centuries, 800 icons framed in pearls, jewelry (including works of faberge) and 2.5 million rubles (about $4 million) worth of diamonds were confiscated,'' tass reported
it said the total value of the stolen goods was 4.2 million rubles, or about $6.7 million at the official exchange rate. the agency did not say when the men were convicted, but sentencing often occurs at the time a verdict is read
tass said yuli fand, a painter and former policeman, led the ring. he and his gang had contacts among soviet emigres who operated antique shops in west berlin and vienna
the news agency said the group was aided by a number of diplomats from about 10 african countries who acted as couriers
some of them were accredited and others are still accredited in moscow. using their diplomatic privileges, they carried valuables across the border and smuggled to the ussr money and sometimes consignments of watches and other goods,'' tass said
among those sentenced was fassinou emmanuel totin, a citizen of benin who had been a graduate student at a moscow university
fand was sentenced eight years in a labor camp and totin to five. eduard rapoport, valentin andronnikov and yegeny popov received six-year terms, boris khavilov was sentenced to a five and marat oster got four
the men's property was confiscated. name and title.</note>
gov. tommy g. thompson, who made a crusade out of wooing business to the state, is now threatening to sue chrysler corp. for breaking what thompson says was a promise to keep an auto plant open
thompson said chrysler promised it would build omni-horizon cars for five years at a kenosha plant it took over when it bought american motors corp., and that a suit will be filed if the state can't get a satisfactory settlement
chrysler officials have denied the plant closing would break a legal commitment. ``we did not lie to anybody,'' company chairman lee iacocca told reporters when asked about the kenosha decision last week
late last month chrysler announced it would halt production at the 86-year-old plant. the move will result in the layoff of about 5,500 workers by late summer
thompson maintained the company made the five-year pledge in exchange for a state promise of money to help retrain workers
wisconsin's business image, as well as the image of chrysler and iacocca, could be affected if the case goes to court, some legislators and business leaders say
stewart macaulay, a professor at the university of wisconsin law school, said wisconsin would have an ``iffy'' lawsuit, but good arguments by the state could lead to an out-of-court settlement
the audience the state is trying for now is chrysler lawyers,'' said macaulay, who has taught contract law for 30 years
thompson said west virginia is preparing to go to trial with a similar lawsuit filed last fall after an anchor hocking co. glass factory closed in clarksburg and put 940 people out of work
he insists the lawsuit can be won, even though there is no signed contract calling for autos to be produced in kenosha for five years
there is no reason for chrysler not to live up to its agreement,'' he said. but ``we are going to explore every possibility to settling this as quickly as possible,'' he added
members of the business community, the legislature and the legal profession express doubts about the wisdom of filing a suit
we're working very hard to project wisconsin as a business-friendly state,'' said james haney, president of the wisconsin manufacturers and commerce, a 3,000-member association
haney said a state's reputation in the business community can be ``set back real fast if you aren't careful.''
this will undo all the governor has sought to do to improve the business climate'' in his first 13 months in office, said democratic state sen. russell feingold
we're going to get a black eye in the business community across the nation,'' said feingold, a frequent foe of the republican governor
but thompson said failure to enforce the verbal agreement would send the wrong message. ``they broke their word. there is no other way to describe it,'' he said
state attorney general donald hanaway has advised thompson that despite the lack of a written contract, wisconsin has a ``clearly enforceable'' agreement with chrysler
gerald greenwald, chrysler motor corp. chairman, said company officials were sorry the plant had to be closed
i guess you could say chrysler was overly optimistic'' when it told workers and government officials it believed it could build the omni-horizon in kenosha for up to five years, he said
hanaway said the state could sue for breach of contract and demand chrysler keep the factory open or pay damages for unemployment benefits and other social costs of the mass layoff. damages could approach $100 million, he said. with report of leaflets by arabs calling for attacks against israeli settlements and flyers by settlers against arabs. inserts 2 grafs after 16th graf pvs ```that's not...''' to update with shamir comment in rome.</note>
police fought palestinians in the holy city monday and hospital officials said an arab was wounded by gunfire. it was the first bloodshed reported in jerusalem since riots in the occupied lands began dec. 8
in the west bank town of kfar salem, 40 miles north of jerusalem, military investigators questioned four young arabs who say israeli soldiers using a bulldozer buried them alive after a protest feb. 5
i am afraid. i thought i was going to die,'' abdel latif mahmoud ishtiah, 19, said soon after he was questioned in a white police van. ``i dream about it all the time.''
maj. gen. amram mitzna, military commander in the west bank, said a sergeant-major from the military government and two or three other soldiers were involved and would be tried
he told army radio: ``even in my worst dreams, i would never imagine such a thing even though i constantly warn commanders to expect the most awful things that could happen when soldiers find themselves all of a sudden commanding and deciding the lives of citizens.''
in another case, the newspaper hadashot said three soldiers of the elite golani brigade were given jail terms of at least 21 days each for violating orders against excessive use of force. the army said it had no information on the matter
according to u.n. figures, 54 arabs have been killed by israelis since protests began in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. most of the dead were shot by soldiers, and hundreds have been wounded
israeli media, meanwhile, said leaflets have surfaced in the occupied territories calling on residents to stage a ``day of wrath'' tuesday by stepping up protests, attacking jewish settlements, holding commercial strikes and staying home from their jobs
in jerusalem, members of the gush emunim settlement movement said they were printing flyers to be distributed in arab areas. the leaflets contain threats that if the protests continue, arabs might be ousted from the west bank, israel television said
israel radio said 21 arrests were made monday in jerusalem, which israel has annexed, bringing to 437 the number of arabs detained in the city since trouble began in december. it said the latest arrests include four activists who been leaders in organizing protests
jerusalem police spokesman rafi levy said arrests were made in the shufat refugee camp and silwan village, both inside the city limits
he said police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse stone-throwing protesters in anata, near shufat. levy said there were no reports of shooting, but a border police officer at the scene told photographers rubber bullets and live ammunition were used
officials at mukassad hospital said a 23-year-old arab from shufat was brought in with a gunshot wound in the abdomen. the arab-run palestine press service said he was shot during a clash in shufat
border police in jerusalem's sur bahir neighborhood fired tear gas to subdue protesters who built roadblocks of twisted metal and burning tires. associated press photographer max nash saw police detain two young arabs
sur bahir residents said border police broke into their homes. they showed reporters smashed windows, a dented gas heater, an overturned television set and shattered glass panels of a china cabinet
increasing signs of friction appeared between israel and the united states over new american proposals for arab-israeli negotiations based trading territory for peace
prime minister yitzhak shamir told a news conference before leaving for italy he disagreed with a statement by secretary of state george p. shultz, made in a speech last week in washington, that negotiations must involve such a trade
that's not the principle that guides me,'' said shamir, whose right-wing likud bloc opposes the return of land israel has occupied since the 1967 middle east war
later in rome, shamir defended his country's policies in the occupied territories and blamed arab countries for ``horrendous'' conditions in palestinian refugee camps, an israeli spokesman said
shamir told president francesco cossiga the call for an international middle east peace conference was not ``the best formula'' but said he is interested in the latest u.s. peace initiative, an italian official said
foreign minister shimon peres, who leads the center-left labor party and is shamir's rival in the coalition government, recommended a joint labor-likud approach to the u.s. initiative
i also proposed that we sit together,'' he said. ``it doesn't look so good when american envoys come, and it seems that there are two governments. despite the differences of opinion, we need to sit together.''
israel radio said the supreme court heard four hours of argument about three palestinians ordered expelled from the occupied lands as a result of the riots. four were sent to lebanon last month despite international protests that deportations violate geneva conventions
in nicosia, cyprus, a ferry being readied to carry palestinian deportees on a plo-sponsored protest voyage to israel was damaged by an explosion in the cypriot port of limassol on monday. a man claiming to speak for the jewish defense league said the u.s.-based extremist group was responsible for ``bombing'' the ferry
in athens, the plo's chief spokesman bassam abu sharif said the much-delayed voyage will sail. it was not clear when it would get under way
the irish republican army claimed responsibility monday for the fatal shooting of a part-time soldier in the ulster defense regiment
the claim was made in a statement to news media, delivered hours after the royal ulster constabulary said gunmen followed a 23-year-old man into the carpentry shop where he worked in kilkeel, county down
police said the man was shot five times in the head and chest and died later in the hospital. friends identified him as alan johnston, a carpenter and lance corporal in the ulster defense regiment, a locally recruited, mainly protestant organization
police said the gunmen fled in a stolen car later found abandoned in a predominantly roman catholic area a half-mile away
johnston is the seventh person to be killed in sectarian violence this year in northern ireland where the outlawed ira is fighting to end british rule in the province
a broken oil line on an air compressor used in artificial snow-making apparently caused an explosion that killed three men and destroyed a building at a ski resort, the state fire marshal said monday
gauges recovered from the blast at the canaan valley resort state park ski area indicated the three men had started the compressor before it exploded sunday, fire marshal walter smittle said
all this is speculation,'' smittle said. ``we're waiting for a technician to arrive to verify (the preliminary findings.)''
smittle estimated damage at up to $1.2 million
state police identified the victims as ronald l. hanlon, 33; dale w. liller, 25; and randy lee crowl, 24, all of davis
the explosion occurred in the resort's maintenance building, a 50-by-75-foot stone and wood structure at the base of the canaan valley ski area. it housed a vehicle maintenance area, an office and six compressors that mixed water and air to make artificial snow
the employees killed were ``snow makers'' and had been performing routine maintenance on one of the six compressors when it exploded. the five other units also were destroyed
a man died early tuesday when the car he had been driving burst into flames a few yards from prime minister margaret thatcher's official london residence and office at 10 downing street, police reported
police bomb squad officers raced to the scene fearing a possible terrorist attack but scotland yard said in a statement: ``there was no trace of an explosive device.''
the statement said the cause of the fire at the entrance to downing street from whitehall, the main thoroughfare in the area, was not immediately known. ``a car pulled up in whitehall at the entrance to downing st. and burst into flames. the fire was put out by london fire brigade and the body of a man was found inside the car,'' an earlier statement said
the incident happened shortly after 1 a.m. and was witnessed by a police officer on duty at the metal security barriers which separate downing street from whitehall
the car had been traveling down whitehall from the direction of the the houses of parliament, the statement said
whitehall was sealed off as police investigated the wreckage
no details about the dead man were immediately known. a fire brigade spokesman said the body had been badly burned
mrs. thatcher's office said in a statement that the prime minister was at 10 downing street at the time of the incident but had not been in any way involved. update with jdl, jdo saying their groups not responsible.</note>
a ferry being readied to carry palestinian deportees on a plo-sponsored protest voyage to israel was damaged by an explosion monday that was believed set off by a limpet mine
a man claiming to speak for the jewish defense league said the u.s.-based extremist group was responsible for blasting the 6,151-ton sol phryne at limassol, its home port on cyprus' southern coast
a senior plo official interviewed in nicosia said: ``it was an underwater blast caused by a mine that was stuck, probably by frogmen, onto the vessel. it was attached to a time fuse.''
asked what the palestine liberation organization planned to do now, the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: ``we are waiting for a decision by the command. we have to see if there is an alternative ship for the voyage.''
the jdl is responsible for the bombing at limassol,'' said an anonymous caller. ``this is only a warning. next time we will bomb it with all the people on it.''
he telephoned his statement to the associated press in nicosia
he said ``no comment'' when asked if the jdl also was behind the sunday car-bombing that killed three plo officials in limassol
the three _ mohammed sultan, mohammed buheis and marwan kayyali _ were involved in negotiations to charter the vessel for the voyage, cypriot security sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
the jdl advocates use of violence in the arab-israeli conflict. it was founded in the early 1960s by new york-born meir kahane, now a member of israel's parliament and head of extremist, anti-arab kach party
there was no way to verify the caller's identity
the head of the jewish defense league, irv rubin, told the associated press in a telephone interview from los angeles: ``whoever did this righteous action, we don't know him or her personally ... it's a great honor they gave us the credit, but it belongs to people much more courageous than the jewish defense league.''
a group that belonged to the original jdl, the jewish defense organization, said in a statement issued monday in new york: ``the jdo claims no direct involvement in this righteous attack, but supports it 100 percent.''
in athens, bassam abu sharif, the plo's chief spokesman who has been overseeing preparations for the much-delayed voyage, insisted the ``ship of return'' will sail
we are continuing our plans and we will sail, in spite of israeli terrorists who are using bombs against ideas, noble ideas,'' he said
fouad al-bittar, the plo diplomatic representative in athens, said ``the damage (to the 40-year-old ferryboat) is not very severe.'' he said a hole 21{ inches wide was ripped in the hull
in algiers, a senior aide to plo chief yasser arafat said the organization will get another craft for the voyage. salah khalaf, better known as abu iyad, also said ``zionist terrorism'' disabled the sol phryne
the plo had tried to launch the voyage from greece, but it was repeatedly delayed, reportedly under israeli pressure
the 130 deportees plus hundreds of international supporters and journalists were taken in buses to athens airport monday and were told they would be flown to cyprus to board the boat
after news of the blast reached athens, most returned to their hotels
sol phryne's captain, cleanthis vlahopoulos, said his vessel ``would not be fit to sail for several months.''
the planned voyage carries echoes of the 1947 trip of the exodus, in which jewish refugees from nazi death camps were turned back by british forces as they tried to emigrate to palestine
the trip is designed to focus condemnation of israel's policy of deporting palestinians from the occupied west bank and gaza strip, seized from jordan and egypt in 1967
the deportees included taxi drivers, laborers, a university professo, an anglican bishop, several mayors and city council members
the voyage was supposed to end in haifa, but israeli officials have said they will refuse to let the vessel enter their waters
limassol port manager john ghighis told the ap, ``there will be ... an underwater survey to find out exactly what happened, how big a hole there is and what repairs may be necessary.''
israel radio quoted political sources in jerusalem as saying the plo itself set off the explosion because it realized it could not succeed in its mission to reach israeli shores
a local businessman won what was described as the world's biggest slot machine jackpot _ $6.9 million _ at a casino here sunday, officials said
the 61-year-old man lined up four ``7s'' on a megabucks progressive slot machine at the cal-neva club to claim the jackpot. officials declined to identify him, saying he'll be introduced at a news conference monday morning at the casino
the good fortune may help the man make up for a lapse, officials said: he told them he had forgotten to buy his wife a valentine's day gift for the first time in 26 years
the payoff surpassed the previous record jackpot of $4.9 million won by terry williams of los gatos, calif., at harrah's reno on feb. 1, 1987
williams won his jackpot on a similar megabucks progressive slot machine. megabucks links slot machines in various casinos across the state
megabucks officials said sunday's big winner goes to the cal-neva for breakfast every sunday and regularly plays their slots. news digest: goffstown, n.h. _ gop debate, a0434; washington _ robertson-cuban missiles, a0438; calgary, alberta _ skating for jane, a0458; baltimore _ another look: stolen babies, a0413; washington _ european poll, a0429; washington _ humphrey hideaway, a0437.</note>
republicans bob dole and george bush were locked in what looked to be a dead-even race and democratic leader michael dukakis ignored sniping from his rivals as the presidential candidates began a last day of work today before new hampshire's critical primary
a frenetic final search for votes marked the eve of the nation's first primary, one that could well be the last stop of the 1988 campaign for some of the hopefuls
fresh polls showed dole and bush in a virtual tie, the vice president's once substantial lead vanished into new hampshire's frigid air and the trend moving in the kansas senator's direction. on the democratic side, dukakis remained far and away the leader, with richard gephardt and paul simon still dueling for second
composer frederick loewe, who 50 years ago teamed with lyricist alan jay lerner to enchant audiences with classics like ``gigi,'' ``camelot,'' ``my fair lady'' and ``brigadoon,'' has died at age 86
the surviving member of one of the most successful collaborations in american musical history died on valentine's day of heart failure, said his guardian and friend, john morris
lerner and loewe produced such favorite songs as ``almost like being in love,'' ``i could have danced all night,'' ``on the street where you live,'' ``i've grown accustomed to her face'' and ``if ever i would leave you.''
the army today said it was investigating allegations that about 20 israeli soldiers used a bulldozer to bury alive four arabs after anti-israeli protests earlier this month in the occupied west bank
the army said in a statement that two soldiers were detained and questioned sunday and that other soldiers would be taken into custody soon
israeli newspapers quoted villagers where the incident allegedly occurred as saying the four arabs were unconscious when relatives rescued them after several minutes. three were treated at a west bank hospital and released the same day, while the fourth was hospitalized for eight days, the reports said
chancellor franz vranitzky said the controversy over president kurt waldheim's wartime conduct is taking up too much of his time as a government leader and he may resign unless the furor subsides soon
vranitzky did not ask for the resignation of waldheim, who has been accused of complicity in nazi atrocities during world war ii, but the socialist chancellor said waldheim's resignation would be ``an important signal.''
vranitzky's comments came in a televised interview sunday and constituted his strongest attack so far on waldheim in a deepening political crisis dividing this nation of 7.5 million people
bolivian cocaine processors, soviet vodka distillers and thousands of new york cabdrivers are all part of a growing underground world economy that a study says is fouling up statistics as well as producing huge profits
under the table and off the books, millions of persons worldwide are engaged in jobs that evade the relevant tax and labor laws _ frequently with an official scowl, but a tacit wink, from their governments,'' says the report released today by johns hopkins university
titled ``the informal economy: studies in advanced and less developed countries,'' it includes essays by 19 authors from italy, spain, uruguay and bolivia as well as the united states
state and federal officials are fighting efforts by texas and california to keep out florida citrus fruit after the lifting of a federal ban imposed to keep a plant disease from spreading to other states
the issue is canker, a bacterial disease with the potential to seriously cripple an entire industry
florida has been battling a mild form of nursery canker for three years. industry leaders and scientists recently succeeded in convincing the u.s. department of agriculture it was not a threat to fruit or trees in commercial groves. officials had initially feared the disease was the virulent asiatic canker
residents here speak with awe about the changes facing this town, with its empty houses and idle plants, when the navy breaks ground this week for a $140 million home port for the battleship wisconsin
naval station ingleside, won in a bidding competition among gulf coast communities from texas to florida, is welcomed locally as a boost for a region that has endured hard times in the oil and shrimping industries
still, in a town with 5,000 people and one traffic light, there is a touch of fear in the voices of residents who know their lives may be changed forever by the thousands of people and millions in revenues the port is expected to attract by its scheduled completion in 1991. besides the wisconsin, the port will be home to the training carrier lexington and three other ships
gen. alfredo stroessner's landslide victory in the presidential election was achieved through widespread fraud, according to opposition leaders and foreign observers
the 75-year-old president and his governing colorado party on sunday won an eighth straight term, receiving 89 percent of the vote, interior minister sabino montanaro announced. montanaro is also party president
stroessner, elected to a five-year-term, has governed the nation of 3.8 million people since taking power in an army coup in 1954
while officially opposed to apartheid, japan has replaced the united states as south africa's largest trading partner, and officials say they're concerned it will hurt japan's image
japanese trade with south africa surged 19 percent last year to $4.27 billion, according to preliminary japanese figures
that increase has led to charges, which japanese officials deny, that japan is filling the vacuum left by u.s. and other foreign companies that leave south africa because of its apartheid policy of racial segregation. news digest: concord, n.h. _ political rdp; wash _ robertson-missiles; jerusalem _ israel; vienna, austria _ waldheim; vilnius, u.s.s.r. _ lithuania; minneapolis _ storm rdp; amherst, mass. _ umass takeover.</note>
most of the presidential candidates in tuesday's new hampshire primary were struggling not just to win, but to avoid losing so badly that it could virtually eliminate them from the race
democrat bruce babbitt, who finished a dismal fifth in the iowa caucuses, managed a joke about the precarious existence of his campaign
bruce babbitt frankly did not start out as a household name, and some would say he'll end this race as not a household name,'' the former arizona governor said at one stop sunday night
jack kemp calls the vice president of the united states an ``embarrassment'' to the republican party. paul simon asks whether democrats can trust a man who has supported nuclear power and the b-1 bomber
candidates are on the attack as the new hampshire primary campaign rushes to its climax tuesday
for several of the dozen candidates bidding for support in the first presidential primary of this election year, wednesday looms as a day for unpacking and putting their white house dreams in storage
fear of retribution pervades this arab village, which the israeli army sealed off after four palestinian youths claimed soldiers buried them alive with a bulldozer
seven men and four women dug up the kids,'' said rasmi said hamdan, a teacher who reported seeing everything from his home on feb. 5. ``they used their bare hands. two of them were completely buried and two had their heads sticking out, their mouths full of mud
usually this is a very quiet village. a lot of people worked with the israelis. but because they (the villagers) have talked to the press, there is a feeling that the authorities will take revenge.''
the reagan administration's policy of keeping military and espionage blow-ups with the soviet union from slowing a drive for better overall relations is back in operation following the collision of u.s. and soviet warships in the black sea
the united states complained about soviet actions in last friday's incident by summoning soviet ambassador yuri dubinin to a 20-minute protest meeting with the state department's third-ranking officer
the department issued a public condemnation
a new superconductor that operates at higher temperatures and may be easier to adapt to practical applications has been discovered by a research team in japan, scientists said monday
the superconductor is not merely a refinement of either of the two known high-temperature superconductors, but an entirely new compound that in some respects may exceed the performance of the others, said a panel of scientists at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
the new material _ a mixture of bismuth, strontium, calcium, copper and oxygen _ raises the temperature at which superconductivity occurs to about 243 degrees below zero fahrenheit, a jump of more than 50 degrees above levels attained with previous superconductors
if there's anything local school boards usually don't like, it's orders from above. but many are finding they need strong state leadership to overcome community obstacles to teaching children about aids
this is a unique situation,'' said katherine fraser, co-director of the aids education project at the national association of state boards of education
in a lot of instances, state requirements are resented and are counterproductive,'' said fraser. ``but this is a case where many local boards are facing opposition in their communities and they're looking to the state for a requirement. they want to go back to the community and say, `look, this is something we're required to do. let's figure out how.'''
from gypsy moths in the shenandoah to wild pigs in the great smokies to creeping kudzu in the west, an invasion of exotic animal and plant species is threating the nation's national parks
a draft summary of a major, just-completed national park service assessment of the condition of natural and cultural resources lists ``encroachment by plants and animals not native to park environments'' ahead of any other ``major issues and threats'' to natural resources
sometimes the invasion is part of the ebb and flow of nature, as with gypsy moths attacking trees in virginia's shenandoah national park. sometimes it is the end of a complex process kicked off by humans, as in the replacement of sawgrass with cat-tail plants in the everglades national park in florida as a result of fertilizer-laden water entering the swamp. that changes the whole food chain in the park
ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's regime is in firm control as his fundamentalist islamic revolution begins its 10th year, but a power struggle looms when the 87-year-old patriarch dies
his lieutenants appear to be preparing for khomeini's death, which will be a major test for the revolution at a time of war, economic hardship and increasing international isolation
khomeini is reported in poor health and has sought recently, after years of reluctance, to eliminate obstacles to economic and social reform
he remains the revered imam, symbol of an islamic resurgence that toppled the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi and brought khomeini home in triumph feb. 1, 1979, after 15 years in exile
opening of negotiations and relative quiet on the warfront have sparked a glimmer of hope that two decades of savage conflict in cambodia can be solved through political compromise rather than more bloodshed
after an 8-year-long stalemate, two rounds of peace talks were recently held between key protagonists: cambodian resistance leader prince norodom sihanouk and prime minister hun sen of the pro-hanoi regime in cambodia
vietnam, which invaded cambodia in 1978, now says that if an acceptable political solution is reached, it may withdraw its troops before an announced 1990 pull-out. and moscow has indicated it wants to heal itself of two festering asian sores: cambodia and afghanistan
an arsonist who burned the town's elementary school and damaged a church that opened its doors to students may have set a fire monday that destroyed another church and its classrooms, authorities said
omak, a central washington town of 4,000 that boasts okanogan county's only stoplight, has been terrorized by the arson spree
it's affected everyone in town. people are very, very grim,'' said mary koch, managing editor of the weekly omak chronicle. ``they were somber as they drove by it going to work this morning. it was still burning.''
roxanne pulitzer, whose version of life in exclusive palm beach hit the new york times bestseller list this week, says she feels no bitterness towards her ex-husband five years after their tawdry, well-publicized divorce
this is my valentine's day present,'' ms. pulitzer said of reaching no. 10 sunday on the national nonfiction bestseller list with ``the prize pulitzer: the scandal that rocked palm beach _ the real story.''
the book, which on its first page calls palm beach a ``buffet society babylon,'' is full of gossip about the rich and famous, from alfred bloomingdale to barbra streisand
prince edward may be fifth in line for the british throne, but he didn't risk being late monday on his first day at work as a theater production assistant
he arrived 10 minutes early at his new job, which appropriately is at the palace theater
edward, who abandoned a career in the royal marines last year, arrived with a confident grin on his face, a royal bodyguard at his side and, most importantly, a box of teabags tucked under his arm
production assistant is the most junior job, and the 23-year-old prince will be expected to perform the most humdrum of backstage errands, including making tea for his new co-workers at composer andrew lloyd webber's really useful theater co
asked if he was looking forward to his first day on the job, edward said only: ``of course i am.''
this is where they teach elephants to do tricks
in six months to a year, the way kambas elephant school can teach an elephant to salute, sit on concrete bench, lift things, pull cars, climb steps, kick a ball, step over a prostrated person _ and play soccer
this year 25 of the school's best soccer players were selected from a group of 42 to play feb. 8 at bandar lampung as a highlight at a national koran-reading contest. the koran is the moslems' holy book
the players received three months' intensive training on how to play good, clean soccer, because even in elephant soccer, which has become popular in some areas of southeast asia, a player can be penalized
after graduating from the school, the elephants are auctioned off, with a knockdown price of $5,992, to perform in circuses or other events
most of the elephants enrolled in the school come from the thick tropical jungles here on the island of sumatra
they are rounded up with the help of experienced trainers from thailand called ``mahout.'' the mahouts have brought several ``seasoned'' elephants from thailand called ``kunce'' to help lure prospective students to a secluded spot, where they are narcotized with dart-guns
then the sedated elephants are loaded onto trucks and brought to the school at lampung
the idea of teaching wild elephants to do tricks arose after the government decided against trying to decrease sumatra's elephant population to keep them from damaging farm crops
thus, with the help of the government of thailand, the school was established in the way kambas district of south sumatra in august 1985
the school covers an area of 1,235 acres and has a staff of 10, including five thai mahouts
an increasing human population on sumatra and uncontrolled slash-and-burn farming methods have resulted in a scarcity of food for wild elephants, leaving them to forage on farms
the province of lampung alone has about 500 wild elephants, whose number grows at a rate of about 20 a year
the indonesian government has launched several campaigns to move the elephants to conservation areas. the biggest conservation campaign, started in 1982, has succeeded in moving 230 wild elephants into a conservation area in central sumatra
chatru singh has given up praying to the ``rain gods.'' he is tired of waiting for the misery of drought to end. he's thinking about leaving his farm and moving to a city like new delhi
his fields lie barren, his cows and buffaloes are emaciated for lack of fodder, and he has barely enough food for his family
four consecutive years of drought here in the state of rajasthan have reduced his farm and hundreds of thousands of others to expanses of dust
the drought has brought severe shortages of drinking water and fodder, spiraling prices and fears of even worse times ahead if the rains fail again this year
the lack of water and feed even has afflicted the state's hundreds of thousands of camels, the main mode of transportation for villagers scattered about the desert area
instead of growing lentils and wheat on his five-acre farm, singh, 46, now builds roads under a government relief program
he considers that demeaning work, but it provides him with 70 cents a day to feed his wife and three children
first the monsoons failed so our summer crop was destroyed, and then we couldn't sow the winter crop because there was no moisture in the earth,'' singh said during a pause in his work on the road. even so, he said, he sowed some seeds, but the birds ate them
the rajasthan state government is engaged in a massive relief program, selling wheat at subsidized prices, hiring people for construction work, running camps for abandoned cattle and deepening wells. but officials say that if it doesn't rain this summer, the state cannot continue the program
rajasthan, which forms a part of the vast thar desert extending from western india to pakistan, traditionally is drought-prone. the normal rainfall in the state, known for its forts and palaces, varies between 2 inches to 10 inches but last year the rains failed completely
india was gripped by the century's worst drought last year and 16 of its 25 states were affected. those states asked the federal government in new delhi for $4.6 billion in assistance but got only $1.54 billion to divide up among them
we will have a law and order problem this summer if it still doesn't rain,'' said r.n. meena, the ajmer district's top administrator
many animals will die. no one can save them. only the rains can.''
the district has an estimated 650,000 cattle and they need fodder, meena said
we bring in about 80 to 90 trucks from other states while the requirement is 400 trucks.''
water in ajmer, a city of 450,000 people, comes once every three days, and people store it in every available receptacle. housewives save bathwater to use for their laundry
anasagar, a huge artifical lake that provided drinking water to ajmer, is completely dry for the first time since it was created in the 12th century by the damming of the luni river. residents say it is a curious sight to see people walk on the lake bed
there is hardly any ground water here because the area is rocky,'' said ram prashad choudhary, spokesman for the district. he added that only very big farmers can afford the high cost of digging irrigation wells
it costs about $7,692 to dig a well because the drilling has to go down 700 feet to reach ground water, choudhary said
many poor people, whose main occupation was raising cows and selling milk, have abandoned the animals or sold them to butchers from bombay at throwaway prices
a count in 1983 came up with 49 million head of cattle in all of rajasthan, india's second-largest state with 39 million people. nobody knows how many are left. in normal conditions, each animal requires about 45 pounds of food a day
the people of rajasthan often face the dilemma of feeding themselves or their cattle
zakeera banu, a moslem woman working on a state project to deepen a pond near ajmer, said, ``i earn 9 rupees (70 cents) a day. i can either buy enough fodder for my two goats or vegetables for ourselves.''
the government estimates that 10,000 to 20,000 homeless children roam the streets of the ermita red-light district in manila, falling into lives of prostitution, petty crime and drug addiction
volunteers and social workers have mobilized in an effort to save them
we have street children, we have all types of exploited children. they are victims,'' said nenuca ross, a volunteer with the government's department of social welfare
many of the children drifted into manila from impoverished rural provinces
but with few skills and no education, both parents and children survive by begging and by selling cigarettes and smuggled watches. many of the children go on to prostitution, pickpocketing, shoplifting, extortion and drug trafficking
but the government and private agencies are now intensifying efforts to find and rehabilitate such children and break the cycle of crime and poverty
we go to them,'' mrs. ross said. ``we talk to them. we sit on the sidewalks with them, invite them to a hotdog sandwich or something.''
mrs. ross said the children are easiest to persuade on rainy days when ``business is bad'' or when they are apprehended by police
once they have been found, children 6 to 13 years old are taken to the welfare department's ``tent schools'' where they receive counseling and the rudiments of reading and writing
those who have suffered serious beatings, drug addiction or sexual abuse are taken to a half-way house in alabang, a manila suburb where they receive psychiatric help. teen-agers go to state-run juvenile institutions
officials say child prostitution has been a problem for years and president corazon aquino has promised to crack down on child prostitution and give greater priority to child welfare programs
rita roque, manila's welfare department director, said the city's two tent schools have successfully reintegrated some 100 children since the program began last year. the department plans to build a third school in ermita, the red-light district of seedy bars, brothels and cheap hotels near manila bay
mrs. ross said about 800 children have been graduated over the past two years from the alabang center. but she added that about 800 others escaped and returned to the streets
that's because they are not helped,'' mrs. roque said. ``it's not because they really want to but there is no other way for them to survive. unless a helping hand comes along and helps them recover, that is what will happen to them.''
mrs. ross said criminal syndicates work actively against welfare workers to prevent children from seeking help
i've seen some of these transactions, but we cannot intervene,'' she said. ``there is a mafia. they are surrounded by pimps. they have become hardened. we cannot reform their personalities.''
in the best of circumstances, she added, saving a child who may never have had a home can be a long, painful process
a (street) child does not open up to you until maybe six months,'' she said. ``you have to gain their trust first. you don't force them to open up because they will all answer lies. they've learned this from the streets. but if you leave them at their own pace, little by little they will tell you their stories. they know they have a friend.''
for 18-year-old jose, a former drug addict, the breakthrough came when he asked social workers to give him a birthday party
mrs. ross said that during the party, jose began to cry and admitted it was not his birthday
i told him never mind, that's for all the birthdays you never had,'' she said. ``he was touched. from then on he said, `i want to go to school, i will stop my drugs,' and he did stop.''
the youth is now in the fourth grade and serves as ``older brother'' to newcomers at the alabang center
we are building up for the future,'' mrs. ross said. word</head>
this is one of a series of periodic dispatches by associated press correspondents on life and customs in the byways of the world
a disparaging word about chile's military government seldom is heard in the homes on the range of rugged patagonian
more than 1,300 miles removed from the political machinations of santiago, the nation's capital, inhabitants say they prefer progress to protest
and many are quick to credit president augusto pinochet, the right-wing army general, with bringing the 20th century to the isolated southern region, where even the relatively young recall when hitching posts lined the streets
he is a great man,'' proclaimed amalia chible, standing in the sunlit living room of her roadside home and restaurant about 70 miles south of coyhaique, the region's capital
on the wall hangs a color photograph of pinochet, broadly smiling from behind his presidential desk. it is hand-signed, ``affectionately yours.''
support for the army commander who seized power in a 1973 coup is considered stronger in chile's rural provinces than in the big cities, where the political opposition is most active. but nowhere is it stronger than in chilean patagonia
the reason lies outside mrs. chible's door: an unpaved but well-tended road that the government calls the great southern highway
the two-lane road winds along the southern andes for some 350 miles, through mountains, forests and sheep ranches. still under construction, it was started by pinochet's administration. he considers it one of his most important public works and each year proudly comes to officially open a new stretch
people cried with joy when the road came through,'' mrs. chible, who is about 50, told a visitor. ``before, life was terrible. now the wool gets out, and life is rich.''
abel avedano, a horsecart operator, agreed, calling the road ``one of the great works'' of the president. ``you've go to give him that.''
cut off from the rest of the country by deep fiords, towering mountains and glaciers, patagonia remained virtually uninhabited for a long time after chile achieved independence from spain in 1810. it was notorious for blustery weather year-round, with winter temperatures dipping to 20 below zero
settlers began trickling in when, in the early 1900s, the government handed out tracts of land to sheep ranchers
coyhaique was founded just 50 years ago, and until recently was little more than a place where ranch hands came to get drunk on pay day
the people were fairly rough-edged,'' recalls mario miranda, an art historian who was born in coyhaique in 1951
he recalls, as a child, seeing a cowboy ride his horse down the narrow hallway of the local hotel, firing a six-shooter into the ceiling
the guests, who were sleeping just above, were terrified,'' miranda said. ``it was quite a scandal.''
then came the highway, and with it new settlers, supermarkets, department stores. jeeps, pick-up trucks and even taxis have replaced horsecarts on the downtown streets. at the airport, where an aging cargo plane used to land just once a week, modern passenger jetliners arrive daily with businessmen and tourists
we went from the hitching post to video clubs, practically overnight,'' miranda said
employed by the state education department's division of culture, miranda is anxious to preserve some of the settlers' traditions, such as working with leather and wool. ``it's rapidly becoming contaminated by the contact with outside, with santiago.''
many of the traditions came from argentina, through the mountain passes that once were the only way in and out of chilean patagonia. political relations between the neighboring countries often have been tense, and a territorial dispute brought them to the brink of war in 1978. pinochet's efforts to develop and populate the region are seen, at least in part, as an effort to protect it from invasion
recent waves of nationalism have diluted the area's argentine flavor. chilean cowboy songs and dances replaced those of the argentine gaucho, and the argentine habit of drinking tea from a hollow gourd became less popular
francisco mena, an anthropologist who works with miranda, said that in outlying villages and farms many of the old customs are preserved
people spin their own wool, weave their own ponchos and make their own riding tack from leather they themselves have tanned,'' he said
but many have left patagonia to sign on for ranch work in the u.s. west. some come back when their three-year contracts are up. others, having developed a taste for american living, don't
today is sunday, feb. 21, the 52nd day of 1988. there are 314 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 21, 1965, black muslim leader malcolm x was shot to death as he was about to speak to a rally of several hundred followers in new york
on this date:
in 1846, sarah g. bagley became the first female telegrapher when she took charge at the newly opened telegraph office in lowell, mass
in 1866, lucy b. hobbs became the first woman to graduate from a dental school, the ohio college of dental surgery in cincinnati
in 1878, the first telephone directory was issued, by the district telephone company of new haven, conn. it listed 50 names
in 1885, the washington monument was dedicated in the nation's capital
in 1916, the longest and bloodiest battle of world war i, the battle of verdun, began in france
in 1925, the new yorker magazine made its debut
in 1947, edwin h. land demonstrated his polaroid land camera, which used self-developing film that produced a black-and-white photograph in 60 seconds
in 1972, president richard m. nixon began his historic visit to mainland china
in 1973, israeli fighter planes shot down a libyan airlines jet over the sinai desert, killing more than 100 people
in 1986, two weeks after becoming the first american convicted of spying for china, retired cia analyst larry wu-tai chin took his life in a prince william county, va., jail
ten years ago: coal industry and united mine workers bargainers resumed negotiations in an attempt to end a 78-day coal strike
five years ago: declaring, ``i am ready to be president of the united states,'' former vice president walter f. mondale launched his campaign for the democratic nomination at the minnesota state capitol
one year ago: the tower commission, appointed by president reagan to investigate the iran-contra affair, interviewed former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane, who reportedly said again that reagan had approved the first shipment of u.s. arms to iran in august 1985
today's birthdays: columnist erma bombeck is 61. fashion designer hubert de givenchy is 61. tricia nixon cox is 42. actor christopher atkins is 27
thought for today: ``doubt isn't the opposite of faith; it is an element of faith.'' _ paul tillich, american theologian (1886-1965)
today is monday, feb. 22, the 53rd day of 1988. there are 313 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 22, 1732, george washington, the first president of the united states, was born at his parents' plantation near fredricksburg, va
on this date:
in 1630, english colonists in america got their first taste of popcorn
in 1784, a u.s. clipper, the empress of china, left new york city for the far east
in 1819, spain ceded florida to the united states
in 1865, tennessee adopted a new constitution abolishing slavery
in 1879, frank winfield woolworth opened a five-cent store in utica, n.y. in 1889, president grover cleveland signed a bill to admit the dakotas, montana and washington state to the union
in 1924, calvin coolidge delivered the first presidential radio broadcast from the white house
in 1935, it became illegal for airplanes to fly over the white house
in 1973, the united states and communist china agreed to establish liaison offices in beijing and washington
in 1980, in a stunning upset, the united states olympic hockey team defeated the soviets at lake placid, n.y., 4-3
ten years ago: egypt's president, anwar sadat, formally broke diplomatic ties with the government of cyprus, after 18 egyptian commandos were killed by cypriot troops while attempting to storm a hijacked jetliner at larnaca airport
five years ago: u.s. rep. harold washington won chicago's democratic mayoral primary, edging out mayor jane m. byrne and cook county state's attorney richard m. daley, on his way to becoming the city's first black mayor
one year ago: pop artist andy warhol died at a new york city hospital at age 58. talk-show host david susskind was found dead in his manhattan hotel suite at age 66
today's birthdays: actor robert young is 81. producer-actor sheldon leonard is 81. sen. edward m. kennedy d-mass., is 56. former basketball star julius erving is 38
thought for today: ``the most exciting attractions are between two opposites that never meet.'' _ andy warhol
today is tuesday, feb. 23, the 54th day of 1988. there are 312 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 23, 1945, during world war ii, u.s. marines on iwo jima raised the american flag atop mount suribachi in a scene captured on film by associated press photographer joe rosenthal
on this date:
in 1685, composer george frideric handel was born in germany
in 1822, boston was granted a charter to incorporate as a city
in 1836, the siege of the alamo began in san antonio, texas
in 1847, u.s. troops under gen. zachary taylor defeated mexican gen. santa anna at the battle of buena vista in mexico
in 1848, john quincy adams, the sixth president of the united states, died of a stroke at the age of 80
in 1861, president-elect abraham lincoln arrived secretly in washington to take office, an assassination plot having been foiled in baltimore
in 1870, mississippi was re-admitted to the union
in 1905, the rotary club was founded
in 1927, president calvin coolidge signed a bill creating the federal radio commission, forerunner of the federal communications commission
in 1942, a japanese submarine fired on an oil refinery in ellwood, calif
in 1954, the first mass inoculation of children against polio with the salk vaccine began in pittsburgh
ten years ago: william h. webster was sworn in to a 10-year term as director of the fbi. webster left the post to become director of the cia last may
five years ago: in a breakfast meeting with reporters at the white house, president reagan spoke of the need for a ``homeland'' for the palestinians as part of a middle east peace, but added, ``no one has ever advocated creating a nation.''
one year ago: u.s. rep. richard a. gephardt, d-mo., announced his candidacy for his party's presidential nomination
today's birthdays: author-journalist william l. shirer is 84. actor peter fonda is 49
thought for today: ``judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers.'' _ voltaire, french author-philosopher (1694-1778)
today is wednesday, feb. 24, the 55th day of 1988. there are 311 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 24, 1868, the u.s. house of representatives impeached president andrew johnson following his attempted dismissal of secretary of war edwin m. stanton. johnson was later acquitted by the senate
on this date:
in 1582, pope gregory xiii issued a papal bull, or edict, in which he outlined his calendar reforms. the gregorian calendar, as it became known, is the calendar in general use today
in 1803, in its marbury vs. madison decision, the u.s. supreme court ruled it was the final interpreter of constitutional issues
in 1821, mexico declared its independence from spain as the plan of iguala was published
in 1863, arizona was organized as a territory
in 1903, the united states signed an agreement acquiring a naval station at guantanamo bay in cuba
in 1920, a fledgling german political party held its first meeting of importance in munich. the organization became known as the nazi party, and its chief spokesman was adolf hitler
in 1942, the voice of america went on the air for the first time
in 1945, american soldiers liberated the philippine capital of manila from japanese control during world war ii
in 1980, the united states olympic hockey team captured the gold medal at lake placid, n.y., by defeating finland 4-2
in 1981, a jury in white plains, n.y., found former school headmistress jean harris guilty of second-degree murder in the fatal shooting of ``the scarsdale diet'' author dr. herman tarnower
ten years ago: president jimmy carter announced a tentative settlement of an 81-day-old coal strike, and urged miners to accept it. however, the rank-and-file rejected the pact, accepting a different agreement a month later
five years ago: a congressional commission released a report condemning the u.s. internment of japanese-americans and japanese resident aliens in world war ii, calling it a ``grave injustice.''
one year ago: fawn hall, former personal secretary to fired national security council aide oliver l. north, posed for news photographers outside her attorney's office, calling the attention ``a little overwhelming.''
today's birthdays: actor abe vigoda is 67. movie composer michel legrand is 56. opera singer renata scotto is 53. actor james farentino is 50. actor barry bostwick is 43
thought for today: ``fame _ the aggregate of all the misunderstandings that collect around a new name.'' _ rainer maria rilke, german poet (1876-1926)
today is thursday, feb. 25, the 56th day of 1988. there are 310 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 25, 1913, the 16th amendment to the constitution was declared in effect, giving congress the power to levy and collect income taxes
on this date:
in 1570, pope pius v excommunicated england's queen elizabeth i. in 1793, the various department heads of the u.s. government met with president george washington at his home for the first cabinet meeting on record
in 1836, inventor samuel colt patented his revolver
in 1870, hiram r. revels, r-miss., became the first black to serve in the u.s. senate. he was sworn in to serve out the unexpired term of jefferson davis
in 1873, opera singer enrico caruso was born in naples, italy
in 1901, united states steel corporation was incorporated by j.p. morgan
in 1919, oregon became the first state to tax gasoline
in 1933, the first united states aircraft carrier, the ranger, was launched
in 1948, communists seized power in czechoslovakia
in 1956, soviet leader nikita khrushchev harshly criticized the late dictator josef stalin in a speech before a communist party congress in moscow
in 1964, cassius clay (later muhammad ali) became world heavyweight boxing champion by defeating sonny liston in miami beach
in 1986, president ferdinand e. marcos fled the philippines after 20 years of rule in the wake of a tainted election. corazon aquino assumed the presidency
ten years ago: leaders of the united mine workers began an unsuccessful campaign to persuade the rank-and-file to accept a three-year contract proposal aimed at settling a strike
five years ago: pulitzer prize-winning playwright tennessee williams was found dead in his new york hotel suite. he was 71. williams' works included ``the glass menagerie,'' ``a streetcar named desire'' and ``cat on a hot tin roof.''
one year ago: by a 5-4 vote, the u.s. supreme court upheld an affirmative action program in alabama that provided for promoting equal numbers of black and white state troopers
today's birthdays: actor jim backus is 75. author anthony burgess is 71. tennis hustler bobby riggs is 70. diplomat philip habib is 68. writer-producer larry gelbart is 60. musician tommy newsom is 59. country singer faron young is 56. actor tom courtenay is 51. cbs newsman bob schieffer is 51. rock singer george harrison is 45
thought for today: ``life is an unanswered question, but let's believe in the dignity and importance of the question.'' _ tennessee williams
today is friday, feb. 26, the 57th day of 1988. there are 309 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 26, 1919, congress established grand canyon national park in arizona
on this date:
in 1802, one of the great figures of french literature, victor hugo, was born in besancon
in 1815, napoleon bonaparte escaped from the island of elba to begin his second conquest of france
in 1846, ``buffalo bill'' cody was born near davenport, iowa
in 1848, the second french republic was proclaimed
in 1870, the first new york city subway line was opened to the public
in 1942, during world war ii, navy flier donald f. mason sent a four-word message from the pacific to the u.s. navy in washington: ``sighted sub, sank same.''
in 1951, the 22nd amendment to the constitution was ratified, limiting a president to two terms in office
in 1952, prime minister winston s. churchill announced that britain had developed its own atomic bomb
in 1962, after becoming the first american to orbit the earth, john glenn told a joint meeting of congress, ``exploration and the pursuit of knowledge have always paid dividends in the long run.''
ten years ago: israel's cabinet voted to continue its limited policy of establishing settlements in occupied territories, specifically authorizing three new settlements in the west bank
five years ago: britain's queen elizabeth ii and her husband, prince philip, arrived in san diego bay for a 10-day west coast tour that included a hollywood banquet and visits with president reagan and his wife, nancy
one year ago: the tower commission, appointed by president reagan to probe the iran-contra affair, issued its report, which rebuked the president for failing to control his national security staff
today's birthdays: actor mason adams is 69. actor tony randall is 68. actress betty hutton is 67. singer fats domino is 60. columnist robert novak is 57. singer johnny cash is 56
thought for today: ``the secret of my success is that at an early age i discovered i was not god.'' _ oliver wendell holmes jr., u.s. supreme court justice (1841-1935)
today is saturday, feb. 27, the 58th day of 1988. there are 308 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 27, 1933, germany's parliament building in berlin, the reichstag, burned down. the nazis, charging a communist plot, used the fire as a pretext for suspending civil liberties
on this date:
in 1801, the district of columbia was placed under the jurisdiction of congress
in 1807, poet henry wadsworth longfellow was born in portland, maine
in 1861, in warsaw, russian troops fired on a crowd protesting russian rule over poland. five marchers were killed
in 1883, the first practical cigar-rolling machine was patented by impresario oscar hammerstein, grandfather of broadway librettist oscar hammerstein ii
in 1922, the u.s. supreme court unanimously upheld the 19th amendment to the constitution that guaranteed the right of women to vote
in 1939, the u.s. supreme court outlawed sit-down strikes
in 1972, president richard m. nixon and chinese premier chou en-lai issued the shanghai communique at the conclusion of nixon's historic visit to the people's republic of china
in 1973, members of the american indian movement occupied the hamlet of wounded knee in south dakota, the site of the 1890 massacre of sioux men, women and children. the occupation lasted until may
in 1982, wayne b. williams was found guilty of murdering two of the 28 young blacks whose bodies were found in the atlanta area over a 22-month period
ten years ago: the bureau of labor statistics reported that consumer prices rose a seasonally adjusted eight-tenths of one percent in january, led by rises in food, housing and medical-care costs
five years ago: britain's queen elizabeth ii and her husband, prince philip, attended a church service in san diego, calif., then flew on to palm springs as they continued their tour of the west coast
one year ago: president reagan replaced his white house chief of staff, donald t. regan, with former sen. howard h. baker
today's birthdays: actress joan bennett is 78. former texas gov. john connally is 71. actress joanne woodward is 58. actress elizabeth taylor is 56. sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., is 55. consumer advocate ralph nader is 54. actress barbara babcock is 51. actor howard hesseman is 48
thought for today: ``people living deeply have no fear of death.'' _ anais nin, american author (1903-1977)
the south korean press is enjoying a broad degree of freedom after years of tough official control, but opposition quarters maintain it still is manipulated by the government's ``hidden hands.''
nevertheless, the nation's newspapers are reporting and commenting more vigorously on politics and other subjects that for years had been limited or banned by the government
president-elect roh tae-woo, who takes office feb. 25, promises to ensure full press freedom and made it a key point in his election campaign. the government began easing press restrictions last summer under pressure from roh
we have done much and there should be nothing to complain about,'' said lee jung-bai, the assistant culture-information minister
journalists agree the government has abandoned most controls on the domestic press, such as regular visits to newspapers by security agents and the issuance of ``press guidelines'' that dictated what could be reported and in what way
government reguirements on registration of journalists have been dropped and new legislation will end limits on newspapers having news bureaus outside their headquarters locations. there also will be no limits on the number of pages a newspaper can publish
the ball is in the court of the news media. it's up to them,'' said rep. lee min-sup, a ranking member of roh's democratic justice party
opposition politicians and dissidents contend, however, that much of the press still remains under government control through ``hidden hands.''
rep. kim tae-ryong, spokesman for the main opposition reunification democratic party, said, ``no basic changes have been made and the press still is no more than a public relations tool of the government.''
the opposition claims the government exerts behind-the-scenes influence and control, ranging from intimidation to patronage and bribery. they also contend the media is packed with government supporters
rep. ahn dong-sun, spokesman for the opposition party for peace and democracy, claimed journalists are practicing self-censorship
kim tae-hong, secretary-general of the dissident council for democratic press movement, said, ``essentially, roh is the same as his dictatorial predecessor. he would not give in easily. we must continue to fight for press freedom.''
several editors and reporters rejected the opposition charges of self-censorship, but said they want to help ensure ``sound political development'' without endangering social stability
one senior editor, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said many journalists are cautious because ``they suspect the true intention of the government.''
the opposition claims the country's two networks, which are state-owned, project only a government viewpoint and that opposing points of view receive little attention or are distorted
a korea broadcasting system (kbs) spokesman, lim ung-shik, rejected the opposition's charges
our news and other programs are fair by any standard,'' he said
lim said kbs has recently started some new programs, including talk shows to which opposition figures are regularly invited
government officials say the criticism the networks may end after a neutral broadcasting committee is set up in june, as required by a new law, to nominate the heads of the two networks. some opposition lawmakers will be appointed to serve on the committee to ensure fairness
the government is also preparing to inaugurate in march a new press law that would drop a requirement for government approval to start new newspapers or periodicals
seven newspapers have so far applied to start publishing under the new law. south korea now has 20 national daily newspapers with an estimated combined circulation of 12 million
the first beneficiary of the new law would be a newspaper that some 200 dissident journalists plan to publish this spring with support from 3,300 sponsors, including 1,000 college professors, 100 lawyers, 200 religious leaders and 200 literary figures
song kun-ho, president of the newspaper, the hankyoreh shinmun, said the project will be started with 5 billion won ($6.8 million) to be raised through public shares. song said 15,000 people have so far responded, contributing about half of the needed money
song and the other journalists, dismissed from their previous jobs on grounds of anti-government activity, said their newspaper would emphasize human rights and spearhead press freedom
the influential roman catholic church also has announced it will start a newspaper in april and set up a nationwide radio network in september
critics of the government contend the new press law is restrictive because it stipulates that new newspapers must use certain kinds of presses that cost millions of dollars. they contend this would keep control of the press in the hands of establishment groups
katrine hvitved, a 16-year-old high school student, wrote an irate letter to a newspaper complaining that danish air force discriminates against women and keeps her from fulfilling her dream of flying an f-16 jetfighter
but the air force has told her, maybe not
i would like to be a pilot, but can't be one in the military,'' she wrote to the newspaper jyllands-posten. ``it's unjust!''
two weeks later, defense minister bernt collet replied to katrine in a letter to the same newspaper saying an air force policy of keeping women from piloting military planes is under review and likely to change
women are accepted in denmark's armed forces but they cannot fly planes
katrine, who specializes in science and mathematics at school, said by telephone from her home in the port city of aalborg she was delighted with collet's response
i've been crazy about jet planes for years and enjoy visiting air force bases.''
but she added that she still has a problem
my parents would rather i stayed on the ground.''
nevertheless, she's decided to join a parachutist's club
last year the military began a study women pilots. based mainly on the experiences of other nato countries, the report is expected to be submitted to a parliamentary committee for action later this year
the military chiefs seem to be very positive towards the proposal,'' said maj. benny hansen of the air force, the defense ministry official who deals with personnel
a decision to allow women into flight training would be in keeping with military policy laid down in 1980 of equal rights in all branches of the armed forces, hansen added
experiments since 1980 placing women in combat units have proven successful, hansen said
the military hasn't noticed any weakening of fighting strength in combat units with women in them.''
a total of 844 women, including 58 officers, were serving in all armed forces branches as of june last year, the date of the latest available statistics. they were in field units in the infantry, the tank corps, surface-to-air missile squadrons and base patrol duties
the navy has five women officers and 99 sailors. they serve on inspection vessels, corvettes and torpedo boats. but they aren't on submarines, where quarters are too close
hansen said he sees no problems for women as helicopter or transport plane pilots. but experts are still concerned about how women would stand up to the extreme gravitational forces experienced by pilots of supersonic jets
g-stress and speed and precision of reaction were problems for male fighter pilots, too, hansen said
in denmark, aspiring combat pilots go to a two-year civilian flight school supervised by the military before being sent to united states for advanced training
female pilot trainees will face the same physical and psychological demands that men do, and there will be no lowering of standards to get women in,'' hansen said
nor would a woman's maritial status or the fact she had children be taken into account, he added
hansen pointed out that in neighboring norway, where women already train as military pilots, only two out of 300 candidates have earned wings
the netherlands, canada and united states also have trained women pilots for their air forces
more than president hosni mubarak's efforts to bring peace to the middle east, egyptians are talking these days about shortages of cooking oil and sugar. it's angry talk
cooking oil and sugar are important items on the egyptian menu, used extensively by peasants who make up half the nation's 51 million people
cooking oil is added to beans, which are eaten at breakfast and dinner, and used to fry vegetables, especially eggplant and potatoes, the usual peasant lunch
as for sugar, egyptians consume so much in tea, pastries and candy that the health ministry has begun a television campaign in an effort to persuade people that more than six lumps a day is harmful
the shortages have been assailed in the news media and heatedly discussed in coffee shops
the subject has come up in the shura council, a government body of experts in various fields who give advice to mubarak and to the people's assembly, the national legislature
and in the people's assembly itself, prime minister atef sedki was taken to task because of his cabinet ministers had denied that the shortages exist. sedki admitted they were not being entirely candid, but he assured the assembly that egypt once again will get by
food shortages are nothing new to egypt. the country must import 60 percent of what it eats and it doesn't have the money to pay for all it needs. in addition, it increasingly has more mouths than it can feed, as the population explodes at a rate of 1 million every nine months
that coupled with stagnant food production has transformed the country from the food exporter it was three decades ago to the importer it is today. the nation, facing a foreign debt of $44 billion, doesn't have the money to pay for it all
nobody has a ready solution. increasing food production isn't easy because only about 4 percent of the country's land area, the nile river valley, is fertile, and little money is available to reclaim and cultivate the desert
egypt is among the world's biggest producers of cotton, which is the source of most cooking oil used in the country, but it must import more than 80 percent of its needs _ at a cost of $250 million a year
we import 500,000 tons of cooking oil, at the cost of $500 a ton,'' said rifaat saadawy, an official in charge of oil imports at the industry ministry
so the cooking oil crisis is connected with the foreign exchange crisis, and any shortage in foreign currency means a shortage of providing cooking oil for local consumption.''
similarily, despite expanses of sugar cane in central egypt, the country's farmers produce only about half the nation's needs, forcing imports of 700,000 tons for almost $158 million last year
a further complication is that many stable foods are distributed through expensive subsidy and ration systems. under pressure from the international monetary fund and at the urging of the united states, the government has been trying to reduce the subsidy systems' burden on the national treasury
for the past two years, it has tapered off the number of subsidized items available at government stores or purchased with ration cards from private markets. but the items taken off the list cost much more
despite the cutbacks, the government spent $2.2 billion in the 1986-87 fiscal year on subsidies for food and other items. that's only $675 million less than the subsidy bill in 1983-84 and remains much higher than levels washington and the imf want
the government does not want to eliminate or sharply reduce subsidies because it fears a recurrence of food riots in which more than 70 people were killed in 1977
for peasants like nawal mohamedein, who lives at el-faronia, 30 miles north of cairo, the system is not working
the official price of a one-kilogram (2.2-pound) bottle of oil was 80 piasters (36 cents,) but now it is not available in the shops,'' she said. ``i buy it off the black market for 3.5 pounds ($1.60) a bottle. it has limited our food to next to nothing.''
she said she now has to serve bread and cheese for the midday meal in place of the usual eggplant and potatoes. cartoon.)</note>

editor's note _ when presidential aspirant joseph biden was caught in rhetorical plumage borrowed from a british politician, an uproar ensued. but how many candidates or other movers and shakers write their own speeches and quip their own quips? their eloquence is manufactured by self-effacing, anonymous ghosts, who work overtime in an election year
no one,'' walter lippman said, ``can write an authentic speech for another man. it is as impossible as writing his love letters for him or saying his prayers for him
when he speaks to the people, he and not someone else must speak. for it is much more important that he is genuine...than that he be bright, clever, ingenious, entertaining, eloquent or even grammatical.''
no specialized talent is required, lippman said. ``anyone who knows what he is doing can say what he is doing, and anyone who knows what he thinks can say what he thinks.''
lippman was an important columnist whose judgments were closely attended by presidents, tycoons and other pillars of power. but on the matter of speech writing, no oracle was ever more widely ignored, then or now
especially now, an election year, when the full monsoon is upon us. never were more people cleaving the air with more speeches written by other people
in the stupefying war of words, 12 of the 13 original candidates for president used at least one mercenary each, as do most senators, representatives, governors, mayors, bank presidents, tycoons and assistant tycoons. humble gary hart has no speech writer
the super bowl, of course, is the white house, where president reagan has five full-time writers, four researchers and assorted free-lance specialists to help him with a portentous speech on the crisis in iran or wall street, with a one-liner for reporters, a tidbit for a tete-a-tete with visting royalty in the rose garden, an inspiring sermon on the state of the union, taped birthday greetings for jimmy stewart, a proclamation summoning the attention of his countrymen to dairy goat awareness week
for three days of summitry with mikhail gorbachev, the boys in the back room provided the great communicator with warm words of welcome and farewell, one treaty signing statement, one evening broadcast, two dinner toasts and nine russian proverbs for targets of opportunity. (he used seven
cooling or thawing, the cold war is fought with the menace of vast armadas of planes, aircraft carriers, submarines, guided missiles, nuclear bombs and speech writers
ted sorensen wrote for john kennedy. fyodor burlatsky wrote for nikita khrushchev. they met for the first time in new york two years ago
in effect, we have met before,'' said burlatsky. ``we have corresponded.''
really?''
you helped write president kennedy's messages during the missile crisis. i helped write chairman khrushchev's answers.''
eyeball to eyeball, typewriter to typewriter, the twain met
william safire wrote for richard nixon. georgy kornienko wrote for leonid brezhnev. in 1972, in the great hall of the kremlin, after the signing of the first treaty limiting strategic weapons, the writers sat side by side basking in the warm glow of the toasts they had written for the two world leaders
kornienko, particularly, basked during brezhnev's delivery of his toast
can you not hear the steps of history going by us?'' he whispered to safire, ghost to ghost
the example may be russian rococo but it is history, they say, that lures perspiring writers to aspiring presidents. the chance that one day their words may soar out of the oval office or a joint session of congress is the fuel propelling most of the practitioners now pounding typewriters in planes, trains, buses, cars, motel rooms, bathrooms and the dank wings of theaters. the hope of marble sustains them in their frantic anonymity
ever after their words become history, a curious honor code prevails among presidential speech writers. even at this late date, neither clark clifford nor ted sorensen will tell you which golden phrases he crafted for harry truman or john kennedy. it was years before we learned that honest george washington got help on his farewell address from three ghosts named madison, jefferson and hamilton
safire and pat buchanan reveal nothing about the language they supplied nixon or reagan, but on a vice presidential level they have confessed their connection with the ``pusillanimous pussyfooters'' and ``nattering nabobs of negativism'' immortalized by spiro agnew
among jimmy carter's writers, the vow of silence was particularly easy to observe after his speech before a distinguished audience in mexico city. none was tempted to rush forward to claim authorship of his jocular remarks about jogging in mexico because of ``montezuma's revenge.''
besides his humor, carter's writers worried about twists of his tongue. to their horror, in a major speech, they heard him identify a huge block of voters as ``eyetalians'' and one of the party's saints as ``hubert horatio hornblower'' (nee humphrey). gerald ford's writers tried to keep him away from ``judgment,'' which he insisted on making ``judg-a-ment.''
reagan's writers luxuriate in his masterful delivery of their lines but their ulcers stir when he strays from the text. at such times, he has been known to come up with a statistic or item unchecked by white house researchers which later requires correction. this president literally saves his own supply of speech goodies in a shoe box
sen. robert dole's staff worries most about his wit, which seems clearly the best among the candidates _ but unreined lunges for the jugular. george bush's two writers tense up when he ad-libs something folksy. trying to explain why he did poorly in an iowa straw poll, the vice president said his supporters were probably busy that day with other things, like a daughter's coming out party. this in a state gloomy with farm foreclosures
we're paid for our anonymity,'' said landon parvis, one of the busiest ghostwriters around. ``it's almost like a doctor-patient relationship.''
never was that confidentiality more strictly obeyed than in the presidential demise of sen. joseph biden of delaware. his writers said nothing. asking them was like asking a team of surgeons which one killed the patient
i made some mistakes,'' biden said without further explanation of the mysterious osmosis by which the same words, images and family memories traveled incognito from neil kinnock, who wanted to be prime minister of great britain, to joe biden, who wanted to be president of the united states
safire, now a new york times columnist and reigning scholar on speechmanship, thinks biden may have suffered self-hynosis in the wearying blur of the campaign and began to believe that kinnock's thoughts were his thoughts
safire points out that he and other presidential writers over the years have borrowed speech patterns and rhythms from each other without attribution. he does concede that biden's loan was a case of ``heavy lifting.''
sen. william proxmire of wisconsin asked what difference does it make, anyway? most candidates and many politicians use speech writers. is it more moral to buy a speech and claim it as your own than to steal it?
in the flurry of charge and counter-charge, only al haig appeared safely immune among the candidates. who would think to accuse him of literary theft, this square-jawed warrior who fires his crossbow at the state department for ``cheshire-catting,'' who rises fearlessly against ``bureaucratic amoking'' and is ready to ``caveat that'' or ``context this''?
abe lincoln, the president who delivered the greatest speeches, wrote his own. of the two best orators of their time, franklin roosevelt used a phalanx of ghosts and envied winston churchill for being able to write his own
george washington's three helpers went on to become presidents themselves. no presidential writer since has done quite as well, although judson welliver now enjoys something of a revival more than 60 years after his time. there is now a judson welliver society of former white house writers
who, you may well ask, was judson welliver? he's the fellow who went to work for warren harding as a ``literary clerk'' and became the first full-time presidential ghost in history. he also wrote for calvin coolidge. to no avail. alice longworth still thought of coolidge as someone ``weaned on a pickle.''
speech writers are torn by a conflict of code and ego. they readily tell you that as a result of getting to know their man, his ideas, tastes and speech patterns, the text they finally give him is basically ``his.''
this is their answer to lippman. the words may be theirs; the thinking is the client's. also, says robert shrum, who writes for rep. richard gephardt, the american people would scarcely approve of their busy president consuming three days to write a speech
but the hired hands also yearn for a statute of limitations on the law of silence so that students of history will know who wrote what. a writer and his words are not soon parted. at nixon's first inaugural, safire found himself wandering around the edge of the crowd silently mouthing his lines as the president spoke them. embarrassed, he moved on and there was buchanan mouthing his lines
all agree it would be difficult to write for someone they disliked. in this respect, the busiest is the most ecumenical; landon parvin writes for ronald reagan, nancy reagan, corporate heads, other republicans and some democrats who suit his ideology but wouldn't care to have that public
last year, parvin's work for reagan ran the gamut from the solemnity of major speeches on iran-contra and aids to scores of one-liners on the order of: ``it's true hard work never killed anybody, but i figure why take the chance.''
washington is a city that consumes humor almost as fast as taxes. candidates, officeholders, lobbyists and rising bureaucrats hunger for it. the kennedys have been known to call a comic off the floor of a las vegas nightclub for a quick fix for the gridiron and other local festivals
mark shields, columnist and occasional supplier, notes changes in the humor market:
we're not nearly as ethnic. there are no pedro, pat or manny stories being told. the one group you can make fun of is the wasps. you can do `quiche is their idea of soul food' or `they tailgated during the war of 1812.' there is no episcopalian anti-defamation league.''
there is a legend among speech writers which they doubt is true but they tell it with a relish that suggests their own walter mitty dreams
it concerns an intense president who could be sweetly benign or thunderously abusive. after two years of that, one writer snapped. and so:
the president was rushing out to the rose garden for a routine appearance. he scooped up the speech cards handed him by the writer and without reading them first the leader of the western world sallied forth:
there are those who say we can't fulfill the great society program and fight the war in vietnam at the same time. they're wrong and i'm going to tell you why. there are those who say we can't feed the hungry at home and also lift living standards around the world. they are wrong and i'm going to tell you why.''
two more such refrains and lyndon baines johnson was now ready to tell them why. then, he turned to the last card and found only this: ``now you're on your own.'' photo, 2 graphics.)</note>

editor's note _ scientists who are just beginning to understand the aids virus are becoming optimistic that they can find a way to thwart it. here is a report on some of the things they have learned and the things they have yet to learn
virologists have learned a lot about their enemy, the aids bug. it is devious and elusive, stunningly elaborate, yet self-controlled, even finicky
it insinuates itself into the body's blueprints, its genes. it stays there forever. no one can imagine a way to get rid of it
in its sly way, the virus does nothing outwardly bad at first. for five years, 10 years or longer, it may burrow deep, hiding, making a grudgingly slow stream of new copies of itself. the body's half-hearted attempt to kill it gets nowhere. and the virus's unsuspecting host feels fine
but something evil is happening. the immune system is eroding. then, as though responding to some signal, the virus springs furiously to life. it replicates at an astonishing rate. and it wipes out one brand of blood cell that is essential for health and life
everyone agrees: hiv is an impressive foe
genes with names like tat and art rev it up and dampen it down. with each new discovery of its florid system of checks and balances, with each new example of the virus's guile, the aids story seems only to get worse
this is a virus like no other. it is designed through evolution to elude the body's own defenses, the blood-borne radar and missiles of its immune system. worse, it is designed to attack that system and destroy it. in time, it does
it is what it is, and we are beginning to understand it,'' says dr. william haseltine of the dana-farber cancer institute in boston
what we should understand is how bad it is. the news is very bad, and it's going to get a lot worse before it gets better.''
yet haseltine and others who dissect the germ's inner machinery say that what they see there also gives them reason to be optimistic. there is plenty to go wrong
the immediate goal of their work is to figure out how the virus works. how it latches onto its target. how it gets inside. how it takes over and makes new copies of itself. how it kills
each step requires a tightly choreographed ballet between the virus's own genes and the chemicals it makes _ an ornate, even beautiful, interplay of molecular thermostats and feedback loops that nudge the virus to life, fire it up and quiet it down. surely, the experts reason, anything so complicated must be ripe for sabotage
if one knows the critical steps in virus replication, then strategies to interfere with those steps would be useful,'' says dr. flossie wong-staal of the national cancer institute. ``in aids, you constantly need recruitment of new infected cells for the immune system to be totally suppressed. so any way of blocking new infection is important, and therefore interfering with the life cycle is important.''
by haseltine's count, the virus makes at least 13 proteins that are potential targets for drugs
the idea,'' he says, ``is that when we learn enough about their three-dimensional structure, we will be able to design drugs by synthetic chemistry to fit into their little niches and crannies and stop them from working.''
labs headed by haseltine and wong-staal, a colleague of hiv co-discoverer robert gallo, made many of the key early discoveries of how hiv works, and they have been joined by several other groups in picking apart the virus. new details pile up quickly
from this investigation, a profile of the enemy emerges
aids stands for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, but in its short history, that name has already become outdated. aids is not just a collection of symptoms but a disease with a clear cause, a microbe called hiv, the human immunodeficiency virus
the virus lives in the body's fluids _ blood, semen and vaginal secretions, among others. naked virus floats about freely in these liquids, but it's also carried about inside white blood cells. among the most plentiful of these infected cells are monocytes and macrophages, scavengers that eat bacteria and other bits of useless and dangerous matter
aids spreads when the free virus or infected cells pass from one person to another. blood-contaminated hypodermic needles can carry them directly into the bloodstream. more often, however, the virus is passed during sexual intercourse, perhaps when virus-laden blood cells cross the mucous membranes of the genitals
ordinarily, such tainted cells display an alien protein on their surface. it serves as a sort of badge declaring, ``i'm infected.'' but in one of its many tricks, the aids virus circumvents this convention. some of these infected macrophages are filled with thousands of viruses, but they are trojan horses that give no warning of their cargo. the body, unconcerned, mounts no defense _ even if such a defense would do any good, which, apparently, it does not
once inside, the infected cells bump into healthy ones and pass along their contents. within days, the virus is established in tissues throughout the body. several kinds of cells eventually get infected, including brain cells, b cells that make antibodies and langerhans cells, a form of macrophage that penetrates most of the body's tissues and lives for decades
all of them have one thing in common: their outer skin contains a molecule called t4. among them, one variety of blood cell is special. it is covered with so much t4 that it's called a t4 helper cell. a single cell may be coated with 60,000 t4 molecules
of all the cells that the virus enters and subverts, the t4 helper cell is the only one it kills directly. unfortunately, the helper cell is a critically important soldier in the body's microbial warfare. it's a kind of master cell that oversees other branches of the immune system, coordinating their response to germs. without them, this intricate system becomes chaotic, aimless. parasites that ordinarily don't stand a chance run rampant. overwhelming infection and death are the unstoppable consequences
but this final stage of the infection, the phase called aids, may come a decade or more after those first infected macrophages cross into their new host's bloodstream, full of virus looking for t4
at first, the virus replicates quickly. large amounts of it are found in the central nervous system, then in the blood and finally in other secretions. for a few weeks, the victim may feel sick with aches and ills that mimic mononucleosis
but then the symptoms clear up. production of virus drops to a trace. now the person is an aids carrier, able to pass the infection on the others but looking and feeling perfectly normal
for several years, it may seem as though nothing is wrong. but that is an illusion
something is happening during that asymptomatic period that eventually results in enough damage that the whole system collapses,'' says haseltine. ``i think of it as a dam eroding. the damage is being done, but the dam looks fine.''
at last the virus comes to life. levels rise in the bloodstream. t4 helper cells start to die. and the symptoms of aids set in. within about two years after those symptoms appear, the number of t4 cells in the blood inexorably drops to near zero
how does hiv get away with it? in the usual course of viral surveillance, the branch of the immune system called the b cells recognizes the invader for what it is and makes antibodies. these are chemicals that tightly latch onto specific spots on the virus's surface and mark it for destruction
people make antibodies against the aids virus, too. but they don't stop the bug. scientists aren't sure why, although they have some theories. perhaps the spots the antibodies need to attach themselves to are hidden deep in recesses in the virus's coat. perhaps they're disguised with a covering of sugar. maybe the antibodies bind to the wrong spot on the virus, failing to harm it. or maybe the virus simply stays one step ahead, mutating its shell faster than the body can fashion new antibodies to fit it
the virus's coat is made of a sugar and protein combination, or glycoprotein, called the envelop protein. it has two parts. the inner one, called gp41, is imbedded in the surface of the virus. loosely attached to gp41 is the outer envelop protein, called gp120
gp120 has an intense attraction for the t4 molecule on human cells. when it finds this target, it binds tightly, holding the tiny virus to the rough surface of the much larger cell. then the gp41 takes over and fuses the membranes of the virus and the cell, allowing the inner part of the virus to enter the cell
its goal now is to splice its own genes into those of the cell so it can turn the cell into a virus factory, manufacturing thousands upon thousands of new copies of itself
for hiv, however, that's even more difficult than it sounds, for this bug is a retrovirus. like all creatures in nature, the assembly plans for a new aids virus are contained in the coded material called genes
the genes of people, spiders, mushrooms and most everything else are made of deoxyribonucleic acid, or dna. each gene contains the code for assembling a protein that's used to build or regulate the organism. when its protein is needed, the gene spins off a mirror image of itself in a substance called ribonucleic acid, or rna. the rna is shuttled to the cell's protein assembly factory, where it serves as a temporary blueprint
retrovirus genes are backwards. they are made of rna. to get going, the virus has to translate them into dna. this is the job of enzymes made by a gene called pol
like other retroviruses, hiv has three basic genes. besides pol, they are env, which makes gp120 and gp41 to form the outer shell, and gag, which creates the protein needed for the virus's inner core
however, unlike simple retroviruses, hiv has at least four regulatory genes and probably more. they are called tat, art, sor and 3'orf. even though scientists have worked out the entire genetic code of the aids virus's rna, they are not sure how many genes are involved in all. some of them overlap, sharing stretches of rna, while other genes are spliced together from here and there along the strand of rna
the pol gene produces polymerase and ribonuclease h, known jointly as reverse transcriptase, as well as protease and integrase. together, these enzymes transcribe rna into dna, clean it up, and insert it neatly into the cell's own genes, where it becomes a permanent part of the body's genetic library
all the pieces are in place for the virus to instruct the cell to turn its attention toward making and assembling viral proteins. in t4 helper cells, however, this usually doesn't happen. even though one in five of them may be infected, only about one in 10,000 is actually producing viral proteins. in the rest of them, the virus lies quiet, or latent
it can come to life only when the t4 helper cell itself is stimulated by some immunological emergency to divide and produce new cells. this is not true of monocytes and macrophages. in these cells, the virus can make a slow, steady stream of new viruses or suddenly explode with activity. but whether any of these infected cells actually churn out new viruses depends on an intricate interplay between the virus's regulatory genes
among the most intriguing of these is tat. it's a kind of fast-forward switch. tat produces a protein that causes the other genes to work faster. it can speed up virus production 1,000-fold. the tat protein even makes the tat gene work harder. it becomes a positive feedback regulator, triggering runaway viral production
however, tat has an alter ego called 3'orf (pronounced three-prime-orf). it slows down virus replication, and it may be one way that the virus establishes latent infection
another way is through the art gene, also known as trs. art is a kind of switch. when art is turned on, the virus makes the structural proteins necessary for constructing new copies of itself. but when art is turned off, it makes only the regulatory proteins
finally, there is sor. its protein somehow makes the virus more infectious, so it spreads more rapidly through the body
using these genes, hiv transforms useful cells into virus factories. most of the infected cells survive, even though they are making virus. however, the t4 helper cells eventually die, and they are killed in two ways
when cells are infected with hiv, they often display copies of the virus's envelop protein on their own surface. the envelop protein is highly attracted to the t4 molecule. this turns the infected cell in a sort of giant virus, roaming the bloodstream in search of cells with t4 on them. when it finds one, it sticks to it. this results in clumps of 100 to 500 cells known as syncytia, and all of them eventually die
the t4 helper cells may also die through a process called autofusion. the surfaces of these cells contain so much envelop protein and t4 that its skin folds over onto itself and sticks together. each place that envelop protein and t4 touch, a hole is punched. the cell grows leaky and explodes
how did hiv get to be such an efficient killer? probably by accident
most viruses, whether they cause flu, cold sores or warts, don't kill their hosts. a dead host, after all, is a very poor host. instead, they cause passing illnesses or lifelong infections that may be aggravating but aren't lethal
the aids epidemic is just a slight miscalculation on the virus's part,'' haseltine says. ``it could be a single mutation in almost any one of the regulatory pathways. it allows it to make too much virus too quickly in t4 cells, and that allows it to be more easily transmitted and more lethal. it could be one single mutation that separates us from no epidemic and this terrible epidemic.'' photos. colorfoto subscribers get 3 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ they call it treasure island, the hawaii of the orient, and tout it as a place where smart investors can get rich, thanks to its mineral deposits, sparkling beaches, and other resources. unabashed free enterprise is the name of the game, in the new chinese style
dominating a wall of the qiongyuan restaurant in this capital of tropical hainan island is an eye-catching red shrine to caishen, the traditional god of wealth
the figurine, explained a waitress, was expected to bring prosperity to the restaurant. it appeared to be working. the room was jammed with high-spending customers gulping bottles of beer to wash down earthworms cooked with golden mushrooms and other specialties
open worship of caishen in communist china would have been unthinkable not too long ago, but today seems perfectly appropriate on this lightly developed but resource-rich island, which is to be the biggest proving ground yet for the country's capitalist-style economic reforms
chinese leaders last year promised to offer a slew of incentives to speed development and attract much-coveted foreign investment to this island off china's southernmost coast, between the philippines and vietnam
since mid-1987, the chinese media has breathlessly reported almost daily on the big plans for the island. ```hawaii of orient' a vast building site'' said one recent headline in the china daily
new highways, deep-water ports, airports, railways and power stations are promised. official reports in early 1988 indicate that a nuclear power plant could be in the cards
all projects that are helpful to the island's economic development will be encouraged,'' said peng qinghai, vice-director of the hainan economic commission
the chinese leadership views the iron, rubber, copper, oil and other natural resources found throughout the 13,568-square-mile island _ nearly twice the land mass of the hawaiian islands _ as a magnet for foreign investors
they also hope the sparkling white beaches that seductively curve for miles on end along the island's southern coast will attract foreign tourists to a waikiki of the south china sea
the island _ which local officials often refer to as `baodao,' or treasure island _ is to become china's 31st province this spring as a sign of beijing's serious intentions to bring hainan into the modern world
beijing's bold plans, if carried through, could mean profound changes for the population of about 6 million people, many of whom remain firmly planted in the past
hainan's people work the water and land in timeless fashion; wooden fishing junks crowd the main harbors while peasants work small rice paddies with simple plows pulled by water buffalo. others cultivate fields of sugar cane, coffee, pepper, pineapple and tea that dot the lush countryside
in the capital city of haikou, population about 300,000, the central district's streets are lined with worn two-story buildings that date from the early decades of the century. in the countryside, some peasants live in huts of baked mud and straw and go without electricity
nearly four decades of communist rule has failed to quash ancestor worship and the belief in spirits
for example, clansmen accompanied by musicians with horns, drums, gongs and cymbals can be seen walking in procession down the island's main road in a ceremony to implore their long-deceased ancestors to return home
in the mountainous region of the island's interior, the li ethnic minority still send off their dead amid elaborate rituals that include burials peppered by the noise of firecrackers and vintage flintlock rifles and by drinking parties at which rice wine flows for several days and nights
the people understand their backwater island is to become a ``special economic zone'' _ china's name for regions where economic practices can stray from the marxist straight and narrow to spur development _ and hope it will mean more money
we're very happy'' about the plan, says a man surnamed zhen who earns $16 a month at a haikou firecracker store. ``our standard of living will go up, our wages will go up.''
an employee of the xinglong overseas chinese farm in southeastern hainan, taking a brief pause from burning brush to speak with visitors, said she believed that in the future ``our wages will rise and so will prices.''
but scholar huang youjing, a 23-year-old researcher of hainan's minorities, said he was unimpressed with government efforts to build up the area
speaking in tongza, the minority region's central city where markets are well-stocked and apartment buildings are popping up all over, huang said the government had neglected the countryside
i know what i'm going to say will bring me trouble,'' huang, an ethnic li, said intently within earshot of a foreign affairs official. ``the central government has spent a lot of money to put up buildings and give outsiders the impression of a flourishing and rich (minority) area
but in reality, the people's standard of living is very low. the central government is not providing money to improve the standard of living'' in areas far from the view of visitors, he said
whether beijing's grandiose plans for hainan development will be realized remains to be seen. the record of the four existing special economic zones along china's southern coast _ all much smaller than hainan geographically _ is mixed
in shenzhen, which borders hong kong, nine years of special status has transformed a sleepy rural area into a boom town of half a million people. but development has been haphazard and the economic incentives offered foreign developers has attracted primarily basic assembly plants instead of high-technology industry
and chinese authorities are painfully aware that a previous effort to build up hainan's economy led to a widespread racketeering scandal three years ago
from 1980, hainan was allowed to import duty-free vehicles and 16 other luxury goods for its own use to help speed development. but with the complicity of local authorities, enterprises from kindergartens, banks and newspapers turned themselves into importers and resold the goods to the chinese mainland
the trade in 3.3 million cars, color television sets, video recorders and motorcycles lined the pockets of individuals and enterprises with millions of illegally earned dollars
this time, authorities warn, such behavior will not be tolerated. ``our policy is that getting rich through labor is glorious. however, you should get rich according to our policies,'' hainan party official yao wenxu explained at a news conference in beijing last year
officials say those policies will include offering 50-year leases on land, relaxing foreign currency controls, waiving duties on imported production material and granting the new province decision-making autonomy. china has said that details of the vague promises will be announced this year
reported plans to build a modern infrastructure have been vague, too, although some financing details have started to surface
for example, about $100 million in world bank loans are to go to construct the daguang hydropower station, which is expected to generate 240,000 kilowatts of electricity and irrigate about 164,500 acres of farmland by 1990, a press report said
the need for a stable electricity supply was made clear to visitors recently when power outages occurred three evenings in a recent week at one of haikou's pricier hotels
foreigners, whose investments and know-how are urgently needed to develop the island, remain largely skeptical
slowly, however, development is stirring. new hotels geared to overseas visitors are going up, many in recent weeks. by the end of 1987, according to people's daily, foreign businessmen signed more than 200 contracts committing more than $80 million joint ventures, co-operative enterprises and factories
many chinese from the mainland believe hainan is the place to be and are applying to move to the island by the tens of thousands, officials say
this is an open place that has a future,'' said one young doctor who traveled 800 miles from wuhan in central hebei province to seek a job at a local hospital. but his chance of success was slim, he said while relaxing at a seaside tourist area, because ``too many people are applying.'' photos.)</note>

editor's note _ a sharp drop in box-office sales is putting a lot of french movie theaters out of business in a country where cinema is a national passion. film directors say they're keeping busy, but, in the words of one, ``any director who shuns television is a dead man.''
film directors here, who regard reports of the death of french cinema as highly exaggerated, have not slowed their pace: they make a movie every three days, as many as the americans
crisis, crisis,'' mocks claude lelouch, who is spending $10 million on a jean-paul belmondo film he wants to premiere in madison square garden. ``all this whining is ridiculous.''
jean-jacques annaud, another frenchman with an oscar, laughs, ``you think there is a crisis? try to find a cameraman. or an actor. they're all busy, and their prices go up every day.''
talk of crisis followed a year of mediocre films and a 20 percent drop in box-office sales in france. a revolution in french television means six channels show 1,200 films a year. video rentals are up
directors say that is a challenge to make spectacular or imaginative films to lure couch potatoes back into theaters. in any case, they add, television is just another branch of the business
this is a problem of theater owners, not filmmakers,'' annaud says. ``i may be sad that people see my work on a little box instead of a screen, but i don't feel i'll lose my job if cinemas close.''
few directors seem endangered in a country where the film industry is a national obsession. french filmmakers, in a nation of 55 million, earn 10 percent of world box-office receipts
the range is wide
francois truffautdied in 1986, but every other major director of the 1950's new wave is still making movies. claude chabrol does two a year. eric rohmer, at 67, works hard on tiny budgets
jean-luc godard, an aging rebel loved mainly by critics, just brought out ``soigne ta droite'' (watch your right), a metaphysical meander in the mind of a director trying to make a film to order
at the other extreme, hot young comers like luc besson (``subway'') and leos carax (``mauvais sang,'' or bad blood) are trying to solidify success from their early films
louis malle, after slowing down in the united states, came home to make a smash hit: ``au revoir, les enfants'' (goodbye, children), about kids deported by the nazis
bernard tavernier, finished with ``round midnight,'' returned to do ``la passion beatrice,'' a hard saga of incest and violence set in a corner of 14th century france
at the cannes film festival, maurice pialat's ``sous le soleil de satan'' (under satan's sun) was the first french entry to win the best-film award since lelouch's ``a man and a woman'' 20 years ago
claude berri's back-to-back films about the disappearing french peasantry, ``jean de florette'' and ``manon des sources,'' were successes even in u.s. shopping mall cinemas. so were ``diva'' and ``betty blue'' by jean-jacques beneix
there is no reason not to be optimistic,'' says serge tubiana, editor of the prestigious cahiers du cinema. ``some fine films are being made.''
plenty of money is available, tubiana says, but a new breed of businessmen-producers do not know how to spend it. he says it will take time for television executives to learn to wield their power
for example, no one would touch coline serreau's ``trois hommes et un couffin.'' it was a smash when someone finally did. as ``three men and a baby,'' the u.s. remake grossed $70 million in 1987
the state works hard to assure a steady crop of filmmakers. its influential academy, the institute for higher cinema studies, turns away three times more students than it accepts
the tendency among younger people is toward the classical, the old styles,'' says solveig anspach, an idhec student. ``i don't see any worry about the future.''
she said her class is 40 percent women, a level that few would have believed possible a decade ago
it is not easy for a young director to find backing, but if you have a good idea, and you are determined, you can do it,'' said camille de casabianca, whose ``pekin central,'' won praise
any director with a screenplay can apply for an advance from the state-supported national cinema center, which takes a cut of box-office receipts. private money is often available
but successful filmmakers like annaud prefer to cross borders, breaking out of the limited french market
his ``name of the rose,'' was based on an italian novel, with english actors and german money. the script was written in english and french. he shot the film in english and dubbed it for france
i would much rather spend $25 million for the international market than $3 million for only france,'' he says. ``the risk is less because of the percentages.''
crossing cultures can be risky. annaud won an academy award for foreign films with ``black and white in color.'' but the film ridiculed colonialism, and it flopped among the sensitive french
annaud is unperturbed by a dearth of french stars. directors fight over the bearlike gerard depardieu. but annaud's next film stars a real bear. called ''l'ours'' (the bear), it looks at hunting from the viewpoint of a kodiak cub
lelouch corraled belmondo, fresh from a hit theater run in ``kean.'' he plays a 50-year-old adventurer, the world's ninth richest man, who grew up in a circus and trots the globe taming lions and women
it is called, ``l'itineraire d'un enfant gate,'' meaning, the journeys of a spoiled brat
the director, who not coincidentally just turned 50, wants to present the film on a 7,500-square-foot screen at the bercy sports complex in paris. then, for america, at madison square garden
we have to find new limits, new ideas that become possible as the technology develops,'' lelouch says. ``i hope in my lifetime i can film the picture that keeps turning in my head.''
he pursued his theme:
there is always something better, bigger, more interesting to do. i can imagine films being shown all over the world at the same time, on a sort of pay-tv system, which would earn enough to allow us to do anything
you have to adapt and improve with the means. any director today who shuns television is a dead man.''
annaud, a different sort of filmmaker, agreed with lelouch
where is the conflict?'' he reflected. ``it is like concerts and records. why do some people go to a concert hall instead of buying a compact disc? in the end, it is the same.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ the traditional 27-piece brass band so common in europe almost faded from the american scene after world war ii. but since a pittsburgh conductor formed the river city brass band eight years ago, the brass sound has been on the rebound
call it the boston pops in brass or the common man's symphony. but, please, says conductor robert bernat, don't call it ``oompah.''
the bright, upbeat music of the 27-piece, british-style river city brass band is leading a modest grass-roots revival of a tradition that peaked at the turn of the century
it's just a great big, juicy, fat sound,'' bernat says
the conductor says people are surprised the band plays popular and contemporary songs, classics and folk tunes, not just marches and what he calls ``oompah.''
when they think of brass bands, oompah is what people usually think of,'' he says. ``that's german beer garden music, lee-dee-dee-duh-oom-pah-pah. and we do that sometimes.''
river city features two percussionists and 25 brass horns, including 10 cornets, four tubas, three trombones, three horns, two euphoniums a recent sold-out performance at a suburban pittsburgh middle school, the band played music written by john philip sousa, scott joplin and george gershwin. the audience chose sousa's ``the thunderer'' for the encore, clapping loudly with the march, tapping their feet and rocking in their seats
there's a certain type of march that when you play the audience goes mad,'' bernat says. ``the audience's reaction is predictable.''
most shows also feature a sing-along
they come to our concert and they just let it go,'' says bernard black, solo cornet player. ``they can sit there and stamp their feet and clap their hands and whistle. i've never heard that many people, 1,500 people, in church singing together something like `let me call you sweetheart.' ''
bob turns around and conducts them like the boston pops,'' he says
it just sort of puts you on a high,'' says concert fan frances mcbriar. ``the music is so exciting. it's so american. you connect bands with parades. i love a parade and that's what brass bands remind me of.''
river city's subscribers have grown from about 85 in 1981 to more than 2,600 this season and the band is debt-free for the first time, says general manager joan kimmel
but popular appeal has come sooner than critical acclaim. the pennsylvania council of the arts, for example, has limited its funding of river city because it does not consider brass band music a form of art
band music is an entertainment form,'' says christine voigt, music director for the council. ``it's in the context that band music is meant for parks and orchestral music is fine art and meant for a different audience.''
droste says the main difference is that a brass band appeals to everyone and plays a greater variety of music
it's a very eclectic mix and though it's a grass-roots movement, the standards are very high,'' he says. ``we appeal to the common man, the man in the street
it would be very difficult to find a better band than the river city brass band. they would compare very favorably with the top brass bands in england, where they have the best brass bands in the world.''
carl jackson, a free-lance musician who has played trombone with the band for about five years, says he underestimated the brass band
when i got the announcement of the brass band tryouts, i said, `come on, you can't be serious,''' he says. ``i've learned it's a very serious thing.''
bernat says a ``significant stamp of approval'' came when the band recently was chosen to perform in 11 australian cities in march during the 1988 australian bicentennial celebration, along with the chicago symphony orchestra, the mormon tabernacle choir, the texas boys choir and twyla tharp dance company
at home, river city performs a 28-concert subscription series in pittsburgh's lavish carnegie hall and in an old movie theater and two suburban schools. it has toured about 15 states
we get out to the audience rather than trying to get the audience to come out to us,'' kimmel says. ``it has that whole `music man' feeling, that they can have this right here in river city.''
kimmel said all kinds of people attend concerts. but at the city's carnegie hall, ``it's fur coats and ceos and the kind of people you see at the symphony.'' photo.)</note>
as maude breen in the cbs miniseries ``bluegrass,'' former ``charlie's angel'' cheryl ladd is a woman out for revenge, success, her own horse farm and a winner at the kentucky derby
this being television and the windup of the february ratings sweeps, the two-part series, to be shown sunday and monday, also is rife with intrigue, back-stabbing, and social climbing. there are lots of blue skies and green pastures, beautiful horses and a rousing finale at churchill downs
i play a woman who was raised in the area but is forced to leave after her father is accused of burning a barn,'' ladd says. ``he was the farm manager and he took the blame for the son. the son also tries to rape me at the beginning of the picture. he's played by wayne rogers.''
laughing, she adds, ``he's so charming. you just know he's a snake.''
bluegrass,'' from a novel by borden deal, also stars brian kerwin, anthony andrews, shawnee smith, diane ladd, kiernan mulroney and mickey rooney
filmed entirely on location around lexington, ky., it was directed by simon wincer, who also directed the australian movie about horse racing, ``phar lap.''
maude is a kind of steel magnolia,'' ladd says. ``i liked her because of that. she's pretty determined to do it her own way. i liked that, too. i liked that she's not afraid to get her hands dirty. she can dress up, then turn around and put on jeans and muck up a horse stall
she's an underdog. i think a lot of people will be rooting for her. i grew up in a small town in south dakota. my aunt had a farm and my grandfather lived in an even smaller town. i can identify with these kind of people. and my husband and i have a quarter horse ranch in colorado, so i know something about horses, too.''
bluegrass'' opens with some brief scenes that show maude as a teen-ager and the unhappy memories she left behind
they asked me if i wanted to play her as a 15-year-old,'' she says. ``that would be quite a stretch. it was flattering, but i thought better of it. what i really said was, `get real!'''
then it jumps ahead 15 years, as maude, now a widow, returns to buy a run-down farm with a vow of turning it into a breeding stable for winning thoroughbreds
ladd is married to producer brian russell, whose indian neck productions has turned out such films as ``hoosiers,'' ``from the hip,'' ``flight of the navigator'' and ``the witching hour.''
we'll go up to our ranch and load up some pack horses and ride into the mountains for four or five days,'' she says. ``we'll pitch tents and live outdoors. i ride a buckskin cutting horse named half a buck
it's funny, but i didn't have much luck with horses when i was a kid. i had a bad experience of being thrown and kicked. i thought there was something about me that horses didn't like
on `charlie's angels' i had to jump out of a jeep onto a horse and ride out of the camera frame. thank goodness for the wrangler. the horse looked at me, laid his ears down and and went for the lowest branch. the wrangler went after me and pulled me off the horse. it was like a scene from a movie. he said, `this horse is trying to kill you.'''
whatever it was, ladd got over it, learned to ride and has even been in a few races
this is the third miniseries for ladd, who previously starred in ``a death in california'' and ``crossings.'' last year she was in the tv movie ``deadly care'' as a nurse battling her addiction to drugs
her next project may be an adaptation of a book she recently bought called ``fulfillment,'' about a minnesota farm family at the turn of the century
there's talk of making `bluegrass' into a series,'' she says, ``but i'm not very interested in doing another series at this point in my career.''
nor is she interested in doing a ``charlie's angels'' reunion. ``all of us gagged at the prospect,'' she says. ``we didn't feel we could go home again. we've all moved on.''
ladd replaced farrah fawcett in the second year of the show. other long-running angels were jaclyn smith and kate jackson
producer aaron spelling is developing a new generation of ``charlie's angels'' for fox broadcasting co. photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
the queen of off-broadway has enlarged her kingdom this season
at an age when most people would have been retired for nearly 20 years, lucille lortel has gone uptown with two major broadway productions _ ``sarafina!'', an exuberant south african musical, and ``a walk in the woods,'' a drama about american and soviet arms control negotiators
not exactly commercial fluff, but then making money never was the reason miss lortel got into producing more than 40 years ago in the backyard of her connecticut home
if a work is theatrical and if it's something that moves me, then i will do it,'' she says. ``it is the theatricality of a play that appeals to me, not necessarily the subject matter.''
miss lortel, stylishly dressed in a black-and-white striped blouse and a black skirt, sits in the living room of her fifth avenue apartment. her theater past is there, along with the present. an oil portrait of miss lortel hangs above an elegant couch
the apartment is award heaven. a tony stands on a table. there are proclamations, declarations, decrees and a parade of photographs in almost every room
there is a photograph of miss lortel with sam waterston and robert prosky, the two stars of ``a walk in the woods.'' the play by broadway newcomer lee blessing focuses on the informal, one-on-one meetings of an american delegate and his soviet counterpart to the nuclear disarmament talks in geneva. the two men break diplomatic red tape by taking walks in the woods to discuss their countries' problems
darling, i fell in love with `a walk in the woods,' when i saw it at yale last year,'' she recalls. ``i felt that i had to do it. and it's important enough and good enough to do on broadway.''
miss lortel backs up her opinions with her money, some $850,000 plus to put ``a walk in the woods,'' a one set, two-character drama, on broadway
i tell you, it's a feeling i have, like when you seen a fine painting or something,'' she says. ``you can't explain it or why you feel emotional about it. this is the way i feel about plays.''
the money was left her by her husband, louis schweitzer, who made his fortune in the cigarette paper business. it was schweitzer who got her out of and then back into the theater
when they met during the depression, miss lortel was an aspiring actress. by then she had appeared on broadway, portraying a slave girl in ``caesar and cleopatra,'' starring helen hayes
i next played a virgin in `the virgin man' and then a nymphomaniac in `the shanghai gesture,''' she laughs. ``i had very long flowing hair in those days
in fact, a couple of those pictures on the piano might show what i looked like then,'' she says, gesturing to a provocative, almost modern photograph of a young, seductive-looking woman. ``i'm a little shocked at myself when i see them.''
schweitzer and miss lortel were married in march 1931 on the luxury liner leviathan as the couple was returning from europe. the new wife continued to dabble in show business, but eventually gave up her career
you have to remember, it was 1931, honey, and his family was very strict,'' she recalls. ``he wasn't, but his family was. in fact, my husband called me `volly,' meaning voluptuous.''
sixteen years later, miss lortel found herself back in show business, pretty much by accident. friends were looking for a place to hold a reading of a new play, and she offered the old white barn on her 18-acre westport, conn., estate. a new summer theater was born
in the beginning, it wasn't so much that i picked the plays,'' she recalls. ``they picked me. usually a director or a playwright came to me with something.''
at the white barn theater, she gave work to actors like zero mostel, eva marie saint and kim hunter and life to experimental plays or new works by unknown authors. over the years, as the white barn's chief decision maker and financial backer, she has produced scores of works, including athol fugard's ``blood knot,'' sean o'casey's ``red roses for me,'' edward albee's ``fam and yam'' and paul zindel's ``the effect of gamma rays on man-in-the-moon marigolds.''
as a 24th anniversary present, schweitzer bought his wife the theater de lys, a small, off-broadway playhouse, in 1955. the first play she produced there _ a revival of the weill-brecht musical ``the threepenny opera'' _ ran for seven years
the show's long run stymied miss lortel's producing instincts, so she took to presenting weekly matinee performances of new and old works at the de lys while ``threepenny'' was running at night. richard burton read shakespeare. siobhan mckenna played hamlet. lotte lenya recalled the life of bertolt brecht. the matinee series lasted nearly 20 years before miss lortel decided it had run its course. all her work led her to be dubbed ``the queen of off-broadway'' by washington post theater critic richard l. coe. the name stuck
schweitzer died in 1971 but his wife kept busy, looking after her off-broadway property, renamed the lucille lortel theater in 1981, running the white barn, and co-producing several broadway shows including ``angels fall'' and ``as is.''
today, miss lortel keeps busy seeing new works and rarely is home during the evening. often she's out five nights a week, looking at broadway, off-broadway, off-off-broadway and even showcase productions for new scripts
my life is the theater,'' she says. ``i didn't have any children, but the theater is my child. since my husband died, i don't know what i would have done without it. it's been my whole life. it's a wonderful place to go. you lose yourself in it, especially if it's good.''
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the 7,000-member military, long a dominant force in haiti, would be put to work building bridges and promoting public health under a reorganization plan drawn up by the nation's new leader
the plan, a key part of the 86-page platform of president leslie manigat's national democratic progressive rally, also would separate the police from the armed forces and put them under civilian control
there is a perception the army was ... corrupted by the duvalier dictatorship,'' the party document says. ``but there is another truth, also incontestable, that the army was the victim of the duvalier dictatorship, which humiliated, dismantled and decapitated it.''
there must be a ... rehabilitation to wipe out the image that the army is a repressive force against the civilian population.''
manigat as a candidate and now president has acted as a buffer between the army and its harshest critics. he claims he can control the institution that has dominated politics in this impoverished caribbean country of 6 million people from the time haiti won independence from france in 1804
following the end of the 19-year u.s. occupation in 1934, the army put dumarsais estime in as president in 1946, took power itself in 1950 under col. paul magloire, and helped francois ``papa doc'' duvalier win a disputed election that began a brutal 29-year dictatorship in 1957
duvalier set up the tonton macoutes militia, which came to be generally regarded as street thugs, when the army and coast guard plotted against him. he emasculated haiti's armed forces by shuffling, retiring and sometimes executing commanders. he based promotions on loyalty to him, and gave away state monopolies to his military favorites
when duvalier's son and successor, jean-claude ``baby doc'' duvalier, fled into exile in february 1986, a military-dominated junta led by lt. gen. henri namphy, then the army's chief of staff, took control and ruled by decree for two years leading up to manigat's election jan. 17 and inauguration feb. 7
opposition leaders say it remains to be seen whether the army will return to the barracks as namphy, now the commander in chief, had pledged before the election, and whether manigat has the power to reorganize or dismantle an entrenched military hierarchy
a western diplomat who closely tracks political and military developments here said in an interview: ``all those who made officer between 1959 and 1971 were duvalier appointees of very low quality. ... the officers who graduated in 1973 (two years after ``baby doc'' reopened the haitian military academy) ... see things differently. they're more progressive, they're more educated, they're more professional
but they're blocked by the system, they're blocked by the duvalier appointees above them _ the colonels, the generals _ who are not leaving,'' said the diplomat, speaking only on condition of anonymity
the military also has been linked to drug trafficking and to the smuggling of cars, rice, sugar and other goods
the u.s. drug enforcement administration opened an office in port-au-prince in november because cocaine smuggling was rising so rapidly in haiti. a dea informant, osvaldo quintana, testified in federal court in miami, fla., in january that the trafficking was taking place under the protection of haitian soldiers
armed forces of haiti officials rarely respond to such criticism or charges. the military is a closed, secretive organization
all interviews have to be cleared with brig. gen. carl michel nicolas, who is namphy's successor as chief of staff. nicolas did not respond to a written request for an interview with the associated press
the present-day army structure was established by u.s. marines in 1916 to help put down a guerrilla-style insurrection. it is the main component of the armed forces, which also include the police, coast guard, fire department, a presidential guard and several other battalions and departmental commands
the armed forces' main role is to protect the president and maintain security _ a difficult task given their small numbers and inadequate equipment and training. the fire department is notoriously slow, and residents who have been robbed have to send their own cars to pick up police investigators
military recruits, drawn from the lower middle class, are paid the equivalent of $160 a month on a pay scale that ranges up to $1,800 for colonels and $3,400 for namphy, the top commander
enlistment terms run for six years and the military is considered a good career in a country where more than half the population cannot find steady work and the annual per capita income is about $350
training is limited, and equipment consists mostly of aging hand-me-downs from the united states _ m-1 rifles and m-14 automatic weapons, a half-dozen helicopters of which only two or three work, a few armored personnel carriers and some cutters that patrol the coast
for 7,000 men, fewer than a single u.s. army division, there are five generals and 24 colonels
while namphy is the commander in chief, the 500-man battalion at the dessalines barracks acts semi-autonomously under col. jean-claude paul
the dessalines battalion was involved in almost every incident last summer when soldiers shot and killed unarmed anti-government demonstators
the green-uniformed, black-booted battalion, which patrols streets in this sprawling capital of 1 million, was noticeably absent nov. 29, however, when gunmen with hand grenades and automatic weapons killed at least 34 people and forced the cancellation of what would have been haiti's first free, open and independently run presidential election in 30 years
it is the only unit that is really feared here,'' the western diplomat said, noting that some of the duvaliers' tonton macoutes were incorporated into it. ``the men are very loyal to (col. paul). he ignores the chain of command and commands them directly.''
nevertheless, the diplomat said he was optimistic that manigat might succeed in his efforts to educate and modernize the armed forces, and reorient soldiers to accept civilian rule and participate in national development
the young officers aspire for change and they see it coming,'' the diplomat said. ``the problem remaining is the dessalines barracks. we're waiting to see what manigat will do about that
in the next five years, we'll see a new generation of officers with diplomas who have traveled abroad, who are of a different mentality, who are young and cultured. they can give a new image to the army.''
a leading haitian academic who has had a 30-year acquaintance with manigat said he is not sure that will happen
speaking only on the condition that he remain anonymous, fearing recrimination, he said: ``the army wants to leave the civilian structures of power, not power itself. there's too much money to be made
manigat is no puppet. far from it. it is an extremely interesting battle. he makes the army believe he supports it. the army makes him believe they support him. each one knows the other is lying. ..
in the final analysis, manigat is not capable of dominating the army or manipulating power. haiti's immediate future is going to be as tragic as its present and its past. i fear uprisings among the people.''
philip kaufman is a filmmaker who welcomes challenge. he took tom wolfe's sprawling paean to the first u.s. astronauts, ``the right stuff,'' and made a highly original film that deserved better than it got at the box office
now kaufman undertakes an even more daunting assignment: filming milan kundera's novel of eroticism and politics in 1960s czechoslovakia, ``the unbearable lightness of being.'' he has created a movie in the grand tradition of storytelling. it is intimate yet epic, a compelling human triangle played against the cataclysm of the 1968 soviet invasion
tomas (daniel day-lewis) is a prague brain surgeon and a tireless womanizer. he merely commands ``take off your clothes,'' and women joyfully obey. tereza (juliette binoche), a shy but firm-minded country girl, enters his life, and he agrees to marry her. but his philandering continues
sabina (lena olin), a free-spirited artist who fears commitment as much as tomas, is content to remain his mistress. as tensions mount in the marriage, soviet tanks roll into prague to quell the growing liberalization. tomas and tereza flee to switzerland. but unhappy with his duplicity, tereza returns to prague and he follows. punished by the authorities for their defection, they settle on the farm where the story comes to an abrupt end
the unbearable lightness'' does not lend itself to condensation. there are too many complexities, too much probing of human motivations. the story requires careful telling, and kaufman requires almost three hours. only in the rustic setting does the pace falter
the film is illuminated by two extraordinary performances: by juliette brioche, whose tereza marvelously traces a woman's emotional and intellectual growth; by lena olin, who manages to balance sabina's sensuality and her aestheticism. the sequences in which they photograph each other in the nude is a masterful celebration of the female form
day-lewis, the amusing young snob of ``a room with a view,'' is perfect within the confines of the hedonistic tomas, his dark eyes smoldering with lust. but kaufman and co-writer jean-claude carrier never overcome the onesidedness of the character
saul zaentz, whose other achievements include ``one flew over the cuckoo's nest'' and ``amadeus,'' produced with superior taste. all departments are commendable, especially sven nykvist's camera work and leos janacek's music
the orion release is rated r, with much female nudity and sexual activity. running time: 171 minutes
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions
when ann-margret recently won a golden globe for her television performance in ``the two mrs. glenvilles,'' she experienced a warming wave of nostalgia
it was just 27 years ago thatthey (the hollywood foreign press association) gave me the first award i ever received _ as the most promising newcomer of the year,'' she recalled. ``it was in the same room (international ballroom, beverly hilton), and i remember everything about it, including the dress i wore.''
in a town where most promising newcomers come and go like the santa ana winds, ann-margret is a phenomenon. after a quarter-century she continues high on any producer's casting list for sexually charged roles. at 46 she remains athletically curved, the emerald eyes smoldering, the voice throaty and inviting
she remains unchanged in other ways as well. the deep, full laugh erupts often, more in nervousness than mirth. she speaks in quiet, hesitant sentences, recalling the immigrant girl who seemed bewildered when hollywood proclaimed her sexuality in such films as ``kitten with a whip'' and ``the pleasure seekers.''
ann-margret and roger smith, her husband-manager for 20 years, live in the hilltop house overlooking benedict canyon; it had been the honeymoon home of lauren bacall and humphrey bogart. the other day in the sunny living room where bogie once held court, the actress reminisced about her hollywood career and talked about two forthcoming films: ``a tiger's tale,'' with c. thomas howell and charles durning; and ``a new life,'' with alan alda and hal linden
in ``a tiger's tale'' she plays a character named is rose butts. howell plays bubber drumm
it takes place in texas, as you might guess,'' she said. ``bubber is one of my daughter's boyfriends, and rose tries very hard to get away from him. but he is so dear and so adorable, and he really wants to see her. they go out a couple of times as friends
but he is so insistent, she realizes he really loves her. and she realizes she loves him. he's very sweet, and quite innocent.''
in ``a new life'' she and alda play a couple who have been married 26 years. they have a 24-year-old daughter
in the very first scene we're in the divorce lawyer's office, and he's saying `why are you doing this?'
he's a workaholic,'' ann-margret said. ``he loves her very much, but he works five days a week and plays golf with clients on saturday and tennis on sunday. the rest of the film concerns all the people he dates and all the people i date. there are some very odd characters out there.''
she was born ann-margret ollson in valsjobyn, sweden, in 1941, and accompanied her parents to the united states at the age of 5. her talent developed early, and at 16, she appeared on ted mack's amateur hour on television. after a year at northwestern university, she left to tour with other students who formed a music group called the suttletones. after a few bookings, the group broke up and ann-margret looked for work in hollywood
i auditioned for george burns at his office at general service studio 28 years ago,'' she recalled. ``he still has his office there
we found a piano on one of the stages. we took the tarp off, and my pianist played for me. i did a couple of songs, and mr. burns asked me if i would be in his show.'' she appeared with burns at the sahara hotel in las vegas, and burns' pal jack benny put her on his television show
frank capra chose ann-margret to play bette davis' daughter in ``a pocketful of miracles,'' and fox cast her in the remake, with rodgers and hammerstein music, of ``state fair.'' but it was ``bye, bye, birdie'' with dick van dyke that established her as a hot new star
ann-margret supplied her special brand of sex appeal to such leading men as steve mcqueen (``the cincinnati kid''), dean martin (``murderer's row''), anthony quinn (``r.p.m.''), alain delon (``once a thief'') and elvis presley (``viva las vegas''). not until mike nichols' ``carnal knowledge'' (1971) did hollywood achkowledge that she could act. she won an academy award nomination as supporting actress, a feat she repeated with ``tommy'' in 1975
in 1967, she married roger smith, the handsome blond star of the ``77 sunset strip'' tv series of the '50s. he abandoned his own acting career to become her personal manager, guiding her not only for films but in her dynamic night club act
backstage at a lake tahoe casino in 1972, she fell 22 feet from a platform to the stage, suffering a broken arm, five facial fractures and a brain concussion. within 10 weeks she was ready to star again her las vegas act
the personal appearances ended abruptly in 1983 when smith was stricken with myasthenia gravis, a disease of the nerves that weakens muscles
for a long time roger had no strength, couldn't even make a fist,'' she said. ``happily, he has been in remission for two years now. he works out every day in our gym for an hour and a half. he skis and rides a bike. he's in good shape.''
ann-margret works out daily, too, and she may one day return to the act. it all depends on smith: ``it's very simple: he's first.''
for the first time in more than 50 years, paris is celebrating the unparalleled genius of edgar degas, the 19th century artist whose graceful ballerinas and busy race track scenes have long been synonymous with impressionism
more than 300 paintings, drawings, monotypes, pastels, watercolors, photographs and sculpture by the man who once said he wanted to die ``illustrious and unknown'' are on show at the grand palais until may 16
critics say degas got his wish. in his lifetime, he was famous for the sweet-faced ballet dancers in crinoline tutus he portrayed on stage under the lights, in rehearsal, at rest and exercising at the barre
at odd angles and sometimes off center, the ``dancers'' were experiments in perspective and composition that differentiated degas from his impressionist contemporaries. in 1912, five years before his death, ``danseuses a la barre'' (``dancers at the barre'') sold for 430,000 francs _ then one of the highest prices on record
but degas did not consider himself the painter of ballerinas. for him, they were just ``a pretext for painting pretty fabric and capturing movement.''
funded by a $1.5 million grant from united technologies corp., the exhibition will travel to the museum of fine arts in ottawa, canada from june 16 to aug. 28 and the metropolitan museum of art in new york from sept. 27 to jan. 8, 1989
more comprehensive than previous degas shows, this one features little known works rarely seen in public and which reveal an artist who was misogynist, anti-semitic and voyeuristic, someone critics said liked to ``peep through keyholes.''
one of degas' favorite subjects was women at their toilette and he painted them tirelessly throughout a 60-year-career. bathing in the tub, stepping into the tub or climbing out, draped over the tub or sitting on its edge, washing, drying and combing their hair, degas' nudes were ongoing experiments in form and color, perspective and technique
early in his career, he used oils almost exclusively. but at the age of 36, his vision began to decline and he turned to pastels, watercolors and later charcoal. by 1912, he was completely blind
until now, nudes had always adopted studied poses,'' degas said in 1886, after the last impressionist show. ``my women are simple people, concerned only with what they're doing. here's one washing her feet. it's as though you were looking through the keyhole.''
there were other simple folk in degas' paintings: thick-waisted and perspiring laundresses; jockeys on horseback; cafe singers belting out the latest tunes; hat makers with swollen, pinpricked fingers; and naked prostitutes, shown in the picture ``party for the boss.''
but there were also numerous renditions of degas' stuffy, middle-class milieu. the son of a banker, he painted the stiff portraits of bored looking gentlemen in dark suits and their buttoned-up wives
degas was a notorious anti-semite who broke with many of his closest friends, including camille pisarro and the wealthy halevy family, during the dreyfus affair. a firm believer in the guilt of alfred dreyfus, the jewish captain convicted of treason, he once kicked out of his studio a woman model who casually mentioned the possibility of dreyfus' innocence
le general mellinet et le grand rabbin astruc'' (``general mellinet and rabbi astruc''), a small format portrait, also caused controversy because of the unflattering way in which degas transformed astruc's fine features
degas, blinded by judeophobia, sacked his divine model, replaced a miniature mouth by fat sensual lips,'' gabriel astruc, the rabbi's brother, said at the time
this painting is not a work of art,'' astruc said. ``it's a pogrom.''
one of the most striking early masterpieces on show is ``portrait de famille,'' also known as ``la famille bellelli'' (``the bellelli family'') (1858-67). though the subject was family members he supposedly liked, critics have long wondered at the painting's surpising absence of warmth and affection
another early painting unlike any of his later works is ``interior or the rape'' (1868-69), showing a bedroom scene between a young woman with bare shoulders kneeling on the floor, her back to a tall, bearded man watching her intently
the show catalog refers to the work as one of degas' ``most mysterious ... highlighting the difficulty the artist had with women.''
as edouard manet put it in a letter to berthe morisot, ``he isn't natural. he is incapable of loving a woman. he can't even tell her. he can't do anything.''
rick springfield considers himself a searcher, a learner. and three years ago, he discovered that he needed some time away from the music business
after a series of hit albums, a featured role in the hit tv soap, ``general hospital,'' and a feature movie, ``hard to hold,'' springfield had had enough
i had nothing to say,'' he recalled
there was no one moment. it was a process. i was walking around my house _ this beautiful ranch in malibu. i was thinking about how unhappy i was.''
on his new lp, ``rock of life,'' springfield sings about the pressures of fame, why he had to quit, why he is back
i was caught with my guard down when the world came knocking,'' he sings on the title track _ the album's first single. ``there's pain and confusion and i'm trying to understand.''
on ``world start turning,'' he sings: ``just another soul lost in america, i was so frustrated.''
one of the problems with fame, he said, was that being the idol of millions of female fans created tension with his then-girlfriend, barbara jean, who is now his wife. ``we had a lot of problems. i denied her for a while. people would ask me if i had a girlfriend and i'd say `no.' she had trouble handling me.''
springfield's first hit single was ``speak to the sky,'' a top 15 hit in 1972 and no. 1 in his native australia. he also released the albums ``comic book heroes'' and ``wait for night.''
when his music career cooled, he took up acting, making appearances on ``the six million dollar man,'' ``the rockford files'' and ``the incredible hulk.''
but it was his role as dr. noah drake in ``general hospital'' that set springfield's career soaring
in the early 1980s, he released the platinum-selling albums ``working class dog'' and ``success hasn't spoiled me yet.'' ``jessie's girl,'' a single from ``working class dog'' reached no. 1 on the charts and earned him a grammy award in 1981. ``success hasn't spoiled me yet'' yielded another major hit single, ``don't talk to strangers,'' which earned a grammy nomination for best male pop vocalist
but after the hit lp ``living in oz,'' and 1985's ``tao,'' springfield took time off to be with his wife and their newly-born son, liam. becoming a parent was a major turning point in his life
i accepted the responsibility,'' he said. ``i realized i had to be strong enough for both of us.''
raising a child also made him think about his father, who had died a few years before liam was born
on ``tear it all down,'' the rocker that leads off side 2 of ``rock of life,'' he sings: ``i look at my innocent boy as he sleeps. ... i wish there was some way i could talk to my father again.''
i felt i needed to talk to him,'' springfield said. ``seeing myself with liam, i saw a lot of him in me.''
despite the hiatus, springfield was able to record the new album in only nine weeks. ``i was very definite about i wanted. i do extensive demos,'' he said
he also credits producer keith olsen, who worked on ``jessie's girl'' and another hit single, ``i've done everything for you,'' with giving him the sound he wanted
when i finished the demos, i realized there would be a lot of vocals,'' springfield said. ``keith is real, real good with vocals. keith has the ability to create a warm sound.''
while most of the album is about the downside of fame, the two final songs are upbeat: ``hold on to your dream'' and ``(if you think you're) groovy.''
hold on to your dream'' is about losing hope, then regaining it. ``don't tell me it's over, i still smell the fire,'' springfield sings
groovy'' is the album's only remake. written in the late '60s by steve marriott and ronnie lane of the english rock group, the small faces, ``groovy'' is a personal favorite of springfield's and a song that almost did not get put on the album
i had to fight a couple of battles but i had good reasons for putting it on the record: a _ it had a different slant. b _ it's a part of my life, an important part of my life,'' he said
with the album completed and a worldwide tour anticipated, springfield is hopeful about maintaining his popularity
i think i've taken my audience along with me,'' he said. ``i don't think i'm going to lose fans because i'm married. i think the young crowd is in a position to appreciate what's being said.''
regardless of how successful his comeback is, springfield wants to continue to grow as a person
i'd like to have the time to grow as a writer and learn what i need to learn,'' he said. ``discovering yourself is instrumental.'' story writer</head>
ethan canin could be easy to hate: he's a stanford university graduate, a student at harvard medical school, a budding literary star and he even has what used to be called matinee idol good looks
at age 27, he has seen his short stories collected in a critically acclaimed new book, ``the emperor of the air'' (houghton mifflin co., $15.95)
canin has enough charm to deflect resentment. he is modest and self-deprecating, almost worried about his near overnight success. and at a time when trendy young writers such as jay mcinerney, tama janowitz and bret easton ellis are regularly bashed by literary critics, canin is different enough to resist comparison
we're different kinds of writers,'' said canin during a recent interview at the harvard bookstore cafe. ``i don't want to be movie-star famous. i want to move people with my writing ... because i'm so moved myself by (good) writing. but it's really easy to get swept up by the american publicity machine.''
every story canin has written since age 19 has been published
and his stories bear little resemblance to the world of the neo-hip new yorkers chronicled by the new breed of writers. there are no tales of bohemian artists in soho, no cocaine-snorting yuppies, no alienated college students
instead, canin writes simple and spare stories in the voices of the elderly and middle-aged as well as the young. they are about people on the verge of change, people confronted with decision and possible crisis. they are people not unlike canin: facing a new and scary experience. canin will tell you that most of the varied characters in his stories ``are me.''
his tales also hint at the dark side of life: the inevitability and quiet anguish of aging; the shadow of infidelity over a long marriage; the emotional violence that often lurks within families. but they end just short of despair. his characters have hope, however jaded
the old man in ``we are nighttime travelers'' has been married to his wife for years. the two have grown so far apart that they live isolated, secret lives, separated by inches of bedsheet every night that might as well be miles. though he feels himself dying a little bit more each day, surrounded by pills, poor circulation and a faltering memory, the old man is suddenly seized by a sense of renewal in the midst of decay. he takes his wife on a romantic walk in middle of a cold night. later, he kisses her for the first time in ages and has ``the feeling of a miracle.''
canin is a fourth-year medical student at harvard and said that some of his insight into the elderly came from the older people he has examined
you meet 40 people a day and you talk to them about their lives,'' he said. ``a lot of them are older. if someone comes in under 55 you're so grateful to see young flesh.''
medicine keeps him in contact with people. he has balanced a love and aptitude for science with writing since he started at stanford. he began as a physics major and took a creative writing class for an easy grade. his teacher sent one of the stories he wrote in class (included as ``lies'' in his book) to a literary quarterly in the bay area and it was accepted
it's still the biggest thrill i've ever received,'' he said
he switched to an english major at stanford and then earned a master's degree in fine arts from the iowa writer's workshop. he only wrote two stories in iowa, and said it's a competitive place ``where i think some people really clam up.''
as a result, canin applied to medical school after iowa and was accepted at harvard. he wrote most of his stories in medical school, many when he had to study for exams. ``it was a kind of mini-rebellion,'' he said
but once again, canin is postponing science. though he has only several months left of medical school, he is planning to take at least a year or two off. he leaves for mexico on april 1 and hopes to write a novel there
canin freely admits to a charmed life. but he is equally candid about the peculiar fears that accompany a lifetime of good fortune
my life has been very good,'' he said. ``if it were to turn bad, maybe i'd be the first person to go out and stab someone.''
that ominous sentiment echoes canin's favorite story in his collection, ``american beauty'' in which a boy waits all summer to hear worldly wisdom dispensed by a troubled older brother leaving home
if something ever goes wrong, you're going to turn into a son of a bitch, just like me,'' the brother tells him. ``just like every guy in the world. you don't know it yet because everything's all right so far. you think you're a nice guy and everything hasn't really affected you. but you can't get away from it. it's in your blood.''
for timeless torch singer brenda lee, the dilemma is not what to sing but what to leave out
with a career spanning more than 30 years, she finds it impossible to sing all her hit records during one concert
i do three medleys and still have to leave out a bunch,'' the irrepressible 43-year-old performer says. ``i'd be up there three hours if i sang them all.''
her tender, bluesy voice on such songs as ``i'm sorry'' and ``all alone am i'' has carried her to record sales of about 100 million
it feels pretty good,'' she says. ``it's kind of unbelievable in a way. but it feels great.''
after 12 million-selling single records and performances in 52 foreign nations, she embarks on another career milestone this year. she's set to begin appearing in a musical called ``music! music! music!'' at opryland usa in nashville
it's a preliminary step to what she hopes might be performing on broadway. earlier in her career, she did summer stock in ``the wizard of oz'' and ``bye, bye birdie.''
it's always been in the back of my mind,'' she says about the yearning for the new york stage. ``but i don't know if it ever will come about.''
the nashville production will pose a new challenge for the entertainer who earned $35 for her first performance in 1955 and eventually grew to such stature that she sang for the queen of england
it will give me a chance to do some different things,'' she says. ``i thought i'd fit into it well. it will give me a chance to spread my wings a little.''
miss lee will be seen this spring on a special musical production called ``shake, rattle and roll'' on the public broadcasting service. she recently appeared in a similar show, ``legendary ladies,'' on cable tv's cinemax
her rollicking ``rockin' around the christmas tree'' just enjoyed another holiday season and now has sold more than 6 million copies
it feels a little strange when i sing it in july, but that's all right,'' she said
only her ``i'm sorry'' has more sales, 10 million
she professes to having no favorite hit, but says, ```i'm sorry' has a special place because i believed in it so long before i recorded it. but i liked all of the songs
it bothers me to leave them out (in concert) because the people want to hear certain ones. if they yell out a request, i stop and do it and let the show go longer if i can.''
her other hits include ``comin' on strong,'' ``sweet nothin's,'' ``as usual,'' ``fool number one'' and ``too many rivers.''
her ``break it to me gently'' preceded a hit version by juice newton. similarly, she had a hit with ``always on my mind'' before elvis presley and willie nelson recorded it
she offers these comments on current female pop stars:
madonna _ ``i like her. she's got a different style and a flair and she's her own person. she's courageous in what she does.''
whitney houston _ ``she's a very classy lady and a very good singer with roots in gospel music that show through. she's bringing back ballads and i'm glad she's around to do that.''
cyndi lauper _ ``she reminds me of me as far as her energy and singing. i wasn't as wild or as way out as she may be but she's very energetic and unorthodox and i was that way. she doesn't just stand there and sing and be pretty. she jumps around and moves and sweats and gets close to the audience. i like that.''
miss lee, who made her 19th tour of japan in december, says her love of performing has not dwindled since she was dubbed ``little miss dynamite'' as a teen-age entertainer nearly a quarter century ago
keeping up your zest for singing is not hard. it's everything else _ getting there and the travel _ all the stuff that goes into it. singing is definitely the easy part,'' she says
i want to keep doing it because i love the business and i know how to do it. i've lasted because of the people who've bought the records and supported me and because of the dj's who've played my records
i've had so many thrills it would be hard to pick the top one,'' she says. ``when you sing for heads of state and queens, have gold records and win awards, it's so hard to say one was the most exciting
one of them was meeting (gospel great) mahalia jackson. she was one of my idols along with judy garland and sophie tucker.''

you can dance'' (warner bros.) _ madonna

it's got a good beat and you can dance to it. madonna's new album isn't really new, but rather a collection of danceable hits, remixed by club deejays masterful at that peculiar art of taking the artists' work, track by track, and reconstructing it. most such remixes become 12-inch dance singles, and ``you can dance,'' is basically a compilation of these
the album includes ``everybody,'' madonna's first single, remixed into a long dance version, and the 12-inch disco mixes of ``holiday,'' ``into the groove,'' ``over and over,'' ``physical attraction'' and ``where's the party?'' the only new cut is ``spotlight.''
all are vintage madonna _ light, unburdened, often hypnotically rhythmic pop music that you can, indeed, dance to, and sometimes even listen to
into the groove'' may be recognized by film buffs since it got additional notice in madonna's film debut, the 1985 ``desperately seeking susan.'' her film career hasn't prospered since then, but her recording career has not flagged
where's the party?'' is from her most recent album ``true blue,'' released last year
madonna got her start in dance clubs, and ``you can dance'' is an obvious tribute to the disco milieu, where stamina and dependability are more valuable than intellect any day. it might just be the only dance record you'll ever need _ if you need only a beat, not necessarily heart, to get moving
international business machines corp. on monday announced a new design and new internal software for its largest computers, continuing a chain of enhancements dating back to the first system-360 in 1964
the world's dominant maker of mainframe computers, ibm controls about 70 percent of the market. the huge computers are used by the government and almost all major businesses
ibm said the improvements would allow computers to obtain access to information more rapidly and allow users to develop new programs for their own needs more easily
ibm also unveiled new models of its biggest line of mainframe computers, the 3090 series, and of its slightly smaller 4381 series. ibm said the new architecture _ a way of putting computers and data storage devices together _ would permit more productive use of existing computers
the computer giant said the new operating system, which governs the internal workings of a computer, was a major new development comparable to the advent of the system-360 in 1964, the system-370 in 1970, and the 370-extended architecture of 1981
the enterprise systems architecture-370, the new operating system, can be used in ibm's 3090 and 4381 mainframe computers
the esa-370, which controls the division of room in a computer data storage device, allows computers to reach 16 trillion characters of data that are held in ``virtual storage.'' that is 8,000 times greater than the virtual storage accessible with ibm's current operating system
information held in virtual storage can be retrieved almost as quickly as information held in the computer's main memory
ibm also announced a program for helping computers get at stored information more rapidly. ibm said the program, called data facility storage management, is the most ``significant storage advancement in 20 years.''
it also announced a piece of hardware that allows the 3090 to run as if it were four different computers in one
these new products have important benefits to our customers now, and help them plan for the future by setting a path for ibm large system growth into the next decade,'' said edward lucente, ibm vice president and group executive in the u.s. marketing and services group
they establish a new foundation for future enhancements that will continue to help our customers take advantage of these new capabilities,'' he said in a statement
ibm said the 3090 models 280e and 500e would cost $4.9 million and $9.65 million, respectively. the 280e will be available in the second quarter of the year, while the 500e will be available in the third quarter
the 4381 models 91e is priced at $550,000, and the 92e is priced at $920,000. both will be available in november
the ruling party-owned newspaper, kenya times, hit the streets monday with a new look and a new part-owner: british newspaper publisher robert maxwell
kenya african national union, by law the country's only political party, bought the newspaper on april 5, 1983 and changed it to the kenya times
it is published by kenya times media trust, a joint venture between kanu investments and maxwell communication corp
maxwell and kanu announced in january 1987 they would be partners in a series of media-related businesses, including a textbook publishing company
maxwell said he would invest $45 million in the project, which includes a 30-story, twin-tower communications center in nairobi
maxwell's mirror group newspapers last year sent people to train kenya times journalists and printers, and the newspaper received new equipment
the new kenya times is the first major undertaking of the partnership
the revamped newspaper has dropped the crowing cock _ the kanu symbol _ for a shield and crossed spears, which is part of kenya's coat of arms. also changed is the newspaper motto, from ``the badge of patriotism'' to ``the voice of the people.''
the price remains unchanged at about 20 cents
the number of oil and gas rigs working in the united states dropped by 18 this week to total 968, baker hughes announced
this week's total reflects the number of rigs working as of last friday. a year ago, the count 806, baker hughes said monday
the previous week, the rig count had recovered from recent losses by posting an increase of 22 to total 986. the rig count usually declines during the first few months of the year
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker, tallies the number of rigs actively exploring for oil, and not rigs producing oil. the rig count is a widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
in december 1981, at the height of the oil boom, the count reached a peak with 4,500 active rigs. but in the summer of 1986, the rig count fell to 663 _ the lowest since hughes began compiling figures _ as oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel
among the major oil producing states, california, oklahoma and michigan each gained five rigs this week
wyoming and louisiana posted the largest decreases, losing 10 and seven respectively. ohio and kansas each lost five rigs, and new mexico and texas each lost three. north dakota's count was down by two
shares of societe generale de belgique sa soared monday as italian financier carlo de benedetti launched his long-awaited bid to take control of belgium's largest holding company
but dealers noted that societe generale's shares, which surged 580 francs to 4,730 francs, or about $135.14 each, remained well above the 4,000 francs a share de benedetti has offered to pay
dealers predicted de benedetti would wait for the price to fall before increasing his stake. his current offer runs through march 4
the italian investor claims to be the largest single shareholder, controlling through allies about 38 percent of societe generale's stock. he is seeking to acquire an additional 15 percent stake in the company
societe generale's shares traded at a record 4,850 francs a share last thursday. but the shares plunged 700 francs each on friday, when a group of mostly belgian investors failed to agree with france's compagnie financiere de suez to keep societe generale anchored in belgium
failure to reach an agreement forced belgian industrialist andre leysen, head of the gevaert n.v. holding company, to quit as the group's spokesman, strengthening de benedetti's hand
de benedetti is seeking to run the day-to-day operation of societe generale, which controls a third of the belgian economy, and turn the company into a pan-european holding enterprise
the group of mostly belgian investors formed around leysen said it controlled 28 percent of the company's outstanding shares, while suez claimed 15 percent. but together with various small allies, leysen said the bloc would have been assured of absolute majority at shareholders meetings
rumors surfaced as to a possible replacement for leysen, but no one has yet been named
economic affairs minister phillipe maystadt said over the weekend that ``vital sectors'' of the economy that are controlled by societe generale would still be subject to a government veto, whoever holds a majority stake in the company
above and beyond all the financial games, we must return to the essential point for belgium, which is that certain strategic sectors remain under belgian control,'' maystadt said
in recent weeks, trading of societe generale shares off the brussels stock exchange often outweighed official trading, with anonymous buyers paying premium rates for the company's shares. last thursday, the unofficial share price rose as high as 5,300 francs
traders said they could not tell monday who bought societe generale shares
pirelli s.p.a. declined monday to confirm or deny italian media reports that it is negotiating a $1 billion acquisition of firestone tire &amp; rubber co.'s tire division
pirelli managing director jacopo vittorelli said through a spokesman that the company ``always has contacts with big and small competitors, but in this specific case we can't confirm the substance of the reports. but we can't deny it either because we've always shown interest in the north american market.''
officials at firestone, based in akron, ohio, had no comment
headquartered in milan, pirelli is the world's fifth largest tire maker with sales of $3.65 billion in 1987. pirelli currently holds 1.5 percent of the u.s. tire market. the company has no manufacturing plants in north america
the pirelli official said he would disclose any information ``as soon as the facts called for it.''
italian newspaper reports over the weekend said pirelli had offered $1 billion for firestone's tire division in an effort to strengthen its position in the u.s. market
the rome-based national daily la repubblica quoted an unidentified pirelli official as saying that ``if we want to, we can buy firestone; we have both the capacity and the means.''
firestone is the third-largest tire manufacturer in the united states
acquiring firestone's tire division would make pirelli the world's third largest tire manufacturer, following goodyear tire &amp; rubber co. of akron, ohio, and generale des establissements michelin of france, respectively, the italian news reports said
shares prices ended higher monday but off their peaks in extremely quiet trading on the london stock exchange
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index gained 5.2 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,739.2
volume was a mere 248.3 million shares, the lowest daily volume since the year began. it compared with 323.4 million shares friday
share prices opened higher but drifted off on lack of volume. a quiet morning turned into an uneventful afternoon as the closure of u.s. financial markets because of the washington's birthday holiday deprived the london market of any new direction
today was canceled through lack of interest,'' said one dealer who asked not to be identified. closed due to national holiday.</note>
the u.s. dollar fell monday in europe, where trading was quiet due to holidays in west germany and the united states. gold prices rose
foreign currency dealers said the dollar moved up and down a bit during slight position-adjusting maneuvers among those who remained to trade
a holiday in the northern part of west germany and the national washington's birthday u.s. holiday emptied most foreign-exchange trading rooms, they said
we are doing only nominal trading,'' said one dealer at a major west german bank in frankfurt. ``very small sums are crossing the floor.''
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 1.05 yen to a closing 131.00. later, in london, it was quoted at 130.15 yen
in london, the dollar fell slightly against the british pound. it cost $1.7455 to buy one pound, compared with $1.7401 late friday
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late friday included: 1.7085 west german marks, down from 1.7123; 1.4040 swiss francs, down from 1.4065; 5.7705 french francs, down from 5.7865; 1.9180 dutch guilders, down from 1.9225; 1,257.50 italian lire, down from 1,260.75, and 1.2658 canadian dollars, up from 1.2624
gold prices rose in active european trading. the late bid price of gold was $445.10 a troy ounce in london, compared with late friday's $443
in zurich, gold closed at a bid $445.50, compared with $443.50 late friday
bullion markets in hong kong were closed for chinese new year
silver bullion prices rose marginally in london where it was trading at a late bid price of $6.35 a troy ounce, compared with friday's $6.34
belgium's largest insurer, groupe ag s.a., said monday it raised its offer for rival insurer assubel-vie sa by 20 percent to 7,200 francs, or about $205.71 per share
groupe ag announced the new bid, its second for assubel-vie, to offset a counter-offer for assubel-vie's stock by a group of investors backed by assubel-vie
the new bid, which values assubel-vie at almost 9 billion francs, or about $257 million, will be launched tuesday and run through the end of the month, groupe ag said in a statement
the offer is for all of assubel-vie's 1.24 million shares, groupe ag said. assubel vie is not quoted on the brussels stock exchange
the sweetened offer is considerably higher than required under belgian takeover regulations, which requires offers to increase by 5 percent
a groupe ag official said the company made a higher offer ``to avoid a bidding war.''
however, assubel-vie, belgium's third largest insurer, indicated it would continue to resist groupe ag, even though the group supported by assubel-vie is offering 6,000 francs, or $171 per share
the group includes groupe bruxelles lambert sa, belgium's second largest holding company; assurances generales de france, a state-owned french insurer; cobepa, a belgian holding company, and cie. generale mosane
assubel-vie called in the four companies after belgium's banking commission ruled last month the company had to come up with alternative shareholders if it wanted to block groupe ag's bid
the group's counter-offer for assubel-vie was launched a week ago and expires on friday
domestic car and truck sales, boosted by aggressive buyer incentive programs, rose 2.8 percent in early february over the same period a year ago, automakers reported monday
sales are very strong. we haven't seen a major downturn in the market yet, although many were expecting one,'' said chris cedergren, an industry analyst with j.d. power and associates in agoura, calif
car makers sold 192,001 domestically built cars and 102,754 domestically built light trucks in the nine selling days from feb. 1-10, up from 170,134 cars and 84,734 trucks in eight days in the same period a year ago
sales are compared on the basis of average daily sales during a period rather than on straight totals. while car sales rose only 0.3 percent from early february 1987, truck sales climbed 7.8 percent
on a seasonally adjusted basis, cars were selling at an annual rate of 8.4 million vehicles, indicating dealers were doing a brisk business in early february
the market will probably subside in mid-february,'' but a major sales dive isn't likely, cedergren said
among the big three automakers, general motors corp.'s car sales fell 4.2 percent against early february 1987, but sales of domestically built gm trucks rose 4.6 percent. gm's share of both markets shrank, however
industry-leader gm held 50.9 percent of the domestic car market, down from 53.3 percent a year ago, and 40.7 percent of the truck market, down from 41.9 percent a year ago
ford motor co., the nation's second-largest automaker, sold 5.9 percent more domestic cars than a year ago and 3.7 percent more trucks. ford's share of the car market grew to 28.8 percent from 27.3 percent a year ago, but its domestic truck share fell to 35.5 percent from 36.9 percent a year ago
no. 3 chrysler corp.'s sales of domestically built cars jumped 12.8 percent, and its share of that market increased to 14.9 percent from 13.3 percent a year ago
chrysler's domestic truck sales rose 24.6 percent in early february while its market share grew to 22.1 percent from 19.2 percent a year ago
cedergren said chrysler, suffering from large inventories, cut production and offered the most aggressive buyer incentives in the market
american honda motor co., the no. 4 u.s. automaker, suffered a 15 percent drop in sales from early february 1987, and its share of the market shrank to 3.8 percent from 4.4 percent a year ago
but cedergren blamed honda's lost sales on short supply of its popular cars. ``demand outstripped production,'' he said, adding that honda has only a 10- to 12-day supply of domestic cars, compared with an industry norm of 60-65 days supply
nissan motor corp.'s u.s. car sales tumbled 45.5 percent in early february and its domestic truck sales fell 10.7 percent, making it the only domestic maker whose truck sales declined
nissan's been having problems all year. nissan has been the least tolerant of yen-induced price increases. even though the cars are american-built, much of the componentry is brought from japan,'' cedergren said
nissan's u.s.-build sentra subcompact sedan and coupe have suffered from increased competition in the small-car segment of the market, he noted. field</head>
a new superconductor that operates at higher temperatures and may be easier to adapt to practical applications has been discovered by a research team in japan, scientists said monday
the superconductor is not merely a refinement of either of the two known high-temperature superconductors, but an entirely new compound that in some respects may exceed the performance of the others, said a panel of scientists at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
the new material _ a mixture of bismuth, strontium, calcium, copper and oxygen _ raises the temperature at which superconductivity occurs to about 243 degrees below zero fahrenheit, a jump of more than 50 degrees above levels attained with previous superconductors
scattered reports have appeared during the past year of superconductivity occurring at room temperature or even higher temperatures, but those observations have not been confirmed and are not widely accepted
in contrast, the properties of the new material were confirmed within days after its discovery was disclosed on jan. 22 in a newspaper in japan, the researchers said
i personally am quite happy we have found a third one,'' said k. alex mueller of ibm in zurich. he won a nobel prize last fall for his discovery in january 1986 of the first of the new high-temperature superconductors
mueller's superconductor was made of lanthanum, strontium, copper and oxygen
superconductors carry electricity with no resistance and therefore no wasteful dissipation of electricity. before mueller's discovery, superconductivity occurred only at temperatures a few degrees above absolute zero, about 459 degrees below zero fahrenheit. comparatively expensive liquid helium was required to cool them to the temperatures at which they became superconducting
a year after mueller's discovery, paul chu of the university of houston and others discovered a second superconducting compound made of yttrium, barium, copper and oxygen that became a superconductor above the temperature of liquid nitrogen, 321 degrees below zero fahrenheit. that was important because liquid nitrogen is relatively inexpensive and widely available
later in the year, researchers demonstrated that the second compound could carry significant amounts of electrical current, an important requirement for practical application of superconductors
last month, a japanese team led by hiroshi maeda discovered the new bismuth superconductor. maeda did not attend monday's meeting
mueller noted that for the third consecutive year a new superconductor has been discovered in january. ``one may have hopes we'll have another in a year,'' he said
the new superconductor appears to be flexible, suggesting that it might lend itself more easily than the others to the fabrication of wire, said angelica stacey, a chemist at the university of california, berkeley
because the superconductor operates at significantly higher temperatures, its electrical properties at the temperature of liquid nitrogen may be superior to the properties of the other superconductors, said john rowell of bell communications research in red bank, n.j
as a general rule, the properties of superconductors improve the farther you go below the so-called transition temperature at which they become superconducting, he explained
critical properties in addition to the transition temperature are the maximum current the superconductor can accommodate and the maximum magnetic field it can withstand, rowell said
another potential advantage of the new material is that bismuth is more stable than barium, which means that the new superconductor might be less likely to break down chemically over a period of time, said stacey
although the researchers were optimistic that the new compound would have useful properties, they said not enough time had yet elapsed for those properties to be measured
philip w. anderson, a professor of physics at princeton university in new jersey, said the availability of a third superconductor will make it easier for researchers to develop theories explaining how high-temperature superconductors work
anderson said he believes the new superconductors are profoundly different from conventional superconductors
what we've discovered is not just a new kind of superconductor,'' he said, ``but a new kind of metal.''
here are the sales results for the eight major u.s. automakers for feb.1-10. there were nine selling days in the period this year and eight in the period last year
percentages sales rose or fell are comparisons of average daily sales during each period rather than a comparison of straight totals
cars and trucks imported for sales under the gm, ford and chrysler names are counted as foreign. sales of imported cars and trucks are reported at the end of each month
cars and trucks made in the united states by volkswagen, honda, nissan, toyota and mazda are counted as domestic and appear in this table
feb.1-10: 192,001 vs. 170,134, up 0.3 percent
year: 723,226 vs. 597,812, up 21 percent
feb.1-10: 102,754 vs. 84,734, up 7.8 percent
year: 388,083 vs. 304,411, up 27.5 percent
feb.1-10: 294,755 vs. 254,868, up 2.8 percent
year: 1,111,309 vs. 902,223, up 23.2 percent
feb.1-10: 97,701 vs. 90,652, down 4.2 percent
year: 361,341 vs. 323,159, up 11.8 percent
feb.1-10: 55,284 vs. 46,395, up 5.9 percent
year: 215,316 vs. 323,159, up 39.2 percent
feb.1-10: 28,665 vs. 22,594, up 12.8 percent
year: 99,744 vs. 78,468, up 27.1 percent
feb.1-10: 7,208 vs. 7,539, down 15 percent
year: 29,579 vs. 27,437, up 7.8 percent
feb.1-10: 944 vs. 714, up 17.5 percent
year: 4,130 vs. 3,533, up 16.9 percent
feb.1-10: 1,169 vs. 1,908, down 45.5 percent
year: 6,283 vs. 8,477, down 25.9 percent
feb.1-10: 679 vs. 332, up 81.8 percent
year: 5,140 vs. 2,073, up 147.9 percent
feb.1-10: 351 vs. 0
year: 1,693 vs. 0
feb.1-10: 41,784 vs. 35,503, up 4.6 percent
year: 153,379 vs. 119,585, up 28.3 percent
feb 1-10: 36,475 vs. 31,269, up 3.7 percent
year: 139,098 vs. 111,889, up 24.3 percent
feb.1-10: 22,756 vs. 16,231, up 24.6 percent
year: 86,195 vs. 64,777, up 33.1 percent
feb.1-10: 1,739 vs. 1,731, down 10.7 percent
year: 9,411 vs. 8,160, up 15.3 percent
the past year was a good one for the beef cattle industry, and 1988 will bring renewed efforts to export its products, the president of the national cattlemen's association said monday
from a cattleman's viewpoint, beef prices ``are going to be very good,'' nca president jack dahl told reporters at the association's annual convention. aggressive promotional campaigns and stronger demand will reduce the amount of beef in the market, resulting in better prices, dahl said
because of health concerns, the industry has in past years experienced overproduction and lower sales, with american consumers buying more poultry, pork and other products
some experts say there is little evidence to suggest a strengthening in demand for meat products in domestic markets
the nca is working hard in congress and with foreign governments to lower or eliminate tariffs and embargoes on american beef, dahl said
we must promote and advertise beef to improve demand, but that will do us little good if we are legislated or regulated out of business,'' he said in a report to nearly 5,000 cattlemen and family members attending the convention and trade show in orlando
alan r. middaugh, president of the u.s. meat export federation, said a 21 percent increase in japan's beef quota last year, plus projected increases through the end of the century, demonstrate the benefits of developing foreign markets
the japanese government responded to high consumer demand by hiking the import quota in august by 37,000 metric tons, middaugh said
in the first 11 months of 1987, american beef and veal exports worldwide totaled 192,731 metric tons valued at $703.8 million. this was a 22 percent increase in tonnage and a 26 percent increase in dollar value over the previous year, middaugh said
of the 1987 totals, 116,668 metric tons or $511.5 million went to japan, he said. that represented a 13 percent increase in tonnage and 17 percent increase in dollar value over the previous year
dahl said nca ``strongly supports the (u.s.) government's position to abolish quotas. but other changes need to be made in the distribution of beef in japan. . . we know that the japanese have a great liking for beef.''
israel's consumer price index rose by 1.6 percent in january, slightly higher than predicted, the central bureau of statistics announced monday
in december, the inflation rate stood at 1.3 percent, and for all of 1987 it reached 16.1 percent, the lowest in 15 years
finance minister moshe nissim called on employers, unions and workers to show restraint in wage negotiations in order to slow down inflation
the index is relatively high, and we have to work for a lower figure,'' nissim told israel radio. ``but there is no doubt that if want to reach a desirable level, a european level, it doesn't work at once.''
the price increase was largely fueled by rising prices for fruits and vegetables. the consumer price index measures the change in retail prices for a basket of goods and services
in 1985, the government launched a sweeping austerity program to curb triple-digit inflation and reduce a $750 million budget deficit
the reforms helped reduce inflation from a record 444.9 percent in 1984 to 19.7 percent in 1986. made bid; adds campeau statement and details. no pickup.</note>
campeau corp. said it will submit a sweetened cash bid for federated department stores inc. ``in excess of $65 a share'' on tuesday, when the retail giant's board is set to meet to review takeover offers
federated said in a statement monday that while its board may act on the bids at the meeting, ``there can be no assurance that any definitive transaction will take place.'' a $65-a-share bid would value the retail giant at about $5.75 billion
federated, which confirmed it has been negotiating with numerous parties, has twice spurned campeau. federated rejected campeau's initial $47-per-share, $4.2 billion takeover offer as inadequate and turned down an improved $61-per-share, $5.4 billion bid because it was not convinced campeau had the necessary financing
federated said it was notified of campeau's intentions in a letter over the weekend. a campeau spokeswoman confirmed that campeau will make an offer to federated's board to ``enter into a definitive agreement providing for a price per share in excess of $65 in cash.''
while federated did acknowledge it had held talks with campeau, it did not identify other parties it has negotiated with. among those believed to be interested in federated is the leveraged buyout firm of kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co
last week, in a letter to henry kravis, campeau chairman and chief executive officer robert campeau warned that any agreement between kkr and federated would be met with ``a vigorous legal challenge.''
federated said the negotiations involve the possible restructuring of the cincinnati-based retailer, which operates about 650 stores in 36 states and had sales exceeding $11 billion in 1987
the purpose of these negotiations is to be able to present to the company's board of directors ... several alternatives for the board's consideration. each of the parties has been urged to make its best proposal, because the board may take definitive action at that time,'' federated said in its statement monday
the company also said the board will consider ``the risks inherent in any such transaction, the financial capability of the purchaser, and the extent to which any purchaser may have taken action to discourage others from submitting proposals to the company.''
a campeau spokeswoman retorted that ``possible action to discourage others'' was ``a veiled reference to campeau's letter to kkr, and if that is the case, we believe our letter is totally justifiable.''
federated revealed in a feb. 5 securities and exchange commission filing that it was considering alternatives including selling assets, restructuring, or an outright sale of the company
campeau, a toronto-based development company, bought allied stores corp. in december 1986. campeau sold several allied divisions but retained retailing chains including ann taylor, brooks brothers and jordan marsh
federated's holdings include the new york-based chains of bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, rich's in atlanta, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles, i. magnin in san francisco and lazarus in cincinnati
ohio politicians are worried that campeau will buy federated, sell off major portions of the company and fire or lay off large numbers of its employees
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio and chairman of the senate judiciary committee's antitrust subcommittee, said last week he is concerned that a campeau purchase of federated could reduce retail competition in new york city, boston and miami, where allied and federated both own stores
separate, campeau has obtained a restraining order against a recently enacted ohio law the makes takeovers by foreign companies more cumbersome
congressional leaders have agreed to iron out differences between house and senate versions of a trade bill and send it to the house floor for passage by april 1, speaker jim wright said monday
wright, d-texas, told reporters after meeting with the afl-cio's executive council that he won an agreement last week with senate democratic leader robert byrd of west virginia and all the leaders of the legislation to wrap up a house-senate conference on a compromise version by march 23
no question in my mind, we'll pass a trade bill ... with enough votes to override a veto, should that be necessary,'' he said
white house chief of staff howard baker said last month that president reagan would veto either version as they stand now as being too protectionist. both were passed early last year, but efforts to reach a house-senate compromise to be sent to the white house were abandoned after the october stock market crash
basically, each would require countries with free access to u.s. markets to provide that same type of open access to american goods in their markets. if a country does not remove its tariffs or quotas on american goods, the president would be required to impose the same measures on their exports to the united states
wright said he also met last week with treasury secretary james a. baker iii and reagan's trade representative, clayton yeutter, expressing a willingness to compromise on the administration's biggest objections. he said he also promised them a house vote on the u.s.-canada free trade agreement by the end of the year
i don't want to push them into a corner of threatening vetoes,'' he said. ``they would be smart if they didn't threaten vetoes, if they hedged a little bit on that because we can modify some things.''
wright made it clear that some version of a measure requiring employers to provide their workers 60 days advance notice of plant closings will be in the final package. but he indicated that a sacrifice will likely be made of a provision in the house bill written by rep. richard gephardt, d-mo
both provisions have shared the status as the afl-cio's top legislative priority for more than two years. both also share the biggest focus of white house veto threats
gephardt's measure, a primary theme in his presidential campaign, would mandate retaliatory import quotas or tariffs on some countries if they do not reduce their trade imbalances with the united states by 10 percent a year
his use of tv spots, warning korea that if it didn't open up its markets to american goods it could face u.s. tariffs he said would raise the price of a korean-made hyundai car to $48,000 in the united states, was credited with reviving his campaign with a victory in last week's iowa caucuses
wright complained of a ``fixation'' on the gephardt measure, predicting that the conferees will agree on ``something in between'' it and a senate modification that links the enforcement mechanism more to how much u.s. exports to a particular country rise
afl-cio president lane kirkland said unions still prefer the gephardt language, which is aimed primarily at south korea, japan, taiwan and west germany
despite the large devaluation of the dollar against most foreign currencies last year that helped send u.s. exports surging, the trade imbalance with those four countries widened by more than an additional $8 billion last year to more than $100 billion
we continue to insist that whatever comes out must be substantive, forceful and effective and not simply an expression of pious good wishes,'' kirkland said
the coca-cola co. on monday reported net income for the fourth quarter of 1987 fell 39 percent to $192.96 million, or 52 cents per share, compared with the year-ago period
in the 1986 fourth quarter, coca-cola reported net income of $314.5 million, or 82 cents a share, augmented partly from the sale of 51 percent of coca-cola enterprises, its new bottling subsidiary
net operating revenue during the final 1987 quarter totaled $1.99 billion, up 16 percent from $1.72 billion in the year-ago quarter
for the 12 months ending dec. 31, the soft drink giant reported net income of $916 million, or $2.43 per share, down about 2 percent from net income of $934 million, or $2.42 a share, in 1986
for the 1987 year, net operating revenue totaled $7.66 billion, up almost 10 percent from $6.98 billion in 1986
we emerged from 1987 with a corporate structure focused on our core business and designed to optimize the growth opportunities of each of our businesses,'' said coca-cola chairman roberto c. goizueta
because of the momentum of our soft drink business, leadership in the citrus market and strategic investments in the bottling and entertainment businesses, we fully expect another strong performance in 1988.''
sales of soft drink cases to retail stores grew 6 percent in the united states in 1987, he said, and sales of coca-cola classic alone increased 9 percent. domestic sales of soft drink syrup and concentrates rose 1 percent
unit sales in foreign markets rose 11 percent for the fourth quarter and 9 percent for the year. operating profit overseas increased 25 percent for the year, due primarily to a weaker dollar, the company said
sales of juices and fruit drinks made by coca-cola's food division also were up, although operating income was down 45 percent because of long-range investments in the orange juice business, increased spending on advertising and promotions, and a $36 million writeoff for business system changes, the company said
the company noted its columbia pictures subsidiary combined with tri-star pictures in december to form columbia pictures entertainment inc., which is now a free-standing company
