the victim of a 1983 traffic accident would not want to be kept alive in the helpless state in which she has been maintained, the woman's older sister testified at a right-to-die trial thursday
last year, the parents of 30-year-old nancy cruzan, who is in what doctors call a ``persistent vegetative state,'' sued the state to force doctors to allow her to die by removing a feeding tube from her stomach
it is the first case in missouri to address the question of whether food and water can be denied patients like ms. cruzan
assistant attorney general robert presson contends missouri law prohibits such a step. staff members at the state rehabilitation center at mount vernon said removing the feeding tube would violate their medical mission
doctors say ms. cruzan's brain stem was nearly the only part of her brain left intact after she was deprived of oxygen for several minutes after the accident
on thursday, the second day of trial in jasper county probate court, her older sister, christy white, testified that ms. cruzan was a vital, sometimes headstrong, woman who had said on at least two occasions that she would not want to live if she could not do so independently
her father, joe cruzan of carterville, said he could ``see no purpose in forcing her to go through the indignities she's going through now.''
when she has a bowel movement, they have to change her diaper,'' he said. ``i know the hospital does the best it can, but nancy drools. sometimes ... her hair will be wet, the pillow, her gown. i just feel like it's beneath her dignity to continue like this.''
lisa perrin, a nurse at the rehabilitation center who said she has seen ms. cruzan daily for the past three years, testified: ``i was trained to preserve life and i don't want to enhance death.''
dr. james c. davis, ms. cruzan's physician, said that a legal ruling would help him make a decision but that he still would hesitate to counsel the cruzan's to pursue their plan
mentally, they're going to have problems somewhere down the line that they brought about the death of their daughter,'' he said. ``and if they don't do it, they will have the same problem with her continued suffering. either way, they're going to have problems.''
the people of afghanistan continued to suffer human rights abuses at the hands of both government and rebel forces last year, according to a report by two groups that monitor human rights
the march report of the u.s. helsinki watch committee and the asia watch committee is based on a september-october fact-finding mission to pakistan, afghanistan's neighbor to the south and a base for opposition forces fighting the soviet-backed government
the report's authors said all requests to visit kabul or other cities under the government's control went unanswered
afghanistan has been the scene of some of the most serious human rights violations on record,'' the report said. ``about one-half of the country's prewar population ... is either in emigration, or internally displaced, or dead.''
the report, the committees' fourth on human rights violations in afghanistan since 1984, noted that most abuses reported previously had continued. the government is guilty of most of the abuses, it said
indiscriminate warfare in the countryside combined with totalitarian controls in the cities have brought incalculable suffering to the afghan people,'' it said
resistance groups also were accused of violations, as in previous reports
we continue to deplore the execution of prisoners of war by the resistance, often after a trial that is lacking in most aspects of what we consider due process,'' the report said
it specifically mentioned abuses by the hezb-i-islami resistance group, led by gulbaddin hekmatyar
abuses by this group seem to have become even more extreme in the past year and reportedly include politically motivated assassinations, the taking of hostages,'' the committees said
if a settlement is reached in afghanistan's civil war, the committees said, the hezb-i-islami and other groups ``guilty of gross human rights violations'' should not be given much influence in a new government
the report noted ``seemingly positive developments'' in 1987, including the government's call for refugees to return to afghanistan and amnesty declarations for thousands of prisoners
the new york-based u.s. helsinki watch committee was founded in 1979 to promote domestic and international compliance with human rights provisions of the 1975 helsinki accords
the washington-based asia watch committee was founded in 1985 to promote internationally recognized human rights in asia. both are private, non-profit groups
a page of notes jotted by president john f. kennedy during the 1962 cuban missile crisis sold for $10,000 at auction thursday
the unsigned page includes the words ``bombers'' and ``alpha-66,'' code for a group of cuban exiles who conducted commando raids on the country, said auctioneer herman darvik
at the bottom of the note is the start of a draft of a letter to soviet leader nikita khruschev, darvik said
the note, which had been owned by a private dealer, was purchased by the american museum of historical documents, a private dealer in las vegas that has a large kennedy collection, he said
other items sold thursday by herman darvik autograph auctions were a signed photograph of sitting bull, which brought $3,500; a signature of george washington clipped from a document, $2,750, and a letter from marilyn monroe to her lawyer, $1,650
a photo of air force one signed by presidents ronald reagan, richard nixon, jimmy carter and gerald ford went for $2,750, darvik said
about 35 percent of smokers die prematurely because of tobacco, the american cancer society estimates
if smokers could just think of those odds as twice as bad as those for russian roulette, they might understand how dangerous the cigarette habit really is,'' harmon eyre, national society president, said in a statement
the estimate refers to all tobacco-related causes of death, such as lung cancer and heart disease, a cancer society spokesman said
it appears in the society's new publication, ``cancer facts &amp; figures _ 1988.''
some 40 percent of male smokers and 28 percent of female smokers die prematurely, the society said
the estimate is derived from population data, and the higher percentage for men reflects the fact that men have historically smoked longer and in greater amounts than women, rather than any significant sex-based difference in risk for individual smokers, the society spokesman said
the society estimates that smoking is related to 320,000 deaths a year, including 30 percent of all cancer deaths. it blames cigarettes for 85 percent of lung cancer cases among men and 75 percent among women
among males, smokers run more than twice the rate of non-smokers for cancer death, while among women the difference is 67 percent, the society says
the society also said lung cancer remains the nation's leading cancer killer within each sex. some 152,000 new cases are expected this year, with 139,000 deaths. found</head>
the government fired the director of the treasury police after authorities found his agents in a truck believed to have been used in several recent kidnappings, authorities said friday
six of those abducted in the ``panel truck of death'' were killed, a human rights group said
the firing of oscar diaz urquizu, a former security chief for president vinicio cerezo, came after the truck was discovered by national police
army col. julio caballeros seigne, the national police director, said he and members of his personal security guard found the truck thursday parked eight miles east of the city
the six men inside were wearing treasury police uniforms, caballeros seigne said
baudilio hichos, third in command of the treasury police, arrived at the scene to try to free his men
the dispute continued at a downtown guatemala city police station, where about 100 treasury policemen arrived to defend the six. after arguing with national police for an hour, they left
interior minister juan rodil peralta announced the firing friday after meetings with heads of both security groups. he named miguel equizabal, second in command, as his interim replacement
the six treasury policemen were in custody for questioning on friday but had not been charged. their names were not disclosed
treasury police are assigned to deal with customs matters, but are said to be involved in other operations. diaz urquizu was chief of security for the campaign of cerezo, who took office jan. 14, 1986 as the first civilian president since 1970
the mutual support group, an organization of relatives of people who disappeared in political violence, says six of nine people known to have been abducted this year by men using a white panel truck with darkly tinted glass were killed
three others were released, said herlindo hicho, a spokesman for the group
it called the vehicle ``the panel truck of death.'' authorities had said for several weeks that they were looking for the truck and had seized or stopped several of the same description
police said they believed the truck stopped friday night was the one they had been seeking
the number of disappearances and political killings in guatemala has declined from the early 1980s when there were as many as 500 killings a month, but cases continue to occur
left-wing insurgents have been fighting the government sporadically for 25 years. report arafat also rejects u.s. plan. pick up 12th graf: in cairo ...</note>
prime minister yitzhak shamir on friday attacked u.s. peace proposals for the first time in public, saying they were ``fraught with danger'' and incapable of bringing peace to the region
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz shuttled through the region last week to urge arab and israeli acceptance of the plan
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz,'' shamir was quoted as saying by the israeli daily newspaper haaretz
shamir previously has criticized elements of the u.s. proposal in private meetings with party officials, but statements published friday in a series of interviews constituted his first rejection of the plan as a whole
shamir's comments on the plan were criticized by a high-ranking official in israel's left-of-center labor party, which shares power in a shaky coalition with shamir's rightist likud bloc
it would be extremely artificial if the american people hear only one unauthorized version,'' former foreign minister abba eban told israel radio
foreign minister shimon peres, shamir's rival and a leader of the labor party, supports the plan
yasser arafat, chairman of the palestine liberation organization, has rejected the u.s. plan, the new york times reported in its saturday editions. it said that in an interview thursday in tunis, tunisia, where the plo has its headquarters, arafat said the plo would no longer settle for indirect representation through a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation as suggested by shultz
earlier this week, arafat's fatah branch of the plo had criticized the u.s. plan
israel and the united states consider the plo a terrorist organization. israel has declared it will never negotiate with the plo but would consider talks with a combined delegation of jordanians and non-plo palestinians
in cairo, president hosni mubarak of egypt and jordan's king hussein said friday that shamir would pit himself against world opinion if he rejects the u.s. peace plan
i don't think that this (shamir's comments) will lead to a comprehensive settlement or a comprehensive peace which is very important for the whole area and the whole world,'' mubarak told reporters after a 3{-hour meeting with the jordanian leader
i agree,'' hussein said
shultz has requested an israeli decision on the plan by the time shamir arrives in washington on monday and has publicly complained that both the arabs and the israelis are unwilling to compromise
the plan calls for israel to give up land in the occupied west bank and gaza strip in exchange for peace in the region
shamir said he was particularly disturbed by the part of the u.s. proposal that calls for kicking off direct negotiations with an international conference
that, he told the english-language jerusalem post, ``obligates me to resist ... with all my power. and my power to resist is very great.''
he said the united states had changed its position on the convening of such a conference without reason and he warned the proposal was ``fraught with danger.''
shamir told haaretz that while the united states is undeniably a friend to israel, ``every bit of it (the u.s. plan) was an attempt to satisfy the arabs.''
the right-wing leader has twice blocked cabinet votes on whether israel should approve the plan
the issue is expected to come up a final time before the shamir trip during a cabinet meeting sunday
eban, a member of peres' labor party, announced friday he would travel to the united states hours before shamir to explain labor's position on the peace plan to the americans
the fact is that mr. shamir did not get any authorization to refuse the peace plan. no parliament, and no cabinet agreed to this refusal,'' eban said on israel radio
speaking on israel radio, shamir said he would explain to shultz ``that his plan, as it is seen today, can't solve the problem of peace in our area and can't guarantee the safety and security of the state of israel.''
despite shamir's tough stand, u.s. officials are still hopeful that shultz and reagan may be able to persuade the prime minister to change his mind, diplomatic sources said
shamir, however, stressed that he will bring the americans his own suggestions on how to make the plan more acceptable
this paper (the plan) given to us is not moses' commandments from mt. sinai,'' shamir said on the radio
shamir aide yossi ahimeir told the associated press the prime minister would suggest implementing palestinian self-rule in the territories on a step-by-step basis, testing the idea in a single city, for example
in addition, the prime minister will suggest that instead of an international conference, peace talks be held under soviet-american auspices, ahimeir said
finally, ahimeir said, the prime minister wants a more flexible timetable than that sought by washington, which has called for starting talks on an interim solution in the territories by may and opening negotiations on the final status of the west bank and gaza by december
shamir wants to delay talks on the final status until self-rule is implemented throughout the territories, his aide said
japan's latest comic book heros are emperor hirohito and former prime minister yasuhiro nakasone
comic books, widely read in japan by both children and adults, often are used as teaching aids for such topics as history, economics or etiquette and even to explain frictions with the united states over trade
the hirohito comic book, which is in hard cover and is titled ``tenno heika'' (emperor), follows the 86-year-old monarch from childhood through world war ii, including his historic surrender broadcast in 1945, and into his quiet retirement in tokyo's imperial palace
the book on nakasone is called ``yatchan's,'' which was the former prime minister's childhood nickname. it is published quarterly by nakasone's office and sent to supporters and constituents
japanese prime ministers, once they step down, traditionally fade into the political background and take the role of party elder, occasionally seen but seldom heard
but nakasone, whose term in office ended this past november, has stayed in the news through trips abroad and the establishment of a think-tank group. ``yatchan's'' helps keep attention focused on him
the idea for a cartoon newsletter has been gestating for a long time, and it just happens that it was produced after nakasone-san left office,'' said masaki donji, a private secretary to nakasone. ``there was no deliberate timing to keep him in the news.''
while purporting to depict faithfully the characters' lives and careers, the comic books seem overly flattering
hirohito is shown as barrel-chested and cheerful rather than the aged and stooped man he is now
nakasone, now 67, is shown as burly, with round eyes and a uncharacteristic full head of hair
but the comic book presents little-known facets of nakasone's life
an essay by nakasone's wife tsutako says that, in his younger days when he was known as yatchan, nakasone pranced about in his underwear after baths, humming music from swan lake. and on state visits abroad as prime minister, he grudgingly allowed his wife off elevators first, but upon returning to japanese soil, would instantly declare, ``ladies first is over.''
yatchan's'' opens with nakasone's return from the 1987 summit in venice, italy, with photos of the six in-flight meals he was served on his special jet. it then flashes back to the beginning: a fiery-eyed nakasone resigning from tokyo's metropolitan police department in 1946 to work toward japan's postwar reconstruction
he reveals himself as an idealist who patterns himself after sakura sogo, a 17th-century village headman who was executed for seeking reduced taxes for poor peasants
he eats potatoes for lunch _ an expression of humility _ and chooses a white bicycle for his first political campaign because hirohito rode a white horse
subscriptions to ``yatchan's'' are 2,000 yen ($15.50) a year. the booklet also includes reproductions of nakasone's paintings, and samples of his haiku poetry
the hirohito book divulges some imperial trivia: the emperor has no surname, reached adulthood at age 18 (20 for ordinary japanese), and cannot adopt children or vote
it also explains that his duties include opening sessions of the diet (parliament), closing sessions of the house of representatives, receiving foreign ambassadors, and formally approving laws, government decrees, amendments to the constitution and treaties
hirohito, once regarded as a living god, remains a sensitive subject in modern japan, and ribbing of royalty by the press is neither tolerated nor attempted
but the comic book touches on some sensitive points in the emperor's life, including an assassination attempt, the great kanto earthquake of 1923 for which hirohito was later criticized for not doing enough for his people, and a 1936 military rebellion that led to the death of one of his favored ministers
it also touches briefly on his role in world war ii, although it reveals little about his activities or motivations during the conflict, and portrays hirohito's famed speech imploring the nation in august 1945 to bear the unbearable _ surrender
the emperor's trips to europe and the united states are shown, including protesters waving signs saying ``go home'' and ``fascist hirohito.'' it ends with him enjoying his favorite pastimes, walking along the beach and studying marine biology
an official of the imperial household agency, which tends to the imperial family's duties and needs, said the agency had nothing to do with the comic book and extended neither approval or assistance in its production
graffiti, the ubiquitous writing that is spray-painted on mosques, schools and shops, is a guide to political happenings in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
from the mount of olives in jerusalem to the farmlands of gaza, the walls are a bulletin board for political groups to proclaim their ideologies and issue public appeals
let the gaza strip be in flames for shultz,'' said a wall in gaza city shortly before the recent middle east shuttle of secretary of state george p. shultz
a slogan in black paint on the wall of the beit al may refugee camp in the west bank declared: ``disgrace will face collaborators. glory to our heroic martyrs.''
it was signed by the united national leadership of the uprising, a name used by supporters of yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization
a more religious tone was struck nearby: ``paradise for our martyrs'' and ``god is great. victory to islam.''
this was signed by hamas, arabic for zeal, the signature of the moslem brotherhood, a fundamentalist sunni moslem group that opposes plo support for a negotiated settlement
islam is the solution and the alternative,'' said a slogan signed by the ``islamic resistance,'' also believed to be the work of moslem brothers
other wall decorations in the occupied territories were signed by ``shaabiya,'' george habash's popular front for the liberation of palestine, and ``democratia,'' nayef hawatmeh's democratic front for the liberation of palestine
one was the work of supporters of abul abbas, the mastermind of the hijacking of the italian cruise ship achille lauro in 1985
on the mount of olives, a wall declared, ``palestinian-arab solidarity lives on.''
this slogan, possibly written by supporters of jordan, is a rarity because sentiment in the west bank and gaza has been strongly against arab states
the feeling is that arab states have failed to support the rebellion against israeli occupation and some, notably jordan, fear that the revolutionary fervor will cross its borders
as a result, slogans supporting syria, damascus-based palestinian groups and jordan's king hussein, are noticeably absent
in gaza city, residents of the well-to-do ramali neighborhood were chastized by a piece of graffito scrawled on the mosque in palestine square: ``courage to the people of the ramali quarter,'' it said, mocking the inaction of the middle class
some wall-writing has called for specific action, such as ones in gaza that demanded the resignation of arab tax collectors and arab police officers
arab employes of the income tax and value added department must resign. otherwise we will,'' said the chilling warning in downtown gaza city
forty taxmen quit their jobs as directed and new graffiti written in blue spray paint replaced the old: ``yes, yes for the step taken by our honorable brothers in resigning from the tax department ... and yes to the resignation of the police.''
moderates have also come in for a pounding on the walls, which tend to reflect more hardline views. ``down with hanna siniora and fayez abu rahme,'' declared a slogan attacking the two palestinians who met with shultz in washington last month
israel's army has periodically tried to censor the wall writing
in nablus, a reporter saw arab prisoners watched by armed israeli soldiers using black paint to blot out slogans such as ``death to israel'' written in red on the metal shutters of shops
the political graffiti has also spread to israel, where the division between left and right is played out on the walls of the beachfront ``tayellet,'' or promenade in tel aviv
arabs: go to the arab world,'' said one declaration, reflecting the extreme right-wing view that arabs should leave israeli-held territory
enough of the occupation,'' countered another, reflecting the left-wing viewpoint that israel should withdraw from the west bank and gaza strip
the discovery in spain of a car bomb destined for gibraltar was a relief to the british government, helping ease political embarrassment by proving a tragedy had been averted by the killing of three unarmed ira members
thwarting the irish republican army operation in the british colony through pooled british, irish and spanish intelligence was a triumph for international cooperation against terrorism, but the circumstances raised questions:
was it necessary to shoot the guerrillas dead when they were unarmed? why did britain wait 24 hours to declare the falsity of official reports that a car bomb already had been parked at the gibraltar governor's residence?
the guerrillas were shot sunday. on tuesday, spanish police found a car laden with explosives in a parking lot at marbella, a resort about 45 miles up the coast of southern spain from the fortress colony
prime minister margaret thatcher's supporters said the discovery vindicated the army in the shootings
i am delighted,'' said lawmaker ivor stanbrook, who heads a parliament committee on nothern ireland. ``this confirms all the evidence which showed that the actions of the british security services were absolutely justified.''
two men and a woman were shot down at midday sunday as they walked from a car they had parked at the governor's residence, called the convent. a public changing of the guard ceremony was scheduled for tuesday morning, involving a british army unit just transferred from northern ireland
men dressed in jeans did the shooting, and were said to be members of the elite special air services undercover unit. the sas has been involved in several operations against the outlawed ira, a mainly roman catholic group fighting to drive the british from protestant-dominated northern ireland
protests came from the irish republic and from inside britain
the mass-circulation press backed mrs. thatcher but the daily telegraph, usually pro-government in irish matters, said britain should ``give ill-wishers no further grounds to suggest that the authorities operate a `shoot-to-kill' policy against terrorists.''
in dublin, the respected irish times commented: ``there is emerging a profound difference between british and irish attitudes on the proper response which is demanded by terrorism.''
immediately after the shootings, spanish police and british officials in gibraltar spoke of a ``gun battle'' and a ``car bomb.''
then the ira said early monday the slain trio were in gibraltar ``on active service,'' reinforcing britain's contention that the bomb was in place
britain's armed forces minister, ian stanley, described the car parked near the governor's residence as a ``car bomb'' and british press reports spoke of hundreds of pounds of explosives
not until monday afternoon did sir geoffrey howe, the foreign secretary, tell a surprised house of commons there were no explosives in the car and police were searching for another vehicle
official british sources say confusion arose because of assumptions based on spanish intelligence and underlined by the ira reference to ``active service.''
why the immediate resort to gunfire? the response was that security forces could not be sure the guerrillas were not armed
reporters in london were told mairead farrell, an ira veteran, ``fumbled in her handbag,'' and ``could have been going for a gun, for some explosive device, anything.''
on tuesday, the irish government said it was ``gravely perturbed'' that unarmed irish people ``should have been shot dead ... when it appears they could have been arrested.''
this enraged british officials and one said privately: ``a lot of british people are beginning to wonder if they (the irish) are serious about combating terrorism.''
british officials said the 145 pounds of explosives packed into the car found at marbella, timed to explode during the military ceremony tuesday, could have killed more than 100 people. the guerrillas apparently parked the first vehicle to secure a space for the car bomb when arrived later
the shooting came at an awkward moment in anglo-irish relations
tensions arose in january when britain announced it would not prosecute northern ireland police officers involved in killing six roman catholics, five of them guerrillas but unarmed, in three incidents at the end of 1982
those shootings had ``remarkable similarities'' to that in gibraltar, the irish times said
soon after the government announcement, a british soldier in a watchtower shot an unarmed catholic civilian dead at a checkpoint on the irish border. the soldier, who is in custody, said it was an accident but the irish government ordered its own inquiry
eastern airlines says it will appeal a contempt-of-court citation imposed by a judge who ruled that plans to transfer the airlines' shuttle operations to a new corporate entity violate a 1987 injunction
u.s. district judge john h. pratt ruled thursday that the miami-based airline was in contempt of his july 2, 1987 order that it maintain the status quo in working conditions for 12,000 employees represented by the international association of machinists and aerospace workers
although the preliminary injunction issued last summer dealt with a separate labor dispute, pratt said his order also applied to any plans to change the working conditions of union workers that would create a major dispute as defined by the railway labor act
the judge scheduled a march 18 hearing to determine what sanctions to impose against eastern. the judge could impose a daily fine to force eastern to halt its plans to transfer the shuttle to a new corporate entity under its parent, texas air corp
in a complicated financial deal announced last month, texas air will purchase the shuttle operation for $225 million. the federal aviation administration must approve the transaction and give an operating certificate to the new operator to take over the shuttle, which operates between washington, new york and boston
airline spokesman robin matell said ``eastern's view is that the court's ruling is incorrect and we intend to file an expedited appeal in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia. we are confident the court will rule in our favor.''
the union, meanwhile, said in a statement that ``the court's order today sends a message to texas air that it is not above the law and it too must comply with the railway labor act.''
pratt found that the ``proposed transfer to texas air significantly changes the working conditions of iam members.''
we find that the proposed `spin off' of eastern's air shuttle operations to the new air shuttle is not fundamentally different from the proposed `spin off' of eastern's fleet services employees to air ground services,'' the judge's opinion said
that spinoff, which was barred last summer, involved plans to transfer ground crews and baggage handlers to a new subsidiary called air ground services inc
eastern's serious financial problems ``do not change the fact that it proposed a `spin off' of the air shuttle ... is in clear violation of our july 2, 1987 order, which, whatever doubts eastern had as to its meaning and application, it made no attempt to have clarified or modified,'' the judge said
the judge noted that eastern announced the deal a day after it dropped its appeal of the preliminary injunction in the air ground case
pratt accepted the union's contention that spinning off the air shuttle could undermine the machinists' bargaining position with the company. if fewer than 50 percent of the air shuttle's employees opt to join the iam, machinists who transferred to the new subsidiary from eastern would be without union representation, the judge noted
the decision is the latest in a series of complicated and often bitter legal fights eastern is having with its union
in a separate action, the air line pilots association is trying to bar eastern from contracting with an air freight hauler to train pilots to operate the company's planes in the event of a strike this spring
the pilots' union has asked another federal judge here to issue a temporary restraining order to prevent the use of eastern aircraft by orion air inc
so far, one plane has been leased to orion to train pilots who would fly eastern aircraft in the event the pilots honor a strike by the machinists union, according to court testimony. the union contends this arrangement circumvents the labor contract that specifies that only its members can operate eastern planes
eastern contends that the labor agreement does not prevent it from leasing its aircraft to other companies
president reagan has released a symbolic wish list of projects he wants congress to strike from its spending plan, but there appears little chance capitol hill will pay much attention
james c. miller iii, director of the office of management and budget, said that if the list were adopted the savings for fiscal 1988 alone would amount to $1.15 billion
miller, who released the list thursday, said the money saved could be used either to reduce the deficit or pay for more meaningful projects
the items were included in the $600 billion catch-all spending bill approved at the end of last year's congressional session
i'm hopeful congress will respond to it,'' miller said when asked whether the cuts had any chance of gaining congressional attention
the list, which has no legal power, has no effect unless congress moves to adopt it. the president's request was not in the form of legislation and even when he has made such requests formally, they have received little support in congress
reagan's effort appears to fall short of the pledge he made in his state of the union address in january
in his speech, reagan repeated his longstanding request for the line-item veto, which would allow him to delete specific items from congress' spending bills
in lieu of such power, reagan said he intended to send back to congress, ``in 30 days ... those items, as rescissions, which if i had the authority to line them out, i would do so.''
instead of sending the formal rescissions to congress, reagan sent the informal list
miller explained that the president decided not to send the formal rescission list because many members of congress had argued such an action would upset the bipartisan agreement on the budget reached last year by the white house and congress
this is not an ordinary year,'' miller said, referring to the lengthy negotiations that produced the budget agreement
gop sources on capitol hill, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the strategy was adopted to avoid election-year clashes with republican lawmakers who won spending projects for their home districts last year
in proposing a formal rescission, reagan freezes spending on those items for 45 days and gives procedural advantages to those in congress supporting the effort. after the 45-day period, the spending would be restored unless the rescissions were approved
in his 46-page informal list, reagan cited a myriad of projects from around the country, including the construction of a ski lift in idaho, 15 building projects at universities or medical schools and even a program to establish a fund to preserve lighthouses
sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, won approval for $6.4 million for a kellogg, idaho, gondola in the $600 billion spending bill approved late last year. the money was in appropriations for a forest service program that is supposed to pay for development and management of forests
the 15 construction projects included $4 million for a cancer research center at the medical university of south carolina and $7.5 million for a pediatric research center at the children's hospital of pittsburgh
the list also included historic preservation grants with the national park service that would establish a bicentennial lighthouse fund to distribute matching grants for the preservation of lighthouses. the list did not give an exact amount for the item, saying only that it amounted to ``less than $50,000.''
army bases across the country are running out of tuition assistance funds for soldiers because of a $30 million cut in the army's education budget, according to college groups
the army has put new restrictions on its tuition assistance, which helped 188,000 soldiers and officers pay for college and graduate school last year
allan w. ostar, president of the american association of state colleges and universities, said the cutbacks ``will have a direct impact on thousands of individuals who want to take college classes.''
it will only hurt us all if individuals enlisted in the army do not have the opportunity to get the education they need,'' he said
frank mensel, vice president of federal relations for the american association of community and junior colleges, said the army has shifted ``education funds into recruiting.''
lt. col. greg rixon, an army spokesman, said the cutbacks were triggered by pentagon budget reductions that congress and the reagan administration recently ordered to hold down the federal deficit
the education budget was cut to $96.6 million. originally, $35 million of the army's $126 million education budget for fiscal 1988 was targeted for tuition assistance
rixon said army's personnel chief did have the option ``to move money around'' among his education, civilian training and recruiting accounts, ``but there was a relatively uniform reduction across the board.''
the college groups are lobbying to get at least $11 million restored for tuition assistance. even at that level, ostar said, ``a number of programs would still come to a grinding halt, but at least it is a more realistic and equitable approach to budget reduction.'''
the army has requested a total education budget of $104 million for fiscal 1989, which starts oct. 1
many soldiers pursue their college or graduate studies at state campuses and community colleges near military bases
the army once covered 90 percent of a g.i.'s cost of taking classes. rixon said it now pays 75 percent of tuition costs, up to $80 a semester hour for undergraduate study and $165 for graduate study
he said area commanders are being allowed to tailor the program to meet their local needs
but the army has ruled out providing tuition assistance for soldiers who are entitled to vietnam-era g.i. bill benefits for college, and it will not pay for a degree that is lower or lateral to one a soldier already has
in general, subject to the area commanders' discretion, the army is not paying any tuition for lieutenant colonels or above, or paying for graduate school for enlisted soldiers or warrant officers, rixon said
this is one of a series of periodic reports on how the u.s. presidential election campaign is viewed abroad
while vice president george bush is drawing most of the comment in the foreign press after his super tuesday victories, the showing of democrat jesse jackson also is attracting attention. this is what commentators abroad had to say about jackson and bush:
_basler zeitung of basel (independent): ``there is only one charismatic personality among the candidates and his triumph will resound longest after this super tuesday: jesse jackson has pushed open doors in the `deep south' that can never be closed again. even if _ as is expected _ he will be neither nominated nor become a candidate for vice president, he has changed fundamentally the political world for america's blacks.''
_xinhua news agency (government): ``jackson, the only black candidate, has the least campaign funds. his influence, however, has increased greatly compared with his campaign in 1984, when he won only one state in the south. this time he got five southern states on tuesday. ... it is obvious that the american people are not as open-minded as to select a black to be their president. it is also impossible for the democratic party to nominate a black as its candidate for the presidency.''
_the independent of london (independent): ``the rejection of the rev. pat robertson as a serious presidential candidate in tuesday's republican primaries was cheering news, while the relative success of the rev. jesse jackson in the democratic race engenders a more ambiguous mood. neither man's foreign policy inspires confidence. but their styles, in a campaign which is being fought almost entirely on domestic issues, are very different. mr. robertson looks inward while mr. jackson, for all his faults, reaches out. . .. mr. jackson ... is a serious figure in a way that mr. robertson is not.''
_the financial times of london (independent): the ... assumption, on the democratic side, is that the rev. jesse jackson remains a containable political force. ... in policy terms, mr. jackson is of the left of the democratic party, and on super tuesday better aggregate, if not individual, results were achieved by gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore, very much men of the middle.''
_politiken of copenhagen (liberal): ``like a second muhammad ali before a title fight the otherwise colorless george bush has declared himself as the next president of the united states. ... he is a conservative pragmatist _ some would say, an opportunist _ without strong views
as far as foreign policy goes he is clearly the most experienced of all the candidates. if he becomes president, one can expect a continuation of recent years' improvement in american-soviet relations as well as foreign trade policies of a more liberal sort that certain young turks among the democrats have avowed.''
_the guardian (liberal): ``bush ... has the money and the machine to cover the country. in some parts of america _ like the south _ they like the continuity with ronald reagan that the vice president seems to offer. better the devil you've seen around a lot. ... but no one, examining the attitude and exit polls from the south, should too blithely assume that old george has roses all the way to next november's real vote. he still isn't seen as much of a leader by four-fifths of those who chose him. his views are regarded as fuzzy; his trustiness is much in question.''
_the daily telegraph of london (conservative): ``at this early stage in the process by which america selects a president, vice president george bush looks the most likely republican contender. . .. the prospect of mr. bush securing the final nomination is held in some quarters to be good news for the democrats; he carries handicaps as well as the aura of the vice presidency
_der bund of bern (right of center): ``bush takes the floor as the administrator of the estate left by reagan whose economic policy appears to be successful to many americans despite the enormous increase of the debt burden. the whole thing recalls the well-orchestrated campaign by mondale in 1984 who won the nomination without new ideas, without emotional appeal to the voters, only to be badly beaten by reagan.''
_la suisse of geneva (independent): ``from now on, the possibility of george bush becoming president must be regarded as a serious possibility. against a democratic party from which genuine contenders _ if there are any _ have not yet emerged, the race seems almost easy for the vice president. the `super tuesday' mountain has given birth to a mouse, and that one is feared to be rather mousy.''
comedian george burns may be 92, but it's not slowing him down _ he's doing stand-up routines at casinos, has just finished a movie and is working on a new book
there isn't anything i can't do now that i couldn't do when i was 18 _ which shows you how pathetic i was at 18,'' he said during a recent one-hour performance at caesars palace on the strip
burns is a regular at the palace and other caesars properties in lake tahoe, nev., and atlantic city, n.j. his new movie, ``18 again,'' opens april 9
burns' newest book is about the one true love of his life, gracie allen, his stage partner and wife of 38 years until her death in 1964
i've written six books. that's pretty good for a guy who only read two,'' he told the audience at caesars
his formula for acting?
if the director wants me to cry, i think of my sex life,'' he said. ``if the director wants me to laugh, i think of my sex life
i'd go out with women my age, but there are no women my age.''
burns smokes 15 to 20 cigars and drinks several martinis daily
what do his doctors think of that?
they're all dead.''
comedian bob newhart says he watches every episode of his ``newhart'' televison show, but not the way the average viewer would
i check to see what jokes we left out and what works and what doesn't,'' he said in an interview published in the april issue of good housekeeping
newhart, 58, said his 1978 decision to end his role as psychologist dr. bob hartley on ``the bob newhart show'' was the result of ``burnout.''
i thought we were beginning to repeat some of the situations and the jokes,'' newhart said. ``after 24 shows a year for six years, i wasn't sure where the characters were going. i was proud of the series, and didn't want to see it copying itself.''
despite the tiresome schedule of the earlier show, he said it was inevitable that he would return to tv
boxing great archie moore wants americans down for the count _ the 1990 u.s. census
people, in the black community especially, have not been counted,'' moore, 74, said at a u.s. census bureau open house thursday. ``count your people. stand up and be counted.''
he said young people ought to help the census so people ``can benefit from the programs in washington they are eligible for.''
st. louis, one of three areas across the nation selected for a 1990 census dress rehearsal this month, was moore's boyhood home and the place where he won the light-heavyweight boxing championship in 1952
moore held the title until it was vacated in 1961. he failed twice to win the heavyweight crown, losing to rocky marciano and floyd patterson, but compiled a 183-22-9 career record including 129 knockouts. he now lives in san diego
broadway star chita rivera, who still feels pain from the auto accident that shattered her left leg two years ago, says she wants to do more dancing in the revival of ``can-can'' she's touring in
i'm not a pollyanna; it hurts to dance,'' rivera, 55, said in an interview being published in sunday's parade magazine. ``but you don't keep telling yourself that.''
rivera, whose left leg is held together by 12 screws, said she asked the road show's producers for more dancing
the actress said that after her accident she never doubted she'd dance again one day
she said she sometimes felt like quitting during physical therapy, when ``i would feel like i was going to hit the ceiling.'' but her positive side prevailed
the spirit is the strongest thing there is,'' rivera said
tipper gore, wife of democratic presidential contender albert gore jr. and opponent of obscene rock lyrics, has gotten a tip of the hat from pop star george michael, performer of ``i want your sex.''
michael said thursday he had been notified that his ``faith'' album, which includes the hit ``sex'' single, has sold more than 10 million copies worldwide
no doubt a few of those american sales came from tipper gore's efforts,'' michael said in a statement released by his publicist, phil lobel
perhaps now she can help sell a few thousand more records since her husband won big in the primaries,'' michael said in perth, australia, where he is performing
the tennessee senator won in six states during the super tuesday primaries
the chicago tribune, illinois' largest newspaper, endorsed republican bob dole in the state's presidential primary even as the kansas senator's campaign appeared to falter
in an editorial titled ``why illinois should pick dole,'' the newspaper said in its friday editions that dole needs a big primary win to stay alive in his race against vice president george bush for the gop presidential nomination
the vice president's impressive qualifications and his commanding lead notwithstanding, the tribune hopes that sen. dole gets that big win, and endorses him in the illinois republican primary on tuesday,'' the editorial said
dole's campaign has been reeling from its dismal showing in the super tuesday primaries. he pulled television commercials off the air in illinois and laid off more than half his staff thursday
campaign spokeswoman dale tate said thursday that dole intended to remain a candidate, but a campaign aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said campaign officials were discussing whether the senate minority leader should withdraw from the illinois contest
the very lead that bush amassed on super tuesday was cited by the tribune as one of its reasons for endorsing dole
the combination of mr. bush's incumbency and the personal popularity of president reagan has brought the vice president to the brink of nomination without the kind of campaign test both he and the republican party need to have a chance in november,'' the editorial said
so far, the fight for the 1988 republican nomination has been a replay of the 1984 democratic one, in which former vice president walter mondale muscled out all the challengers early and sailed on to a mighty debacle in the general election.''
while saying that bush's identification with the administration and policies of president reagan gives him strength among republican primary voters, the tribune suggested that identification with reagan might backfire in the general election
nowhere have the republican candidates asked or answered the kind of harsh questions the democrats surely will raise in november about the reagan administration, whose colors mr. bush has been able to wave more furiously than anyone else,'' the editorial continued
yet voter concern over these issues shows up in opinion polls that often reflect sen. dole as a stronger party standard-bearer than mr. bush in match-ups with democrats,'' it said
the two home-state favorites in the democratic presidential fields got the most applause thursday as five of the party's presidential contenders appeared at an illinois democratic party dinner a few days before the state's critical primary
right after the dinner they participated in a low-key forum sponsored by the roosevelt center for american policy studies
unlike in the candidates debates held throughout the campaign, there was no byplay between the contenders and not a cross word about each other's positions
during both events, the candidates stuck closely to their standard stump speeches
at the dinner, illinois sen. paul simon, known for his trademark bow ties and horn-rimmed glasses, drew laughter and applause when he said, ``i want your vote in a beauty contest, believe it or not.''
simon went on to say, ``i offer you not a 30-second commercial but 30 years service to the people of this state and this nation.''
you will not meet me through a commercial,'' said jackson, the other illinois resident in the presidential race
both simon and jackson and running bare-bones campaigns with little or no money left for advertising. dukakis is the only democrat with the funds to run a full-scale advertising campaign directed at illinois voters
simon, who bypassed the super tuesday contests earlier this week, is hoping to get back into contention with a strong vote from his home state
jackson did well on super tuesday and is regarded as a storng contender in illinois
gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, rep. richard gephardt of missouri and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee also are bidding for support in the primary
at the forum, gore called for ``an all-out war on drugs'' and repeated his new campaign theme that he wants to bring ``the democratic party back to the neighborhoods.''
dukakis described himself at the forum as ``a full-employment democrat.''
on foreign policy, he said, ``we've got to get a lot tougher on south africa,'' saying that ought to include tougher sanctions to press that country to do away with its racial segregation policies
frederic remington, the painter and sculptor best known for his depiction of the wild west, deserves recognition as an american master, say the curators of a traveling exhibit of his work that opens here today
remington has been seen superficially,'' says michael edward shapiro, chief curator at the st. louis art museum. ``he's been stereotyped as a cowboy artist when he was a very sophisticated new yorker who drew from a lot of sources and created his own style, which has astonishingly imprinted itself on the conscience of our country.''
shapiro and peter h. hassrick, director of the buffalo bill historical center in cody, wyo., organized ``frederic remington: the masterworks,'' the first major traveling exhibit of remington's work
the exhibition consists of 46 paintings and drawings and 20 bronze sculptures remington created from 1889, when he was 28, until he died in 1909 at age 48 of complications from appendicitis
among the works are ``a dash for the timber,'' an 1889 painting acknowledged as remington's first masterpiece, and ``the bronco buster,'' possibly the best-known american bronze sculpture of the 19th century
remington began his art career as an illustrator, with his wild west scenes turning up in several popular magazines, including harper's weekly. his work illustrated what shapiro describes as the forces of nature and man and the risk of death and danger in the west in the action and energy of remington's horses and horsemen
he was especially successful at capturing the image of the horse _ bucking, rearing, lunging, running at breakneck speed. ``there was never a more vivid depiction of the american horse,'' shapiro adds
indeed, remington once told a drinking companion that if he could have one thing written on his tombstone, it would be: ``he knew the horse.''
his subject was always the horse and its rider _ the indian-fighting soldier or the cowboy. but the west of the homesteader, the farmer and the frontier-ending railroads held no interest for him
while the rest of the country spoke of the advance of the frontier, the `taming of the west,' as a positive force in the building of american civilization, to remington the frontier was receding and, in the end, a tragic loss,'' historian david mccullough writes in the show's catalog
remington was born oct. 4, 1861, in canton, n.y., the son of a newspaper proprietor. he grew up in canton and ogdensburg, n.y., then enrolled in the school of fine arts and joined the football team at yale university
he dropped out of yale after a year and a half when his father died and, at the age of 21, he headed west to make his fortune, plunking down part of his inheritance on a sheep ranch near peabody, kan
the sheep ranch failed, and remington bought into a kansas city saloon, which also failed. his new wife had left him to go back to new york. remington headed west again to sketch his way through new mexico and arizona
but by 1885, remington was back in new york, reunited with his wife and establishing himself as a magazine illustrator. in 1887, harper's weekly carried 39 of his sketches and drawings, and the next year more than 70
remington's drawings also began to appear in st. nicholas and outing magazines. he was commissioned by century illustrated magazine to illustrate a series of articles by a young theodore roosevelt. the series later was made into a book titled ``ranch life and the hunting trail.''
despite his popular success, remington was never a critical success, says shapiro
his work was ``just seen as cowboys and indians,'' he says, ``and there was a belief that cowboys and indians wasn't serious subject matter.''
the exhibit goes next to the buffalo bill historical center in cody, wyo., the museum of fine arts in houston and closes at the metropolitan museum of art in new york
a ruptured pipeline feb. 17 spilled nearly twice as much of a toxic chemical as thought, sun pipe line co. said thursday
in a statement from its tulsa, okla., headquarters, sun said that 176,000 gallons of toluene were missing after the break in the pipeline, which leads from a sun refinery in toledo to one in marcus hook, pa
earlier, officials estimated that between 80,000 and 100,000 gallons had leaked into a marshy area and made its way into the sandusky river
the spill forced the city of fremont to evacuate 5,000 people and impose a water emergency for several days until a method was devised to filter the chemical out of the drinking water the city draws from the river
sun said a significant share of the additional amount that spilled evaporated. up 6th graf pvs, `in view ...'</note>
talks aimed at ending a four-day strike by film and tv scriptwriters broke off thursday
in new york, meanwhile, two unions representing 100,000 actors set a march 21 deadline for a strike against makers of tv and radio commercials
talks between the alliance of motion picture and television producers and the striking writers guild of america had gone on here under the auspices of a federal mediator
marty waldman, a guild spokesman, said the producers broke off the talks
a spokesman for the producers, herb steinberg, said the scriptwriters' demands are so unrealistic that ``further talks would be fruitless. ... they're not even in the same neighborhood in an assessment of the economics involved.''
no new negotiations were set. the 9,000 scriptwriters walked out sunday over creative control and royalties from reruns
in view of the seriousness of the strike and its impact on the industry, we had hoped that continued talks might bring us better results,'' said mona mangan, executive director of the writers guild of america-east
we deeply regret that the companies do not view these talks as moving us closer together,'' she said
the strike, in its fourth day thursday, has not yet had a widespread effect on the movie and tv industry, but has delayed the debut of at least two series and has forced the david letterman and johnny carson shows into reruns
it could shorten the tv season if producers failed to stock enough scripts or discovered the need for extensive rewriting
in new york, leaders of the screen actors guild and the american federation of television and radio artists announced a march 21 deadline for a strike against the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers
union members voted 93 percent to 7 percent march 2 to authorize a walkout, according to a statement from the unions. the last strike of its kind lasted seven weeks in 1978-79
the current contract expired feb. 6 but was extended while negotiations continued over such key issues as the industry's insistence on removing cost-of-living increases, and the union's demand for higher compensation for commercials shown on cable television, the union said
there was no answer thursday night at the new york offices of the american association of advertising agencies. the unions negotiate in the field of tv commercials. radio commercials are under aftra's jurisdiction
in a strike, sag and aftra members would be asked not to perform or audition for commerciials, and to terminate the producers' right to use any commercial beyond its maximum period of use, the unions said
some of the most popular shows were near the end of their work schedules when the scriptwriters went on strike. the episode closing out the popular eight-year run of ``magnum p.i.'' has been written
i have a lot of projects that are jeopardized now,'' said executive producer jennifer alward. ``there are options on books that will run out if the scripts aren't delivered on time. if the strike goes three months, what do i do?''
wes kenney, executive producer of the abc soap opera ``general hospital'' said: ``i have enough scripts to last me through any strike.''
writers working on the academy awards ceremonies slated for worldwide broadcast april 11 said they left its script half written when they walked out. but producer samuel goldwyn jr. said: ``the show must go on, and it will.''
a former government employee, once responsible for $1.3 million a year in pentagon clothing contracts, was sentenced thursday to 10 years in prison for taking at least $331,000 in bribes from manufacturers
frank coccia, for 15 years head of the clothing and textile directorate at the defense personnel support center, also was fined $50,000 by u.s. district judge edmund ludwig
the 55-year-old resident of medford, n.j., had pleaded guilty to racketeering and conspiracy in a plea bargain under which he also agreed to forfeit $331,000 in bribe money
coccia, whose crimes began in 1976 and continued for 10 yeras, was charged in a corruption investigation, begun four years ago, that has resulted in the conviction of nine companies and 15 individuals
among them was former new jersey legislator joseph chinnici, 68, of bridgeton, n.j., who faces sentencing april 8. he was convicted of paying coccia thousands of dollars to get contracts for his clothing firm
coccia influenced the awarding of hundreds of millions of dollars in military contacts to corrupt companies'' in exchange for cash, money orders, gold coins and securities he hid in his home, said assistant u.s. attorney linda hoffa
coccia's crimes began in 1976 and continued for 10 years
the damage to the integrity of the military apparel procurement system is incalculable,'' ms. hoffa said. ``it is impossible to know whether the product or the integrity of the product being purchased by the government was compromised.''
coccia told the judge: ``my one and only objective in my job was to support the armed forces and i think i did that very well. i did not compromise the quality of any product that was brought in.''
the military regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega made its army payroll, but panama's deposed president and economists predicted it will not be able to pay civil servants next week
that could further erode support for the general, chief of the 15,000-strong panama defense forces and considered the real power behind panama's civilian government
the government had to withdraw substantial funds from the central national bank of panama and divert receipts from state-owned utilities in order to back the army payroll thursday, diplomatic sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
in other developments thursday, panama's banks defied a government order to reopen on a limited scale, saying there simply wasn't enough cash available to do business
in washington, the house voted overwhelmingly to demand noriega's ouster, and the reagan administration considered imposing sanctions on panama, including withholding payments for panama canal operations due by march 15
also, the panamanian government ordered five private television stations to close indefinitely, but did not say why
eric arturo delvalle, whose noriega-orchestrated removal from the presidency feb. 26 led to u.s. economic pressure, predicted the government would not be able to meet its mid-march payrolls for public employees
the government will not be able to pay all civil servants and that will create another problem,'' delvalle said
delvalle, who has been in hiding since his ouster, made the statement in a tape-recorded response to written questions from the chicago tribune
he was dismissed hours after he tried to fire noriega, who is under federal indictment in the united states on charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine and money laundering
attorneys representing delvalle, who still is recognized by the united states as panama's legitimate president, have blocked the transfer of an estimated $50 million in panamanian government funds held in u.s. banks
popular resentment toward noriega's regime could rise if it cannot meet its obligations to workers after paying the military
public school teachers and other government workers are scheduled to receive their semimonthly paychecks monday and tuesday. the total payroll, including the military's, is estimated at more than $38 million, about six times the amount of money the government reportedly has on hand
private economists estimated the government's reserves at about $5 million, making it unlikely it will be able to meet next week's payroll
the national banking association, which represents 97 of the 118 financial institutions that make panama a major international banking center, said thursday that its members ``are in no condition to resume'' operations
the association on wednesday had ordered its members to reopen, but only to accept deposits and make transfers of funds between banks, calling the move a ``first step'' toward resumption of full banking services
but in a statement the following day, it said the government still had not been able to guarantee its members enough money. a run on deposits that began with opposition demonstrations last summer and accelerated after delvalle's ouster prompted the banks to close on march 1
the government ordered the banks to close last week, saying it could not provide them with enough money because of the legal action in the united states
panama's currency is the u.s. dollar
in an interview shown thursday on the caracol television chain in colombia, noriega again denied drug trafficking charges and said his accusers were paid $1.5 million to make their claims. he did not elaborate
noriega rejected ``for reasons of sovereignty and dignity'' the possibility of his going to florida to respond to the indictments
he said ``the north american assistant secretary of state for latin american affairs (elliott abrams) would not come to panama to confront a trial here for his confabulation against the panamanian state.''
energy secretary john herrington says foreign money may pay for up to half the $4.4 billion superconducting super collider project, and house committee members want the international commitments before approving u.s. funds
japan, taiwan, south korea, france, italy and canada are interested in investing in the project, herrington said thursday in testimony before the house appropriations committee's energy and water development subcommittee
i fully expect you to see 40 (percent) to 50 percent of this project will be international financing,'' herrington said. ``i think the money is there and the interest is there. it is an international project.''
herrington's estimate of foreign participation was about double the 25 percent level previously stated by department officials
the subcommittee's chairman, rep. tom bevill, d-ala., said foreign money would help win congressional funding for the physics research complex, which would include a 53-mile-round atom smasher
but he and herrington differed on who should commit money first, congress or foreign investors
it seems to me this is the only way under our present budget situation that we would even start this project, with the participation of the countries,'' bevill said
herrington replied: ``it is not in the interests of the united states government to say to the world, `we are the leaders in high-energy physics and we are ready to take the next step, ... but we are not willing to do that until we get foreign commitments.' that's not leadership.''
bevill said he was considering how to pay for the project, while herrington was thinking of the united states being first in physics
unless we can get allocated another billion dollars pretty soon and start it ... we could not possibly initiate the funding,'' bevill said. ``but if we had assurance 50 percent or 75 percent would be contributed by other countries, it would be a whole new game.''
the reagan administration has proposed spending $363 million for super-collider construction in 1989, but critics in congress say that would divert money from other important research projects
seven states have sites competing for the project, which will produce 3,000 jobs and have an annual operating budget of $279 million
the states are arizona, colorado, illinois, michigan, north carolina, tennessee and texas
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,543.73, down 74.09 points, on the tokyo stock exchange today. 03-11 0414</first> up 4th graf pvs bgng, no one answered..</note>
a strong earthquake shook costa rica late thursday, breaking windows in houses in southern cities near the border with panama, a fire department official said
there were no immediate reports of injuries
firefighters in the panamanian city of david said the tremor was felt strongly in panama's western provinces of chiriqui and boca del toro, both bordering costa rica, but there were no reports of damage or injuries there either
the temblor was not felt in panama city
the quake registered 5.6 on the richter scale, said an official in the communications office of san jose's fire department. he refused to be further identified
no one answered telephones at the seismology institute
the red cross said no damage was reported in san jose, the capital
the fire department official said the quake occured at 9:45 p.m. (10:45 p.m. est) and was centered near buenos aires, 70 miles southeast of san jose and 26 miles from the border with panama
we have reports that the glass windows of many homes broke in the towns of buenos aires, ciudad neily and san isidro ... and we are expecting possible reports of damage in puerto jimenez, near buenos aires,'' the official said
san isidro is 48 miles southeast of san jose and ciudad neily is seven miles from the panamanian border
he said the quake also was felt strongly in the city of golfito, also near the border, but communications were poor and there was no word of damage, he said
the people ran into the streets terrified in the cities of buenos aires and ciudad neily, since the temblor was really strong,'' johnny zamora of the red cross in san jose said
in san jose, tall buildings swayed
definitely the quake was felt practically in all the country,'' the fire department official said
the richter scale is a measure of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. every increase of one number indicates an increase of 10 times in ground motion
an earthquake of magnitude 5 can cause considerable damage. one measuring 6 can cause severe damage, while a reading of 8 indicates a quake capable of tremendous damage
president reagan says he will try to persuade israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir to drop objections to an american peace plan for the middle east
reagan said thursday that ``a great element'' of israel's coalition government supports the plan. he said the plan offers ``a pretty good solution that would remove some of the problems besetting the people in the occupied territories.''
i believe that peace is inevitable,'' reagan said. ``we may have some differences there as to how to achieve it but i don't think anyone believes that we can go on just with a constant state of warfare and unrest (in the middle east).''
the president conducted four separate interviews in the white house map room with television journalists from france, britain, italy and west germany. transcripts of the remarks were released by the white house
he criticized israel's ban on press coverage of unrest and the military's response in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
more than 80 arabs have been killed by israeli troops or settlers since the demonstrations began late last year. israeli officials concerned about the negative publicity have now restricted press access to the areas involved
i'm a great believer in a free press and the right of the people to know ... so i would have to be opposed to it _ thinking that they want to conduct operations in which they would rather not have public knowledge of them.''
next week, shamir will meet at the white house with reagan to discuss the administration's proposals. the prime minister has blocked efforts to force a vote within israel's government on how to respond to the american plan
shamir rejects the u.s. plan because it sets a timetable for negotiations between israel and the arabs on the future of the west bank and gaza strip. thirty u.s. senators have criticized shamir for rejecting an exchange of ``territory for peace.''
reagan, asked what kind of pressure he would put on shamir, said, ``well, i don't think it's so much pressure as it is just an attempt at persuasion
but also, i'd like to point out that his cabinet is pretty evenly split on the solution,'' reagan said. ``so it isn't a case of outside pressure there. he has a great element in his own government that sees merit in the proposals that we've made.''
part of the u.s. plan calls for an international peace conference whose members would include the soviet union
reagan said moscow has not recognized israel as a nation and added, ``that's very difficult to have someone participating in a conference of that kind who doesn't even believe in the right of statehood of the other country.''
he said the conference would not be empowered to impose a settlement, but would try ``to be helpful and see if we could not join in helping arrive at a solution that would once and for all end the hostilities.''
on other subjects, reagan:
_said the united states has made gains in talks with the soviet union. ``there has been a softening in their position on human rights and they have freed political prisoners and so forth,'' reagan said. ``we think they have a long way to go to meet our standard of human rights.''
_denied that his wife, nancy, is his main adviser. ``no, and she's very embarrassed about the press stories that for some reason continue to say that. no, she has been a good and faithful wife, and i share secrets with her and my problems and all of that.''
elisabeth ann zinser resigned her position early friday as president of gallaudet university, only five days after her selection to lead the school for the deaf touched off a storm of protest from students who demanded a hearing-impaired president
the university's board of trustees said it had regretfully accepted zinser's resignation and would resume its search for a new president
gallaudet board chairman jane bassett spilman called the resignation a tragic loss to the university
we selected dr. zinser as president in recognition of her superior academic, administrative and research skills. her strengths and accomplishments were precisely in those areas most critical for the growth of the university,'' spilman said
on thursday, students capped the fourth day of protests by declaring zinser _ is not deaf and does not know sign language _ unelcome on campus and vowing to keep her out
jerry covell, a leader of the protests, hailed the resignation, but said early friday that students were still angry with spilman, who had resisted the push to oust zinser, who is vice chancellor for academic affairs at the university of north carolina-greensboro
we are glad that she resigned but we are still waiting for spilman,'' covell said
in submitting her resignation shortly after midnight, zinser emphasized her concern that the very governance of gallaudet had been called into question by the week's events
the campus was virtually shut down for four days while a large majority of the 124-year-old institution's 2,200 students protested. the students had attracted members of congress and presidential candidates to their cause
zinser had been named to head the university, the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf, on sunday
i accepted the presidency when the board and i agreed that my values, talents and experiences were well suited to the growth of gallaudet university in the higher education community as well as the deaf community. this remains the challenge for the future of gallaudet,'' zinser said in a statement released through a public relations firm
she said her decision to resign was reached ``with great difficulty as i came to understand how deeply some see the social stature of deaf persons reflected in the presidency of this university.''
students on thursday threatened to seize the president's campus house and office if zinser made her way past students blocking entrances to the school. the doors to the administration building were chained shut, and no administrators were seen on campus
in other action on thursday, one of the two deaf finalists for the school presidency withdrew his support for zinser and said he would back the student protesters
a day earlier, i. king jordan, dean of the school's college of arts and sciences, had said he was supporting zinser ``for the good of the school.'' but jordan told a student rally on thursday that he could no longer support the new leader
rep. david bonior, d-mich., who is a member of gallaudet's board of trustees, said in a statement thursday he suggested to zinser that in the next few days she consult with the faculty, students, staff and alumni ``to experience the passion with which they view the appointment of hearing president.''
the time is long overdue for gallaudet university to have a deaf president,'' bonior said. ``the university has for generations been an international mecca for excellence and opportunity in deaf education
the question before us is _ how long will it be able to sustain this important role without a deaf president?''
earlier, in an interview with the washington post, bonior said he told zinser that federal aid for the school may be jeopardized if she refuses to leave the post she was named to sunday night
about 75 percent of the school's $76 million operating budget comes from federal funds. the rest comes from tuition and grants
meanwhile, the house education and labor subcommittee on select education, which oversees gallaudet's budget, scheduled hearings for tuesday on the controversy over the president and the makeup of the board of trustees
zinser had said wednesday she was assuming her post immediately instead of waiting until the original july starting date
she also lamented that campus protests have disrupted classes, and said she would take unspecified steps to restore order if the protests, which have been peaceful so far, took a violent turn
besides calling for zinser's ouster, the students want spilman's resignation, and a deaf majority on the 20-member trustees board, which now has four deaf members
as zinser attempted to start her job, support for the protesters grew
late wednesday, democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson issued a statement supporting the students, and called on gallaudet's board of trustees to ``resolve this dispute equitably
the problem is not that the students do not hear. the problem is that the hearing world does not listen,'' jackson said
sen. paul simon, d-ill., another democratic presidential hopeful, on thursday called for zinser's resignation
simon, a longtime member of the senate labor and human resources subcommittee on the handicapped, which has jurisdiction over funding for gallaudet, said zinser's appointment was a ``slap in the face to the entire purpose of the university.''
vince dollard, a spokesman for the national technical institute for the deaf, in rochester, n.y., said two buses and several cars, carrying at least 100 students from the school, were to leave at midnight for washington to join the gallaudet protest
a rally was held on the rochester campus in support of gallaudet thursday afternoon
in addition, some east coast leaders of the national association of the deaf, a 20,000-member deaf rights group based in silver spring, md., were planning to gather in washington on friday, spokesman fred weiner said
and activist abbie hoffman, who lectures to universities on student protests, said, ``what's happening at gallaudet is obviously right there in the front,'' he said, ``and they're going to win their battle.''
he said he has urged members of three electronic bulletin-board networks, with a total of 16,000 members, to support the students' efforts by tying up gallaudet's switchboards with calls of support for the students
frederic remington, the painter and sculptor best known for his depiction of the wild west, deserves recognition as an american master, say the curators of a traveling exhibit of his work that opens here today
remington has been seen superficially,'' says michael edward shapiro, chief curator at the st. louis art museum. ``he's been stereotyped as a cowboy artist when he was a very sophisticated new yorker who drew from a lot of sources and created his own style, which has astonishingly imprinted itself on the conscience of our country.''
shapiro and peter h. hassrick, director of the buffalo bill historical center in cody, wyo., organized ``frederic remington: the masterworks,'' the first major traveling exhibit of remington's work
the exhibition consists of 46 paintings and drawings and 20 bronze sculptures remington created from 1889, when he was 28, until he died in 1909 at age 48 of complications from appendicitis
among the works are ``a dash for the timber,'' an 1889 painting acknowledged as remington's first masterpiece, and ``the bronco buster,'' possibly the best-known american bronze sculpture of the 19th century
remington began his art career as an illustrator, with his wild west scenes turning up in several popular magazines, including harper's weekly. his work illustrated what shapiro describes as the forces of nature and man and the risk of death and danger in the west in the action and energy of remington's horses and horsemen
he was especially successful at capturing the image of the horse _ bucking, rearing, lunging, running at breakneck speed. ``there was never a more vivid depiction of the american horse,'' shapiro adds
indeed, remington once told a drinking companion that if he could have one thing written on his tombstone, it would be: ``he knew the horse.''
his subject was always the horse and its rider _ the indian-fighting soldier or the cowboy. but the west of the homesteader, the farmer and the frontier-ending railroads held no interest for him
while the rest of the country spoke of the advance of the frontier, the `taming of the west,' as a positive force in the building of american civilization, to remington the frontier was receding and, in the end, a tragic loss,'' historian david mccullough writes in the show's catalog
remington was born oct. 4, 1861, in canton, n.y., the son of a newspaper proprietor. he grew up in canton and ogdensburg, n.y., then enrolled in the school of fine arts and joined the football team at yale university
he dropped out of yale after a year and a half when his father died and, at the age of 21, he headed west to make his fortune, plunking down part of his inheritance on a sheep ranch near peabody, kan
the sheep ranch failed, and remington bought into a kansas city saloon, which also failed. his new wife had left him to go back to new york. remington headed west again to sketch his way through new mexico and arizona
but by 1885, remington was back in new york, reunited with his wife and establishing himself as a magazine illustrator. in 1887, harper's weekly carried 39 of his sketches and drawings, and the next year more than 70
remington's drawings also began to appear in st. nicholas and outing magazines. he was commissioned by century illustrated magazine to illustrate a series of articles by a young theodore roosevelt. the series later was made into a book titled ``ranch life and the hunting trail.''
despite his popular success, remington was never a critical success, says shapiro
his work was ``just seen as cowboys and indians,'' he says, ``and there was a belief that cowboys and indians wasn't serious subject matter.''
the exhibit goes next to the buffalo bill historical center in cody, wyo., the museum of fine arts in houston and closes at the metropolitan museum of art in new york
environmental cleanup at the nation's nuclear weapons production plants could cost as much as $100 billion, department of energy officials told a congressional panel
cleaning up doe's nuclear facilities may be the federal government's biggest challenge,'' j. dexter peach, an assistant comptroller general of the general accounting office, said in testimony thursday before the house energy and commerce hazardous materials subcommittee
joseph salgado, undersecretary at the energy department, told the panel that $100 billion in cleanup costs for all of the federal facilities ``is probably in the ballpark.''
the subcommittee is considering a number of bills designed to strengthen enforcement of environmental laws at the nation's weapons production plants, which are operated for the department by private contractors
in a related development, the new york times quoted energy department officials in today's editions as saying the department would sharply scale back the amount of radioactive material it plans to bury in the nation's first permanent nuclear waste repository
department engineers said in interviews with the newspaper that the department would entomb less than a quarter of the 125,000 barrels of plutonium-contaminated wastes the government earlier intended to place in the planned $700 million repository in new mexico over the next five years
the decision came four months after scientists told a congressional committee that enough water was seeping into the repository to threaten its ability to safely store wastes that would remain radioactive for hundreds of thousands of years
last week, a panel of experts from the national academy of sciences confirmed that water was entering the chamber and recommended that the energy department entomb only enough waste for experiments to determine the significance of the seepage
the water leaks are to be studied further to determine whether current plans for the repository to receive even more waste can be put into effect. the repository is being dug from salt beds 26 miles east of carlsbad, n.m. and is to open next october
winston porter, assistant administrator for the u.s. environmental protection agency, acknowledged thursday in the hearing that the epa has lost one of its levers in forcing facilities to comply with environmental laws. the reason, he said, is that the justice department has prevented the agency from using its authority to go to court or issue unilateral orders
he said the administration has brought no court suits, issued no unilateral orders, and entered into a handful of consent orders, two enforceable compliance agreements and three unenforceable agreements as part of its cleanup efforts
but salgado told the subcommittee that the energy department has recently made significant progress toward addressing environmental contamination and has increased funding for cleanup by 62 percent in fiscal 1989
salgado said he has been told it will likely cost $1 billion to begin cleanup at the feed materials production center in fernald, ohio. the aging foundry processes uranium for use in nuclear weapons
joseph legrone, the energy department's operations manager at oak ridge, tenn., said $105 million was budgeted for environmental work at fernald in fiscal 1988, more than the $102 million for production. and he said $145 million has been earmarked for fiscal 1989
legrone told rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, he hopes to be able to assure that there is no leakage from fernald's waste pits into groundwater within a year and a half
richard nixon in a new book criticizes the american military establishment for ``preparing for the big war that will probably never be fought'' and ignoring the possibility of smaller wars
moscow is most likely to seek to outflank europe and japan with aggression in the third world, where our nuclear power is useless,'' he writes in ``1999: victory without war.'' ``if we fail to develop the capability to parry soviet thrusts in the third world, we will find ourselves unable to compete with moscow.''
nixon's book, the sixth he has written since he resigned the presidency in 1974, is to be published this spring by simon and schuster. like the last four, it deals with foreign policy. his first post-white house book was his memoirs
he writes that moscow is outspending washington 4-to-1 in providing military aid to other countries and that america must continue providing ``tons of weapons'' to its allies to head off the soviet challenge
it is not philanthropy but expansionism that drives the soviet union to pump weapons into the third world,'' nixon says. ``its goal in exporting arms is exporting communism. ... we must do at least as much for our allies as the soviets do for theirs.''
he adds: ``americans instinctively cringe at the thought of shipping off tons of weapons and military equipment to countries around the world; they do not want to think of themselves as arms merchants. but military aid is often the best way to protect our interests and those of our friends and allies.''
the united states, nixon says, ``must not fall into the trap of thinking that a reduction in u.s.-soviet tensions means the end of the conflict. if (mikhail s.) gorbachev stresses the need to solve his internal problems, we should not be conned into thinking that the system has changed or that the threat has ended.''
gorbachev, the current soviet leader, nixon says ``more than his predecessors is a powerful reminder that we underestimate the soviets at our peril.''
washington ``lost its collective senses'' when gorbachev applied his public relations talents last december at the superpower summit, the former president writes, saying that gorbachev ``is so confident of his strengths that he is not afraid to talk about his weaknesses.''
nixon also makes these points:
_``in 1999, when we look back over the 20th century, we will have to face the fact that mankind's advances in military power and material progress have dwarfed his progress in developing the political skills and institutions to preserve peace and capitalize on our technological advances. it will be our task in the 21st century to end the mismatch between our technological skill and our woefully lagging political skill.''
_the united states has a greater competitive edge in foreign economic assistance than in military aid. this country has spent more than $134 billion in economic aid since world war ii compared with less than $50 billion by the soviet union, yet has failed to capitalize on the advantage
_``if we are to compete, it must be on their side of the iron courtain as well as ours. if we compete only on moscow's terms, soviet leaders will take what we give them and come back for more.''
_although the united states holds good cards in ideological competition with the soviets ``they have done a good job of selling a poor case and we have done a poor job of selling a good case.'' he writes of ``the pap that passes for programming on the voice of america'' and of professional diplomats who ``reflexively treat disputes as if they were simply great misunderstandings rather than imsurmountable differences.''
_the war powers act, which limits a president's power to take military action overseas without congressional approval and was passed over nixon's veto in 1973, is not only unconstitutional but unsound. ``given the realities of the world, the united states will sometimes need to use force in actions short of all-out war and will have to be able to act quickly and decisively. while 535 would be commanders in chief (the number of representatives and senators) dissect the merits and demerits of the intervention, the president will have to keep glancing over his shoulder to check the clock while fighting to defend american interests.''
discovery of a gene that produces a brain protein from the chromosome segment responsible for down's syndrome puts researchers ``on the trail'' of the genetic basis for the most common form of mental retardation
in a study published today in the journal science, researchers from canada and california report that they have identified a brain protein gene in a part of chromosome 21 that relates to down's syndrome, a discovery that other experts said may be an important first step toward a genetic understanding of the birth defect
it puts bloodhounds on the trail, but it's still a distant scent,'' said dr. david r. cox of the university of california, san francisco, one of seven scientists who conducted the research. he cautioned that more study is required because ``we don't know what it's relative importance will be'' in the cause of down's
dr. sigfried pueschel, head of a down's syndrome research program at brown university and a nationally recognized authority, said the finding is a ``significant advance.''
it is a first step and an important step,'' pueschel said
down's syndrome is a congenital defect that includes mental retardation and bowel and heart abnormalities. down's babies have broad features and slanted eyes, characteristics that led the syndrome to once be identified by the now-obsolete term of ``mongoloidism.''
down's syndrome is the most common form of mental retardation. about 4,000 down's babies are born annually in the united states. the syndrome affects one in every 800 to 1,000 live births
the birth defect is caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the normal pair. it is believed that this so-called ``trisomy'' leads to the genetic expression of proteins which in turn lead to the development of down's
in the science magazine report, cox said that his co-investigators found a gene in chromosome 21 that expresses a protein, called s100, that is primarily found in the brain
this is the first time that a brain protein has been mapped into the down's syndrome region of chromosome 21,'' he said. ``previously there had been some genes that were expressed primarily in the brain,'' but those were mapped to other portions of the chromosome, said cox
our results say that this is a potential candidate gene that may play a major or minor role in mental retardation,'' he said. ``it can now be studied to test this hypothesis.''
cox emphasized that the discovery offers no immediate promise for treatment and that it will take additional study to determine the precise effect of the gene
but it provides the first clue that allows one to start looking into that,'' he said
i think to uncover any gene on chromosome 21 with a specific function is a significant advance,'' pueschel said. ``it might in the future provide us with information on how to treat these individuals.''
cox said the researchers isolated portions of chromosome 21 and then conducted tests to determine which part produced s100. the gene that expressed the protein was found in a band called 21q22. it is one of perhaps 1,000 genes in that portion of chromosome 21, but cox said it is the first found there that expresses a brain protein
in addition to cox, members of the research team were robert allore, karen neilson, h.f. willard, r.j. dunn, david o'hanlon and alexander marks, all of the university of toronto in canada, and e.r. price of the university of california, san francisco
science is the journal of the american association for the advancement of science
a hand grenade exploded thursday night in an apartment, injuring three of about a dozen people who had gathered to watch a pro basketball game on television, police said
an unidentified man apparently pulled a pin from a grenade while the group was watching the chicago bulls play the los angeles lakes, said police sgt. david schweiger
the blast injured the man who pulled the pin, a teen-ager and a 28-year-old woman, carolyn dyson of chicago, who was hospitalized in good condition with shrapnel in her eyes, authorities said
the man and the teen-ager, whose names were not immediately available, were listed in serious condition at loyola university medical center in suburban maywood, said spokeswoman carol prevatt
police didn't know why the man had the grenade, but thought it was ``either real old or homemade,'' said schweiger
the explosion didn't cause extensive damage to the apartment, he said
sen. donald riegle has returned campaign contributions made by employees and officers of an arizona company on whose behalf he met with federal bank regulators conducting an investigation
riegle said thursday he wanted to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest and so was giving back $76,100 in contributions from people associated with american continental co. of phoenix, ariz., and its subsidiaries
three other senators present at the meeting last year said through aides they saw no reason to return the money. an aide to a fourth senator was unable to say whether the contributions would be returned
while there was no conflict of interest involved, before or after these contributions, even the appearance of such a personal conflict should be enough to warrant the return of these contributions, and that is what i have done,'' said riegle, a michigan democrat up for re-election this year who sits on the senate banking committee
riegle and sens. dennis deconcini, d-ariz.; alan cranston, d-calif.; john glenn, d-ohio; and john mccain, r-ariz., met last april 9 with federal home loan bank board examiners and discussed the investigation of an american continental subsidiary, lincoln savings and loan association of irvine, calif
there was no connection between the meeting and the agency's decision to end its probe of high-risk investments made by the subsidiary, riegle said last month
the meeting was called by deconcini, said riegle's press secretary, mike russell. deconcini had received $43,000 in campaign contributions from american continental officers and employees
cranston received $41,900 in contributions; glenn, $34,000; and mccain, $112,000
it is foolishness to assume that just because employees of a company make a contribution to a deconcini campaign, that that company can no longer go to sen. deconcini and request the same kind of constitutent service that any other individual or company would expect,'' said deconcini's press secretary, bob maynes
aides to mccain and glenn also said the senators would not return the contributions because they saw no reason to do so
cranston's press secretary, victoria lion, said the senator was out of the country and she was unable to determine whether he had or intended to return his american continental campaign contributions
the contributions were legal under federal election laws
russell said riegle believed returning the contributions would put to rest questions about the propriety of his having accepted the money
he made a personal decision last weekend,'' russell said. ``this was the first time in his 22 years of public service that a conflict of interest had been raised.''
american continental owns detroit's pontchartrain hotel
drug and alcohol testing of the nation's railroad workers is resuming following a court order that has temporarily boosted reagan administration efforts to make the examinations more common
the administrator of the federal railroad administration, john riley, told congress on thursday that he had ordered railroads to begin conducting the urine and blood tests once again, less than a month after a federal court in san francisco declared them illegal
his order was a response to a stay issued last friday that temporarily lifts the ban on testing
if an accident were to occur tomorrow, the crew would be tested,'' riley told the house transportation appropriations subcommittee
riley said that without last friday's court ruling, ``our testing program would be terminated.''
the reagan administration has been trying to perform more and more drug and alcohol tests on employees in the transportation industry
on feb. 11, the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals in san francisco struck down the fra's 2-year-old program that required railroads to check the members of train crews involved in serious accidents for drug or alcohol use. the court stated that such tests were unconstitutional unless there was a suspicion that an individual worker was under the influence of drugs or alcohol
but last friday, u.s. circuit judge thomas tang granted a request by the government to stay the order until april 2. tang was in the 2-1 majority that originally voted to invalidate the testing
riley said that under federal judicial procedures, if the government files its appeal by april 2 _ which officials say they will _ the stay would automatically remain in effect until the supreme court issues a decision in the case. that would probably take months
but a spokesman for the country's railroad unions said the stay would not be automatically extended beyond april 2. edward wytkind, spokesman for the railway labor executives association, said that after april 2, the supreme court could decide to allow the tests to resume at any time
we don't view the stay as any sort of attack on employees,'' wytkind said. ``it's just on an interim basis.''
as a result of the decision, the government had also halted drug and alcohol testing of railroad workers performed for what it called ``reasonable cause'' in which a supervisor noticed unusual behavior by a worker
such tests also will be resumed, riley said
the four-month tab for storing midwest grain on river barges to help make room in country elevators for the new 1986 harvest came to $62 million, or nearly a dollar a bushel, the general accounting office says
overall, the cost to taxpayers was sharply higher than the storage fees normally paid by the government for grain inventories in elevators and farm bins. the program was announced in august 1986 as one of a number of emergency measures to help relieve pressure on elevators getting ready for another bumper corn harvest
the gao, an investigative agency of congress, said in a recent report to rep. bill alexander, d-ark., that the agriculture department awarded storage contracts to a dozen grain companies. a total of about 64.9 million bushels of grain _ 98 percent corn and 2 percent soybeans _ was loaded on 1,253 barges along the illinois, mississippi, missouri and ohio rivers
all of the barge grain originated from the corn belt states of illinois, indiana, iowa, michigan, minnesota, missouri, nebraska, ohio and wisconsin, the gao said. most had been in country and terminal elevators in those states, but some had been stored by producers on their farms
eventually, the department's kansas city commodity office, which handled the program, disposed of most of the barge grain by trading it to the contractors for grain they had stored in inland elevators. the remainder was sold, redeemed by farmers or returned to storage elsewhere
we estimate that the additional cost of the special barge storage program, over and above the normal costs for shipping, storing and disposing of the grain, was about $44.8 million, or an additional cost of 69 cents per bushel to store the grain for an average of four months,'' the gao said
the estimate by gao was made because the department's agricultural stabilization and conservation service ``did not separately accumulate total cost data for the program.'' however, gao said its estimates were based on reviews of contracts and other information provided by the agency
the estimated cost of storing the 64.9 million bushels of grain was about $62.2 million, or 96 cents per bushel,'' the gao said. ``this includes the additional cost of the program (about $44.8 million) and the cost that would have been incurred in the normal course of storage (more than $17.3 million).''
corn market prices nationally averaged $1.73 per bushel when the program was announced and dropped to $1.40 in october 1986, the peak of the new harvest
investigators said they estimated the department's kansas city commodity office paid the 12 contractors about $45.5 million and that an additional $16.7 million went to others for charges related to the barge-stored grain
the gao said the kansas city office ``agreed with our methodology and results'' in estimating the payments
the agriculture department's new crackdown on illegally high traces of a suspected cancer-causing drug found in hog carcasses has eased concern in japan that pork imports from the united states may be tainted, officials said
japan had initiated a program to hold and test all u.s. pork imports, which american livestock interests feared might jeopardize foreign sales. the drug involved is sulfamethazine, commonly used by swine producers to prevent certain kinds of disease and as a feed additive to promote faster growth
lester m. crawford, administrator of the department's food safety and inspection service, said thursday that usda and japanese officials have agreed on testing requirements for pork shipped to japan
crawford said japanese officials ``have been favorably impressed with u.s. efforts'' initiated on march 7 to increase testing of pork products for sulfamethazine residues in the 100 largest u.s. pork plants
u.s. pork produced after march 7 must carry a statement on the export certificate that the product originated from one of the 100 plants undergoing increased residue testing,'' he said. ``japan will not further test these products for sulfamethazine residues.''
pork exported before the new controls went into effect will be tested further for the drug, either in japan or the united states, he said
the agriculture department reports the soviet union has bought an additional 100,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 100,000 tons of corn would be about 3.94 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.84 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $7.25 million
officials said thursday the latest sale involved 50,000 tons that had been reported by exporters as headed for japan, and 50,000 tons for ``unknown destinations.''
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 3.27 million tons of corn and more than 6.9 million tons of wheat, plus 1.3 million tons of soybean meal and 813,300 tons of soybeans
congress will begin another long fight with the white house if it passes a bill requiring president reagan to tell capitol hill about all covert operations within 48 hours after they start, says defense secretary frank c. carlucci
reagan would veto the bill because he believes it is unconstitutional, the defense secretary said thursday in testimony before a house intelligence subcommittee. he added that enactment of the measure over reagan's objection would touch off another fight similar to the ongoing dispute over the war powers act
the war powers act, a 1973 law restricting a president's authority to send u.s. troops into dangerous situations, is the subject of a federal court fight over its constitutionality. the white house claims it is unconstitutional
the intelligence notification bills arise from the iran-contra affair, when u.s. weapons were secretly sold to iran and some of the profits were diverted to the nicaraguan contra guerrillas. reagan withheld notification from congress for 10 months in 1986
current laws require that congress be told about covert actions except in extraordinary circumstances, when only ``timely notice'' is required. but the phrase is not defined and the proposed legislation would mandate notice within 48 hours
carlucci, who was reagan's national security adviser after the iran-contra affair became public, said the administration has put procedures into place to avoid another iran-contra situation
at some point, we have to rely on trust,'' he told the legislation subcommittee. ``if a future president sets out to deceive a congress, no amount of statutes will stop him.''
rep. henry hyde, r-ill., said the bill is ``one more battle between the imperial congress and the imperial presidency.''
carlucci agreed, saying, ``i can think of no step by the congress which would do more harm to the process of rebuilding an atmosphere of trust and candor between the branches than unilaterally to lay claim to prerogatives which the president firmly believes are vested in the executive by the constitution.''
but rep. matt mchugh, d-n.y., chairman of the subcommittee, said the legislation is needed
in the case of the arms sales to iran, the president construed current law as permitting him to withhold notice for more than 10 months after the covert sales had been authorized,'' mchugh said
if he had done (as the law generally requires), he would surely have heard some strong objections and might have spared the country a serious foreign policy setback and himself a major political embarrassment.''
carlucci's argument was that ``the failures of the iran affair were human and managerial. no statute can prevent these mistakes. ... we will not put the mistrust which caused the iran-contra affair behind us until we trust each other again.''
the bill was also opposed by brent scowcroft, national security adviser to president ford
scowcroft said ``the excessively restrictive language proposed seems a case of throwing out the baby with the bath. it is not possible to eliminate every opportunity for abuse by the executive without at the same time paralyzing the ability to act.''
he said the bills arise from the view that notification to congress about the arms sales would have been met with opposition that would have derailed the plan
scowcroft disputed that. ``there is no evidence to support this assumption. indeed, as it was, the president was confronted, by his principal advisers, with views strongly in opposition to the iranian arms sales.''
the dollar dipped against the japanese yen in trading in tokyo friday, while stock prices fell following an overnight decline on wall street
the dollar opened at 127.85 yen, down 0.35 yen from thursday's close of 128.20 yen, and closed for the day at 127.80, down 0.40 yen from thursday
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which gained 12.43 points thursday, lost 74.09 points or 0.02 percent to close at 25,543.73
although nothing has changed in regard to japan's improved investment environment, a 48.24-point fall in the dow jones industrial average dampened the mood of investors,'' said masahiro umemori of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage
a dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the currency market ``generally remained listless.'' he said the market was waiting for the release of u.s. retail sales and producer price figures, due out friday in washington
vice president george bush leads senate gop leader bob dole by a wide margin among republicans likely to vote in illinois' presidential primary, according to survey results published today
the washington post-abc news telephone poll conducted wednesday, six days before the primary election, showed bush with the support of 58 percent of 395 likely republican voters, while dole, of kansas, was backed by 31 percent
former television evangelist pat robertson was the choice of 6 percent while rep. jack kemp of new york, who dropped out of the race on thursday, had 4 percent, according to the survey, which was published in today's editions of the post
in the democratic race, native sons sen. paul simon of illinois and civil rights leader jesse jackson of chicago led with 38 percent and 33 percent, respectively, among 402 likely democratic voters. the difference between the two was within the poll's margin of error
massachussets gov. michael dukakis trailed with 16 percent and rep. richard gephardt of missouri had 6 percent. former sen. gary hart of colorado, who was expected to withdraw from the contest today, was picked by 3 percent of the respondents and sen. albert gore of tennessee was chosen by 2 percent
the newspaper said the survey had a margin of error of plus or minus eight percentage points. limit</head>
pat robertson, the biggest-spending candidate of the presidential race so far, says he'll use his federal matching funds after all, even though he has said he is philosophically opposed to the idea
robertson said thursday that ``short of what would amount to an absolute miracle in the state (of illinois), it looks as if i'll have to use them.''
he also said at a news conference that he is within about $2 million of the $27 million spending cap that election rules set for those who get matching funds. that could pose serious strategy problems for him, because it means he will be unable to continue the kind of high-spending campaign he has conducted so far and will be forced to skimp along for the remainder of the primary season
it's going to mean that it's going to be me the candidate and not a lot of travel and everything else the volunteers,'' he said
robertson said he had made deep cuts in his national staff, but he declined to give specific numbers. he said the reductions had cut deeply into his press and office staff
everybody is bucking up around the federal (spending) limit ... so we want to stay lean and mean,'' he said
robertson has received $7.2 million in federal matching funds, more than any other candidate, including vice president george bush, who has received $6.6 million
robertson's campaign has put the money into an escrow account and was keeping open the option of not using the money and later giving it back to the government. in that case, campaign attorney marion harrison had contended, robertson would not be bound by the spending limits imposed on those who accept matching funds
whether the federal election commission would have accepted that point of view is now moot since robertson has indicated he will not try that approach
fec officials had pointed out that the law requires a candidate to sign an agreement to abide by the limits at the time of application for matching funds. there is no language in the regulations that addresses whether a candidate actually spends the money
robertson had used the money as collateral for a $5.5 million loan in january, and a $1.5 million loan in december
we put the (matching) funds in escrow and borrowed against them. we're still trying to keep our options open, but the options, i might say, narrowed considerably after super tuesday,'' robertson said in an interview following a brief chicago news conference kicking off his effort in illinois
robertson said that the matching funds are, ``in a sense, already spent
that money would just go to pay off loans. the truth is, in my estimation, that all the major campaigns are bumped up against the limit. there is not much money left for anybody,'' said robertson
we're trying to husband our resources as hard as we can and hold on through june,'' he continued
robertson said cash problems would not deter him from continuing the gop fight
i am more and more being urged by conservatives to stay in the race as a rallying point for conservatives and conservative principles,'' he said
as of the most recent campaign financial reports, through jan. 31, robertson had spent more against the limit than any other candidate _ more than $22 million. that was before the most intensive spending period began for the super tuesday primaries and caucuses in 20 states on march 8
by contrast, bush had spent $15.3 million and sen. bob dole, r-kan., $18.1 million
the matching funds are provided from a fund supported by the $1 voluntary checkoff on individual income tax returns. each donation of $250 or less that a candidate raises is matched by the public fund. to qualify initially, a candidate must raise at least $100,000 across 20 states in contributions of $250 or less
robertson had said he was not in favor of the publicly supported campaign finance system
talks with movie and television producers aimed at ending a five-day scriptwriters strike broke down, with no new meeting scheduled, officials of both sides said
the writers and producers were meeting thursday with a federal mediator when the producers decided the talks weren't going anywhere, said mona mangan, executive director of the writers guild of america's east coast unit
in view of the seriousness of the strike and its impact on the industry, we had hoped that continued talks might bring us better results. we deeply regret that the companies do not view these talks as moving us closer together,'' ms. mangan said
a spokesman for the alliance of motion picture and television producers, herb steinberg, said the scriptwriters' demands were so unrealistic that ``further talks would be fruitless. ... they're not even in the same neighborhood in an assessment of the economics involved.''
meanwhile, in new york, two unions representing 100,000 actors set a march 21 deadline for a strike against makers of tv and radio commercials
federal mediator leonard farrell recessed the scriptwriters talks subject to his calling another meeting, but no date was agreed to, ms. mangan said
daily variety, an industry newspaper, reported thursday that the guild is preparing interim contracts for independent producers, a tactic used last summer by the directors guild before its contract with producers ended
the strike has yet to have a widespread effect on the motion picture and television industry, but has delayed the debut of at least two series and has forced the david letterman and johnny carson shows into reruns
a long strike by the 9,000 writers could affect some movies and the fall television season, and could shorten the current television season if producers failed to stock enough scripts or discover extensive rewriting is needed
the union struck sunday, demanding an increase in residuals from movies and television shows distributed in foreign countries and rejecting a producers' offer to reformulate residuals from the syndication of one-hour tv shows
in new york, the screen actors guild and the american federation of television and radio artists announced a march 21 strike deadline for the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers
union members, working under a contract extension, voted march 2 to authorize a walkout. the last strike of its kind lasted seven weeks in 1978-79
there was no answer thursday night at the new york offices of the american association of advertising agencies
the complicated relationship between the ethereal blanche du bois and the earthy stanley kowalski in tennessee williams' ``a streetcar named desire'' is one of the most fascinating in the american theater
blanche, the epitome of neurotic southern gentility, flutters to her doom at the hands of stanley, her crude but practical brother-in-law. it's a destructive flight, one that she resists until the very end of the play but then accepts almost willingly
that strange bond between the two is ignored in the new, straightforward revival of williams' classic drama that opened thursday at broadway's circle in the square theater
this ``streetcar'' is riding on one rail _ blythe danner's dangerous, on-the-edge performance as the desperate blanche. just when you think she may veer out of control, miss danner takes charge
the actress recites williams' poetry _ and that's what much of his dialogue is _ with an intensity that is very moving. she also can handle the more lurid permutations of the plot, bringing a conviction to melodramatic moments such as as the story of the death of her young husband. it's a commanding portrait
that conviction is lacking in aidan quinn who plays stanley. quinn is an intelligent actor but he's miscast, both physically and vocally
his stanley is brash rather than brutish, more wise guy than tough guy. that approach works when he's playing poker with his pals, but when he comes up against an aggressive blanche, quinn falters
blanche keeps referring to stanley as ape-like, but quinn's characterization is anything but animalistic. he's too boyish and bears more than a passing resemblance to the young newsboy blanche attempts to seduce late in the first act
blanche and stanley become little more than a bickering couple. their lack of electricity doesn't ruin the production, but it does make this revival a lopsided, unsurprising evening of theater
danner works better with frank converse, who projects an innate decency as mitch, stanley's good friend and blanche's one last chance. there's a genuine regret about their inability to make something of their relationship. equally appealing is frances mcdormand, a ripe, voluptuous stella who gamely puts up with stanley's crudeness because she loves him
nikos psacharopoulos, the country's foremost interpreter of williams' plays, directs at a leisurely pace. between scenes, there are a lot of saxophone moans in the night. designer john conklin spills a french quarter setting, much of it wrought iron, across the elongated stage to create an evocative new orleans apartment
the set is tantalizing and so is miss danner. she just doesn't have anyone to go up against
in other reviews:
frank rich of the new york times called the production ``a staging that may not deface williams's masterpiece but often sanitizes it. ..
what is most absent from the evening, and not just in blanche and stanley's showdown, is sex. miss danner and mr. quinn _ both fine actors, both erotic figures in other circumstances _ shed no sparks here.''
in the daily news, howard kissel writes that the production lacks ``a sense of an old world decaying, of desire hanging palpably, urgently in the air. ... without this tangled undergrowth of anxiety and nervous longing, the play loses its force.'' case</head>
the prosecutor who handled the big dan's pool-table rape trial says he hopes a state supreme court ruling affirming the convictions will end the furor touched off by the case
it was a worldwide case. literally the whole world was watching,'' bristol county district attorney ronald pina said thursday after the high court affirmed the convictions of four men in the 1984 trial
if anything, it has heightened the awareness of rape victims that they can come forward and testify. they now know that they should report rapes,'' he said
in a pair of unanimous rulings, the massachusetts supreme court turned aside defense objections on pina's handling of evidence, judge william g. young's decision to avert television cameras from the victim and other issues
the victim's dramatic account of the barroom rape and the lengthy televised trial in superior court drew national attention to the working-class neighborhoods of new bedford, where the attack occurred, and sparked an intense debate over rape
the case also brought agony to new bedford's large portuguese-american community. the six young men charged in the case were of portuguese descent, as was the victim
the high court upheld the punishments handed out to daniel silvia, john cordeiro and victor raposo, who were sentenced to nine to 12 years in the state maximum-security prison at walpole, and joseph vieira, who drew six to eight years. the two other defendants were acquitted
the victim died in a car crash outside miami in december 1986 at age 25
according to court records, she entered big dan's tavern on march 6, 1983, to buy cigarettes. she ordered a drink, spoke with another woman and watched a game of pool. when she declined an offer of a ride from cordeiro and raposo, the court said, she was knocked down, dragged to the pool table and raped
prices on the tokyo stock exchange fell 74.09 points in heavy trading today, while the u.s. dollar fell slightly against the yen
traders said most of the 1.8 billion shares traded involved the top 10 stocks, prompting concern that investors were again turning to speculation to fuel the market
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues fell 0.02 percent to close at 25,543.73, after gaining 12.43 points on thursday
the dollar closed at 127.80 yen, down 0.40 yen from thursday's close
stephen jennings, a salesman for kleinwort benson, said trading today was concentrated in two stocks, nippon steel and ihi, accounting for a half a billion shares
there is a fear that quality is deteriorating,'' and that much of today's trading was based on speculation, jennings said
he said investors are now looking toward the u.s. trade figures to be released later this month
another dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the currency market ``generally remained listless'' and said the market is waiting for the release of u.s. retail sales and producer price figures. ^by michael west</byline>
newspapers clamored today for prince charles and other royals to abandon dangerous pursuits after the 39-year-old heir to the british throne narrowly escaped an avalanche that killed a close friend
charles is the next king .... that means he must be ... safeguarded, if need be from himself,'' the daily mirror admonished in an editorial
it said charles as well as prince andrew and his wife, the duchess of york, took ``unnecessary risks.''
the royals have a duty to play it safe,'' the newspaper added
charles' 28-year-old brother, andrew, was catapaulted off the deck of the u.s. carrier nimitz in a jet fighter when he and the 28-year-old duchess visited the united states last week
the duchess, the former sarah ferguson, is expecting the couple's first child in august. she was on a skiing holiday with charles and his wife, princess diana, 26, and friends at klosters in the swiss alps when the avalanche occurred thursday. all are good skiers
sarah, who fell skiing earlier thursday and was advised to rest, was with diana in a chalet when the avalanche struck
andrew, a royal navy helicopter co-pilot in the 1982 falklands war and now a helicopter instructor, missed the holiday because of duties at portland naval based in southwest england
the avalanche killed maj. hugh lindsay, 34, and injured another friend of the royals, patricia palmer-tomkinson
charles, the lead skier, and the rest of his party managed to evade the avalanche. he helped rescue the unconscious mrs. palmer-tomkinson, both of whose legs were broken, and then helped free lindsay's body from under the snow
another tabloid, the sun, demanded: ``why was he there?''
daredevil charles has a passion for pushing himself to the limit on the snow. each time he dons his skis he likes to shake off his tag of pampered prince and prove he is a real man ... charles has consistently risked his life by going on increasingly deadly slopes,'' the sun said
swiss authorities had warned that the area where the royal party was skiing was prone to avalanches
the sun quoted alex broggi, a klosters ski club owner, as calling charles ``incredibly brave.'' broggi added, ``many locals are amazed by the runs he attempts. they wouldn't go anywhere near them.''
the star said in an editorial: ``we don't want our royals to be wimps ... but advisers who should know better must never again lead the heir to the throne into such deadly danger.''
the royals and many of their friends have a pronounced taste for danger and charles once asserted: ``if you occasionally live dangerously it helps you appreciate life.''
the daily mail said: ``the question asked by well-wishers of the royal family is: why do so many of them go in for such perilous sports?'' it urged queen elizabeth ii to ``ask your offspring, for the nation's sake, to show just a little more care.''
charles' other sports include polo and fox hunting. he has injured himself several times in falls from his horse at polo
his father, prince philip, 66, played polo until recently while the 61-year-old queen is an accomplished horsewoman
princess anne, 37, the queen's only daughter, goes fox hunting and occasionally rides in horse races, where accidents are numerous
vice president george bush says he will continue to campaign hard in the illinois primary despite a poll putting him comfortably ahead of gop rival bob dole
i'm not going to be out-hustled as we prepare to go the polls tuesday in illinois,'' bush told a republican dinner on thursday night
a washington post-abc news poll published in today's editions of the post said bush led dole, 58 percent to 31 percent
bush had little to say about major staff cutbacks by the dole campaign, coupled with a move by the dole forces to pull television spots off the air in the state. dole campaign sources said the kansas senator had talked about the possibility of pulling out of the race, but had decided to stay in at least through tuesday's primary here
bush's chief of staff, craig fuller, said the vice president's reaction to reports about dole was: ``we'll go about our business, do our job.''
dole, reeling from a dismal showing on super tuesday, insisted thursday night that he was ``not a dropout'' and would continue to campaign
meanwhile, bush appealed to more than 700 republicans at the champaign county dinner to help him win the state's primary and the 82 gop delegates at stake
he also urged party factions to prepare to put their differences aside
it's important to remember that we are all republicans,'' said bush. ``we shouldn't get so negative we can't close ranks in the fall.''
bush, speaking in one of the nation's top agricultural counties, said as president he would ask that a world economic summit scheduled in france focus on agriculture
he said he would fight for open markets and fair trade so u.s. farmers could sell their products abroad
bush said he would not use food ``as a foreign policy weapon'' as the carter administration did with its 1980 grain embargo, and he said he would oppose protectionist legislation
if you protect a textile industry, the first thing to be retaliated against is american agriculture,'' said bush
earlier, during an appearance in chicago, bush said he was ``tired of being embarrassed'' by scandals surrounding public officials and unethical behavior by high government officials _ though he named no names
he pledged to create a special white house ethics panel and give it ``a new and specific code of ethics.''
when a congressman goes bad or someone in the executive branch violates the public trust, it hurts,'' bush told the governor's club luncheon at the chicago hilton. ``i'm tired of being embarrassed. people at all levels of government should come to serve, not to profit.''
bush has steadfastly refused to critize any reagan administration officials, including attorney general edwin meese, who is under investigation by several grand juries
former top white house aides michael k. deaver and lyn nofziger have been convicted in court cases involving their lobbying activities after leaving the administration
bush, asked at a news conference whether he was criticizing the reagan administration, said he was not. he added that no one ``has a higher standard of personal ethics than the president _ always above any possible conflict of interest.''
relief worker peter coleridge, released after six days of questioning by palestinian gunmen in lebanon, returned and said the long-term hostages there must be going through something ``very close to hell.''
it was thoughts of my family which kept me going,'' coleridge told a news conference after he was reunited with his wife and three children at heathrow airport on thursday, two days after his captors freed him
coleridge, 44, middle east coordinator of the british charity and relief organization oxfam, was seized in sidon march 3 after taking photographs at the ein el-hilweh refugee camp there
also captured was his syrian aide, omar traboulsi, 31. after daily interrogations, they were both released tuesday
i was very much aware that i was arguing for my life,'' said coleridge. ``if they were in any way not convinced, it wold not have turned out as well as it has.''
i developed quite an interesting kind of relationship with those interrogating me,'' coleridge said. ``i felt that by the end, we had reached quite a level of understanding of what my organization does and the kind of work we get involved in.''
coleridge said the ordeal gave him an insight into what other hostages must be experiencing
they must be going through something very, very close to hell. i wouldn't wish it on anyone at all _ and i had only six days of it.''
i was kept in one room with a blanket and bucket and fed adequately, although i didn't have much of an appetite,'' he said
twenty-two foreigners, including nine americans, are known to be missing in lebanon after being kidnapped
terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held hostage. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson is calling for a 71 percent increase in spending on drug interdiction and treatment over the 1989 reagan administration proposal
jackson released a detailed position paper thursday saying the government should spend $6.7 billion to fight drugs, a topic which has emerged at the top of his list of campaign issues
it's overrunning our borders, it's undermining our productivity, it's killing our children, it's corrupting our government,'' he said at a campaign stop at wheaton college. ``we must stop the flow of drugs into our country.''
his spending program includes increases in the interdiction budgets of the justice department, customs operations, coast guard, pentagon, and state department, and prevention and treatment programs
for treatment, according to jackson's position paper, he would spend $1.7 billion, compared to $425 million proposed by president reagan
jackson contends the drug issue is a hidden benefit for him in his presidential campaign, because it strikes a responsive chord wherever he speaks about it. he said in an interview last week that the media and political analysts have failed to take note of how important the drug issue is to the american people
jackson tells his audiences that the drug problem is the nation's no. 1 threat to national security, killing young people, corrupting police departments and making banks into partners with drug kingpins
he often asks members of the audience to stand if they know someone who has died because of drugs, who is in jail because of drugs, or who has tried drugs
jackson has previously said he had no specific numbers on how to implement his suggestions to fight drugs. but his new position paper breaks down totals for each government agency
it is time to put up the necessary resources to meet this national security threat head on,'' he said in his statement
we have 325,000 troops in europe but only 269 drug enforcement agents overseas to fight the war on drugs.''
he would tie u.s. foreign and trade policy to the drug problem, persuading drug-producing allies to install new anti-drug programs or face trade and diplomatic penalties. these countries should be rewarded with crop diversification plans and increased u.s. training, equipment and material assistance. he said
jackson proposed a western hemisphere summit on drugs, and said ``international troops may be needed in countries like colombia to deal with the crisis
jackson also would name a cabinet-level ``drug czar.'' and he would beef up the border patrol and other agencies to stop drugs at the border, he said
jackson also proposed a school-based education and prevention program, led by the secretary of education, and a public awareness campaign similar to the one that warns people about the danger of smoking cigarettes
the reagan administration has asked an appeals court to overturn a judge's order barring federal regulations that would cut off funding to family planning clinics that offer abortions or abortion counseling
the administration said it was seeking a reversal from the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals in u.s. district judge walter ray skinner's march 3 ruling, which declared the regulations unconstitutional
skinner's ruling was announced the day the new guidelines were to have taken effect, and forced the u.s. department of health and human services to order regional offices to suspend enforcing them
that order will remain in effect while the appeal is considered, said hhs spokeswoman lucy eddinger
in a memo accompanying his ruling, skinner said the regulations violated a woman's right to choose to have an abortion and her first amendment rights to free speech
federal judges in colorado and new york had issued temporary injunctions against the regulations, but skinner was the first to rule on their constitutionality, and said his order applied nationwide
he granted an injunction requested by the state of massachusetts, the national family planning and reproductive health association and 13 other local and national family planning groups
about 5 million low- and moderate-income women receive services at 4,000 clinics nationwide which would have been affected by the regulations announced last month by hhs secretary otis r. bowen
the new rules would have prevented federally funded family planning programs from providing abortion counseling, abortion referrals, and engaging in lobbying or legal action to increase the availability of abortions
if a clinic performed abortions, it would have been forced to maintain separate facilities for each type of patient if it wanted to continue to receive funding under title x of the public health service act of 1970. panama</head>
japanese banks will ``wait for the time being'' for overdue interest and principal payments by panama of $40.6 million in bonds, a japanese banking official said today
panama missed thursday's deadline for the payments owed to an unspecified number of japanese commercial banks _ $39.06 million in principal and $1.56 million in interest, said a bank of tokyo official who insisted on anonymity
the bank of tokyo, along with yamaichi securities co., are the lead agents for the 10-year bonds, which panama issued in march 1978
we will wait for the time being as the panamanian side has recently confirmed it is delaying the payments'' because of a freeze on panamanian assets held by u.s. banks, the official said
according to japanese banking sources, panama earlier told its japanese creditors a freeze in u.s. aid money to the country in the wake of a confrontation between washington and the military regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega would make it difficult to honor the transaction
the united states is attempting to oust noriega, who has been indicted in florida on drug trafficking charges
doctors continue to perform ``archaic'' circumcisions on newborn males, forsaking anesthetics because of misguided notions that their tiny patients do not feel pain, a new study concludes
dr. howard stang, a minneapolis pediatrician, said the findings were not new, ``but the most important thing is this _ if it's going to be done, it ought to be done humanely.''
about 3{ million children, roughly half of them males, are born in the united states each year
stang and four colleagues, whose study was reported in today's journal of the american medical association, estimate that between 60 percent and 80 percent of the male infants are circumcised within days of their births _ and that virtually all of those children are circumcised without anesthesia
years and years ago, there was a feeling in the (medical) community that infants don't suffer,'' stang said. ``we now know that just isn't true. as pediatricians, we're trying to get this across to the obstetricians and family practitioners who handle the bulk of these surgeries
i guess it's custom, and customs die hard,'' he added in a telephone interview. ``the sad thing is that the law requires animals, for example, to have anesthesia before surgery, but we don't extend that same humanity to our own kids.''
in the study, 60 newborns who were to be circumcised were randomly divided into three groups of 20 each
the first group received lidocaine as a local anesthetic in a 10-year-old procedure known as a dorsal penile block. the second group also received an injection, but the solution was a placebo. the third group received no injections
researchers found newborns in the lidocaine group cried 23 percent of the time, while babies in the saline and control groups cried 68 percent and 71 percent of the time, respectively, during circumcision
additionally, the study measured how the surgery affected blood levels of cortisol, a chemical secreted by the adrenal gland that shows how much stress the individual is under
the infants given lidocaine showed significantly lower levels throughout the surgery, said stang
stang noted that during the circumcisions of jewish children, infants are given wine as a general anesthetic
that's a start,'' he said, ``but a local anesthetic is better because it's more easily controlled and there are no complications
using the block has been proven to be safe,'' he said, ``but what will make it commonplace is for parents to demand that their doctors do it.''
stang said doctors also may be resisting the procedure because they fear a lack of complications may lead to an increasing number of circumcisions
he said the current rate has held steady since 1970, when both the american academy of pediatrics and the american college of obstetrics and gynecology issued statements that circumcision has no medical value
since then, some insurance companies have classified the surgery as cosmetic and will not reimburse clients
but some new studies may be shifting the tide back,'' stang said. he said there are indications that uncircumcised males may be more prone to urinary tract infections
an earthquake that shook most of costa rica swayed tall buildings in the capital and sent people fleeing from their homes as windows shattered in southern cities, authorities said
there were no immediate reports of injuries in thursday night's quake, which was centered near the panamanian border
the quake occurred at 9:46 p.m. and registered 5.6 on the richter scale, said a san jose's fire official, adding that it was centered near buenos aires _ 70 miles southeast of the capital and 26 miles from panama
the glass windows of many homes broke in the towns of buenos aires, ciudad neily and san isidro,'' said the official, who refused to be further identified. san isidro is 48 miles southeast of san jose. ciudad neily is seven miles from the panamanian border
firefighters in the panamanian city of david said the tremor was felt strongly in the western border provinces of chiriqui and boca del toro, but there were no reports of damage or injuries
the temblor was not felt in panama city
the people ran into the streets terrified in the cities of buenos aires and ciudad neily,'' johnny zamora of the red cross in san jose said
in san jose, tall buildings swayed
definitely the quake was felt practically in all the country,'' the fire official said
the richter scale is a measure of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. every increase of one number indicates an increase of 10 times in ground motion
an earthquake of magnitude 5 can cause considerable damage. one measuring 6 can cause severe damage, while a reading of 8 indicates a quake capable of tremendous damage
former president jimmy carter says this year's democratic national convention will help produce a strong presidential ticket, unlike recent ``circus'' atmosphere conventions that weakened the nominee
carter, who spent thursday at the u.s. coast guard academy as a hedrick fellow, said he emerged from both conventions that nominated him for president ``weaker than i went in'' because too many delegates used the occasions as platforms for their own issues
democratic conventions were a circus,'' he said at a news conference after conducting an informal class for cadets majoring in international relations and government
we had nominees wounded and bleeding,'' he said, praising the current party leadership for ``making sure delegates are committed to winning _ not just highlighting their own individual causes.''
carter said he can't tell who will prevail at the convention, but it will be difficult for any candidate to get 50 percent of the delegates on the first ballot
i've got an open mind about it,'' he said. ``what happens during the campaign will be an indication of who will do well in november when they run against george bush.''
as if stopping the momentum of his rival democrats wasn't enough to worry about, presidential contender richard gephardt was hard-pressed just to get on the road for a day of campaigning
secret service agents and chicago police struggled for more than 45 minutes thursday to open a burgundy cadillac inside which a gephardt aide had locked the keys
the car was parked at midway airport, where the missouri congressman arrived in the late afternoon in preparation for thursday night's democratic unity dinner
while the agents and police worked on the parked car, gephardt was taken to a nearby office where he had to fend off reporters asking whether his campaign had run out of gas
we're campaigning as hard as we can in illinois, in michigan and in all the other states,'' he said
gephardt, eventually taken away in a second car, declined to predict his finish in illinois' primary on tuesday, but added, ``we're going to do well.''
three days after super tuesday, republican officials say human error skewed the reported results of washington state's precinct-level gop caucuses, but not enough to change the order of finish that put pat robertson on top
robertson won 39 percent of the republican delegates picked tuesday night to attend county or legislative district conventions where another slate of delegates will be picked for the state convention. sen. bob dole won 26 percent and vice president george bush, 24 percent
john meyers, executive director of the state gop, said reporting errors occurred when precinct caucus results were phoned in to the news election service, and that these errors first were noted by the dole campaign
meyers said most involved precinct chairmen reporting straw vote totals rather than the number of pledged delegates they would send to their next convention. others reported delegates and alternates together, he said
the mistakes weren't enough to change the overall results,'' meyers said. ``when you've got almost 4,000 precincts some mistakes are going to be made.''
the result was that nes reported more delegates committed than possible for the 71 percent sample of tuesday night. some precincts didn't report
vance noted that it would be the july 15 state convention when delegates would be allocated and until then, ``no one won here on super tuesday.''
new york gov. mario cuomo is repeating his pledge not to run for president and calling on democratic candidates to support the man who takes the most delegates into the convention
whoever it is, make him the candidate,'' cuomo said thursday. ``if mike dukakis has 41 percent, get everybody together in a room and say, `jesse, gore, gephardt, you came close, but mike's the candidate
why is 51 percent the magic number? let's pick the guy who's ahead after california,'' cuomo said at a news conference in his manhattan office
during a visit to long island earlier thursday, the governor said he won't run for president this year because of a promise he made when he ran for re-election in 1986
he also shot down any ideas of drafting him at the democratic convention in july, saying leaving that option open would be divisive
you're saying, `but then there's no role for you, governor.' that's right. i shouldn't be part of it,'' cuomo said at the world trade center. ``i should've been in the primaries like everybody else if i wanted it.''
cuomo said he has probably missed his chance to become president
since i can't be a candidate this year,'' cuomo reasoned, ``and the democrats are going to win for sure, the democrats will be in office for eight years. that's the end of cuomo.'' concessions</head>
fifty union activists demanding higher pay and reinstatement of fired workers occupied the interior ministry for nine tense hours, then left the police-ringed building under church protection
the roman catholic church was able to mediate the evacuation thursday after a judge inspected the building and confirmed the workers were neither armed nor holding hostages, said monsignor gregorio rosa chavez, the metropolitan auxiliary bishop
the workers solidary coordinate protesters were unable to win any concessions and took a bus, under military escort, to a local church office for the night
officials with the national salvadoran workers unity, the largest opposition union, said soldiers captured and beat their leader, humberto centeno, when he arrived to seek an end to the occupation
both unions are leading opponents of the government of president jose napoleon duarte, who claimed the ministry takeover was part of a recently-discovered guerrilla plan to stir up mass protests in the country
the 50 unionists took over the building to demand a $60 monthly wage hike, reinstatement of dismissed workers and other conditions. they spoke with labor minister lazaro tadeo bernal, but he gave them no satisfaction, said gerardo diaz henriquez, the coordinate's director
centeno had arrived on a bus with several other union activists, who soldiers forced back onto the vehicle before shooting out its window, said guillermo rojas, a workers unity official
one worker was injured by flying glass, he said
duarte, at a news conference with bernal, said the government did not talk with the protesters, who he said would be jailed if captured
the president said the incident confirmed the existence of a rebel plan to widen the scopeof its leftist insurgency by having urban-based mass organizations engage in disruptive activity
the government has said the plan calls for constructing barricades, occupying public buildings, provoking riot police and burning buses and other government vehicles
a soviet envoy rejected a u.s. demand that moscow cut off military aid to afghanistan if washington stops aiding afghan rebels after a soviet troop pullout
moscow's ties to afghanistan are seven decades old and the u.s. demand is tantamount to the soviets calling for an end to u.s. aid to pakistan, said nikolay kozyrev, ambassador-at-large and senior soviet specialist in asian affairs
kozyrev, who spoke to reporters at a news conference thursday, heads a visiting team of soviet specialists to follow the latest round of the peace talks in geneva between pakistan and afghanistan
u.n. undersecretary-general diego cordovez is mediating the 6-year-old peace talks, the latest round of which began march 2
pakistan is representing afghan guerrillas who have been fighting for nine years against the government in kabul, the afghan capital. soviet troops were sent into afghanistan in 1979 to prop up the marxist government
robert peck, assistant deputy secretary of state, is also in geneva to follow the talks and has been in touch with kozyrev. a u.s. mission spokesman said peck had no immediate comment on the soviet's comments
the united states has given the afghan rebels millions of dollars in aid, including ground-to-air stinger missiles claimed to have downed more than 200 soviet and afghan aircraft
kozyrev said the talks ``bogged down'' of pakistan's insistence that an interim government replace the one headed by soviet-backed president najib
he said islamabad will bear the responsibility if there is no final agreement despite completion of all main elements of the ``peace package.''
the interim government, pakistan argues, could guarantee implementation of the settlement and ensure the safe return of more than 5 million afghan refugees from pakistan and iran
kozyrev said the draft agreements from the peace talks do not commit his country to halt aid to the kabul government, except to stipulate that no new troops must be sent to afghanistan after the withdrawal of the estimated 115,000-strong ``limited soviet contingent.''
kozryev avoided a direct answer when asked whether negotiations would continue after next tuesday, the target date set by mikhail gorbachev last month. the soviet leader said that moscow will begin the troop withdrawal may 15 if the settlement is signed by march 15
sources close to the talks said the date was not considered a deadline after which the kabul representatives would walk out
the u.s. demand for ``symmetrical cessation'' of military aid was spelled out at a state department briefing on march 4. it was the latest of seemingly uncoordinated signals from washington concerning the issue
it followed a non-binding resolution, unanimously adopted by the u.s. senate last week, urging the white house to continue such aid until all soviet troops have left
peck said before his departure from washington that a decision on the timing of the cut-off should be left to president reagan
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians. there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators.'' _ austrian president kurt waldheim, in a speech marking the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation by nazi germany, apologizing for war crimes committed by his countrymen
my decision to resign was reached with great difficulty as i came to understand how deeply some see the social stature of deaf persons reflected in the presidency of this university,'' elisabeth ann zinser, the newly appointed president of gallaudet university in washington, d.c., resigning after students demanded a hearing-impaired leader for the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf
we must not go on as if nothing has happened if the initiative is rejected against our will. we must bring it to a decision in elections. we may not succeed in this but it is our moral duty to do so.'' _ israeli defense minister yitzhak rabin, urging fellow labor party officials to demand new elections if conservative prime minister yitzhak shamir rejects the u.s. peace initiative in the middle east
in a dramatic speech in parliament, an independent deputy demanded the truth be told about the world war ii massacre of 4,000 polish officers in a forest in the soviet union
the official version is that nazi troops committed the katyn forest massacre, but many poles blame the soviet union
deputy ryszard bender, raising the taboo issue for the first time in parliament, said thursday that full disclosure is needed if poland and the soviet union are to have genuinely friendly relations
the word `katyn' must be spoken out in this high chamber,'' said bender, addressing foreign minister marian orzechowski. ``this is required by the honor of the polish people, by its martyrdom throughout'' the war
bender spoke after orzechowski praised a soviet-polish agreement on ideological cooperation signed last year that stresses the need for a more truthful history of polish-soviet relations
bender said soviet interests were not served by ``making poland a dependent nation'' but by having ``a sovereign, self-governing, economically strong poland'' as its neighbor
he said the friendly relations between poland and the soviet union ``must be genuine ... not just facade-like propaganda.''
on tuesday, 59 polish opposition activists and intellectuals, including solidarity leader lech walesa, issued an open letter appealing to soviet intellectuals to speak out about katyn
bender called on communist authorities to open up to historians archives of classified documents so ``blank spots'' in polish-soviet relations can be filled. he said these included the 1939 non-aggression pact through which the soviet union and germany divided poland
that september, the nazis invaded from the west and the soviets from the east. tens of thousands of poles were deported to siberia
there are persons in this chamber with painful experiences of those deportations,'' said bender
the phrase ``blank spots'' has become shorthand in poland for topics so controversial that go unmentioned or are distorted in official histories
last week, a joint soviet-polish commission of communist party historians met in warsaw to review research on the ``blank spots.''
the panel discussed such sensitive topics as the fate of poles deported to the soviet union in 1939-41, but reported no progress in elucidating all the circumstances behind the katyn massacre
polish and soviet official versions of the massacre say the 4,000 officers whose bodies were found in the forest near smolensk were murdered by the nazis in 1941 after they invaded the soviet union
most poles and western historians maintain the officers were slain in 1940 on orders of soviet dictator josef stalin
the 4,000 were among 15,000 polish officers detained after the soviets invaded poland and held in three separate camps in western russia. the fate of the remaining 11,000 officers has never been revealed, and the issue remains a sensitive point in polish-soviet relations
in his speech, orzechowski said the ideological cooperation agreement ``will be conducive to overcoming the negative phenomena which have accumulated in history'' between two countries
he said poland fully supported the ``revolutionary changes'' being introduced by soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, adding that polish-soviet relations are ``closer than ever before.''
peace corps officials they're anxious to begin negotiations with the chinese to set up the terms of a program under which agency volunteers for the first time will serve in that nation
arlen erdahl, directing of recruiting for the peace corps, said thursday that applicants started phoning the corps within hours of the announcement a day earlier that china would begin accepting peace corps volunteers
though the concentration is likely to be on english teachers, china still must decide what special skills it wants the volunteers to have, where they will serve and how large the peace corps program would be
erdahl said the agency will have to put volunteers for the program through a rigorous testing program that rejects four out of five applicants
cpl. arnold bracy, a marine embassy guard who for a time figured prominently in last year's moscow spy scandal is leaving the military next month, and a source said he would be honorably discharged
the marine corps announced thursday that bracy, 22, of woodside queens, new york city, will be formally discharged on april 4. a marine official who asked not to be named said bracy would receive an honorable discharge
bracy served as an embassy guard in moscow with sgt. clayton j. lonetree, 26, who was convicted last august of passing classified information to soviet agents after becoming involved with a russian woman
for a time last spring, bracy also faced a military court-martial because navy and federal agents were convinced he had conspired with lonetree and allowed russian kgb agents inside the embassy late at night to roam at will
those allegations were based in part on a confession signed by bracy after a lengthy interrogation. bracy later recanted that statement, saying it had been coerced, and all charges against him were dropped when military lawyers concluded they did not have any corroborating evidence to prosecute
the retiring head of nasa's space station program is warning that the program could be destroyed if money budgeted for that purpose is diverted to pay for an unmanned scientific and manufacturing facility in space
andrew stofan told a house subcommittee thursday he would oppose any attempt to take money from the space station budget to pay for a commercially developed ``industrial space facility.''
i see no use for it (the isf) as far as developing the space station is concerned,'' said stofan, who is retiring after 30 years at the national aeronautics and space administration
meanwhile, rep. edward p. boland, d-mass., told a house appropriations subcommittee that more money is needed for housing programs next year and that if the money is not allocated, then congress will ``kiss goodbye to the space station.''
boland's subcommittee handles financing for housing programs as well as independent agencies including nasa
the chairman of a house subcommittee says fraud, overcharging and kickbacks are rampant among clinical laboratories, and witnesses at a hearing called for better federal oversight
rep. john dingell, a michigan democrat who chairs the house energy and commerce subcommittee on oversight and investigations, said at a hearing thursday that problems are ``rampant in this industry and federal oversight has been non-existent.''
witnesses at the hearing said unregulated laboratory procedures have resulted in problems such as a 20 to 40 percent error rate in pap tests used to detect cervical cancer in women
other problems include piecework pay systems that encourage production at the expense of careful diagnosis and pressure to accept inadequate specimens and call them negative so doctors won't send their business elsewhere, said shirley greening, representing the american society for cytotechnology
she and others recommended mandatory proficiency testing for all diagnostic lab technicians, workload limits, more federal money to monitor labs through the medicare and medicaid programs, and required public disclosure of lab caseload volume, staffing, fees, quality control methods and results
the rev. jerry falwell says scandals involving tv preachers jim bakker and jimmy swaggart have strengthened broadcast evangelism and made christianity stronger, more mature and more committed
christian television ministries that put their financial and doctrinal houses in order will survive and prosoper, falwell told the national association of evangelicals on thursday
in five years, ``most of the evangelical ministers that are playing on top of the table will be stronger than they are today,'' the fundamentalist preacher said in his first appearance before the group, which represents 50,000 churches in 72 denominations. falwell is not a member of the nae
you need not be embarrassed by what has happened ... just more sensitive,'' he told hundreds of applauding delegates. ``this is a time to regroup, judge ourselves and march on with a greater intensity than before
the cause of christ is now better off'' because of bakker and swaggart's problems, falwell said, comparing the scandals with watergate and politics
in the days ahead, it is going to be tougher for national leaders (of tv ministries) to misbehave,'' just as the watergate crisis resulted in governmental and political reforms, he said
bakker, who admitted a tryst with a church secretary and who has been accused of financial improprieties, was expelled from the assemblies of god church. after bakker resigned as head of ptl, falwell headed the ministry for several months before stepping aside
swaggart, who has been accused of paying a prostitute to perform lewd acts, was suspended by the denomination and expects to return to the pulpit
the scandals have led to a new code of moral and financial ethics for religious broadcasters
i think the days of the rolls royces and rolexes ... the days in which social status is gauged by financial trappings are over,'' said falwell, whose ``old time gospel hour'' is broadcast worldwide on 350 television stations
he said the swaggart controversy had little effect on his own ministry, and he didn't believe that it had the more serious impact of the bakker revelations on the religious broadcast industry
however, he said that if the events surrounding swaggart and bakker had involved him, billy graham or other more conservative ministers ``we would be out looking for other employment.''
i'd rather be dead'' than be immoral, said falwell, a founder of the moral majority and pastor of the 21,000-member thomas road baptist church in lynchburg, va
falwell praised former television evangelist pat robertson, but said he endorsed vice president george bush for the presidency even though falwell advised president reagan not choose bush as his vice president
the preacher said he would like to see u.s. rep. jack kemp run for vice president. the republican new york congressman pulled out of the presidential race thursday after a poor showing in primary and caucus races
falwell is a registered democrat, but said, ``i can't think of a single democrat running this year who i could hold my nose and vote for.''
the dollar fell against other major foreign currencies in europe early today in moderately active trading. gold bullion rose
a trader in frankfurt, west germany, said market participants were limiting dollar exposure ahead of the weekend
the british pound, whose value leaped by 4 percent against the dollar this week, gained further ground on the u.s. currency, trading at $1.8465, up from $1.8435 late thursday
but traders said the rally appeared to be running out of steam on a statement by chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson on thursday that sterling would be unable to sustain a further advance
other midmorning dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday:
_1.6620 west german marks, down from 1.6640
_1.3740 swiss francs, down from 1.3785
_5.6665 french francs, down from 5.6725
_1.8683 dutch guilders, down from 1.8720
_1,235.00 italian lire, down from 1,236.63
_1.2560 canadian dollars, down from 1.2564
the dollar closed in tokyo at 127.80 japanese yen, down from thursday's close of 128.20 yen. in later london trading friday, the dollar slipped to 127.45 yen
london's major bullion houses fixed a recommended gold price of $444.10 a troy ounce at midmorning, up from $443 late thursday
in zurich, gold was bid at $444.15, up from $442.50
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $445.48 dollars, up from $438.42
silver bullion was quoted in london at a bid of $6.31 a troy ounce, down from $6.36
glenn cunningham, who overcame a crippling childhood injury to become america's premier middle distance runner in the 1930s, is dead at age 78
cunningham died thursday at his exotic animal preserve near menifee, which he maintained as a retreat for troubled youngsters
as long as you believe you can do things, they're not impossible,'' cunningham said in an interview 10 years ago. ``you place limits on yourself mentally, not physically
people say something's never been done, so it can't be done. but that's not so. it's never been done because no one has set about the task of doing it.''
cunningham's greatest task was to walk after the severe injuries he received in a 1917 schoolhouse fire that killed his older brother, floyd. doctors feared the extensive damage to the 7-year-old cunningham's legs might require amputation and surely would prevent him from walking
cunningham proved them wrong. not only did he walk, he ran as fast as any miler of his generation, persevering through almost constant pain
i was 179 pounds, too heavy for a runner,'' he recalled a few years ago. ``i also had broken-down arches, bad legs and such badly abscessed teeth _ eight of them _ that doctors didn't see how i could walk. i never knew when my teeth would cause me great pain. but i just knew i could do it _ run and win.''
he set a world outdoor record of 4 minutes, 6.7 seconds in the mile at princeton, n.j., in 1938. his indoor best of 4:04.4 wasn't recognized as a record because it was considered a paced race, a practice which became acceptable only after cunningham had retired
cunningham, a native of elkhart, kan., who later attended kansas university ran the 1,500 in two olympics, finishing fourth in the 1932 games at los angeles and winning the silver medal in the 1936 games at berlin
cunningham six times won the prestigious wanamaker mile in the indoor millrose games at new york. he won it the first time in 1933, the year he was voted the sullivan award as the best amateur athlete in the united states
he won 21 of his 31 races at madison square garden, set six world records at 1,500 meters or one mile and another at 1,000 yards
in 1979, cunningham was voted best track athlete in the 100-year history of madison square garden, and on feb. 28 returned to the millrose games to run a lap during a commemorative ceremony
after a tour with the navy in world war ii, cunningham and his wife, ruth, bought an 840-acre ranch near wichita, kan. cunningham tended exotic animals and he and his wife cared for any wayward or troubled child sent his way
we have worked 18 hours a day, seven days a week, to rehabilitate 9,000 wayward or orphaned youths who passed through our care,'' said cunningham, who had 12 children of his own
funeral arrangments were incomplete
retired air force maj. gen. richard secord, a key figure in the iran-contra scandal, denied any knowledge of an alleged reagan administration plot to infiltrate the organizations of political extremist lyndon larouche
secord said thursday he was relaying a message from an associate when, in a memo to former national security council aide oliver north, he mentioned an apparent effort to collect information against larouche
secord, a principal in north's private contra supply network, said in a telephone interview that he was not aware of any government plot to infiltrate larouche organizations
defense lawyers for larouche and his supporters, on trial here on fraud and conspiracy charges, contend larouche was a target of the fbi and cia. they cite the north-secord memo and other documents as support for the claim
the defense lawyers contend that north, the marine lieutenant colonel fired for his role in the iran-contra scandal, supported the cia and fbi infiltration as part of a reagan administration plot to ruin larouche because he opposed aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua
in addition to the secord-north memo, larouche defense lawyers have been given an fbi document, declassified wednesday, that quotes three intelligence operatives as saying they were directed by top fbi and cia officials to infiltrate larouche groups
u.s. district judge robert e. keeton halted trial testimony this week because of the newly discovered documents
he ordered assistant u.s. attorney john markham to review classified fbi files from which the declassified material was taken and determine if additional information should be given to defense lawyers
in a may 1986 memo to north that was declassified this week, secord said he was told by ``our man here'' that retired army sgt. maj. fred lewis ``has collected info against larouche.''
defense lawyers have said the prosecutor in the case told them ``our man'' referred to fbi executive assistant director oliver revell. but secord said he was referring to john cupp, who worked for a company that provided clandestine air transport for government operations, including the contra resupply effort
cupp on thursday agreed with secord's characterization that ``our man'' referred to him, but defense lawyers maintained their position that the reference was to revell
cupp said he had relayed to secord details of a conversation he had with lewis, whom cupp described as a longtime friend
fred came to me and said he had been approached by mr. larouche to conduct some very questionable activities and he kind of went along with it to get information because he thought he was a froot loop,'' cupp said in a telephone interview
he knew i was working in washington and looked me up because he thought i would be able to get the information to an authority who would be able to take some kind of action,'' cupp said
cupp said lewis told him that larouche wanted to rescue dissidents from the soviet union, including andrei sakharov and his wife, yelena bonner
lewis hung around for a while to check him out and see what he was doing but he wasn't doing anything official,'' cupp said
cupp said he agreed to discuss the matter as a favor to secord
the three operatives quoted in the declassified fbi material are lewis, gary howard and ron tucker
larouche, six aides and five larouche political organizations are charged with conspiring to obstruct a grand jury investigation of alleged credit card and loan fraud by larouche followers during his 1984 presidential campaign. four of the organizations also are charged with fraud
defense attorneys claim evidence of the fraud was fabricated by fbi and cia plants in the organizations
a powerful storm system centered near the nebraska-wyoming line churned up snow and wind from the western dakotas across western nebraska and much of wyoming and colorado today
blizzard warnings continued today in eastern wyoming and were issued today for northeast colorado, northwest nebraska and western south dakota
many roads were closed in central and eastern wyoming, where up to a foot of snow was on the ground, winds of 20 to 40 mph gusted to around 50 mph, visibility was near zero at times, and subzero wind chills were reported
in nebraska, the blizzard buffeted kimball, alliance, chadron and sidney, with snow totals ranging to 8 inches southwest of scottsbluff and up to a foot near the wyoming state line
in western south dakota, there were 10 inches of snow on the ground in deadwood. more than 18 inches of snow was expected in the black hills by tonight, and 4 to 8 inches elsewhere in western south dakota
the high country of colorado and utah also received heavy snow, including up to 3 feet thursday at elevations above 6,500 feet in utah
the storm system was expected to move east, spreading snow across much of the northern half of the plains. its effects, however, were felt as far west as southern california, where northerly winds of 25 to 35 mph and gusts to 45 mph occurred in higher elevations
elsewhere, a few snow showers lingered in the mountains of montana and idaho. rain extended from eastern north dakota into northwest minnesota, with snow over northeast minnesota
dry weather prevailed east of the mississippi river, across the southern third of the country, and west of the rockies
late night temperatures were mostly in the teens and 20s over the northern and central rockies and northern nevada. readings in the 20s were also common in the northern and central high plains, and from the lower great lakes across the northern and central appalachians
today's forecast called for strong winds and locally heavy snow across the northern plains and minnesota. strong, gusty winds also were expected in the texas panhandle and the lower and middle mississippi valley. snow showers should linger over the northern and central rockies, and scattered snow was predicted in northern wisconsin and upper michigan
high temperatures were forecast in the 40s, 50s or 60s, except for 20s and 30s from the northern and central rockies across the northern plains into upper michigan, and in western and upstate new york and northern new england. temperatures should reach the 70s in the lower mississippi valley, alabama, florida and the southwest deserts, and 70s and 80s across much of the southern plains
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 11 at yellowstone park, wyo., to 67 at laredo, texas, and key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 36 fair; boston 31 fair; buffalo 26 fair; charleston, s.c. 41 fair; cincinnati 29 fair; cleveland 28 partly cloudy; detroit 34 cloudy; miami 57 partly cloudy; new york 34 fair; philadelphia 27 fair; pittsburgh 27 fair; portland, maine 26 fair; washington 36 fair
_central: bismarck 33 snow; chicago 35 fair; dallas-fort worth 62 fair; denver 30 cloudy; des moines 39 fair; indianapolis 32 fair; kansas city 50 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 39 fair; nashville 33 fair; new orleans 48 fair; st. louis 42 fair
_west: albuquerque 31 fair; anchorage 38 partly cloudy; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 55 fair; phoenix 47 fair; salt lake city 28 cloudy; san diego 53 fair; san francisco 55 windy; seattle 36 fair
_canada: montreal 23 fair; toronto 27 partly cloudy
san juan capistrano, which welcomes migrating swallows every year, has some competition from another southern california city, but the winged creatures returning here buzz instead of flap
the city advisory council recently proclaimed april 1 the ``80th anniversary of the day the flies return to yucaipa,'' according to chairman burrell woodring
in san juan capistrano, the swallows are greeted as they return to an old spanish mission. in this city about 75 miles east of downtown los angeles, some people have suggested an april fools day welcoming ceremony for the flies at an old dump
many blame chicken and horse ranches for attracting the pesky insects, which make their comeback as spring temperatures rise
i think i'd rather have the swallows,'' said council member gary pitts, who also sits on the san bernardino county fly abatement and appeals board. ``you open your door and you're inundated.''
henry miller's typescript of ``tropic of cancer'' sold for $165,000, so aspiring author alan rosenberg figures a manuscript of his new novel should fetch at least $2.75
rosenberg's 415-page bound manuscript of ``run red riding hood run'' is one of 17 items to be placed on the block next month at a new york auction billed as ``the first futures market in literary memorabilia.''
acknowledging that authors whose memorabilia are considered worthy of sale are already famous and usually dead, the 34-year-old portland writer said thursday an investment in a rosenberg memento would give potential buyers ``a chance to get in on the ground floor.''
the items to be offered for auction april 7 include rosenberg's dog-eared dictionary, photos and letters, tapes of his dictated notes, manuscripts of two previous, unpublished books _ and 30 rejection letters from publishers
bids for all items open at $2.75, except for the portable computer on which he wrote his latest work, rosenberg said
the author, who hired a new york publicist and an auctioneer specializing in rare books and manuscripts, admits the event is intended to draw publishers' attention to his new novel
i don't expect to make enough here to cover my costs,'' the author said. ``i do expect to make a point. it's tough to break in, no matter how much talent, determination and patience you have.''
organizers of this mississippi river city's annual barbecue contest say it's time the cookoff was officially titled the world's largest, and they're going whole hog for the billing
the may 12-14 competition is called the world championship barbecue contest, but that title has no independent verfication
the national pork producers council is mounting a cooking contest june 12 in des moines, iowa, and is seeking a nod from the guinness book of world records for the most pork barbecue cooked in a day, said ida eleazer, a program director for the memphis in may festival
the pork producers hope to attract 300 cooking teams and crank out 20,000 pounds of pork barbecue, she said
i guess we've been challenged,'' said becky landers, an organizer of memphis' cookoff
in an informal survey two years ago, the memphis barbecuers cooked 75,000 pounds of pork in two days, ms. landers said
this year, participants will be required to keep records of how much pork they cook
we never really felt like it was an issue before. we knew we were the largest barbecue contest in the world,'' ms. landers said
defense attorneys expressed disbelief after a judge convicted two 13-year-old girls of being accessories in the death of a 12-year-old boy forced to drink lighter fluid and suffocated with a plastic bag
montgomery county juvenile court judge arthur o. fisher on thursday found the girls guilty of involuntary manslaughter and grand theft because they helped two 15-year-old boys get into the apartment of victim antonio r. cooley
i had never envisioned her as anything but a material witness,'' defense attorney daniel o'brien said of his client, whose name, like that of the other youngsters in the case, was not released because of their age
attorney risa mccray, who represented the second girl, said fisher ignored the girls' claims they tried to warn the victim and testimony by a 13-year-old boy backing them up
he even ignored the state's own evidence,'' ms. mccray said
the defense attorneys contended the 13-year-old boy kept the girls in a back room while two older boys killed cooley feb. 8
o'brien said the two older boys had threatened the girls with harm even while in the county detention center
cooley was sprayed with insecticide and forced to drink charcoal lighter fluid before being suffocated with a plastic bag, according to a deputy coroner
fisher said the girls did nothing to alert authorities, although they knew the boys were angry because cooley had denied them use of his videocassette recorder, and knew they intended to beat cooley and steal several items, including the vcr and a stereo
o'brien said he would consider an appeal based on the sentence fisher is to impose on the girls at an unspecified date
fisher could order them held for a year, and state officials then could decide to continue to hold them until age 21, assistant prosecutor debra armanini said
the 13-year-old boy has pleaded guilty to deliquency involuntary manslaughter and theft, and will be sentenced later
the 15-year-old boys face delinquency charges of aggravated murder, aggravated robbery, child endangerment and intimidation, and may be tried as adults
i think the verdict sends a message across this city that the courts are not going to permit anyone, no matter what their age, to take part in a scheme or plan to snuff out another life,'' assistant prosecutor mathias heck jr. said
the girls' mothers sobbed, and one called the verdict unfair
i know she didn't do it,'' the woman said. ``he (fisher) was against them in the very beginning, regardless.'' background on ritalin.</note>
a 15-year-old boy convicted of killing a classmate with a baseball bat ``to know what it was like'' has been sentenced to life in prison, becoming the state's youngest prison inmate
rod matthews could be paroled in 15 years under the mandatory sentence he received thursday after being found guilty of second-degree murder in the nov. 20, 1986, slaying of 14-year-old shaun ouillette
two former friends of matthews testified he told them of planning the killing and took them to see ouillette's body, which police did not find until nearly four weeks later in woods in canton, a suburb 15 miles south of boston
matthews showed no emotion when the verdict, reached after almost 10 hours of deliberations over two days by the norfolk county superior court jury, was announced. throughout the trial he had been expressionless, eyes downcast
the decision satisfied neither the victim's mother, jeanne quinn, nor the defendants' parents
mrs. quinn, carrying a portrait of her son and choking back tears, told reporters she had hoped matthews would be convicted of first-degree murder, which carries a mandatory life sentence without parole
he planned this,'' she said. ``fifteen years. no, i'm sorry, that's wrong. shaun is not coming home in 15 years, is he? he's not ever coming home.''
it's terrible,'' matthews' mother, janice, said on the courthouse steps hours after the verdict. ``a child shouldn't be persecuted and forced to go through something like this
god only knows how much worse it's (prison) going to make his condition,'' she said
matthews takes ritalin for hyperactivity, and defense attorney john philip white argued for acquittal by reason of insanity
ritalin, taken by an estimated 800,000 children, has been a standard treatment for hyperactivity and attention problems for the past 30 years. but the stimulant drug has its critics, including those who say it can cause serious side effects including facial tics, extreme lethargy and stunted growth
white portrayed matthews as a mentally unstable child whose pleas for help were ignored by teachers and friends and whose irrational behavior was possibly exacerbated by ritalin
he was overlooked,'' said mrs. matthews. ``he was overlooked in the third grade, junior high school. we overlooked him because we didn't think there was a problem.''
white, expressing concern for matthews' safety and the possiblity the youth might attempt suicide, said he will try to have the boy moved from prison to a mental health center while considering whether to appeal
an appeal must be made within 30 days, said superior court judge roger donahue
matthews is the youngest of more than 6,500 massachusetts prison inmates, said correction department spokeswoman mary mcgeown
it just doesn't make any sense because there's no treatment facility there,'' said matthews' father, kenneth
prosecutor peter casey, a norfolk county assistant district attorney, called the decision an ``appropriate, well-counseled verdict.''
the case has been compared to that of anthony broussard, 18, sentenced to 25 years to life in 1982, in san jose, calif., for killing his girlfriend in 1981. broussard, who was also tried as an adult, took at least 13 schoolmates to see the body. the movie ``the river's edge'' was based on that case
matthews' trial, which began march 2, was broadcast on a canton cable television station. it was highlighted by graphic descriptions of the slaying and testimony by matthews' former friends, rob peterson and jonathan cash, who said he told them of his desire to kill in the fall of 1986
he said he wanted to know what it was like to kill somebody,'' peterson said
after rejecting two possible victims, matthews chose ouillete, an overweight high school freshman relatively new to canton, because he felt he would not be missed, the youngsters testified
ouillette was lured to the woods after school by the promise of fireworks before being hit at least three times in the head with the baseball bat
matthews took peterson to see the body several hours after the slaying, and they hid a knife matthews planned to use to cut off ouillette's arms and legs, peterson said
several days later, peterson and cash went with matthews to see the body, then went to a pizzeria
police found the body dec. 15, 1986, after receiving an anonymous letter from cash
matthews told a psychiatric counselor after the slaying that he first decided to kill someone after viewing the videotape ``faces of death,'' which shows animal and human deaths.  military involvement. picks up 3rd graf pvs, `the mission...' ^an ap extra</note>
the use of u.s. military personnel to help in anti-drug operations has bolstered bolivia's ability to foil trafficking, but also has shown the difficulties of curtailing a billion dollar industry
there are 30 u.s. military trainers and advisers, sent from the u.s. southern command in panama, now working with bolivian anti-narcotics police units and air force pilots, according to the interior ministry
there have been recent calls in the united states for the military to be deployed in the war on drugs and bolivia is a country in which the use of u.s. soldiers is being tried
the mission is a follow-up to the presence of 175 u.s. soldiers and six black hawk helicopters in july 1986 for a three-month operation known as blast furnace, says david greenly, chief of mission at the u.s. embassy in la paz
blast furnace demostrated that a concerted u.s.-bolivian effort could make a difference in bolivia, that bolivian operations could have a similar impact and we are beginning to see such an impact is possible,'' greenly told the associated press
during the 1986 operation, 22 major cocaine processing labs were destroyed and cocaine shipment and processing were seriously disrupted. farmers could not sell their coca leaves because processing was snarled, and prices dropped from $1.20 a pound of coca leaf to 40 cents, the estimated cost of production
cocaine is processed from the leaves of the coca plant, which peasants in bolivia grow for its profitability
after the troops pulled out in november, coca leaf prices shot up and trafficking operations returned to normal, bolivian and u.s. drug officials say
since then, the u.s. trainers have prepared 720 elite anti-drug police and taught pilots to fly five huey helicopters on loan from the united states. the helicopters, carrying bolivian police, now fly regular missions in the tropical lowlands where cocaine labs are located
bolivian police are disrupting operations in the chapare coca-growing region, where most of the cocaine is processed into paste
this is reflected in a drop in coca leaf prices, the u.s. drug enforcement agency says. it says prices are down to 30 cents a pound of coca leaf, even lower than blast furnace days
the volume of cocaine reaching u.s. and european markets has not decreased and the price of cocaine has dropped, evidence of a glut
bolivian cocaine production, which accounts for one third of what reaches u.s. and european markets, has increased 10 percent a year to an estimated 80 metric tons in 1987, according to a report from the u.s. state department
the cocaine produced in bolivia has a u.s. street value in the billons of dollars, the dea says
despite the concerted effort by bolivian and u.s. forces, traffickers have moved their operations to remote and hidden jungle areas that are difficult to reach by road or even helicopter
the u.s. government, with all its military might, could only make a dent on cocaine operations in bolivia during blast furnace,'' said information minister herman antelo
but he said that dent was important because it showed bolivia was serious about combating cocaine despite political problems that blast furnace caused for the government
during blast furnace, marches were held to protest the u.s. presence and opposition congressmen and political leaders attacked the government, describing the u.s. military presence as an interference in the internal affairs of bolivia
when bolivian police, dea agents and pilots took over the village of santa ananin in october 1986 looking for traffickers, almost the entire town of 5,000 joined in forcing them to leave under threat of death. townspeople knew in advance about their arrival, although officials say the planning was handled with utmost secrecy
bolivian and u.s. officials hope the presence of the 30 trainers, who are based near the city of trinidad in the chapare region, will reduce corruption of officers by traffickers and increase the effectiveness of bolivian police and pilots
two scientists set a world record for concentrating the sun's energy with a homemade silver device that could help make a practical, solar-powered laser, officials said
we consider this a breakthrough because it just hasn't been achieved before,'' said bimleshwar gupta of the u.s. energy department's solar energy research institute in golden, colo., which paid for the $150,000 project
roland winston, a university of chicago physics professor, and philip gleckman, a graduate physics student, used a borrowed mirror and their solar concentrator to focus sunlight to 60,000 times its normal intensity on earth, the university announced thursday
that concentration is about three times the previously achieved range of 16,000 to 20,000 times normal intensity, said gupta, the institute's program manager for solar thermal research
this work opens whole new areas for applications of solar energy,'' he said. ``perhaps the solar concentrator could be used to power lasers.''
most conventional lasers run on electricity, he said. there are no commercially available solar-powered lasers because the technology hasn't been developed to harness the sun's rays efficiently
in theory, gupta said, a solar-powered laser would be cheaper to operate because conventional lasers require large amounts of expensive electricity
and those advantages would be greater in space, he said, where solar energy isn't weakened by clouds and is more accessible than electricity or other types of energy
gleckman, 26, who helped design the solar concentrator on a computer, said scientists have used sunlight to power lasers before, ``but not very efficiently.''
we believe this solar concentrator we've built has the potential to make a more efficient solar-powered laser. ... it would be less costly and more practical,'' said gleckman
the solar concentrator he helped design was made from an ounce of silver in a university machine shop. it is hollow and cone-shaped, about half an inch high and a half-inch wide at the base, he said
it has a one-centimeter opening at the wide end and a smaller opening, measuring about one millimeter, at the tip, gleckman said
the device is fitted with a lens and contains a special oil that boosts light refraction, he said
the 16-inch diameter mirror _ a standard astronomical telescope mirror _ was borrowed from the university's yerkes observatory, gleckman said
the solar concentrator's design was based on the principle of ``non-imaging optics'' developed by winston nearly 15 years ago, the university said
in a test feb. 12 on the roof of a university physics building, the solar concentrator achieved an intensity of six kilowatts per square centimeter, the statement said. the previous record was less than one kilowatt per square centimeter, it said
for the second time in a year, harvard university president derek bok has gone against a majority of tenured law professors and will not recommend tenure for a professor who is an adherent of critical legal studies
the critical studies philosophy _ that the legal system is biased in favor of the rich and powerful _ is an issue that has divided harvard law school
bok, who was dean of the law school before he became president of the university in 1971, announced his decision thursday in the case of clare dalton, 37, who has taught for seven years
my record was strong enough for tenure, and there was political and gender discrimination involved in my being denied,'' she told the boston globe thursday night
bok would not answer questions about the decision, and the prepared statement he issued did not give a specific reason for his action, the newspaper said
the american association of university professors will investigate, according to a spokeswoman in washington. the american association of law schools also has been asked to investigate
last may, bok went against the law school faculty in not recommending tenure for professor david trubek
tenured members of the law school faculty voted 29-20 last spring in favor of granting ms. dalton tenure, four votes short of the two-thirds needed under a rule change earlier in the year
some faculty members say the rule is used by conservative professors to block tenure for faculty with whom they disagree politically. daniel tarullo, who also was recommended by a majority but not a two-thirds vote, was denied tenure then
last october, ms. dalton filed complaints against harvard with the massachusetts commission against discrimination and the federal equal employment opportunity commission
she and a representative of the university asked the state commission not to investigate until bok completed a review of the case. her lawyer, nancy gertner, said ms. dalton has ``an extremely strong gender discrimination case and an extremely strong political discrimination case.''
last december, bok appointed an outside committee to review the case
the globe said that according to a letter bok reportedly sent to law school faculty thursday, the committee and harvard law school dean james vorenberg and two harvard law professors met for seven hours sunday, reviewed ms. dalton's scholarship, and decided that her ``record was not sufficient to merit tenure.''
defense secretary george younger defended british soldiers who shot dead three unarmed ira guerrillas in gibraltar as violence over the slayings erupted in belfast for a fourth night
younger said on the british broadcasting corp.'s television program ``question time'' broadcast from belfast thursday night that the soldiers challenged the three guerrillas before opening fire on sunday
they were challenged, we understand. if you challenge somebody, in that second they convince you that they are about to kill you, my goodness you have a right to defend yourself and my goodness you always should,'' younger said
the killing of the guerrillas, who authorities say were plotting a huge car bomb explosion in the british colony, enraged ira supporters. the irish government has complained about the alleged lack of any attempt to arrest them
on the british mainland, 60 legislators of the opposition labor party and some newspapers have also questioned the slayings
foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe said monday that the guerrillas _ a woman and two men _ were shot when they made movements that made the soldiers involved think their own lives were in danger
witnesses said the soldiers were wearing jeans
the ira said the three guerrrillas were ``on active service,'' a euphemism for a bombing or shooting attack as part of the outlawed group's guerrilla war to end british rule in northern ireland
the mainly catholic ira wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
the ira commandos were shot in the street by the british soldiers believed to belong to the crack special air services regiment after parking a car near the governor's residence
police said they believed the car was parked to reserve a space for a car bomb that was later found outside the fortress colony on spain territory
violence erupted in roman catholic areas of belfast for the fourth straight night thursday. a press officer at belfast police headquarters said it was markedly lighter than on the previous three nights of rioting
he said an army patrol escaped injury in a bomb attack in west belfast and two vans and a car were stolen and set on fire
he also reported some shooting and a gasoline bomb attack on an ambulance, but said nobody was hurt in any of the attacks and that army explosives experts safely defused two bombs found in the city
the officer, by regulation speaking on condition of anonymity, said that in londonderry, northern ireland's second largest city, catholic youths hurled gasoline bombs at a joint army and police patrol but again nobody was hurt
by friday, 60 of labor's 229 legislators in the 650-seat commons denounced the killings in a motion as ``an act of terrorism.... tantamount to capital punishment without trial.''
the motion charged: ``there was no attempt to apprehend or arrest these people before killing them.''
labor's foreign affairs spokesman, gerald kaufman, has written to howe repeating labor's demand for an inquiry
panama's ambassador to belgium said today that he has been fired but is staying on in defiance of panamanian military leader gen. manuel antonio noriega
angel riera diaz said his aide, navidad moron zanet, was promoted from attache to charge d'affaires
but i am not relinquishing my office,'' riera said in a telephone interview. ``i do not recognize the authority of noriega. i recognize the authority of president (eric arturo) delvalle,'' whose feb. 26 ouster was engineered by the military strongman
riera said ms. moron is a noriega ally and had a hand in a ``break-in'' of his office wednesday while he was in strasbourg, france, to lobby for a european parliament resolution condemning noriega
he said five men whom he said had been sent from panama, ``forced the door of my office'' and rummaged through his papers
ms. moron said the men were ``officials of the central bank of panama who needed the room for a meeting.''
riera said the men ``were a delegation sent by noriega to terrorize diplomats and to see if everyone is under control.''
similar disputes among panamanian diplomats divided over the noriega-delvalle imbroglio have occurred in other foreign capitals including in london, washington and mexico city
the united states, where a federal jury last month indicted noriega on drug trafficking and money laundering charges, recognizes delvalle
the belgian government had no immediate reaction to the change of command at the panamanian embassy
the opposition reunification democratic party said today it was abandoning efforts to merge with the rival party for peace and democracy because kim dae-jung refused to step down as its leader
acting reunification president kim myung-yoon told a news conference his party would go its own way in preparing for national assembly elections expected in late april
he said his party had decided ``not to discuss the proposed merger again'' because kim dae-jung had refused its demand that he resign as peace and democracy party president by today
the reunification party made the merger bid after kim young-sam resigned as its head last month, saying he wanted to pave the way for reunification of the two main opposition political parties
kim young-sam warned that the opposition would lose to the governing democratic justice party in the elections if they did not reunite
the parties split last fall when both kims decided to run in december's presidential election. that divided the opposition vote and roh tae-woo won without receiving a majority
kim dae-jung refused wednesday to resign and instead proposed that he and kim young-sam lead the opposition until the national assembly elections, sponsoring joint candidates
in a statement, peace and democracy spokesman ahn dong-seon charged that kim young-sam's obstinacy and meddling was behind his party's insistence kim dae-jung step down
officials let 2,000 students rally in krakow for the right to form an independent students' union, but a bid to start a march in another southern polish city was blocked, opposition spokesmen said
the krakow rally occurred thursday evening after a mass marking the 20th anniversary of 1968 student demonstrations against censorship that were brutally crushed by police and communist party-allied worker activists
in another development, an opposition spokeswoman said more than 1,000 textile workers near wroclaw staged a three-hour strike wednesday and won a promise of talks with managers in a pay dispute
in krakow, students carrying banners of the banned independent students' union, solidarity trade union and confederation of independent poland marched from the mass to dormitories about 500 yards away and held a rally, said spokesman zygmunt lenyk
there were lots of police around the church but they did not intervene,'' he said
students who tried to march to the center of krakow on tuesday were repeatedly charged by police wielding clubs, according to opposition spokesmen
in gliwice, meanwhile, five youths were arrested thursday evening when students attempted to form a march after a mass also commemorating the march 1968 disturbances, said jan mazurkiewicz, a local activist
plainclothes officers moved in immediately when some students emerged, unfurled banners and tried to march after the service, he said
at the hanka textile plant near wroclaw on wednesday, 90 percent of the 1,200-strong female workforce took part in the work stoppage, said opposition activist barbara labuda
she said workers were angry that a portion of a $16 monthly pay increase intended to compensate for recent price rises was being deducted by management for the plant's vacation and recreation fund
managers agreed to meet with the women on monday, she said. met</head>
six of the nation's nine goals for reducing fatalities from injuries by 1990 will probably be achieved, federal health officials predict
the national centers for disease control reported thursday that the fatality rates from many types of injuries, including car accidents, house fires and drownings, have dropped since 1979, when the u.s. department of health and human services announced its 1990 goals for the nation
however, some rates have not fallen as far as the government had hoped, the cdc said. although some of the 1990 injury-related goals _ reducing deaths from car crashes, childhood household accidents, house fires and gun accidents _ will be met, others _ such as reducing deaths from falls and drownings _ won't
achieving the 1990 objectives ... will require the coordinated efforts of federal, state and local agencies ... academic institutions, professional associations and private entities,'' the atlanta-based cdc said in its weekly report
here, from the cdc report, is a look at the nation's 1990 goals for reducing deaths from injuries, and the progress being made:
_reducing the nation's annual motor vehicle fatality rate, from 23.6 such deaths per 100,000 americans in 1978 to 18 per 100,000 in 1990. by 1984, the rate had fallen to 19.6, and the goal is projected to be met, in part because of a reduction in alcohol-related fatalities
_reducing the motor vehicle fatality rate for children under 15, from nine per 100,000 in 1978 to 5.5. by 1984, the rate had fallen to 6.6, and the goal is projected to be met
_reducing the death rate from falls from 6.2 per 100,000 in 1978 to two. the rate had fallen only to 5.1 by 1984, and the goal is not expected to be reached. people over 65 continue to have high death rates from falls _ for example, in 1984, 10.2 such deaths per 100,000 people age 65-74, and 147 per 100,000 people over 84
_reducing the death rate for children under 15 in home injuries from six per 100,000 in 1978 to five. the 1984 rate was 4.9, already meeting the objective
_reducing the drowning rate from 3.2 per 100,000 in 1978 to 1.5. the rate had fallen only to 2.3 in 1984, and the goal is not expected to be met
_reducing the number of deaths in residential fires from 5,401 in 1978 to 4,500. the objective was reached in 1984, when 4,466 americans died in such fires
_reducing the number of deaths in firearm accidents from 1,806 in 1978 to 1,700. the goal was met in 1984, when 1,668 such deaths were reported
_reducing the suicide rate among 15- to 24-year-olds from 12.1 per 100,000 in 1978 to 11. the rate is going up, not down; it was 12.2 per 100,000 in 1984, up slightly from 1978 and up about 200 percent from 1950. cdc noted that various suicide prevention approaches have been tried in u.s. communities, but their effectiveness is not known
_reducing the homicide rate among black males aged 15-24 from 70.7 per 100,000 in 1978 to 60. this goal will probably be met, according to cdc researcher dr. richard sattin; the rate had fallen in 1984 to 61.5. this goal was set recognizing the high homicide rate among young black men, sattin said, noting that the national homicide rate in 1984 was 8.4 per 100,000 americans
eight soldiers guarding the eastern frontier against rebel incursions were drowned while crossing a flood-swollen river during a patrol, it was reported today
the soldiers of the 61st infantry battalion were drowned in the honde river that cuts through the eastern highlands near the border with mozambique, according to a defense ministry statement published by the herald newspaper
the victims were a sergeant, three corporals and four privates, the statement said. it gave no other details
several battalions of zimbabwe troops are stationed along the 750-mile border following raids by rebels of the mozambique national resistance. the guerrillas have killed more than 40 villagers, abducted scores of others, looted shops and houses and destroyed government vehicles.   
a haitian colonel accused of conspiring to import 100 kilograms of cocaine into the united states is unlikely to come to trial, u.s. officials have conceded
at present there is no extradition treaty between the united states and haiti,'' ana barnett, an executive assistant to u.s. attorney leon kellner, said thursday after the indictment accusing col. jean-claude paul was unsealed
this leaves a substantial question of how the extradition of colonel paul could be accomplished,'' she said
a statement haiti's president leslie manigat issued thursday through a washington public relations firm called the indictment ``a matter of concern'' that will be handled in haiti by military courts
paul, head of a battalion in the haitian capital of port-au-prince, is accused of conspiring to import 100 kilograms of cocaine into the united states. his brother, antonio paul, and his former wife, marie merielle delinois, also were named as defendants in the indictment
jean-claude paul, 40, had close ties to the military-dominated ruling junta that replaced president jean-claude ``baby doc'' duvalier after he fled the impoverished island nation in february 1986. the officer seldom appeared in public during the junta's two-year rule, which ended when manigat was inaugurated last feb. 7
when he did, it often was to serve as bodyguard for lt. gen. henri namphy, the junta president and now military chief, and brig. gen. williams regala, now defense minister
the indictment charged that in december 1986 the accused traffickers used a landing strip on paul's farm 90 miles from haiti's capital to load and fly the cocaine shipment to the bahamas, where it was lost or stolen
both men named in the indictment are charged with conspiracy to distribute, distribution and attempted importation of cocaine. they could face up to 45 years in prison and $375,000 in fines
ms. delinois, already a federal fugitive after jumping bond on a related march 1987 indictment in miami, faces the same three counts, plus charges of jumping bond and attempting to extort a fellow conspirator with violence. she faces up to 75 years in prison and $410,000 in fines
the extortion count grows out of the unexplained loss of the cocaine shipment on spanish key in the bahamas, where it allegedly was flown from haiti for shipment to the united states
osvaldo quintana, a conspirator and now a principal government witness, went to spanish key in an attempt to locate the cocaine, the indictment said
when he failed to find it, according to the indictment, ms. delinois told him ``his family would be killed if he did not pay at least $250,000 of the money owed for the lost shipment.''
quintana, in a news conference here last month, said there were two attempts on his life by armed haitians, but no shots were fired
quintana has testified for the government at previous drug trials. in january, outside of a federal courtroom, he told reporters he had once seen 9,000 kilograms of cocaine stuffed into duffel bags in the haitian presidential palace during the administration of duvalier. suharto and sudharmono</note>
the parliament today elected a close aide of president suharto as vice president despite opposition from a moslem faction and some members of the military
the five factions in the 1,000-member people's consultative assembly reached a consensus to elect state secretary sudharmono, 61, to the post after the moslem united development party dropped its candidate, jailani naro, who is party chairman
the moslem party had opposed sudharmono
sudharmono's election came hours after suharto was sworn in as president for a fifth five-year term. suharto has been president of indonesia for 22 years
the assembly, the nation's highest policymaking body, unanimously reelected suharto on thursday. he was the only candidate
suharto, 66, reportedly told party members late last month the next vice president should be able to lead the nation should he become incapacitated
sudharmono was nominated by the ruling golkar party, an acronym for the indonesian words ``golongan karya'' or functional group
he was also supported by three other factions in the assembly _ the government-nominated military faction, the government-nominated provincial faction and the nationalist christian indonesian democratic party faction
military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said some members of the army had opposed sudharmono's nomination and wanted to nominate the newly appointed armed forces commander, gen. try sutrisno, 52, a popular figure and a former suharto aide
the assembly meets every five years to elect a president and vice president and issue a decree on the guidelines for state policies
sudharmono, 61, a retired army lieutenant general, is a military lawyer. he is one of the country's leading bureaucrats after years of government apprenticeship, first under the late president sukarno and then as a founding member of the suharto administration
suharto is expected later this month to form a new cabinet, which will have to tackle economic development and cope with a hefty foreign debt of $42.1 billion
the country's economy was hit hard by the collapse of oil prices, a drop in prices in commodities and the 1983 economic recession
an explosion near two american-affiliated banks caused light damage but no casualties, the semi-official anatolia news agency reported today
the blast occurred on the ground floor of a building near the saudi american bank and the koc american bank in central istanbul around midnight thursday, anatolia said
the news agency said the explosion damaged two parked cars and shattered windows of the two banks
police were trying to determine what caused the explosion, anatolia said
no group claimed responsibility for the blast, it said. station</head>
u.s. military bases here are essential for both nations' defenses, but difficult negotiations are ahead on how much washington will pay the philippines to keep them, a senior american diplomat said today
also today, the military said about 200 communist rebels dressed in fatigues raided a police station, killing three policemen and a civilian before making off with weapons and a radio
the rebels attacked thursday afternoon in the town of st. nicholas in pangasinan province, 100 miles northeast of the capital
in manila, kenneth quinn, the u.s. deputy chief of mission, denied allegations by the philippines' foreign secretary that the united states will step up political pressure on president corazon aquino to extend the current bases agreement
quinn told a civic club that the u.s. installations, including clark air base and the subic bay naval base, contributed to global security and played a major role not only in the defense of the philippines but in providing jobs to filipinos
the bases are important because they provide for our bilateral protection and for the external defense of the philippines,'' quinn said
we think they're important because they make an enormous contribution to the economy of the philippines in terms of the 68,000-plus filipinos who are hired there and the $500 million a year which is spent in your economy,'' he added
quinn described as ``absolutely false'' a claim by foreign secretary raul manglapus that the united states was pressuring mrs. aquino to say whether she wants the bases agreement extended
on thursday, manglapus, who spent more than 10 years as a political refugee in the united states, accused the americans of ``arm-twisting'' mrs. aquino ``because they have decided to stay.''
the current agreement provides that after sept. 16, 1991, the philippines can order the bases closed within one year. mrs. aquino has said she will honor the current agreement but refuses to say whether she will agree to an extension
under the new constitution, any extension must be approved by two-thirds of the 23-member senate and may be subject to a national referendum
the u.s. and philippine governments are to begin reviewing the current agreement within the next two months. filipino officials are expected to demand a substantial increase in the $180 million a year which the manila government receives in aid for use of the bases
quinn said he expected a ``full and frank discussion'' on the issue of compensation, using diplomatic language which refers to tough bargaining
some filipino congressmen have suggested that the united states agree to pay off the country's nearly $29 billion foreign debt as the price for keeping the bases
about 70 members of the radical league of filipino students rallied in front of the senate building today demanding the bases be closed
they carried placards reading: ``save the earth from nuclear destruction; dismantle all u.s. bases.''
on thursday, rep. lorna yap, a member of the house foreign affairs committee, said the panel reached a consensus to enforce a provision of the constitution against nuclear weapons
the constitution states that: ``the philippines, consistent with the national interest, adopts and pursues a policy of freedom from nuclear weapons in its territory.''
some government officials argue the phrase ``consistent with the national interest'' would give mrs. aquino flexibility to allow such weapons at the american bases. others see it as a ban on such weapons
the united states refuses to say whether it maintains nuclear weapons at the installations here
a candidate seldom seen or heard from collected enough votes in a democratic congressional primary to make it into the runoff, but his two challengers in the contest have cried foul
johnny welch, who has called for a manned space flight to saturn and a requirement that every american perform civil service, captured 34 percent of the vote in the 6th congressional district primary tuesday
he faces an april 12 runoff against n.p. ``pat'' kendrick, and the winner of that race will take on republican incumbent u.s. rep. joe barton
but kendrick and ousted candidate w. alton parish think they've been the victims of some sort of republican conspiracy. registered republicans can vote in either party's primary, as long as they don't cast ballots in both
they did it intentionally,'' charged parish, a fort worth economics professor
there's something very suspicious here,'' he said. ``mr. kendrick and i worked very hard on this campaign. we never took him (welch) seriously. kendrick thought i was his opponent, and i thought he was mine.''
gary koops, barton's press secretary, denied that republicans were behind the voting for welch, and he noted that barton had worked with local officials throughout the district to produce a record-breaking gop turnout tuesday
there was some speculation that perhaps voters confused welch with louie welch, the former longtime mayor of houston who twice waged a high-profile campaign against incumbent kathy whitmire
johnny welch's address and home phone number are listed with the secretary of state's office, and a check with both the telephone book and directory assistance confirmed the number is correct
but calls to the home address have gone unanswered; there is no campaign office listed, and party activists in two districts say they have never heard of welch
welch's three-point platform called for launching a manned space flight to saturn, mandating that every american participate in civil service unless they pay a fee to the government, and feeding and sheltering the hungry and homeless. graf, `the mufti ...' inserts 3 grafs after 15th graf ` in nablus ...,' to update with details of unrest. picks up 16th graf `in gaza ...'</note>
the army blocked off some cities in the occupied territories to media coverage during moslem noon prayers today after destroying at least four homes of suspected palestinian activists
at least five palestinians were wounded during protests in the west bank and gaza, hospital officials and arab reports said
the mufti of jerusalem, the city's top moslem religious leader, issued a statement lashing out at israel for blocking some mosques from worshippers, raiding others and confiscating loudspeakers used to summon palestinians to prayer
the mufti, sheik said adin alami, called on worshippers ``to defend the mosques by all possible means despite the attackers.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir, meanwhile, reiterated his opposition to a u.s. peace plan for the region in the strongest statement he has made so far
shamir, speaking on israel radio, said when he arrives in washington next week he would ``explain to our friend secretary of state george shultz that his plan, as it's seen today, can't solve the problem of peace in our area.''
the army destroyed one home overnight in hebron, 20 miles south of jerusalem in the occupied west bank, and three others in biddya, 30 miles northwest of jerusalem
in hebron, the destroyed home where 22 palestinians live belonged to ahmed mahmoud abdullah kawasmeh, 57, whose 22-year-old son is accused of stabbing an israeli settler from nearby kiryat arba five months ago in jerusalem
the soldiers came. they woke us about 11:30 at night and ordered us out of the house,'' kawasmeh, wearing an arab headdress and wrapped in a ragged blanket, told the associated press
i said, `but my son has not even been tried yet.' but it did not make any difference,'' he said
the latest demolitions brought to 14 the number of palestinian homes destroyed by israeli troops since the unrest began in the territories more than three months ago, the palestine press service said
at least 87 palestinians have been killed by israeli gunfire or beatings during the unrest, and hundreds have been wounded
the army turned back journalists from hebron and nablus, but the clampdown was not as severe as last friday, when roadblocks prevented journalists from entering nearly all major cities, towns and refugee camps in the west bank
friday is the moslem sabbath
in hebron, about 10 israeli settlers with rifles slung over their shoulders patrolled a jewish neighborhood near al ibrahimi mosque during noon prayers
in nablus, the west bank's largest city, noon prayers passed without incident and israeli soldiers kept largely out of sight, although an army helicopter circled overhead
in the southern district of the west bank, 60 of 250 arab policemen resigned after being urged by plo leaflets to quit working for the israelis
in ramallah, about 200 protesters threw rocks at soldiers after noon prayers. soldiers fired rubber bullets and tear gas to quell the demonstrators
the jerusalem post reported, meanwhile, that the army is currently holding about 2,600 palestinian prisoners
in gaza city, the army closed the main al amari mosque for the first time, creating what palestinian residents said was ``deep anger'' in the city. some 2,500 worshipers usually pray at the mosque
in other mosques in gaza city, special ``salat al ghaib'' or ``prayers for the missing'' were held at the order of the plo to honor the palestinians who have been killed by israelis since the uprising began
in jerusalem, about 200 palestinians protested after noon prayers at the dome of the rock and al aqsa mosques, raising several palestinian flags, which have been outlawed by israel
on thursday, foreign minister shimon peres said the jewish state would lose an opportunity to make peace by passing up the shultz initiative
peres, head of the left-centrist labor party, said upon receiving an honorary doctorate from hebrew union college in jerusalem that israel would be making a fateful decision in the next few weeks
in 40 days time there is a chance that direct negotiations may start between a jordanian-palestinian delegation and an israeli delegation,'' he said. ``in 40 days we may lose the opportunity as well, and the grayness of hesitation, of suspicion, of postponement may cover our skies again for time to come.''
shamir flies to washington next week to discuss the initiative one more time before announcing whether he accepts it or not
the plan calls for negotiations on the final status of the occupied lands to begin in december, elections for palestinian self-rule in the west bank and gaza strip by late 1988 and implementation of self-rule for palestinians in three years. parliament. corrects spelling of fascism. edits to tighten. no pickup.</note>
austria today marked the 50th anniversary of its annexation by nazi germany, capping a bitter two-year debate about its world war ii past that has polarized politics at home and tarnished its image abroad
about 60 protesters gathered outside the chancellery to demand the resignation of president kurt waldheim. members of the liberal greens party boycotted a special parliamentary session marking the annexation, known as the anschluss
during world war ii, waldheim served as a lieutenant in a german army unit in the balkans that has been linked to nazi atrocities. he has denied any wrongdoing
fewer than 100 people turned out in a light rain as waldheim and other political leaders laid wreaths in separate ceremonies at monuments honoring austria's unknown soldiers and victims of fascism
during the ceremonies a dozen protesters gathered outside the chancellory building 500 yards away, carrying a banner that asked: ``who will make waldheim resign?''
until two years ago, waldheim had not admitted that he served in the balkans unit. since then, he has resisted mounting pressure to resign
greens delegates handed out pamphlets saying they were protesting waldheim's presence at the hour-long session. the pamphlets said waldheim ``is not representative of the austria that we want to commemorate.''
the greens said they would instead travel to mauthausen, site of a former nazi concentration camp near the city of linz, to honor the victims of nazi germany
chancellor franz vranitzky told a special cabinet session that the events of 1938, when this alpine nation was forcibly annexed to adolf hitler's third reich, were a central theme of austrian politics today
the events of 50 years ago pose relevant, fundamental questions about the essence of politics,'' vranitzky said. ``if one attempts to avoid them, they sooner or later return with greater emphasis.''
vranitzky said austrians must recognize that crimes were committed by their countrymen during world war ii
we must recognize the fact of historical guilt ... because as politicians we must draw lessons from the past failures of society,'' he said
vranitzky did not mention the waldheim controversy
waldheim, originally to speak at a hofburg palace ceremony, was to remain out of the spotlight throughout the day
instead, waldheim commemorated the annexation with a nationally televised speech thursday in which for the first time he apologized for crimes committed by austrian nazis during the war. but he ignored the debate surrounding him
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians,'' waldheim said in the 12-minute speech. ``there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators.''
the president added that ``as head of state of the republic of austria, i wish to apologize for nazi crimes committed by austrians.''
austria's nazi past _ largely suppressed here over the past four decades _ has dogged this country since the disclosure in march 1986 of waldheim's wartime service in the balkans
as a result, the u.s. justice department last year placed waldheim on a list that effectively bars him from entering the country
in april 1938, the nazis said 99 percent of austrians approved of the anschluss in a nationwide vote widely believed to have been rigged
more than half a million austrians joined the nazi party, and 250,000 turned out to cheer hitler when he came to vienna shortly after the anschluss
last month, an international panel of historians found that waldheim had been in ``close proximity'' to war crimes during world war ii, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them
the panel's report did not support allegations waldheim committed atrocities, but left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime. waldheim claimed the report vindicated him
a violent jamaican crack ring that operated in new york, philadelphia and washington and was responsible for a series of murders and other brutal crimes has been smashed by the arrests of several alleged drug dealers, authorities say
the arrests were the result of an intensive investigation focusing on an epidemic of murders and shootings by jamaican drug rings in brooklyn, said u.s. attorney andrew maloney on thursday
the alleged ringleader, described as ``one of the most feared crack organization enforcers in the nation,'' and six others were named in federal complaints, maloney said. one defendant remains at large
the level of trafficking has risen and the level of violence by jamaican posses is very high,'' said robert stutman, head of the federal drug enforcement agency's new york office
the 50-member drug ring dealt up to $100,000 of crack, a highly addictive cocaine derivative, each day in brooklyn alone, maloney said. the ring, which had been in operation since 1983, also allegedly ran less extensive operations in philadelphia and washington
the complaint alleged the defendants were responsible for five murders, 15 shootings, one abduction and one beating
the leader was identified as delroy ``uzi'' edwards, 29, of brooklyn, who is a jamaican national. edwards, who drove a mercedes, got his nickname because he used to carry a submachine gun under his trenchcoat, authorities said
edwards allegedly murdered two of his dealers in washington because one of them had stolen money from the organization, the complaint said. he also allegedly shot and injured three new york members for the same reason
another grisly murder described in the complaint was that of a man who was beaten with baseball bats and then tied with chains to the ceiling of a crack location. the next morning the man was found dead, his body wrapped in garbage bags and dropped off on a street
after his arrest on a brooklyn street corner wednesday, edwards was turned over to the brooklyn district attorney's office, where he was wanted on an outstanding warrant for an unrelated murder
the other defendants were identified as patrick williams, erroll thorpe and ricky nelson, all jamaicans; and john barry russell, conroy green and stanley mccall, who were said to be u.s. citizens
assistant u.s. attorney jonny frank said there was only sketchy information about the defendants, but that most were in their 20s and they all lived in brooklyn
mccall is the only defendant still at large, frank said
stutman said violent jamaican drug rings known as ``posses'' can be found in many eastern cities
they are constantly seeking out new weapons or tactics,'' he said. ``more and more, especially the jamaicans, are starting to shoot back at police.'' iran. picks up 9th graf, `the agency ...' edits to tighten thereafter.</note>
iraq said it fired 11 missiles today into tehran and qom, seat of iran's religious hierarchy, undermining efforts to halt the 12-day-old bloody ``war of the cities.''
the official iraqi news agency also said iraqi warplanes bombed a tanker off the iranian coast
the news agency, monitored in nicosia, reported that the 11th missile was fired at the iranian capital at 3:44 p.m., 16 minutes before baghdad had said it would stop its deadly barrages on iranian cities
iraq had offered to end the bombardments if iran halted its barrages on baghdad and other iraqi cities. baghdad also demanded that it be allowed to fire the last shot
in all, the iraqi agency said eight missiles were fired into tehran today and three into qom, 60 miles south of the iranian capital
iran's islamic republic news agency confirmed five of the attacks and said there were numerous casualties
the agency said that in one attack, homes of two jewish families surnamed odishiv and roshan were demolished, killing and wounding women and children
there were no reports of iranian attacks on baghdad. but the iraqi news agency said iranian f-4 phantom jets struck hard at residential targets in the northern iraqi city of sulaymaniya, killing and wounding several civilians
it also said basra, in southern iraq, and a cluster of towns along the border were shelled by iranian long-range artillery, but gave no precise casualty figures
iraq said that during the night its warplanes bombed a ``large maritime target,'' a reference to an oil tanker, off the iranian coast, and seven iranian cities today _ baneh and ardabil in the north, kermanshah and hamadan in the west; arak and broujerd in central iran; and dezful in the southwest
the agency did not identify the stricken ship, but said the planes ``scored accurate and effective blows'' on all their targets
iran's agency confirmed the raids on the cities, saying they were aimed at civilian targets
this is a further proof to the tehran rulers, who are filled with evil intentions and hatred, that they should not have started the war of the cities,'' the iraqi news agency said
it said the attacks ``were designed to avenge the innocent blood shed in baghdad'' and other iraqi cities in the unprecedented missile duel
before today, iran and iraq had claimed firing 78 missiles at each other's capitals since feb. 29. fifty-one were fired by iraq at tehran and 27 by iran at baghdad
according to the iranian agency, the previous attacks on tehran have killed at least 157 civilians and wounded more than 420. iraq has not provided exact casualty figures
several missiles have struck other iranian cities, including qom and central isfahan, while iranian gunners kept up a steady barrage of artillery fire on iraqi border communities
turkish prime minister turgut ozal said in ankara that iran and iraq had agreed to halt the duels at his request
iraq announced thursday that it would stop attacking iranian cities at 4 p.m. baghdad time today, which is 4:30 p.m. tehran time
iran gave two times thursday when it said it would stop its attacks, but both deadlines passed with continued attacks. today, however, iran has not reported firing any missiles
iran's u.n. envoy, mohammad ja'afar mahallati, offered to honor an unconditional truce if the u.n. chief called for one
mahallati told a news conference in new york that iran would not fire back if iraq got in the last shot before any deadline set by u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar
perez de cuellar had no immediate comment. retail sales reports, picking up 3rd graf pvs, `declining issues ....'</note>
declines in the costs of food and energy pushed wholesale prices downward last month, while retail sales were boosted by strength in autos, the government said today
wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, the labor department said as it released its monthly producer price index
food prices fell 1.1 percent and energy prices declined 0.8 percent, the department said
for the first two months of 1988, prices rose at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, half the modest 2.2 percent rate for all of last year. prices rose 0.4 percent in january after a 0.4 percent decline in december
meanwhile, the commerce department said retail sales rose 0.6 percent in february. the increase was generally in line with expectations
the government also revised its january retail sales report to show a small decline of 0.2 percent instead of an originally reported increase of 0.5 percent
even with the january decline, analysts said the sales report generally reflected that the october stock market crash has had little effect on consumer buying plans
since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, any significant faltering in this area could topple the country into a recession
on thursday, nervousness over wall street's strength yanked down stock prices, but pessimism disappeared in the energy markets, where oil futures rose sharply over expectations that opec will take steps to avert another 1986-style price collapse
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 48.24 points to 2,026.03, its largest loss since falling 57.20 on jan. 20. broader market indicators also declined
declining issues outnumbered advancers by nearly 3 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, and the wilshire 5000 equity index measuring the value of 5,000 u.s. stocks fell nearly $40 billion
analysts said the selloff reflected continued anxiety about the aftermath of the oct. 19 market crash, which persistently has undermined investor confidence
the mood contrasted sharply with a buying spree on the new york mercantile exchange, where contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the main u.s. crude, rose 51 cents to close at $16.00 a barrel. refined products traded on the exchange also rose sharply
petroleum analysts linked the oil rally to reports that the organization of petroleum exporting countries _ aware it can't sustain relentless price discounting and excessive output _ will shave 5 percent off the production of all members except iraq, which has resisted cartel discipline
the reports reflected hopes that after three months of price erosion reminiscent of the cataclysmic market plunge two years ago, opec and non-opec producers were taking steps to avoid another uncontrollable drop
since january, prices for persian gulf oil have fallen as low as $13 per 42-gallon barrel, compared with opec's official price of $18. west texas intermediate has dropped from about $18 to as low as $15
in other financial markets, gold prices rose sharply in reaction to the sudden strength in the oil market, which could portend higher inflation. gold is considered a good hedge against rising prices
in the bond market, a barometer of interest rate trends, prices fell in reaction to higher oil and metal prices. the treasury's 30-year issue fell $5 per $1,000 in face amount and its yield rose from 8.51 percent to 8.55 percent. aboard</head> statements from portuguese officials. no pickup.</note>
two men were killed when a british royal navy helicopter crashed off the portuguese coast after taking off from a warship that prince andrew was aboard, portuguese and british officials said today
commandante antonio monteiro coelho, a portuguese navy spokesman, said the lynx helicopter crashed thursday night less than three-fourths of a mile from the training ship engadine, where andrew was on duty as a helicopter warship instructor
andrew, 28, is the third eldest of queen elizabeth ii's four children and a naval helicopter pilot
a british defense ministry spokesman identified the dead pilots as lt. cmdr. anthony peter gardiner davies, 37, and acting sub. lt. richard alan hand cawthorne, 23
an informal lunch that president mario soares was to have put on for andrew today was canceled because of the accident, the president's office said
on thursday, prince charles, andrew's brother and heir to the british throne, narrowly escaped an avalanche that killed a close friend skiing with him in switzerland. the accident prompted calls in the british press for the royal family to abandon dangerous pursuits
the defense ministry spokesman, who was not indentified in keeping with british custom, refused to say whether andrew was involved in the planning of the helicopter's test flight
it is normal practice not to reveal who is involved in the planning of operations,'' he said. ``the whole thing will go before the board of inquiry.''
monteiro coelho said the helicopter crashed into the sea around 9 p.m., 50 miles west of the cabo da roca, a cape west of lisbon
he said the cause of the crash was unknown. ``the sea was calm and weather conditions were not adverse,'' he told the associated press
the helicopter was badly damaged by its impact with the water, but it did not sink, he said. the portuguese navy answered a distress call from the engadine and sent the portuguese corvette batista de andrade from lisbon to assist, he added
the spokesman said portuguese naval divers helped recover the bodies
monteiro coelho said portuguese naval authorities had been told that because of the crash, andrew's ship would not put into lisbon for the weekend as scheduled. he said he did not know whether the vessel would return to britain or remain at sea
monteiro coelho said the helicopter was too far from the engadine went it crashed for those aboard the ship to have witnessed the accident
andrew, a combat helicopter pilot who saw action in the falklands war, was on regular sea duty as a helicopter instructor aboard the engadine, british officials said
the 6,500-ton helicopter support ship used for training was carrying 73 crew members of the royal fleet auxiliary, the logistical support arm of the navy, and an unspecified number of royal navy personnel. ....'</note>
telephone transcripts casting doubt on former minister walker railey's actions the night his wife was almost choked to death were released by a prosecutor who said he wanted to ``fill in the blanks.''
the transcripts of two calls railey made to his home answering machine the night of the attack and a note he wrote before attempting suicide 11 days later were made public thursday by dallas county assistant district attorney norman kinne
in the transcripts, railey describes his whereabouts in detail, gives times and warns his wife, margaret ``peggy'' railey, to lock the garage door
railey, 40, told police he found his wife unconscious in the garage with a cord wrapped around her neck when he came home early april 21. mrs. railey remains in a coma
railey, senior pastor at first united methodist church and a rising star in the united methodist church, took an overdose of pills in an unsuccessful suicide attempt may 2, the day police said they planned to interview him
after reportedly refusing 43 times to testify before a grand jury, he resigned and moved to san francisco, leaving his wife and children, ages 2 and 5, in texas
kinne said he didn't have the evidence to bring railey to trial
i feel like this may very well be the last anyone is hearing of this, and i want to fill in the blanks as much as i can,'' the prosecutor said
the answering machine transcripts point out a number of discrepancies
in one call, railey said he was phoning around 10:30 p.m. and had a couple more hours of research to do at a southern methodist university library
however, telephone company records indicate railey made the call from his mobile phone at 12:04 a.m., and library employees couldn't recall seeing railey when he claimed he was there, kinne said
railey explained he had to leave the library when it closed and was on his way to another, and later called to say he was on his way home
i'm not calling on the private line because i know you're already asleep,' he said in that message, ``but in case you get up with the kids, i just wanted you to know that i'm on my way home. it's 12:30. i'll be home by about 12:45. love you, dear. bye bye.''
railey called police about 15 minutes later to report he had found his wife unconscious
in the four-page suicide note, he described himself as ``the weakest of the weak ... the baddest of the bad ... and the lowest of the low.''
he said he was taking his life because ``a demon inside my soul ... has finally gotten the upper hand ... (and) lured me into doing things i do not want to do.''
other parts of the note were published earlier. railey has said the letter reflected his despondency
kinne also said he discovered that railey spent more than an hour that night at the home of psychologist lucy papillon, who reportedly told grand jurors she and railey were having an affair
there's a big gap between saying the man is not telling the truth about some things and saying therefore he strangled his wife,'' the prosecutor said. ``i'm not saying that.''
kinne initially refused to release the transcripts, prompting abc news to file suit. the suit failed but kinne decided to release the material after an appeals court ruled it was up to local officials to decide the issue
the telephone at railey's san francisco apartment is unlisted, and railey could not be reached for comment thursday. railey leased the apartment with ms. papillon
mrs. railey's mother and legal guardian, billy jo nicolai, has filed a civil suit against railey accusing him of the attack on her daughter
an american woman who championed the cause of soviet citizens seeking to emigrate to the united states to join their spouses has been divorced from her russian husband
district judge kenneth bronson agreed with sandra gubin's contention that her husband, aleksei lodisev, married her solely to enter the united states
the defendant's entire testimony is shot through with evasiveness and contradictions,'' said bronson, who heard the case as a visiting judge in washtenaw county circuit court
the only reason lodisev married gubin, bronson said, was to leave the soviet union. ``that's the only conclusion i can reach,'' he said. ``he planned his moves. he thought it out. the plan was of long duration.''
gubin and lodisev were married in the soviet union in 1981, while gubin was studying in kiev. she returned to the united states and spent several years trying to get an exit visa for lodisev
she became nationally known as a spokeswoman for the divided spouse coalition, americans whose spouses have been denied exit visas
in january 1986, lodisev arrived in new york. eleven months later, gubin filed for divorce, saying that he married her only to come to the united states
gubin was awarded $113,087 for lost wages, expenses for writing to political figures and medical expenses. ``there is scant likelihood of collection on the judgment,'' because of debts pending against lodisev, bronson said in his ruling tuesday
lodisev, he said, had run up about $22,000 in bills before leaving last summer for a visit to the soviet union, which showed ``a pattern not just of stiffing the plaintiff, but of stiffing everyone else in this country,'' bronson said
lodisev's lawyer, craig mckinnon, said he was unsure whether his client wanted to appeal. lodisev, who works for a computer company, had no comment after the ruling
gubin, 40, a doctoral student in political science at the university of michigan, said she felt vindicated, but sorry for lodisev
i care for him,'' she said. ``i know he doesn't believe it, but i do.''
guerrillas sprayed a police station with submachine-gun and rocket fire, wounding two officers and three civilians in the most serious of several nighttime attacks, police said
the attacks late thursday came hours before president augusto pinochet was to address the nation in a speech marking the seventh anniversary of his controversial constitution, which allows him to seek re-election this year for another eight-year term
police said they believed the guerrillas were leftists
security was stepped up today in this capital city of 4.5 million people. army patrols in full combat gear occupied strategic points
in the most serious attack, according to police, guerrillas launched two rockets and shot submachine guns at a suburban police station in southern santiago
two officers and three civilians were wounded. police said one of the officers was in ``extremely serious condition,'' wounded in the stomach by rocket shrapnel
another station and a patrol car were also attacked during the night, but no victims were reported
at least three bombs damaged electric power installations during the night and blacked out some sectors of the city, police said
pinochet, who has ruled chile since a bloody 1973 coup, has so far refused to confirm whether he is running for re-election, but he appears to be seeking the nomination
a woman convicted of killing three people during a 1985 shooting spree at a shopping mall has been sent to prison for life after psychiatrists said they could do nothing more to treat her mental illness
sylvia seegrist, 27, was transferred from a state hospital to the state correctional institution at muncy on thursday to begin serving three consecutive life sentences for the random shooting at the springfield mall, said prison spokeswoman anne forgacs
under state law, ms. seegrist will not be eligible for parole unless the governor commutes her sentence
hospital psychiatrists and a psychiatrist hired by ms. seegrist's attorney ruled that ``her coherence level has improved and she is more cooperative,'' said delaware county assistant district attorney dennis mcandrews
in june 1986, ms. seegrist was judged guilty but mentally ill on three counts of murder and seven counts of attempted murder stemming from the oct. 30, 1985, shootings
ms. seegrist opened fire on shoppers with a .22-caliber semi-automatic rifle at the crowded shopping mall
mcandrews met tuesday with ms. seegrist's attorney, ruth shafer, and delaware coutny court judge joseph t. labrum jr., who ordered wednesday that ms. seegrist be transferred to the medium-security women's prison
her dangerous tendencies are in remission at this time,'' mcandrews said
commuters on a subway route plagued by problems today refused to leave a train that was delayed after a man fell under the wheels. it was the fourth such revolt in two weeks
london underground officials demanded an end to mutinies on its northern line, where passengers staged three sit-ins last week
subway staff asked passengers to leave the train at the old street station after the unidentified man was taken to the hospital with multiple injuries, underground officials said. most passengers left but a dozen refused to do so until police arrived
the action of passengers didn't delay the removal of the man from underneath the train,'' said london underground spokesman roger shire. ``but it's extremely disturbing that a dozen people wouldn't get off
i can understand their frustration in being delayed, but not in these circumstances,'' he said. ``they're not doing anyone any good. sit-ins are not the answer.''
spokesman derek salter said the man fell from the platform onto the tracks just after 8 a.m. as the train was pulling into the station
after the man was taken to st. bartholomew's hospital, a station guard walked through the crowded train telling passengers they had to get off and could take another waiting just behind
the (halted) train had to be taken out of service. we have to check for damage after such incidents for obvious reasons,'' shire said
passengers complain of rudeness by staff, breakdowns, delays, dirt, crime and crowds on the london underground, which carries 2.5 million people a day
the sit-ins on the northern line, among the most antiquated and inefficient routes, began on march 1. pickup.</note>
a regional train derailed near the brussels suburb of lot today, killing one person and injuring 25, the railroad said
the electrical wiring over the train was cut as a result of the accident, and all service between brussels and paris was temporarily suspended
police were investigating the cause of the derailment on the southern schaarbeek-to-binche run, said spokesman louis gilliaux of the sncb railroad company
gilliaux said five people were seriously injured and about 20 suffered minor injuries. he did not have the identity of the dead person
the injured were taken to several hospitals in the area
rail traffic between paris and brussels was later rerouted, but delays were reported
twelve percent of u.s.-made condoms and 21 percent of foreign-made ones failed in recent testing, say federal researchers. the prophylactics have been advocated as a means of slowing the spread of aids
as of february, the centers for disease control reported thursday, the food and drug administration had tested samples from 430 batches of condoms _ 165 batches manufactured in america, and 265 manufactured abroad
the fda reported previously that as many as one in five batches of latex condoms it tested fail to meet federal standards
the fda rejects a batch of condoms if more than four per 1,000 fail in water-leakage tests. if two or more batches from a foreign manufacturer fail, future shipments from that manufacturer are stopped at their port of entry into the united states
the cdc in its report on condoms and sexually transmitted diseases stressed that condoms can help prevent such diseases, but that they don't always work
individuals likely to become infected or known to be infected with (aids) should be aware that condom use cannot completely eliminate the risk of transmission,'' the atlanta-based agency said
lab tests have shown that latex condoms are effective barriers to the spread of aids, hepatitis b, gonorrhea, chlamydia and other sexually transmitted diseases. however, breakage or other mishaps during use can negate their disease-fighting effectiveness
the cdc said condoms ``should be made more widely available'' through std clinics, family planning clinics and drug treatment centers
those clinics and centers should ``become more assertive'' in warning clients about stds, and ``emphasize that the risk of infection is most effectively reduced through abstinence or sexual intercourse with a mutually faithful, uninfected partner.''
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer
it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring. with china warning tibetans to turn selves in. picks up 4th graf, `she said ...'</note>
armed police guarded tibet's main temple and a military vehicle broadcast warnings against separatist activity during a tense calm today in lhasa, a western tourist in the tibetan capital said
the tourist, speaking on condition of anonymity, reported seeing 20 armed police in central lhasa in front of the jokhang temple, the holiest site of tibetan buddhism. she said seven armed police were also seen on the roof of a police station in the central market square
the western tourist, who speaks tibetan, said she was told up to 200 people may have been arrested since thousands of tibetans rioted saturday to protest chinese rule
chinese authorities broadcast warnings to tibetan rebels today to turn themselves in by march 20 or face punishment, the traveler said
the tourist said vans with loudspeakers were driving through the city every hour repeating the message
they're warning people to do their duty, report troublemakers. they'll be rewarded if they give information,'' she said in a telephone interview. she said one announcement called ``for people to surrender _ people who were involved in the disturbances _ before the 20th, otherwise they would be punished.''
she said tibetans reported mass arrests, beatings and torture. she was told details of the arrests of 10 people, but she was unable to confirm other arrests
most arrests were made saturday and sunday as chinese police pulled people from their homes during the night and beat them as they were dragged away, she said
other westerners in lhasa earlier reported at least 300 arrests since saturday's all-day clash between police and tibetans demanding independence. monks and lay tibetans stoned and knifed chinese police and lit bonfires throughout the city on the last day of a major prayer festival, the reports said
official reports have said two people, a tibetan and a police officer, died in saturday's violence. there have been no official reports of arrests
a western source in lhasa reported thursday that tibetans reported 21 tibetans and three police killed
it was the first major confrontation between tibetans and chinese authorities since a series of anti-chinese protests in september and october that left at least 14 dead
authorities have warned tibetans not to speak to foreigners, the western tourist said today. foreign reporters have been denied access to the himalayan region this week
a military vehicle patrolled lhasa streets today broadcasting a warning to tibetans not to join separatists and to report any suspicious activity, the tourist said
it's much quieter, but the military presence is still obvious,'' she said
she confirmed earlier reports that the city was quiet thursday, the 29th anniversary of a tibetan rebellion against chinese rule. the uprising led the dalai lama, tibetans' god-king, to flee into exile in india with 100,000 followers
china sent troops into tibet in 1950 to take control, but it contends the remote mountainous region has been an integral part of china for seven centuries
tibetans hold deep antagonisms toward the chinese because of the communist government's past suppression of tibetan language, customs and religion
a coalition for democratic change beat pro-beijing candidates in this british colony's first territory-wide election in three years, the government-funded radio reported today
radio-television hong kong said candidates backing democratic change, such as the speedy introduction of direct legislative elections, won more than 50 of 74 contested seats in thursday's voting for neighborhood advisory board seats
although the boards carry no executive or legislative powers, their members are the only directly elected officials in the colony
the radio said pro-beijing candidates, numbering about 50 in a field of 459, did not do as well as the reform coalition. but no specific numbers were given
activists who sought direct legislative elections this year say the administration delayed the plan under pressure from china
under a 1984 pact, hong kong will revert to chinese sovereignty in 1997 when britain's 99-year lease on the bulk of the territory expires. the pact also says the colony's capitalist way of life will be maintained for 50 years afterward. warfare</head>
law enforcement officials are pressing for more federal funds to fight gang warfare in the nation's second-largest city, where seven more people were wounded in the last day
city and los angeles county officials received $2.73 million in federal grants thursday to help battle the gang violence responsible for more than 50 slayings in the county so far this year, police said
the grant will be divided between the city, which will receive $1.35 million, and the county, which will receive $1.38 million
but los angeles police chief daryl f. gates described his department's $949,639 share as ``teeny weeny,'' and mayor tom bradley complained that the federal government is ``in effect sending us out to fight a war with nothing more than pop guns.''
three suspected gang-related shootings left seven people wounded in the los angeles area thursday night
four people were wounded when a rifleman opened fire from a passing car in south-central los angeles, police said
two of the four victims were believed to be bystanders waiting to use a public telephone, witnesses told police. the apparent intended victim was a suspected gang member standing in a telephone booth, said sgt. rich gammel
i heard the shots and i went outside and i saw people lying there bleeding and other people trying to help them,'' said jason chung, owner of a liquor store near the shooting scene
i called the police and got my gun and went back outside. most of those people were my customers. they were just waiting to use the telephone.''
witnesses said between 16 to 20 rounds of ammunition were fired
none of the wounds appeared to be life-threatening, sgt. steve faulk said
the gunman apparently used a .22-caliber semi-automatic rifle, he said
in compton, southeast of downtown, two drive-by shootings about six blocks apart thursday night wounded three more people, including a 10-year old boy
the same car was described in both incidents, said compton police sgt. john garrett said. it was not known if the victims were gang members
gang warfare in los angeles gained national attention in january with the death of a woman who was caught in gang crossfire on a street in affluent westwood
the death spurred racial tension in the city after more officers were put on the streets in westwood. residents in poorer areas complained that police were overlooking daily gang activity in their neighborhoods
a train carrying segments of solid fuel booster rockets for the space shuttle collided with a car, but the rocket segments apparently were not damaged, nasa said today
nasa said that as a precaution, the segments would be examined thoroughly next week after they are unloaded
the accident occurred wednesday night in biloxi, miss., when a car collided with a chartered train transporting the segments to the kennedy space center here from the morton thiokol plant in utah. two people in the car died, police in biloxi reported
the train's engine was replaced and the segments arrived at the space center late thursday
the train was carrying three of the eight segments that will make up the two solid fuel boosters that are to propel the shuttle discovery into orbit. the launch is scheduled for aug. 4 and will be the nation's first shuttle flight since the challenger disaster more than two years ago
there was no apparent damage to the flight hardware,'' the national aeronautics and space administration said in a statement thursday
the shuttle fleet has been grounded since the challenger explosion that killed seven astronauts on jan. 28, 1986. the accident was blamed on a faulty joint that allowed flame to escape from one of the booster rockets. after 2nd graf pvs, ``i am</note>
republican sen. bob dole today denied he was dropping out of the presidential race, and he criticized the news media for concentrating on such matters as his campaign staff cuts, saying, ``i never thought that a campaign was a jobs program.''
i am running for president,'' dole told a group of illinois farm bureau leaders, trying to stop rumors that he was about to pull out after suffering crushing defeats to vice president george bush on super tuesday
however, he told reporters after the speech, ``we will reassess after illinois. i am going to be very realistic about this.''
dole said the question of pulling out of the illinois primary was not discussed by him and his aides, but he conceded they did discuss canceling some campaign activities ``to heighten whatever we're going to do later.''
he said his campaign had more than $1 million on hand to finance its illinois efforts. his problem, he said, ``is not money. we've got the staff we need. what we need is to slow down this super tuesday momentum.''
it's hard to focus on the issues sometimes because the press won't let us do that,'' he said. ``they would rather write about how many staff you reduced your numbers by.''
news reports also have noted that he has taken his television ads off the air in illinois
dole made his remarks at the start of a day-long trip across central and western illinois to shore up his support in farm country, which is considered his strongest territory
in a statement issued thursday night in illinois and washington, dole had ``categorically denied rumors'' that he was about to drop out in the face of bush's big delegate lead and polls that show bush ahead in illinois, which has its primary next tuesday. dole has taken all his tv ads off the air in illinois
i'm not a dropout. i'm a candidate,'' dole told a suburban chicago veterans group thursday night
we're going to be in this race all the way to new orleans. and now we're looking for an upset next tuesday in illinois.''
although dole sought to shoot down reports that his presidential quest was ending, several campaign sources said that option had been discussed
the sources, speaking on condition that they not be identified, said dole met with campaign manager bill brock and other aides in the past few days in illinois and talked about the possibility of abandoning the race because of bush's commanding lead in delegates for the gop nomination
dole, however, decided to press on in illinois
i'm the underdog. the odds are great, but i've tackled great odds before and i'm still here,'' dole said
bush's sweep of 16 super tuesday primaries has clearly wounded dole's campaign
one dole aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said dole's private polls indicated bush held a lead of between 15 and 20 percentage points in illinois. that was described as a significant increase for the vice president in the 48 hours following his victories on super tuesday
a washington post-abc news poll published today said bush led dole in illinois by a wide margin _ 58 percent to 31 percent
although dole had not said whether he would remain in the race if he lost illinois next tuesday, one aide said: ``i think it's clear to dole that it's do or die.''
i'm a fighter. i'm also a realist. i've looked at the delegate count, and i've got to do well in illinois,'' dole said at one chicago stop thursday
and i'm not in this race to see how long we can extend it. i'm in this race to win.''
mari maseng, dole's press secretary, said 130 staff members in super tuesday states were being cut because the campaign no longer needed them. in addition, she said more than half of the staff in the campaign national headquarters was laid off to provide money for ``media and essential travel'' for the illinois effort
there were no staff cuts in states with primaries after next tuesday
maseng confirmed dole had ordered his television ads stopped in illinois because ``we've changed our media strategy.'' dole had planned to spend about $500,000 on tv spots in the state
maseng said campaign advisers were trying to draft a new advertising battle plan to ``draw the contrast between bob dole and george bush as dramatically as we can.''
the campaign, according to one source, is considering a 30-minute paid broadcast near the end of the illinois campaign
a band of men wielding guns, swords and daggers ambushed a bus carrying tamils today and killed at least 16 people, officials said
police believe the attack was in retaliation for the killings of sinhalese by tamil guerrillas last week
today's killings occurred in the northeastern district of trincomalee and the victims all were believed to be tamils, said a military official. he could not be identified under military regulations
the official said the attackers stopped the bus near the village of horawapatana, 28 miles west of the port city of trincomalee, and attacked the passengers
our reports are that eight passengers were shot and butchered, seven more were forced to remain inside the bus when it was torched. another died on the way to a nearby hospital
we have unconfirmed reports that the total dead could be more than 22,'' the official said. ``all of them are reported to be tamils.''
police investigating the bus attack believe it was carried out by sinhalese in retaliation for the killings last week of 45 sinhalese and moslem villagers
twenty-seven people, most of them sinhalese, died when a truck was blown up saturday near sitaru, and 18 more sinhalese were killed when tamil rebels raided the morawewa village wednesday. both villages are in trincomalee
militant tamils have been fighting since the summer of 1983 for a separate state in northern and eastern sri lanka, where most tamils live
india has an estimated 45,000 soldiers in sri lanka to try to enforce an indian-sponsored peace accord signed last july to try to end the war
tamils, most of whom are hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population. they claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and the military
india has become involved because it has 60 million ethnic tamils in its southern states
a court-appointed guardian for a 48-year-old comatose woman is supporting her family's request to remove a feeding tube that is keeping the woman alive
boston college law professor paul r. tremblay concluded that although tube feeding was once considered an ``ordinary measure'' that a patient could not refuse, a considerable body of legal and medical expertise suggests that is no longer true
doctors for the family of marcia v. gray and the state, which is fighting the family's request, say the woman will die within a period of days to a few weeks if the feeding tube is removed
in a similar case, a family in carthage, mo., is suing the state to force doctors to disconnect nancy cruzan, 30, from a feeding tube because she would not want to live in a hopeless state. her parents rested their case today after they and another daughter testified
the woman was left in what doctors call a ``persistent vegetative state'' after a 1983 automobile accident. she is being cared for at the state rehabilitation center at mount vernon
mrs. gray has been in a coma since suffering a cerebral hemorrhage in january 1986. last january, the roman catholic bishop of providence, louis e. gelineau, said it would be morally permissible to withdraw nutrition from mrs. gray, who is a catholic
it is in marcia gray's best interest that the feeding tube be removed, once the benefits of continued feeding are weighed against the burdens of that treatment,'' tremblay said in a report submitted thursday to u.s. district judge francis j. boyle
tremblay concluded that if state officials at general hospital continue to oppose allowing mrs. gray to die, they should quickly transfer her to a hospital that would grant the family's request
if no hospital were found, tremblay said, the court should order state officials to comply
the state asserts that honoring the family's request would be tantamount to sanctioning euthanasia
family members, tremblay said, have provided ``adequate data ... to satisfy the standards that courts have used'' to permit the discontinuance of life-support systems for terminally ill patients
she was very persistent in her wishes, and insisted that i promise not to keep her alive in a coma where there was no hope of recovery,'' her husband, university of rhode island professor h. glenn gray, said in an affidavit
a minor earthquake shook an area about 10 miles southeast of tacoma today, but apparently did no damage, officials said
the temblor was recorded at 2:01 a.m. pst, according to the u.s. geological survey's national earthquake information center in golden, colo. it measured 3.5 on the richter scale, said the center's bruce presgrave
there were no reports of damage or injury
for a quake this size, i really would not expect any,'' presgrave said
residents of fife, federal way, tacoma and auburn called local radio stations to report the quake
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. thus a reading of 7.5 reflects an earthquake 10 times stronger than one of 6.5
an earthquake of 3.5 on the richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage. a 7 reading is a ``major'' earthquake, capable of widespread heavy damage; 8 is a ``great'' quake, capable of tremendous damage
the government kicked off the wedtech racketeering trial today by accusing rep. mario biaggi and his six co-defendants of theft from the defunct bronx defense contractor
this is a case about corruption and greed,'' howard wilson, an assistant u.s. attorney, told the 12-person jury in u.s. district court
it is a case about public officials who want to get paid twice.''
wilson pointed to biaggi and former bronx borough president stanley simon at the defense table and said they and the others stole from wedtech. some had been promised more money, he said
at the trial's opening, judge constance baker motley told the jury: ``an indictment is simply a series of charges. ... a defendant on trial is presumed innocent and this presumption of innocence is presumed throughout the trial.''
the case involving the defense contractor includes charges that the seven defendants looted millions of dollars in cash and stocks from the company
the trial is expected to last several months
in addition to biaggi, 70, and simon, 57, the defendants are: bernard g. ehrlich, 59, biaggi's former law partner and a former major general in the new york national guard; biaggi's eldest son, richard, 38; peter neglia, 39, the former regional administrator of the small business administration; former wedtech chairman john mariotta, 57; and ronald betso, 39, a former city police officer and close friend of neglia's
they are charged with racketeering and conspiracy, which each carry maximum 20-year penalties upon conviction, as well as various other alleged crimes. biaggi is also accused of extortion, bribe-receiving, wire fraud, perjury and filing false tax returns. update with highway closings in n.d. and colo.</note>
a powerful late-winter blizzard lashed the western plains with up to two feet of snow today, closing hundreds of miles of highway in nebraska, wyoming, colorado and the dakotas and stranding hundreds of travelers
up to 33 inches fell in the mountains of utah
in southwestern nebraska, the snow pileup cut off the town of kimball, whose residents opened their doors to about 600 stranded motorists. and in an adjacent section of colorado, several hundred students had to spend the night in their school
the storm occurred 100 years to the day after the start of the four-day great blizzard of 1888 in the eastern united states. that storm claimed 400 lives
the storm, stalled near the nebraska-wyoming line before moving east, pumped heavy snow and winds gusting up to 40 mph from the western dakotas across western nebraska and much of wyoming and colorado
in nebraska, the storm was not expected to abate until late tonight, deputy civil defense coordinator john jenson said early today
we've still got a good 12 hours of this to go,'' he said
it's going to continue to pack quite a punch as it spreads across nebraska and south dakota particularly,'' said meteorologist pete reynolds of the national weather service's severe storm forecast center in kansas city, mo
blizzard warnings were posted today over eastern wyoming, northeastern colorado, western nebraska and western south dakota, and winter storm warnings were posted through tonight for east-central south dakota, much of north dakota and southwestern minnesota
in utah, southeast of salt lake city, the alta ski resort had accumulated 33 inches of snow since wednesday and snowbird counted 31 inches. freezing rain fell in the valleys and a 12-car pileup blocked part of interstate 215 thursday evening near salt lake
authorities closed 112 miles of interstate 80 in western nebraska and eastern wyoming early today due to snowpacked roads and blowing snow, forcing hundreds of stranded motorists to find shelter. almost 100 miles of other nebraska roads also were closed
i think i could have stayed home because i'm not going to have any business, '' said kelly cheshire, 22, a cashier at a major truck stop west of cheyenne, wyo. ``it's bad.''
about 100 miles of interstate 90 was closed overnight in western south dakota between spearfish and wall, but police said there were few reports of stranded motorists. two feet of snow was reported today in deadwood, with 15 to 20 inches in sturgis and 12 to 18 inches in spearfish
sections of interstate 94 were closed today in north dakota and the bismarck municipal airport was shut down. the state pulled snow plows off highways because of poor visibility
several highways were closed in northeastern colorado. ``at one point we were receiving one accident every 60 seconds,'' maj. john kammerzell of the larimer county sheriff's office said
up to 14 inches of snow and buffeting winds kept almost 140 miles of interstate 25 closed in wyoming. an average of 6-12 inches of snow accumulated in the eastern third of the state
wyoming highway patrol officers spent most of thursday searching for motorists on snow-closed roads, a patrol dispatcher said
no major traffic accidents were reported in wyoming or nebraska, though the storm triggered scores of minor ones, authorities said
we've mostly had people sliding off the road. we're not even pulling them out. we're just getting people out of the vehicles,'' said nebraska state patrol dispatcher alex haberkorn in scottsbluff
when people call and ask what it's like out here, i'm suggesting they stay home,'' he said
all roads into kimball were closed thursday night, stranding at least 600 motorists in the town of 3,800, said region 21 civil defense director dan jenson
he said residents were opening their homes to the stranded and overnight accommodations were found for hundreds by midevening, but the kimball county courthouse remained packed with people at 8:30 p.m
i've never seen so many gosh-dang people,'' jenson said. ``i really appreciate the citizens of the city of kimball for opening their homes to strangers.''
in nearby colorado, several hundred students in the weld county school district re3j made themselves comfortable for the night in school buildings when district buses couldn't get them home thursday
we just have some awfully bad weather, just a whiteout (and) some of our roads now are plugging with drifts,'' said superintendent bob gudka, who had 250 to 300 of the district's 1,200 students kept overnight in several schools
the kids are having a ball,'' he said. as for the teachers, he joked, ``we may have to get psychological help for them later on.''
the weather threatened hundreds of newborn calves, and ranchers in the nebraska sandhills region worked around the clock to get animals to shelter
the men are just exhausted'' said marianne beel, whose family ranches in the area. ``we've got about 600 head of cows calving. we worked all night long.''
we had 300 calves born yesterday,'' she said. ``we're dragging them in, separating them from their mothers.''
roads across northern and eastern colorado remained closed early today. the storm struck suddenly thursday, dropping 6 inches of snow in fort collins in just two hours. about 16 inches of snow fell in estes park, colo
i didn't expect this one,'' said truck driver mike brock of reading, pa., who planned to check into a motel at rapid city, s.d. ``i pulled off the interstate because a four-wheeler did a doughnut in front of me and i decided that was close enough.''
betty flosky might never have learned the truth about her life if she hadn't developed leukemia
the suburban detroit woman learned late last month that her parents were really an adoptive aunt and uncle and that her supposed brothers were cousins
everyone just held the secret all these years,'' said gene wise, one of her cousins. ``i'm glad it's out. i wish it was under better circumstances.''
she also learned she had three brothers and a sister, all unknown to her, who might be able to help her undergo a life-saving bone marrow transplant
i'm shaking like a leaf,'' flosky, 32, said after meeting lynne kern, the sister who had just arrived from denver
flosky's mother died four days after giving birth to her. she was taken in by an aunt and an uncle and never told about her mother or father, who later died
last month, doctors told flosky about her leukemia, which could be fatal within three years. she also learned that a bone marrow transplant from a sibling was her best chance at survival
wise and his brother, norm, told her they would be tested to see if they could donate marrow, despite knowing that cousins don't make the best donors. then on feb. 25, joe flosky told his wife she had been adopted
when he told me i sat there and said, `is that it?''' she said. ``i said, `i thought you were going to tell me i was going to die.'''
since then, her brothers and sister have been contacted and are being tested to see whether they can donate marrow. if any of them tests positive, flosky and the donor are ready to fly to a seattle hospital that frequently performs bone marrow transplants
it's like `the twilight zone' or something, isn't it?'' flosky said. ``instead of my family shrinking, it's growing.''
federal investigators say an air force bomb expert who had been absent without leave for several weeks apparently set off a blast in his pickup truck that killed him and damaged a motel where he was staying
but officials said it was unknown if staff sgt. donald lawrence lunger detonated the bomb intentionally or accidentally march 4
forensic psychologists will study lunger's medical records and talk with family and friends to determine why he placed a 10-pound to 15-pound package of explosives behind the seat of his pickup truck and attached it to a blasting cap, said willi ellison, agent in charge of the jacksonville office of the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms
the explosives, wires and other materials found at the blast scene indicated they were the type used at eglin air force base, where lunger was stationed. an investigation at the base was under way to determine if any explosive materials were missing, ellison said thursday
it has been determined that the explosion that resulted in the death of lunger was a deliberate act initiated by actions intentionally or unintentionally taken by him,'' officials said
the charge could have been electrically detonated by the cigarette lighter in the truck or flashlight components, ellison said
he said there was no indication that lunger was involved in any criminal activity, narcotics or espionage. he said he could not speculate on whether lunger was under mental distress at the time of the blast
lunger, 30, had been staying at the southern inn motel for several days before the explosion, motel employees said. he was reported awol from eglin on feb. 22
lunger, originally of endicott, n.y., had been in the air force 13 years. he was married and had two children
a national team of investigators was dispatched the day after the blast, which smashed about 65 windows at the motel and caused minor damage to railings and other exterior structures at the two-story motel. there were no other reported injuries
the state naacp president and 13 other black lawmakers argued today that they were protected by legislative immunity when they tried to remove the confederate battle flag from atop the alabama capitol
the trespassing arrests of the legislators raised ``serious constitutional questions and serious questions of state law,'' said fred gray, who represents thomas reed, head of the state national association for the advancement of colored people
gray also said at the court hearing that gov. guy hunt lacked the right to instruct officers to arrest anyone who attempted to enter the capitol grounds through a locked, chain-link fence since the building is under the control of the alabama historical commission. the building is closed for renovation
prosecutors from the district attorney's office did not comment on the defense motions
district judge craig miller granted defense attorneys' request to file briefs and gave the district attorney's office 10 days to respond. he said he would set a trial date later
reed, speaking with reporters before the brief hearing began, repeated his contention that the state should not fly the flag over the capitol. reed and the other legislators maintain that the confederate banner represents racial oppression and slavery
people can fly it on their pickup trucks _ i have no problem with that,'' said reed, a state representative from tuskegee
reed and his co-defendants were arrested feb. 2, minutes after the legislature's opening gavel
capitol police and state troopers pulled down reed and the others as they made at least symbolic efforts to scale the 8-foot fence. the lawmakers never got near the building and the dixie flag still flies atop the capitol dome. some merely put their hand on the chain-link fence when they were arrested
each lawmaker was charged with second-degree criminal trespassing and released from the county jail on $300 bond. conviction on the misdemeanor count carries a maximum penalty of three months in jail and a $500 fine
reed had vowed for weeks to remove the flag. hundreds of people _ ranging from ku klux klansmen carrying rebel flags to black students singing ``we shall overcome'' _ gathered outside the capitol for reed's attempt
hunt, who contends the flag is historic and not a symbol of racism, has refused to remove the standard, saying the legislature should decide the issue. hours after reed and the other democrats were arrested, the state house defeated a resolution to remove the flag
the naacp also is trying to remove the banner above south carolina's statehouse and change the state flags of georgia and mississippi, which bear versions of the confederate battle flag in their designs
kidnappers of u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins have pledged to free him but set no specific date for the release, the beirut magazine ash-shiraa said today
the weekly quoted unidentified knowledgeable sources in south lebanon as saying the kidnappers made the pledge ``in secret contacts undertaken by more than local and regional parties.''
there was no way to verify the report independently
ash-shiraa gained international fame for disclosing the secret u.s. arms sales to iran in november 1986. but many of its reports about foreign hostages held in lebanon have proved inaccurate
higgins, 44, of danville, kentucky, who served with a u.n. observers group in south lebanon, was kidnapped near the ancient southern port of tyre on feb. 17
a pro-iranian shiite group, the organization of the oppressed on earth, claimed responsibility for his abduction, charging he was a spy for the u.s. central intelligence agency. u.s. and u.n. officials have denied the charge
the sources did not reveal an approximate date for higgins' release, saying this has been left for the kidnappers to set,'' the magazine said
the sources have said that the important thing in this regard is that a decision has been taken by the kidnappers to free higgins, such as what happened with (former) west german hostage ralph schray, who was freed last week,'' ash-shiraa added
schray, an industrial engineer who was abducted in moslem west beirut jan. 27, was released by his pro-iranian shiite moslem captors march 3 in west beirut
syrian troops in charge of security in west beirut's whisked him the same day to the syrian capital of damascus, where he was handed over to the west german embassy. he returned to resume his life in west beirut two days later
twenty-two foreigners, including nine americans, are missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon. the longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
a suspected bank robber pursued by police calmly pulled over his van, stepped from the driver's seat and fatally shot himself, authorities said
the man opened his van door and stood on the running board,'' witness cynthia everett said thursday. ``i heard the pop of the gun and then saw smoke coming over his head.''
the man died about 10 miles from the bank robbery scene and roughly 30 minutes after the holdup at the first interstate bank of texas in seabrook, police said. inside the van, police found a briefcase with $10,550 in cash
the robbery occurred about 11:35 a.m. thursday when a man handed a teller a note demanding money, said seabrook police sgt. nona holomon. the note claimed the man was armed, but no weapon was seen, and the man left within minutes carrying the money, she said
a bank official followed the suspect in his own car, then alerted police using a mobile phone. three police cars followed the van and finally surrounded it, police said
houston patrolman bobbie miller said he had parked his patrol car in front of the van to block it from escaping
as i was getting out of the (police) vehicle, i heard a shot, turned around and he was falling to the ground,'' said miller
bank officials refused to comment on the holdup
a proposal to distribute condoms at the 1988 olympics games in order to combat aids is being studied, officials said friday
seoul olympic organizing committee officials said they were considering plans to provide condoms at the olympic village and sports facilities
health authorities are concerned that the 270,000 foreign visitors expected for the games could spread aids in south korea
the government has ruled out suggestions that all olympic participants and visitors should be required to take aids tests
south korea has one reported aids case and about 15 cases of the aids virus. the government recently passed legislation to try to prevent the spread of the disease
olympics officials, who asked not to be identified, denied press reports that aids tests would be provided free of charge to olympic visitors who request them. the games run from sept. 17 through oct. 2
parliament has approved a law requiring the installation and wearing of seatbelts, bringing italy into line with the rest of western europe
from today on we are more european,'' said antonio testa, president of the chamber of deputies transport commission following approval of the bill thursday after four years of study and debate
the law requires all cars registered in the last 10 years to be equipped with seatbelts in the front seats by march 1989. by september 1989, drivers and front-seat passengers will be required to wear them
the law will also require child safety seats to be used for children up to age 4 in the back seat and for children aged 4 to 10 in the front seat
fines for not wearing seatbelts will range up to $160
an estimated 10,000 people die annually in traffic accidents in italy and 200,000 are injured
the telephone company is cracking down on u.s. air force personnel who have been using nickels instead of british 20-pence coins to make cheap calls home, an air force spokesman said friday
it seems airmen stationed in britain have for some time known that a nickel works like a 20-pence coin in pay phones. a 20-pence coin is worth 37 cents, so every nickel used for a call to the united states saves 32 cents
using the nickel swindle, a trans-atlantic call that should have cost about $24 would only cost $3
british telecom, the telephone company, estimates the scam has cost it about $52,000 in the past several months
two airmen at the u.s. air force base in bentwaters in eastern england have been charged with cheating on long-distance calls, and the air force is helping the telephone company end the swindle
we have warned everyone here that british telecom is looking out for people making fraudulent use of the phones,'' said capt. john boyle, a spokesman at brentwaters
the united states takes very seriously anything of this nature and we fully support british telecom in its efforts to track down offenders,'' he said
mikhail s. gorbachev met a delegation of u.s. senators at the kremlin on friday and warned them that president reagan may have a problem with jet lag when he visits the soviet union later this year
during a brief photo session at the start of the meeting with the delegation led by sen. alan cranston, d-calif., the soviet leader said, ``what time is it in washington?''
then, answering the question himself, he noted it was only 3 a.m., moscow time being eight hours ahead of washington
i fear this group may become a bit drowsy,'' gorbachev said
having just visited the united states in december, he observed that jet lag ``is far more difficult when you come back.''
it will be a little difficult for the president when he comes here,'' gorbachev said, referring to the next summit meeting, expected to take place in moscow in may or june. but he added reagan probably will spend some time in neighboring finland before coming to moscow to adapt to the time change
on long trips in the past, the president usually has scheduled two or three days to relax and get over jet lag before the start of major talks
with cranston were sens. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the armed services committee; william cohen, r-maine; alan simpson, r-wyo.; and carl levin, d-mich. comment.</note>
leaders of student protests at gallaudet university say today's resignation of elisabeth ann zinser as president of the deaf liberal arts college leaves other key demands yet to be addressed
separately, the chairman of the school's board of trustees said it will meet next week to weigh those demands, which include drastic changes in the board itself
zinser's appointment sunday had sparked heated protests over the board's failure to appoint a deaf president, something the school never has had in its 124-year history
zinser, who has normal hearing and does not know sign language, resigned just after midnight. she told a later news conference that the siege was not the reason she resigned
what is happening across the country is a civil rights time of the deaf community,'' she said. ``we have responded to that.'' she called the protest ``a very special moment in time for the deaf community ... (that) we could not anticipate.''
zinser, who began studying sign language only during the final week of the selection process, held up her fingers in the ``i love you'' sign as she told members of the deaf community, ``i send them the message that we celebrate with them and wish them their day in the sun.''
in an earlier nationally televised interview, student protest leader jerry covell said that while the students are ``very excited'' about zinser's resignation, they plan to insist on other changes to make the school more sensitive to its hearing-impaired students
their first priority, covell said, is for zinser to be replaced with a deaf president. in addition, the students are seeking:
_the resignation of jane bassett spilman as chairman of the board of trustees
_a minimum of 51 percent deaf people on the board of trustees
_a guarantee of no reprisals against students, faculty and staff who were involved in the protests
spilman, appearing at the news conference with zinser, said there would be no reprisals. but she refused to address the other two demands until the board meets early next week
it is for me and the board of trustees to assess,'' she added when asked whether she will remain or whether the composition of the board will change. ``i have begun to make that assessment.''
she said the board would also begin looking for a new president next week, but she would not discuss whether the job will go to a deaf person
the school institution from the outside looks beautiful,'' said covell, whose sign language was voiced by an interpreter on cbs-tv's ``this morning'' program. ``there are people there who don't understand and are not sensitive to our needs. and now it is time. we feel that we are ready and we have ample support and numerous people who agree with us. so why should we stop now?''
zinser, vice chancellor for academic affars at the university of north carolina at greensboro, had stayed away from gallaudet's campus this week in the hope that the furor would die down, but had insisted she was in charge
spilman called the resignation a tragic loss to the university
we selected dr. zinser as president in recognition of her superior academic, administrative and research skills,'' she said. ``her strengths and accomplishments were precisely in those areas most critical for the growth of the university.''
rep. steve gunderson, r-wis. and one of the university's trustees, said a hearing-impaired person should be at the helm at gallaudet. zinser was the only one of the three finalists for the job who was not deaf
i've said all along, even before dr. zinser resigned, that ideally a hearing-impaired person would be the track that we ought to follow,'' gunderson said
a large majority of the institution's 2,300 students joined in the protests, which began sunday with a march on capitol hill. students on thursday threatened to seize the president's campus house and office if zinser made her way past students blocking entrances to the school, and school officials chained shut the doors to the administration building
students from the national technical institute for the deaf in rochester, n.y., had planned to travel to washington by bus today to show their solidarity with the protesters
presidential candidates jesse jackson and paul simon offered words of encouragement to the students, saying their protest reflected the desire of handicapped americans everywhere to take control of their own destiny
the national association of the deaf, a 20,000-member deaf rights group based in silver spring, md., said it had been receiving calls, letters and pledges of support for the gallaudet students from around the country and as far away as great britain
a university official who was one of the other two finalists for the president's job, i. king jordan, on thursday had withdrawn his support for zinser
the resignation followed a warning by rep. david bonior, d-mich., another university trustee, that federal aid for the school could be jeopardized if she refused to leave the post
the house education and labor subcommittee on select education, which oversees gallaudet's budget, scheduled hearings for next week on the dispute
about 75 percent of the school's $76 million operating budget comes from federal funds. the rest comes from tuition and grants. the ....' subs 8th graf, `texas national ...,' to add texas forest service also involved in fighting the blaze.</note>
a brush fire 35 miles long and six miles wide roared across west texas early today, scorching an estimated 135,000 acres by midmorning, officials said
however, no serious injuries were reported and most homes in the path of the fire were saved by hundreds of firefighters battling the blaze, said lawrence winkler, information officer of the shackelford county emergency management team. some firefighters suffered minor burns
it's been a miracle, so far,'' winkler said of the firefighting effort
however, officials said, a cold front was expected to change the direction of the wind today and turn the flames back toward albany, a town of 2,400 people about 150 miles west of dallas
by 9 a.m., winds that had gusted to 30 mph had died down, but national weather service forecasters said the calm preceded a shift in winds along the cold front
army national guard troops used bulldozers to build firebreaks to protect the town, according to maj. ed komandosky, a spokesman at the guard state headquarters in austin
earlier, the fire threatened albany, the shackelford county seat, but winds died down and the fire moved north and away from the town, officials at the sheriff's office in albany said
texas national guardsmen, ordered by gov. bill clements to help local authorities, joined an estimated 15 west texas fire departments and members of the texas forest service in fighting the blaze
some fire equipment was lost to the flames, mainly because firefighters were working in darkness, winkler said. at times during the night, the blaze could be seen as far as 35 miles away, he said
at least one house, some mobile homes and outbuildings were destroyed during the early hours of the blaze thursday night, authorities said
some children were evacuated from homes in the path of the fire, but winkler said, ``most people stayed there to fight the fire.''
nervous albany residents watched during the night as the glow of the approaching fire got closer, but there were no evacuations
families that moved away from their isolated rural homes chose to stay with friends, said red cross spokeswoman cheryl parks
the national weather service said winds gusted to 30 mph in the area around the fire thursday night, but winkler said the wind died down somewhat during the night
albany, which dates from about 1880, was an early supply point on the cattle trail to dodge city, kan. suicide</head>
a 23-year police veteran was found dead friday in a cemetery of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, two days after his estranged wife was discovered shot to death
officer walter krejcik, 44, was found a few yards from his car with a .38-caliber pistol near his hand, state police lt. jay dornbecker said. he said the death was being treated as a suicide
the body of krejcik's 39-year-old wife, pamela, was found wednesday at her parents' home in clayton township. on thursday, krejcik was named in a murder warrant charging him in her death
police said krejcik's body was found by a worker or a passerby at flint memorial gardens, within sight of a large stone memorial to city police officers killed on duty
police said a note and pictures of his children were found near krejcik's body
authorities said they will begin excavating a site monday in search of evidence in the shooting deaths of four members of a family and the disappearance of a relative eight months ago
authorities on friday would not identify the site or specify what they might find
this site has possibilities but no certainties,'' marathon county sheriff's lt. elwood mason said friday
authorities believe 500 to 700 cubic yards of material will be removed, mason said. he would not comment on whether that material might be dirt or concrete
it is not on land that is owned or under control by any suspect in this case,'' mason said, adding that was one reason for choosing to dig at this site rather than any others under consideration
four members of the kunz family were found shot to death and a fifth family member disappeared from their rural athens home last july
circumstances and events surrounding july 4 and 5 give this site some probabilities but by no means create a certainty that there would be something there,'' mason said
district attorney rand krueger said thursday he did not plan to file charges in the case this week and no one was in custody. he said the number of suspects, which he had described earlier as more than one but fewer than 12, remained the same
helen kunz, 70, has been missing since her relatives' bodies were discovered in the family home. ms. kunz's brother, clarence kunz, 76; their sisters, irene, 81, and marie, 72; and helen kunz's son, randy, 30, were shot dead
krueger would not comment on whether a murder weapon had been recovered
a german restaurant violated the civil rights of three patrons by refusing them service for wearing nazi swastika lapel pins, a superior court judge ruled
but judge kurt lewin said thursday it would be up to a jury to determine whether alpine village restaurant in torrance was wrong in refusing the three service in october 1985 after they caused a disturbance when told to leave
lewin said state law prevented the restaurant from refusing service because of what the men wore
the suit, on behalf of joe fields, 24, of san pedro; stanley witek, 54, of los angeles; and harold follin, 28, of anaheim had sought unspecified damages as well as an injunction preventing the restaurant from refusing service to customers based on their political views. damages would only be awarded if the jury sides with the plaintiffs
attorney julia tachikawa, who represented the restaurant, said she didn't know if alpine village would want to appeal
she expressed disappointment that the judge ruled against the restaurant's contention that it did not have to serve the men if they wore things patrons might find offensive
ms. tachikawa said lewin failed to take into account the restaurant's constitutional right of freedom of association
in this case i was trying to argue that it was a german restaurant, and the association was so obvious, the restaurant was compelled to speak up that we don't hold that view,'' she said
the swastika was the emblem of adolf hitler's national socialist party
ms. tachikawa said the restaurant contended the men were thrown out not because of the pins but because they caused trouble after being asked to either remove the pins or leave
american civil liberties union attorney carol sobel, who represented the men, said it didn't matter whether they created a disturbance after they were refused service
she argued that the only issue to be resolved was whether a restaurant could exclude someone because it disapproved of what the person was wearing
judging by what israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir had to say in his letter to skeptical senators, this tough-minded middle eastern leader may climb aboard secretary of state george p. shultz's peace shuttle after all
shamir reaffirmed his commitment to the 1978 camp david approach to negotiations over the west bank and gaza. the way shultz has structured the talks that would suffice for the first stage
but shamir's resistance to the concept of trading the territories or even part of them for arab recognition is a potential roadblock. so is the refusal of king hussein of jordan to commit himself to recognizing israel until the territories are vacated
shamir, who will be here monday to see president reagan, shultz and members of congress, has a reputation for intransigence. so did menachem begin, the last leader of the likud coalition to serve as prime minister of israel
but begin turned every inch of sinai over to egypt, stripping israel in the meantime of all its oil resources, dismantling a first-class military airfield and uprooting jewish settlers. begin gave it all away in exchange for a 1979 peace treaty with the most formidable arab country
the treaty was based on the camp david agreements former president jimmy carter worked out with begin and the late egyptian president anwar sadat in the catoctin mountains of maryland
israel offered self-rule, or autonomy, to the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the west bank and in gaza as an interim arrangement. all options, including statehood, would be open during a second stage of negotiations
the first round ended in 1981 in failure. jordan and the palestinians did not participate. the arab world shunned sadat for his treaty with israel and only lately has begun to repair relations with cairo
sens. carl levin, d-mich., rudy boschwitz, r-minn., and 28 other senators criticized shamir for not being willing to give up portions of the territories in exchange for arab recognition of israel
but the prime minister, in his reply, left the option open _ as the camp david agreements do. he said the formula begin and sadat devised ``would grant the palestinian arabs self-rule, following which the sides would negotiate the final status of the territories in question in a vastly improved setting of coexistence and cooperation between jordan, israel and the palestinian arabs.''
in other words, shamir still wants a trial period of palestinian autonomy before taking up a final settlement. he may harbor hopes the palestinians would elect to remain under israel's security control while running their own daily affairs
in a letter to shultz in january, the israeli leader excluded only security and foreign relations as functions of autonomous palestinian arabs
the scheme shultz presented to shamir and hussein in jerusalem and london envisions a three-year interim arrangement. that should be attractive to the prime minister
also, negotiations for an overall settlement would begin only if israel and a mixed jordanian-palestinian delegation succeeded in working out interim arrangements
that means shamir could say ``yes'' next week to the president and the secretary of state without committing himself to yielding the territory israel won in the 1967 six-day war
the prime minister's letter to levin and boschwitz suggests getting him to give up even parts of the west bank and gaza would be more difficult than persuading begin to yield the sinai
shamir reminded the senators that jordan's occupation of the west bank from 1950 to 1967 was never recognized internationally. egypt held gaza during the same period, but unlike sinai, the strip along the mediterranean was occupied ``militarily and illegally,'' shamir said
we have sought peace relentlessly, but our arab neighbors, except egypt, still have to prove in deeds that they are willing to negotiate peace with us,'' the israeli leader said
shultz tried to pierce hussein's decades-long resistance by proposing to hold the negotiations in an international setting. this is designed to give the king the support he seeks
but shultz obviously could not guarantee hussein that israel would withdraw from the west bank and gaza. so there's a big question mark over hussein's participation in the peace talks as well
barry schweid has covered u.s.-middle east diplomacy over the past 15 years
a federal appeals court ruled today that prosecutors illegally obtained statements from a former fbi agent charged with lying about his role in handling teamster president jackie presser as an informant
the u.s. court of appeals upheld a lower court's decision that suppresses as evidence the statements that former fbi agent robert s. friederick made to government prosecutors in early 1986
the statements that friedrick made to federal prosecutors constituted the linchpin of the government's case against him. the former cleveland fbi agent is charged with five counts of making false statements to federal agents
the appeals court panel upheld a finding by u.s. district judge george revercomb that federal prosecutors failed to inform friederick that unlike previous interviews in 1985, statements he made to them during the january 1986 session could be used as evidence against him
friederick's lawyer, william beyer, said the decision eliminates the only evidence that prosecutors have against his client
i don't know of any other evidence that they have to support their claim,'' beyer said in a telephone inteview from cleveland
friederick is charged with lying by telling fbi agents and prosecutors that he was aware that presser had been authorized by the cleveland fbi office to put ghost employees on the payroll of a local teamsters union
the case stems from an fbi investigation of payroll padding in teamsters local 507 in cleveland that resulted in convictions of jack nardi and allen friedman in 1983
presser has been indicted on charges that he authorized the payment of union funds to so-called ``phantom employees.'' as a defense, presser claims he was acting under the authority of cleveland fbi agents as an informant
friederick, who was head of the cleveland fbi's organized crime squad, was questioned in 1984 and again in 1985 about his handling of presser as an informant
it was during a 1984 interview with friederick and other cleveland agents that the fbi learned that presser was an informant. during a june 26, 1985, interview at fbi headquarters in washington, friederick signed an fbi form that said he was required to answer questions but that the government could not use his statements against him in a criminal prosecution
friederick was questioned on two other occasions that summer in connection with the fbi's internal investigation of the handling of presser as an informant
the appellate court upheld revercomb's finding that friederick was not warned during a jan. 6, 1986, interview that statements he made could be used against him
the prosecutors ``made a conscious decision prior to the interview not to furnish friederick with or even mention (the fbi form); indeed they hoped that friederick would make incriminating statements that they could use against him in a subsequent prosecution,'' the court said in an opinion by judge kenneth starr
during the january interview, friederick made statements contradicting his previous assertion that he was aware that presser had been authorized to put ghost employees on the local's payroll. the next day he failed a lie detector test
the state textbook commission has rejected american indians' pleas to remove from elementary schools a book containing stories by washington irving and john smith that depict indians as blood-thirsty savages
the commission refused thursday to withdraw approval for ``what joy awaits you'' by open court publishing co., and said teachers can offset negative images by teaching children to think critically
an open court representative said a supplemental text is being prepared to help teachers discuss how perceptions of native americans have changed. the company also will revise the text in 1989 to include treaty violations and atrocities against native americans, but will not remove classical writings
the company said 10 other states have approved the book, including idaho and california
commission member clark cox, superintendent of alpine school district, said removing or deleting offensive passages would ``make pablum of literature.''
wil numkena, education specialist at the state office of education, said irving's derogatory story of indians may be considered a classic, but ``at whose expense?''
numkena recalled that as a boy a teacher told his class that indians were bad, raided white people and took away white people's land
thanks to my mother and father who reinforced my understanding of who i am, i was able to continue my education, understand my identity and build self-esteem,'' he said. ``but many children don't have that support system.''
the expense account was filed about 400 years late and the government dispensed tea instead of money as a group of people dressed as elizabethans tried to recover the costs incurred by sir francis drake
five devonions from drake's hometown, tavistock, recited his rhyming claim thursday for 914 pounds, 17 shillings and 4 pence from the british treasury, to cover payments to officers and crew aboard the revenge
the five say drake never got the money because lord burghley, who conducted the war against spain, thought he was being overcharged. the expense papers were found in a museum in plymouth, devon
at his office in whitehall, the seat of government, treasury chief secretary john major listened to the plea for repayment:
and this, good sirs, a tidy sum, was never paid to me
so we have come to you this day to settle up my fee,'' quoth john sterne, a shopkeeper dressed as drake
come up to my office for a cup of tea,'' responded major, the no. 2 man in charge of the nation's finances
after 400 years' inflation, this must be worth about 100,000 pounds ($184,000) now,'' he said. ``but i think it's out of time _ legally unenforceable.''
after tea, sterne, wearing doublet and hose, a tall hat and carrying a sword, said, ``it seems that's all we're going to get.''
asked if his sword was real, sterne, said: ``oh, yes, you can see it is _ it's my mother's.''
asked if he needed a permit to wear the sword, sterne said: ``no, i wrapped it up until i got here.''
the tavistock five said they were happy to dress for the occasion
pat mildren was dressed as queen elizabeth i, emma nicholson as drake's second wife, and pat murray and lis lee as courtiers
mrs. mildren wore a crown, a floor-length green dress over a hoop and lots of beads
i feel very good in this, but quite hot,'' she said. ``excuse me, my hoop is slipping.''
the five said they will wear their costumes for most of this year to celebrate the 400th anniversary of england's defeat of the spanish armada
i'll do anything for my constituency, and drake was my constituent,'' said mrs. nicholson, legislator for tavistock in the house of commons
shopowner mary thompson said mrs. nicholson's costume took two weeks and nearly $370 to make
the outfit, mostly from a brocade curtain, had one overskirt, three underskirts, a roll to keep everything up above a hoop, a stomacher with embroidered sleeves, lots of padding and a lace ruff and cap
it's enormously comfortable. i'm laced in, stayed up and covered in whalebone and i'm warm and wonderful,'' mrs. nicholson said
wholesale prices dipped 0.2 percent in feburary as both energy and food costs declined, including a dramatic 70 percent tumble in the price of lettuce, the government reported friday
the decline in the labor department's producer price index partially erased a 0.4 percent increase in january. analysts said it provided further evidence that inflation remains tame
for the first two months of 1988, wholesale prices have been increasing at an annual rate of 1.1 percent _ just half of last year's 2.2 percent rise
however, the producer index does not show two categories in which price increases have been the most pronounced _ services and imported goods. these items are included in the companion consumer price index, which was up 4.4 percent in 1987
at the wholesale level, food prices overall fell 1.1 percent after a 1.7 percent rise a month earlier. energy prices were also down, but the 0.8 percent decline trailed january's 4.5 percent drop
gasoline prices fell 0.5 percent after an 8.4 percent plunge in january. home heating oil costs were off 4.2 percent after a 6.2 percent drop. natural gas prices, up 0.8 percent in january, fell 1.4 percent
as for food, vegetable prices, which had increased 16.2 percent in january, dropped 26.3 percent, a decline largely driven by the drop in lettuce prices. the price of lettuce had tripled between october and november because of shortages and crop infestation in california
fruits, down 3.0 percent in january, fell an additional 3.5 percent
beef and veal prices were up 0.3 percent after a 3.4 percent rise in january. pork costs, up 13.2 percent in the previous month, rose just 0.2 percent
coffee prices fell 0.8 percent for the second consecutive month. alcoholic beverage costs were up 0.8 percent after rising 0.1 percent in the preceding month
subtracting the usually volatile energy and food categories, wholesale prices for all other goods increased a relatively sedate 0.3 percent
the stability which we continue to see in the (producer) index is very good news,'' said dirk van dorgen, president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors. ``we don't need to have to cope with a vexing inflation problem on top of all the other basic economic problems we've got to deal with.''
the producer index had declined as recently as last december, when it was down 0.4 percent. the 0.2 percent february decline, if continued for 12 consecutive months, would yield an annual price-change rate of minus 2.2 percent
the teaming up of lower energy and food costs in february ``really was a break for the consumer,'' said sandra shaber, senior economist for the futures group, a management consulting company. ``but there have been some strong increases in some services, medical care, housing costs, which are not in the ppi.''
we can't anticipate a continuing decline in lettuce prices, unfortunately,' she added
friday's report again showed there was little justification for worries of a resurgence in inflation, analysts agreed
the news is clearly that we have very stable inflation rates,'' said david wyss, chief financial economist for data resources inc. ``we think energy prices will come back a little bit in the next few months because they have dropped so far. but the base inflation rate is going to remain very stable.''
other wholesale price activity in february included:
_prices for new automobiles fell 0.2 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in january
_capital equipment costs were up 0.2 percent for the third month in a row
_children's clothing prices fell 2.2 percent. men's clothing costs fell 0.1 percent. men's apparel prices gained 0.5 percent
_tobacco prices gained 0.9 percent after a 1.2 percent drop in january
february's decline brought the overall wholesale price index to 105.9. this means that a selection of wholesale goods costing $100 during a 1982 base period would have cost $105.90 last month. the index itself is not adjusted for seasonal variations, as are other figures in the report
the labor department recently switched from a 1967 base period for both its producer and consumer price index figures
using the 1967 base, the february index would have been 297.3. that compares to a 292.3 index in february 1988. in other words, goods costing $100 in 1967 would have cost $292.30 in february 1987 and $297.30 in february 1988. picking up 5th graf pvs, `he launched ....'</note>
merrill k. riddick, a colorful and quixotic figure who campaigned for president three times as the candidate of the puritan ethic and epic, magnetohydrodynamics and prohibition party, has died at the age of 93
riddick, who died wednesday of cancer, also was a world war i aviator and 1920s barnstormer before moving to montana to prospect for gold
he ran for president in 1976, 1980 and 1984, campaigning across the country on the greyhound buses where he also slept
i live on the bus,'' he said in 1981. ``i can get the bus passes for less than $12 a day. it's cheaper than living in a hotel.''
he lost his presidential bids, obviously. but that was nothing new for riddick. he had been running for office since 1960 and losing spectacularly just as long
but politics was a relatively late interest for riddick, also known as one of the nation's earliest aviators
he was a graduate of the army air corps' first pilot class in san diego in 1917 and flew reconnaissance missions over europe in world war i. he became one of the nation's first airmail pilots and instructed at the nation's first private flight school, alongside fellow instructor eddie rickenbacker
riddick also was a 1920s barnstormer, an itinerant pilot who made a living giving air shows and selling rides, before moving to montana as a gold prospector
he launched his political career with a bid for the montana democratic gubernatorial nomination in 1960. he finished sixth in a field of six. he tried again in 1968 with the same result
he switched parties to run for the senate in 1972. he finished fourth among four republicans
and with that long political background, he launched his bids for the presidency
his party was his own creation. the puritan ethic and epic in the title stood for moral values. magnetohydrodynamics is a high-tech process for turning coal into electricity. prohibition marked his personal belief
perennial losing candidates are not unusual in american politics. but riddick's quests earned him a place in the hearts of many in montana, a state proud of its individualists
a restaurant freqented by politicians in helena, the state capital, named a private dining room after riddick. the airport in philipsburg, his home, was named for him. and the 341st strategic wing at malmstrom air force base in great falls named him an honorary missileman
he had a long, full life,'' said his sister, ruth mcclain. ``his mind was clear to the end.''
mrs. mcclain said he probably would be buried in annapolis, md., near the grave of his father, former u.s. rep. carl riddick
a georgia power co. worker was electrocuted friday when he came into contact with a low voltage cable, and electricity was shut off to some downtown office buildings, the company said
georgia power spokeswoman meg reggie said johnny lane, a lead cable splicer, was working in an underground vault behind the offices of the atlanta newspapers inc., when he came in contact with the cable and was knocked unconscious
lane, 35, died shortly before 10 a.m., grady memorial hospital spokeswoman beverly thomas said
power was then shut off to allow rescue workers to reach him, she said
the 90-minute outage interrupted power to cnn center, which includes studios of cable news network and offices of the associated press, and to offices of the atlanta journal and the atlanta constitution. cnn was knocked off the air for about four seconds before emergency power kicked in, a producer said
a man who held a teen-age girl captive in a motel room and fired at fbi agents has been sentenced to 25 years in prison on extortion, assault and firearms violations
richard lee brown received the maximum sentences in federal court thursday for charges stemming from the siege in september in lake city, about 50 miles west of here. brown held 17-year-old stacey ann sapp of savannah, ga., hostage during the siege
brown, who had been traveling around the country with miss sapp for several weeks, called her father and threatened to harm her unless the father paid $30,000 in ransom. but authorities intervened after miss sapp's father called the fbi, and a 21-hour standoff followed at the motel
in january, brown pleaded guilty to two charges of assaulting a federal officer with a deadly weapon, as well as one count each of using a firearm in a violent crime and transmitting an extortion demand across state lines
brown, of tallahassee, had told officials he was possessed by demons and had angels inside his body. a court-appointed psychiatrist said he suffered from several personality disorders
he was judged competent to stand trial, however, after the psychiatrist said he understood right from wrong and the charges against him
brown also had been charged with extortion in georgia, but those were dropped as part of his plea-bargain agreement
gary hart ended his on-again, off-again bid for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination today, saying, ``the people have decided and now i should not go forward.''
it was the second withdrawal for the man who once was the prohibitive front-runner for his party's nomination, coming 10 months after he quit because of questions concerning his relationship with miami model donna rice
flanked by members of his family, hart told a news conference that when he rejoined the race last december, he wanted to ``let the people decide.''
i got a fair hearing and the people have decided and now i should not go forward,'' he declared
the former colorado senator departed with words of praise for the surviving democratic contenders, but with thinly veiled criticism, as well
he said democrats have won only a single presidential election since 1964, and added, ``those who cling to the past mask their lack of direction with caution and platitudes. we can only be prepared to govern if we challenge the future with bold new ideas.''
he said the contenders must offer detailed budget proposals and learn the details of military reform _ two points he made repeatedly in his rerun for the nomination
hart second exit contained only a trace of the defiance that marked his departure in may, but he struck one similar note
to those of you in and out of politics who may face setbacks, failures or defeats _ who are told to give up, accommodate or compromise _ i hope you will simply say as i do _ `hell no,''' hart said
hart also stepped back from the criticism of reporters that marked his second try for the nomination, saying, ``i want to thank members of the media who were fair and balanced.''
hart's announcement capped a story as bizarre as any in modern presidential politics
he was the overwhelming favorite for the nomination when he announced his bid a year ago, but his campaign self-destructed in the springtime scandal
he plunged back into the campaign last december and briefly soared in the polls, but it quickly became clear the voters were deciding he wasn't their man, relegating him to the back of the pack in the early primaries and caucuses
hart failed to garner a single delegate to the 1988 democratic national convention, and his vote percentage never reached double digits in any contest. when the dust settled from this week's 20-state super tuesday contests, the federal election commission announced that hart was no longer eligible for federal campaign matching funds
hart's undoing in his initial bid came when the miami herald newspaper staked out his washington townhouse and reported that rice, 29, a part-time model, spent a night there
there were questions about that, because the paper admitted it did not have every entrance monitored all night. but then photos of rice sitting on hart's knee aboard a yacht called the monkey business on a trip to bimini surfaced
hart, however, repeatedly refused to discuss specifics of his relationship with rice, saying it was his personal business
later he admitted: ``i never should have been on a boat with a woman who was not my wife, but that's not the issue. it's complicated. it's the system. it's all of us.''
after seven months on the sidelines, he announced in december in new hampshire _ in a dramatic steps-of-the-statehouse news conference _ that he was back in the race and would ``let the people decide.''
he could not, he said, withhold his views on public policy and issues during this presidential campaign. he vowed to run a grassroots campaign, with little money and an informal organization
however, he sustained another serious blow in january when there were reports that hollywood video producer stuart karl improperly bankrolled his campaigns
when we needed fliers printed or a chartered plane, stuart managed to get it done,'' one source told the associated press. ``(dennis) walto was a full-time advance man for hart and he was on karl's payroll. ...stuart picked up a variety of other things.''
hart said he was unaware of any wrongdoing, but: ``i will hold myself responsible for whatever happened and not shift any blame to anyone else. obviously a candidate cannot know every detail.''
he later acknowledged that several contributions from employees of karl were illegal and he was returning the money
the united states told secretary-general javier perez de cuellar today it will move next week to close the plo's observer mission at the united nations
perez de cuellar replied with a ``strong'' protest to u.s. ambassador herbert okun, according to u.n. spokesman francois giulaini
okun's letter to the u.n. chief says the justice department will initiate legal action to close the palestine liberation organization mission around march 21
it also says the united states will not try to close the mission until the litigation is resolved
giuliani said perez de cuellar's legal staff is ``studying options,'' but he refused to describe them or say if the united nations would join the litigation on behalf of the plo
the united nations released copies of okun's letter to the secretary-general during a press briefing after the two diplomats met this morning
giuliani said perez de cuellar ``strongly protested this violation of the headquarters agreement'' during the meeting
the letter also says that the united states refuses binding arbitration of the dispute over the mission, the worst confrontation ever between the united nations and its host country
the 159-nation general assembly, in a special meeting last month, asked the world court in the hague to rule on whether the united states must agree to arbitration. oral arguments are scheduled for april 11
u.n. officials and diplomats regard the threat to the plo mission as a challenge to the independence of the united nations
they and the state department have said the 1947 treaty under which new york became u.n. headquarters obliges the united states to let all accredited missions operate
even the united states' closest allies have denounced the attempt to close the mission and several arab diplomats have suggested that the general assembly move to geneva if the mission here is closed
it was not clear if the assembly would convene again to consider the dispute
last year, the state department closed down the only other plo office in the united states, an information office in washington, in what turned out to be a futile attempt to head off legislation ordering the u.n. mission closed
despite this and despite the headquarters treaty, congress passed an anti-terrorism law in december ordering the mission closed by march 21
the united states and israel consider the plo a terrorist organization. but the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate spokesman for palestinians. picking up 5th graf pvs, `sparks and ....'</note>
two people who claim they have information that could clear a condemned murderer said today they were disappointed the governor refused to meet with them to discuss the case, which has become a rallying point for death penalty opponents
the rev. sam sparks, a baptist minister, and christine bass, a lakeland secretary, appeared at a news conference with amnesty international officials to discuss about information they believe might clear willie jasper darden of murder
darden is under his seventh death warrant and is scheduled for electrocution tuesday for the 1973 slaying of a furniture store owner
no other florida inmate has survived as many death warrants and only one other prisoner has been on florida's death row longer
i know willie darden is innocent. it is not a belief; it is a knowledge,'' said ms. bass, who said her attempts to give vital information to darden's trial attorney 14 years ago were rebuffed
gov. bob martinez refused to meet with the two, and an aide said the governor is satisfied that the evidence sparks and ms. bass were talking about had been considered and rejected by the courts
this is not about public sentiment. it's about the law and carrying out the law,'' press secretary jon peck said in explaining why martinez decided against the meeting
i think a lot of people in florida are wondering why he won't sit down for even 15 minutes with ms. bass and me. that seems reasonable,'' sparks said at the news conference
sparks and ms. bass, who have signed affidavits that raise questions about whether darden could have committed the crime, have appeared on television news programs to repeat those statements
supporters say darden, who is black, was the victim of racial prejudice in his trial
he was convicted of killing lakeland store owner james turman during a robbery that netted $15. a store employee also was shot and permanently disabled, while turman's wife had to fend off a sexual attack as her husband lay dying
sparks said turman's wife had told him that all blacks looked alike to her and that her identification of darden was unimportant because the lawyers had told her that darden committed the crime
helen baum, formerly helen turman, recently denied having made that statement to sparks and reaffirmed her identification of darden as the man who shot her husband
ms. bass, a lakeland secretary, said darden's car had broke down near her home, and he waited for a tow truck from 4 p.m. to 5:35 p.m. on sept. 8, 1973. her house was eight miles from the furniture store. prosecutors say the crime occurred about 6 p.m
as ms. bass and sparks made their claims, a sixth warrant against darden was stayed and the u.s. supreme court agreed to consider his appeal for the fourth time
on monday, the u.s. supreme court ruled 6-3 that darden had received a fair trial and had been properly sentenced
the governor siged a seventh death warrant tuesday, which gave the inmate's attorneys less than a week to prepare his case. usually, at least 30 days are allowed
amnesty international officials said martinez was rushing to execute darden for political reasons
i think what the governor is looking for some kind of ritualistic sacrifice that he can go through to prove he's tough on crime,'' said magdaleno rose-avila, national director of amnesty international's campaign to abolish the death penalty
she said the governor's popularity waned after the controversy last year over a state sales tax on services. the governor originally backed the tax but later repudiated it
peck, the governor's spokesman, said politics had no bearing on the new death warrant
peck said martinez had instituted a new policy recently to schedule executions on subsequent warrants within 20 days, rather than 30 days, which he said would have put the execution near the good friday and easter holidays
it seemed like kind of an inappropriate time,'' peck said
darden attorney mark olive said he wasn't sure when he would file an execution appeal
when martinez signed the sixth death warrant in darden's case earlier this year, soviet dissident andrei sakharov, american actress margot kidder and british rock star peter gabriel urged clemency for darden
darden, 54, has been on death row since jan. 29, 1974. a prolific writer, he is nicknamed the ``poet of death row.''
italy's big league stylists said friday that five days of presentations of deluxe ready-to-wear clothes for next fall and winter went better than expected
strong trends such as the new, smaller silhouette and a revival of pants caught the interest of the fashion traders in milan. revitalized classics coupled with the high quality italian fabrics and workmanship contributed to the success
fear of the low buying power of the dollar had caused the italians to step carefully. the result was a simplified silhouette with plenty of commercially valid, wearable clothes
rigid cost control and the use of less opulent materials by some fashion companies kept price tags within reasonable limits. fashion houses reported price increases of never more than 10 percent above last year's prices
jitters regarding competition from avant-garde foreign designers _ the french in particular _ also showed signs of subsiding as orders rolled in
the general good health of italian fashion houses is demonstrated by their continuous expansion into profitable market sectors outside their ready-to-wear lines. perfumes, furs, eyeglasses, footwear, pens and watches are just some of the sidelines that stylists sign to promote their name and make money
perhaps the most successful part of the milan shows was the renewed interest in pants
pants are what it's all about,'' said kal ruttenstein, senior vice president-fashion director at bloomingdales
sal ruggiero, fashion director at marshall field and company of chicago, called them ``a great option'' until skirt lengths settle down
armani, mario valentino and krizia showed them in easy-fitting versions. ferre, versace and genny preferred a tighter look
pants frequently were cut high to emphasize the waist
the new tiny jacket, cropped at the waist and with tight-fitting sleeves, is a keynote of the well-bred trend. equally important is the tailored city coat modeled on riding jacket lines, flaring out from a fitted top
armani showed a winner in glen plaid and then repeated it in velvet for a formal evening. chalk-stripe gray flannel was the fabric choice used by other designers for this shape
on the same refined wavelength are the dickensian-style frock coats shown by romeo gigli, one of italy's youngest designers in the top slot. he continues to use his favorite knit fabrics for styles that fit as tight as a second skin, a habit copied by many of his colleagues
lots of boots, clinging tight as stockings, came in flat- or high-heeled versions and heralded a return of the footwear after several seasons
fake furs enjoyed another revival. fendi, byblos and armani for emporio produced some of the most beautiful
many of the biggest names in italian fashion will participate in ``moda italia,'' in new york. the show promoted by the italian trade commission will run from march 31 to april 17 in new york and then move to other cities. airfield. no pickup</note>
prince charles today said he and others in his party knew the risks of skiing off marked trails before an avalanche killed a companion and injured another in a ``whirling maelstrom.''
in a statement read to reporters shortly before the royal party flew from zurich airport to london, prince charles said:
i would like to emphazise that all members of my party, including myself, were skiing off the piste (trail) at our own risk and we all accepted ... that the mountains have to be treated with the greatest respect and not treated lightly.''
the handwritten statement, read by a press spokesman, also described thursday's tragedy in the mountains near the alpine resort of klosters
the snow slide missed the prince but killed a close friend, army maj. hugh lindsay, 34. another friend, patricia palmer-tomkinson, was knocked unconscious and suffered fractures of both legs
when the avalanche started, with a trememdous roaring, bruno sprechter (a guide), charles palmer-tomkinson, the swiss policeman and myself all managed by a great good fortune to ski to one side
to my horror, maj. hugh lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson just failed to ski clear and were swept away in a whirling maelstrom as the whole mountainside seemed to hurtle past us to the valley below,'' the prince said
it was all over in a terrifying matter of seconds,'' the prince said
charles, his wife, diana, and sister-in-law, the duchess of york, landed at northolt, a royal air force base 11 miles west of london, this afternoon aboard a queen's flight aircraft after a 1{-hour from zurich. the plane carried lindsay's coffin
lindsay's pregnant widow, sarah, was at northolt when the royal party, wearing black, arrived. the 34-year-old press officer at buckingham palace watched from a vip lounge as eight officers from her husband's royal lancers regiment carried the coffin from the aircraft
she is expecting her first baby in may
earlier today, a doctor said charles' quick rescue efforts helped save the life of mrs. palmer-tomkinson, who was buried under the snowslide with lindsay
elsa rauch, a doctor who was flown to the scene, said charles and others dug out mrs. palmer-tomkinson
they were so fast that they dug her out in a few minutes and i would say they saved her life,'' she told the bbc. ``he (charles) helped to dig her out with his own hands. he was very controlled. he talked to the lady.''
witnesses said charles was distraught, in tears and trembling when a helicopter came to take him away from the scene
british newspapers clamored today for charles and other royals to abandon dangerous pursuits
charles is the next king. ... that means he must be ... safeguarded, if need be from himself,'' the daily mirror admonished in an editorial
the loose snow cascaded down as charles, 39, and five companions were skiing at about 5,800 feet in an area that was off the main skiing trails. authorities earlier in the day had warned it was prone to avalanches
diana and the duchess, the former sarah ferguson, were safe in a chalet when the avalanche struck. sarah is married to charles' younger brother, prince andrew, and is expecting the couple's first child in august
mrs. palmer-tomkinson regained consciousness after mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on the scene. a helicopter took her to davos, where she underwent surgery for multiple fractures of both legs and was reported in satisfactory condition this morning in a hospital intensive care unit
it was the royal family's worst accident since prince william of gloucester, a cousin of the queen, died when his sports plane crashed during an air race in 1972
lindsay, a former aide of the queen, was a close friend of charles and diana, who attended his high-society wedding last july. he frequently accompanied the royal couple on the annual ski holiday
the palmer-tomkinsons also vacation with charles and diana annually at klosters
vietnam's premier pham hung, who joined the communist movement when he was 16 and played a key role in defeating the united states in the vietnam war, has died of a heart attack. he was 75
the domestic vietnamese radio, quoting official communiques, said hung died early thursday afternoon ``while working in ho chi minh city (formerly saigon) and other southern provinces.''
it said the council of ministers named a vice premier, vo van kiet, as acting premier until the national assembly chooses a permanent successor
kiet, in his late 70s, is chairman of the state planning commission and is regarded by western analysts as the leading proponent of western-style reforms aimed at resolving the country's economic crisis
hung was a member of the ``old guard,'' a small group of revolutionaries who took up radical politics in their teens, joined the communist party in the 1930s and over the next half-century guided it to victory over the french, japanese and americans
some western diplomats say that in recent years, hung had been in bad health and did not have a central role in important policy decisions
his death was the latest in a series of recent major upheavals in the vietnamese leadership
party chief le duan died in mid-1986. his successor, truong chinh, and two other top party officials resigned in december 1986, when the sixth national party congress elevated more pragmatic party officials to positions of power
in june 1987, hung replaced pham van dong, who had been premier since 1955
the radio said that ``in the last minute of his life, comrade pham hung ... has closed his eyes like a combatant who has fallen in the battlefield.''
the broadcast announced three days of national mourning, from sunday to tuesday, when the funeral will be held
hung was born on june 11, 1912 in vinh long province, now called cuu long province, in the mekong river delta of southern vietnam
at the age of 16, he declared himself a radical, his activities eventually leading to his expulsion from secondary school
he joined the indochinese communist party in 1930, the year it was founded by ho chi minh. the following year, hung was arrested by french authorities and sentenced to death
after the penalty was commuted, hung spent the next decade and a half in hard labor at the notorious prison island of poulo condore
hung was released when communist forces came to power in north vietnam in 1945 and spent the next nine years of the war against the french in key party positions in south vietnam
after the french defeat at dien bien phu, hung rose rapidly in party and government ranks and returned to north vietnam. he entered the politburo in 1956 and two years later became vice premier of north vietnam
hung played key roles in the 1960-75 war against the u.s.-backed government of south vietnam. he was sent south in 1967 as secretary of the south vietnam commission of the party's central committee and as political commissar of the south vietnam liberation armed forces, commonly known as the viet cong
in 1975, he served as the political commissar of the ho chi minh campaign, the final north vietnamese offensive which climaxed with the capture of saigon on april 30
he became a vice premier in 1976, and in 1980 was named interior minister, a powerful post that deals with internal security. at the december 1986 party congress, he moved up to the no. 2 slot in the party politburo, behind the newly-chosen party general secretary, nguyen van linh
in 1987, he was replaced as interior minister in a major government reshuffle. that june, the national assembly named hung to replace dong, a veteran diplomat who was the only premier communist vietnam had ever had
given his age and conservative reputation, western diplomats said hung probably was elevated as a ``transitional'' figure who would pave the way for younger technocrats to preside over economic reforms
the national assembly on friday extended a state of emergency invoked feb. 26 during post-election riots in the capital of this western african nation
the violence broke out after the announcement that senegalese president abdou diouf, of the socialist party, had won re-election to a second five-year term. police waged running battles with stone-throwing protesters, and city businesses and homes of governing party officials were damaged
diouf's chief opponent, abdoulaye wade, of the senegalese democratic party, was charged by the government wednesday with 12 other opposition leaders in connection with the violence
diouf's party holds 103 of 120 seats in the assembly. under senegalese law, the president is required to gain its approval to extend the state of emergency
senegal has a democratic tradition with 17 political parties and a press that often criticizes the government
women who enter a public restroom have a legal right to expect the same privacy they have in their homes or offices, the state superior court ruled
the court rejected claims by a man convicted on felony trespass charges after he entered the ladies' room of the society hill club. his attorney contended that anthony white should have been found guilty only of ``defiant trespass,'' a misdemeanor, because the club was open to public access and, therefore, so were all restrooms
we deem the ladies' room to be a separately secured or occupied portion of the structure housing the society hill club,'' the said wednesday in upholding the felony trespass finding of a lower court
the trial court stated that the criminal trespass statute gives legal protection to the expectation of privacy that the occupants of the smaller units (within a structure or building) would realistically assume. the court concluded that the legislature intended to afford occupants of a restroom the same protection afforded occupants of an office.''
in other words, ``all women in the restroom may exclude all men, even those legitimately in the club,'' the court added
an aerobics instructor was alone in the restroom when white entered it, according to the court. white rifled through the contents of the woman's gym bag, made indecent propositions to her and used obscene language and gestures, the court said
white was sentenced to 1{ to three years in prison after being convicted of felony trespass and attempted robbery in philadelphia common pleas court in 1987
nearly 6,000 political activists have been imprisoned since the opposition launched its anti-government campaign last october, it was reported friday
holiday, an independent english-language weekly, said that about 6,000 people were ``languishing'' in jails
home secretary kamaluddin choudhury denied the report and said the figure was too high
most of the political prisoners arrested in recent months have been freed,'' he said
choudhury, however, declined to say how many activists were in jail
bangladesh's top opposition leaders, sheik hasina and khaleda zia, claim that more than 10,000 people have been detained by the security forces since late october
the women have been spearheading an opposition campaign to oust president hussain muhammad ershad, a former army general who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1982. their parties, the awami league and the bangladesh nationalist party, boycotted the march 3 parliamentary elections along with other major opposition groups
ershad's jatiya party gained a majority in the polls
the opposition parties will observe march 16 as ``release the detainees day'' to pressure the government to release the political workers, most of whom are being held under the special powers act. the act allows imprisonment for one month without the filing of formal charges. caused by inflammed heart. pick up 4th graf pvs: ``there was...''</note>
pop singer andy gibb died of an inflamed heart caused most likely by a virus, not drug or alcohol abuse, doctors said today
the oxford coroner's office said an autopsy showed that gibb, 30, died naturally of a heart condition
the statements came after bee gees singer robin gibb angrily denied reports that his brother's death was related to drug abuse
constable michael harvey of the oxford coroner's office said that since the cause of death was natural, an inquest would not be conducted
mr. gibb died from inflammation of the heart of the sort commonly caused by a virus. there is no evidence that his death was related to drink or drugs,'' said a statement from the john radcliffe hospital in oxford where the singer died thursday
gibb had followed his brothers, who formed the bee gees rock group, to stardom in the late 1970s
there was no question of andy using drugs. i don't know where that story came from, but there is absolutely no truth in it. he was not using cocaine again,'' robin gibb told reporters at heathrow airport. british tabloids had said drug abuse may have caused the death
it was so unexpected,'' he said. ``andy had been ill with stomach pains for about four days.''
robin gibb, 39, was at the airport to meet his 72-year-old father, hughie, who was arriving from los angeles
press association, the domestic british news agency, said gibb was admitted to john radcliffe hospital on monday, discharged, and readmitted wednesday night after complaining of stomach pains
a hospital spokesman said the two-time grammy award nominee died at 8:45 a.m. thursday in the hospital, 50 miles northwest of london
in 1982, gibb acknowledged he became heavily involved in drugs and dropped his career after the break-up of his highly publicized relationship with television star victoria principal
three years later, he entered the betty ford rehabilitation center in rancho mirage, calif., for treatment of a cocaine habit
a spokesman for island records ltd., who spoke on condition of anonymity, said gibb signed a contract two months ago and would have started working on a new album this spring
gibb, who at times sang in a falsetto voice, had a string of hits in the late 1970s and early 1980s. his chart-toppers included ``i just want to be your everything,'' ``love is thicker than water,'' ``shadow dancing,'' ``everlasting love,'' and ``our love (don't throw it all away).''
despite his successful solo career, gibb never fully emerged from the shadow of his older superstar brothers, maurice, robin and barry, who formed the bee gees. last year, gibb went into bankruptcy proceedings in miami, where he had been living
but his miami lawyer, john kozyak, said gibb's bankruptcy was discharged in january, his debts were settled, and he ``was back on his feet and in good spirits and trying to put together a record contract.''
gibb was divorced from his wife, kim, in 1978. the couple had one child, a daughter, peta, 12
in addition to his singing career, gibb had a stint as a co-host on tv's ``solid gold,'' the syndicated musical variety show, but he was fired in 1982 for missing too many tapings
chronic absenteeism also cost gibb the title role of the broadway musical ``joseph and the amazing technicolor dreamcoat.'' after opening dec. 1, 1982 to generally favorable notices, gibb was fired the following month for missing 12 performances
president oscar arias, winner of the 1987 nobel peace prize for his central american peace plan, said the united states and soviet union should give the region a chance to work out its problems on its own
in an interview with the associated press, arias said he also has urged president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev to include central america as a topic in their next summit
stressing that the purpose of his peace plan was to ``build bridges,'' arias said he had received indications from both united states and soviet union that the superpowers will discuss the issue
i went to the u.s. congress to ask congressmen to give us central americans an opportunity to work out our problems,'' arias said in the interview, conducted thursday. ``but i cannot do the same thing in the soviet union because of the nature of its regime, radically different from the pluralistic democracy system of the west.''
arias said he was pleased that nicaragua's contra rebels had agreed to meet with nicaraguan government representatives inside that country and without a mediator for cease-fire talks. previous peace talks have been held outside the country and were mediated by nicaragua's roman catholic bishop
arias described a nicaraguan cease-fire as the ``key ... that would then open other possibilities'' for peace
but he expressed regrets that the soviet union continued to provide aid to leftist guerrilla movements in central america
i cannot use the soviet union's media and ask its government to give us the same chance i requested from the u.s. congress. i see where the soviet union continues to help guerrilla movements in central america and, in the last few months, as never before, is helping the sandinista governemnt militarily,'' he added
the war in nicaragua is one of the central american conflicts that arias hopes will be resolved as a result of his peace plan, which also seeks to end guerrilla wars in el salvador and honduras, bring democracy to the entire region, and end foreign aid to insurgents
the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, honduras, and guatemala joined arias in signing the plan last august
arias said that if the united states and soviet union include central america's armed conflicts in their summit agenda, ``it would be very important for us to show between now and then that some progress has been made toward reaching a regional political solution.''
we have an opportunity, as never before, to find peace in central america,'' arias said. ``if we do not, those who come after us will feel less of a commitment to search for it.''
arias said a problem with making the peace plan work has been a lack of consistency between what is being said and done
there can be no peace without democracy in our region. they must go hand in hand,'' he said. ritalin</head>
a group formed by the church of scientology has filed five medical malpractice lawsuits in massachusetts against physicians who prescribed the drug ritalin to children to control supposed hyperactivity
the citizens commission for human rights claims ritalin is dangerous and over-prescribed
the maker of the drug, not named in any of the suits, denied all the group's claims friday
dennis clarke, president of the commission that was formed in 1969, read aloud from medical and psychiatric journals to back up the group's claims when the group announced the suits thursday with attorneys and two mothers who are plaintiffs. the suits do not request specific damages
too often, clarke said, teachers and school officials complain that a child is too active and suggest to parents that the child be taken to a pediatrician who recommends ritalin without careful examination
clarke said ritalin use requires increased dosage over time. withdrawal results in depression and can sometimes result in suicidal behavior, he claimed. he also cited medical journals in his claim that ritalin has been shown to cause psychotic episodes in children
such claims were all denied friday by ciba-geigy corp. spokeswoman gloria martini in summit, n.j., who said she has never seen in medical journals any of the claims clarke cited
ritalin has been out there for over 30 years and it has a long history of experience for physicians who use it,'' mrs. martini said. ``there is no evidence that it is addictive when used as directed.''
she said it has a potential for abuse, however
ciba-geigy introduced ritalin to the u.s. market in 1955. in 1987 it was used by an estimated 600,000 to 700,000 patients, mrs. martini said
clarke said he spoke briefly to attorneys representing rod matthews, the 15-year-old canton boy convicted of second-degree murder in the bludgeoning a classmate with a baseball bat. matthews' attorneys claimed the teen-ager had been taking ritalin and that it may have triggered the violent episode
susan marshall of hingham, mother of a child placed on ritalin and a plaintiff in one of the suits, said ritalin was prescribed for her ``normal, happy, well-adjusted'' son when he began to have slight handwriting problems in the first grade
i was not given any diagnosis, i was never told about any side effects,'' said mrs. marshall
her son took the drug for six months and became angry, hostile, moody and stopped eating most meals, she said. a neurologist later discovered his problem stemmed from slight brain damage
rita lassiter of new bedford said her son, matthew, was first described as ``too active'' by his kindergarten teachers and was given ritalin after a 10-minute examination by a pediatrician
bernard portnoy, who prescribed the drug for matthew lassiter, said he was unaware of the lawsuit against him
of ritalin, he said, ``i think it can be of help when it's used properly. it can be helpful in many cases.''
mrs. lassiter said matthew's condition worsened after taking the drug but said she did not make the connection until a few years later. when matthew was taken off the drug, he became so disoriented and troubled that he had to be hospitalized. now 11, he is unable to attend school, his vision is blurred and his growth is stunted, mrs. lassiter said. up 3rd graf pvs, `usdane `ought ...;' subs 14th-15th grafs pvs, `the governor ...,' with 2 grafs to conform.</note>
a former top aide to gov. evan mecham testified today that he believed the governor was loyal to a state official accused of making a death threat because the man had been an effective campaign fund-raiser
former special assistant sam steiger, who faces a criminal extortion charge unrelated to mecham's case, testified at the governor's impeachment trial that mecham has a ``dangerous tendency of extreme loyalty'' to people who have helped him
mecham felt such loyalty toward lee watkins, who is accused of making a death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson, steiger said. ms. carlson was about to testify before a grand jury investigating the governor's campaign finances
mecham is accused of trying to thwart an investigation of the alleged threat
during thursday's testimony, mecham's defense lawyer angered senators by accusing the senate majority leader of showing ``overwhelming'' bias against the governor during his impeachment trial
jerris leonard lashed out at majority leader bob usdane when the republican lawmaker questioned whether the impeached governor's new lawyers erred when they said weeks ago they were ready to defend mecham
usdane ``ought to show a little more impartiality,'' said leonard. ``his bias and prejudice are overwhelming,'' and under normal trial circumstances he should be disqualified, the attorney said
for months, usdane has been accused by some lawmakers of being too accommodating toward mecham's gop administration
leonard's attack came during testimony on an accusation that mecham tried to block an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official. testimony on that charge was expected to continue today
usdane called the lawyer's blast ``ill-conceived.''
i don't think i'm biased,'' the majority leader added. ``i swore an oath to go (make a decision) based on the evidence and that's what i'll go on.''
minority leader alan stephens also took issue with leonard's statement
maybe they figured they've lost their case, and are going to go one by one trying to create controversy,'' stephens said. ``if that's so, we're all in for a very unpleasant time.''
the controversy arose when usdane challenged leonard's contention that he should be allowed to question a witness on matters not specified earlier because there had not been enough time to prepare for trial
the senator asked whether that countered an affidavit by mecham's new lawyers certifiying they were ready shortly before the trial began feb. 29
leonard joined mecham's defense team a week before the trial opened, and the governor's original defense lawyer resigned three days later
mecham, 63, is also accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from a state protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. he faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of hiding the $350,000 loan, and a may 17 recall election
the governor is accused of ordering department of public safety director ralph milstead not to cooperate with a probe of the alleged threat last november against ms. carlson, a former mecham aide about to testify before a grand jury about the $350,000 loan
peggy griffith, head of the governor's office of women's services, testified last week that watkins, then the state prison construction chief, threatened ms. carlson's life during the second of two conversations nov. 12
the defense sought thursday to discredit mrs. griffith with testimony from her secretary, terri fields, who said her boss ``tends to exaggerate things a little'' and was not thorough in her work
when asked for an example of an exaggeration by mrs. griffith, ms. fields said she could not think of one. ms. fields testified she did not believe the second conversation between mrs. griffith and watkins ever happened
maybe she did have the conversation with lee watkins, but i don't believe that a threat came out of it,'' ms. fields said
ray russell, the only one of mecham's original special assistants still on his staff a year after the governor took office, testified that administration officials felt that ``every time you turned around it looked like somebody was investigating us for breaking the law.''
i know what's in his (mecham's) heart,'' russell said. ``i find him to be an honest, sincere man.''
mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required for a conviction that could bar him from ever holding public office again. bgng ``there's more...</note>
favorite son jesse jackson, looking for a warm homecoming in south carolina in saturday's democratic caucuses, said today ``it's get out the vote time'' in the state that gave him one of his few 1984 wins
jackson told about 250 supporters at the university of south carolina that the new challenge for the south is to ``find common ground where the people can come together.''
most political experts and campaign officials in the state agreed that jackson was the clear front-runner in the caucuses
there's more suspense over how close tennessee sen. albert gore jr. can come to jackson and the division of delegates, 44 of which are at stake saturday
south carolina's democratic leaders decided against following the crowd on super tuesday, when all of the other southern states held primaries
the candidates are relying on grass-roots organizing, telephone banks and direct mail to lure democrats to the caucus; gore is also buying television advertisements
gore, who was campaigning in greenville, columbia and charleston today, has the largest organization in the state and the most endorsements from elected officials, who wield strong influence at the caucuses
missouri rep. richard gephardt, who traveled across the state wednesday and thursday, has a skeletal organization. but his few endorsements from elected officials are the biggest _ former govs. dick riley and robert mcnair and all of the south carolina democratic congressmen who have chosen sides
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has an even smaller local organization and virtually no endorsements from elected officials
but dukakis' strong super tuesday showing will help earn him a chunk of votes saturday, barry weiner, dukakis' national campaign co-chairman, said thursday in columbia
all of the competing state campaigns except gore's have conceded that jackson will win the lion's share of the 44 delegates at stake
i don't think there is any doubt that jesse jackson will win,'' said bill prince, gephardt's state coordinator
house speaker robert sheheen, gore's state chairman, said ``there's really no way of knowing'' whether the tennessee senator can upset jackson. ``we're not conceding anything to anybody.''
gore is promoting his strong ties to the south and a strong defense, which plays well in the palmetto state
gephardt is hoping to use his trade policy to gain votes in the state, which has seen its largest industry _ textiles _ severely weakened by cheap foreign imports. his first stop wednesday was a textile plant in aiken county that is scheduled to close next month and put 420 people out of work
between a quarter and a half of south carolina democrats traditionally remain uncommitted at the caucus meetings to give themselves more maneuvering room through the nominating process. they usually choose a candidate at the county or state convention
that leaves relatively few delegates for the candidates to divide up saturday. but in a tight national race in which no candidate has been able to take a decisive lead, every one helps
this certainly increases the importance of south carolina because the delegate count is so close,'' said kevin gray, state coordinator for jackson
thailand's envoy urged the united states on friday not to cut quotas for indochinese refugees to make room for armenians fleeing the soviet union
if more armenians are permitted into the united states the quotas for eastern europe should be raised and the quotas for indochina should be left alone, ambassador arsa sarasin told a news conference
the u.s. budget currently permits the annual entry of 68,500 refugees from around the world, including 23,000 from indochina. thailand, where 400,000 indochinese refugees reside, mostly in camps, is pressing continuously for higher quotas
the united states must not cut the quota and give it to eastern europe,' sarasin said
the reagan administration is in the process of deciding what to do about a massive increase in applications for entry from residents of soviet armenia
according to state department records, armenians are applying for asylum at a rate of 1,500 a month, compared with 200 applicants in all of 1985 and 200 to 300 a month as recently as 1987. up to 12,000 armenians are reportedly waiting to come to the united states
a current wave of ethnic protests in armenia has highlighted some of the dissatisfaction there toward soviet government policies in the region
sarasin said he felt better about the situation after jonathan moore, director of the state department's division of refugee affairs, told a congressional hearing feb. 24 that no decision to alter quotas had been made
a u.s. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said however that changes were possible under some of the options being considered by an interagency group
the group may decide to reallocate quotas, grant emergency quotas for the armenians, or slow down processing of refugees to pay for the influx from armenia
relations between the united states and thailand have been in a somewhat sour state lately, mostly because of the refugee problem. after years of providing asylum to people fleeing cambodia, vietnam and laos, resistance is growing in thailand to the continuing influx
leaders there have accused the united states, australia, canada and other resettlement countries of failing to live up to commitments to find new homes for the refugees
thailand cannot bear the burden indefinitely,'' sarasin said. ``there is a limit to our capacity.''
moore and other u.s. officials have been sympathetic to thailand's concerns and have sought higher refugee quotas. at the same time, they have criticized inhumane treatment of refugees in thailand
such treatment has included the closing of some camps, the pushing of boats laden with refugees out to sea and the forced repatriation of lao tribesmen seeking a haven in thailand. up 6th graf pvs, `bruecher had ....'</note>
the captain of a continental airlines flight that crashed last november, killing 28 people and injuring 54, generally performed well when he was tested on a dc-9, a flight trainer testified today at a federal hearing
however, the co-pilot, first officer lee bruecher, 26, was at the controls of continental flight 1713 when it crashed at denver's stapleton international airport on nov. 15. both the pilot and co-pilot were killed
on thursday, a different flight trainer testified that bruecher had trouble with takeoffs and landings during his simulator training on the dc-9
in testimony today before national transportation safety board officials investigating the accident, continental capt. james edward madsen said capt. frank zvonek did a good job on a test ride from denver to albuquerque, n.m., but he did not give himself as long a final approach as madsen would have liked and did not allow enough visual clearance behind a small aircraft
i would have given myself another mile or two of spacing,'' said madsen, but added, ``it was not a down or unsatisfactory flight at all.''
continental pilot trainer j.e. summerville's testimony thursday about bruecher's performance highlighted the third day of the four-day ntsb hearing. the board is trying to identify factors that caused the dc-9 to crash moments after takeoff
bruecher was a good student but had problems with takeoffs and landings, and summerville once had to ``freeze'' the training simulator to avoid a crash during a practice landing, he said thursday
bruecher ``had trouble controlling altitude and airspeed within reasonable limits,'' summerville wrote, and repeated one course of the seven-part flight simulator training
however, at the conclusion of the training, summerville said, he recommended bruecher for the federal aviation administration proficiency test needed to fly a specific kind of airplane
bruecher finished a proficiency check on sept. 14, 1987, with another instructor who graded his performance ``average'' and began his initial operating experience as a line pilot with continental on oct. 2. at the time of the crash, he had only 36 hours piloting dc-9s, ntsb investigators have said
zvonek had 198 hours on a dc-9 with only the previous 33 hours as captain
ntsb officials on thursday also questioned capt. dave dickerson, manager of continental's dc-9 program at houston, about training procedures. dickerson said he saw no correlation between bruecher's level of experience and the problems he experienced
de-icing was another subject of testimony
summerville said he instructs pilots during training to re-evaluate the condition of their aircraft if 20 minutes or more elapse between the time the plane is de-iced and takeoff
i tell them to look at the parts you can see from the cockpit, including the nose, the windshield wipers, unheated windows and any aircraft around you.''
depending on the weather conditions, summerville said, he sometimes would advise pilots to go into the cabin and look out at the wings. ``but we all know that's not the best way to look to see if you've got ice on the wings.'' a mechanic's inspection at the gate would be better, he said
earlier testimony showed that a mixup by air traffic officials delayed flight 1713's takeoff by minutes, but no conclusions were drawn on whether that had any role in the crash
also under investigation is the possibility that a wing vortex, or swirling wind triggered by another plane's wing moving through the air, could have contributed to the crash
authorities say it's just too bad: michael jackson cannot bring his pet chimpanzee bubbles along when he performs here this summer
the aftonbladet newspaper reported friday that the national board of agriculture has said ``definitely not'' to bubbles, a 3-year-old former laboratory chimp used for cancer research. sweden's stringent regulations impose quarantines of up to six months on most animals entering the country
if they can't have the rev. jimmy swaggart, riverfront coliseum officials say bruce springsteen will do. but their offer may be too late
after swaggart's last-minute cancellation, coliseum officials are trying to book the singer march 24-26
springsteen's agents previously had asked about those dates, but he was turned away because of the swaggart booking made a year earlier
now, however, springsteen is booked march 26 in lexington, ky., and chances of getting him to make a cincinnati stop are limited, said rich neumann, vice president for marketing at riverfront coliseum
we have approached them about playing us the 25th and lexington the 26th. we are guardedly optimistic,'' neumann said thursday
swaggart's agents canceled his engagement two weeks ago, after disclosures of his alleged misconduct and admission of an unspecified sin. the television preacher faces disciplinary action by the national assemblies of god for allegedly meeting with a reputed prostitute in suburban new orleans
sandra gubin, an american woman who championed the cause of soviets seeking to join their spouses in the united states, has been divorced from her soviet husband
district judge kenneth bronson agreed with her contention that aleksei lodisev married her solely to enter the united states
the defendant's entire testimony is shot through with evasiveness and contradictions,'' said bronson
gubin and lodisev were married in the soviet union in 1981, while gubin was studying in kiev. she returned to the united states and spent several years trying to get an exit visa for lodisev
she became a spokeswoman for the divided spouse coalition, a group of americans whose spouses have been denied exit visas
in january 1986, lodisev arrived in new york. eleven months later, gubin filed for divorce, saying he married her only to come to the united states
gubin was awarded $113,087 for lost wages, expenses for writing to political figures and medical expenses. ``there is scant likelihood of collection on the judgment,'' because of debts pending against lodisev, bronson said in his ruling tuesday
lodisev's lawyer, craig mckinnon, said he was unsure whether his client wanted to appeal. lodisev, who works for a computer company, had no comment
gubin, a doctoral student in political science at the university of michigan, said she felt vindicated, but sorry for lodisev
former astronaut james irwin, who made six unsuccessful trips to turkey in search of noah's ark, has begun searching for the egyptian chariots swallowed by the red sea when the israelites fled egypt
according to the book of exodus in the old testament, god parted the red sea for the fleeing israelites, then drowned the pursuing egyptians
irwin, his wife, mary, and three other coloradans accompanied an international team that spent about $250,000 and most of february retracing the israelites' steps. they spent a week diving unsuccessfully for evidence of the biblical episode
the purpose of the whole expedition was to retrace the exodus route from the region of cairo to the real mount sinai,'' irwin said thursday
irwin said no date has been set for another expedition
irwin, a member of the apollo 15 crew who walked on the moon in 1971, searched mount ararat six times between 1982 and 1987 without finding evidence of noah's ark
elizabeth taylor, a five-time divorcee, has been named ex-spouse of the year for bouncing back from years of ``sulking and feeling sorry for herself.''
last year's winner of the ex-spouse of the year was talk show host johnny carson, who has been divorced three times
the rev. roger coleman, who has launched a nationwide campaign to observe april 1 as the second annual ex-spouses day, said friday that ms. taylor ``is a symbol of broken relationships ... and made such a comeback.''
coleman, a disciples of christ minister with the community christian church in kansas city, has been divorced once. he said he has mailed packets of information to 7,500 singles organizations across the country
coleman said that although there is an element of humor in ex-spouses day, he's also seeking more responsible behavior between spouses ``so the children can be taken better care of.''
coleman said he chose ms. taylor because, ``for many years she seemed to be sulking and feeling sorry for herself, but now she is making contributions to society,'' such as fund-raising for aids research. freeway</head> similar incident 10 years ago; inserts 2 grafs after 7th graf, ``he has ...,' with two visits to house, details. inserts 2 grafs after 14th graf, `finally, he ...,' with negotiations. deletes outdated 5th graf pvs, ``so far ....' ^by steve geissinger</note>
a truck driver surrendered to police this morning after he stormed into his estranged wife's home and fired six blasts from a shotgun, then jackknifed his rig on a busy freeway, authorities said
one shot was fired a short time before the incident ended about 7:25 a.m., but police said it was not aimed at them and nobody was injured
ronald stone, 34, was taken to solano county jail to be booked for investigation of attempted murder, according to police lt. gary mallory
it was a replay of a similar incident from a decade ago, according to police chief gary tatum, who said stone then held off police with a gun in a domestic dispute and spent some time in jail as a result
the truck driver had threatened to shoot anyone who approached, police said. officers from three agencies surrounded the section of interstate 80 where stone sat in the vehicle with ``lots of ammunition,'' said mallory
a special weapons and tactics unit from the police department, california highway patrol officers and solano county sheriff's deputies rushed to the area
he has a 12-gauge shotgun and he fired six rounds while at his wife's home, four inside and two outside,'' mallory said
tatum said jackie stone first called police at 12:46 a.m. to report her husband was at the door and appeared to be drunk. by the time officers arrived, he was gone
tatum said they received a second call about half an hour later saying stone had returned
stone, who separated from his wife about a month ago, kicked in the front door of the house
after telling the couple's three children it was time for their mother ``and him to die,'' stone began beating his wife, mallory said
his mother-in-law and the children fled from the house, and stone's wife managed to escape soon after, police said
when officers arrived, stone threatened to kill himself, holding the shotgun beneath his chin with a finger poised on the trigger, mallory said
finally, he leaped into his unmarked tractor-trailer rig and, with police pursuing, headed for the freeway, the officer said. there, stone jackknifed the truck, leaving the cab stuck in the median and the trailer jutting into traffic
police talked with stone, first by cb radio and then, after he stopped, via a field telephone tossed into the cab
after firing a final blast out the window of the truck, stone gave up. he suffered minor powder burns from the shotgun, but was otherwise unhurt
the highway patrol closed the freeway in both directions, jamming one of the main arteries leading to the san francisco bay area and the state capital in sacramento. graf pvs bgng ``the precinct delegates...</note>
jesse jackson finished first in alaska's democratic precinct caucuses, posting a narrow victory over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in a nonbinding preference poll announced today
with about 90 percent of alaska's 442 precincts reporting, jackson claimed 872 delegates, or 35 percent of the total, to dukakis' 769 delegates, or 31 percent
a close third, however, were 768 delegates, or 31 percent, who were uncommitted
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. finished a distant fourth, with 47 delegates or 2 percent, followed by illinois sen. paul simon with 18 delegates, less than 1 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt, 16 delegates for less than 1 percent
henry lancaster, statewide coordinator for the jackson campaign, said that with blacks comprising just 3 percent of alaska's population, his candidate's appeal came from the anti-drug and economic issues he's been voicing around the nation
this state has a lot of working-class people who've come from the south, the midwest and the northwest,'' lancaster said. ``in down times, people are looking for solutions. and this is a down time.''
that reference was to the collapse of alaska's oil-fired economy. about 85 percent of the state's budget is supported by oil revenues, and world oil prices are less than half what they were three years ago
the democrats chose 2,496 delegates in caucuses around the state thursday night. the caucuses were open to any registered democrat and anyone who wished to register at the door
the precinct delegates selected thursday will meet at 27 district caucuses on april 9-10. they will select 390 delegates to attend the state convention in fairbanks on may 13-15
none of the delegates chosen before the state convention is bound to a particular candidate
the 12 delegates emerging from the state convention will attend the national convention in atlanta in july. those delegates will be bound to a specific candidate for at least the first ballot. graf, on the</note>
democrat gary hart dropped out of the presidential campaign today, saying ``i got a fair hearing and the people have decided,'' as republicans bob dole and pat robertson vowed to stay in the race
hart left the campaign last may after disclosure of his relationship with model donna rice but then rejoined it in december, declaring, ``let the people decide.''
today in denver, as he withdrew again, he said the people had had their say: ``clearly i should not go forward.''
hart failed to win any delegates in the primaries and caucuses, polled no more than 5 percent of the vote in any of the super tuesday primaries and lost his eligibility for further federal matching funds
my friends and supporters have given the word `loyalty' new meaning,'' he said. ``they've toiled tirelessly in an uphill fight.''
dole said today in remarks to illinois farm bureau leaders, ``i want to make certain you understand i am in this race.'' press reports had noted he had taken his television ads off the air in illinois and had drastically cut his campaign staff after being beaten by vice president george bush in 16 super tuesday contests
noting those reports, he said today, ``it's hard to focus on the issues sometimes because the press won't let us do that. they would rather write about how many staff you reduced your numbers by. i never thought that a campaign was a jobs program.''
in peoria, robertson said, ``i'm in it until new orleans (site of the republican national convention). it looks overwhelming for one of the republican candidates, but goliath was pretty overwhelming as well. we're going to win.''
five days before the illinois primary, democratic candidates participated in a televised forum thursday night, but in contrast to many of their joint appearances, not a cross word was exchanged
it was ``all sweetness and light,'' said illinois sen. paul simon after the forum sponsored by wls-tv and the roosevelt center for american policy studies
simon greeted people eating breakfast today at the golden nugget pancake house on the north side of chicago and predicted the democratic convention would need at least two ballots to choose its presidential nominee
i think i have as good a chance as anyone,'' he said
then simon stopped by the polish national alliance where he received the endorsement of the polish daily zgoda, a polish language newspaper
a washington post-abc news poll published today but conducted wednesday, the day after the super tuesday primaries and six days before illinois votes, said vice president george bush had the support of 58 percent of republicans
on the democratic side, simon was backed by 38 percent of the likely voters surveyed and chicago-based jesse jackson had support of 33 percent. the figures for simon and jackson were well within the 8 percentage point margin of error
in alaska, democratic officials said today that jackson finished first in the state's precinct caucuses, posting a narrow victory over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in a nonbinding preference poll, 34.9 percent to 31 percent
uncommitted caucus delegates ran a close third, with the other candidates far behind
rep. jack kemp of new york ended his presidential bid on thursday and said the idea of being the republican candidate for vice president was ``a very flattering and awesome thought.''
kemp declined to endorse any of the surviving candidates _ bush, dole and pat robertson _ describing them all as ``reagan conservatives.''
dole scotched rumors that he was about to join kemp on the campaign sidelines
bob dole's no dropout,'' he said in a statement issued in washington and illinois. ``i'm in this one to win.''
bush beat dole in all 16 super tuesday primaries and now has 705 national convention delegates compared to 165 for the kansas senator
dole did not say whether he would remain in the race if he loses to bush in illinois but an aide said, ``i think it's clear to dole that it's do or die.''
dole canceled all television commercials in illinois and ordered deep layoffs in his staff. an aide said the campaign was considering airing a 30-minute paid broadcast in the closing hours of the campaign
one bright spot for the kansas senator was the endorsement of the chicago tribune which said that bush's identification with president reagan, while a big help in republican primary contests, might be a handicap in the general election
nowhere have the republican candidates asked or answered the kind of harsh questions the democrats surely will raise in november about the reagan administration, whose colors mr. bush has been able to wave more furiously than anyone else,'' the newspaper said in an editorial headlined, ``why illinois should pick dole.''
robertson, who also had a disappointing day on super tuesday, also ordered deep staff cuts
we want to stay lean and mean,'' he said, declining to give the number of employees laid off
the vice president also was campaigning in the state in advance of tuesday's primary. illinois voters will elect delegates and also express their preferences in a beauty contest on the ballot
bush told a governors club luncheon in chicago that he was ``tired of being embarrassed'' by scandals involving government officials and he called for establishment of a white house ethics panel
bush has refused, however, to criticize any administration officials, including attorney general edwin meese iii, who have come under investigation by grand juries
a snowstorm caused south dakota democrats to postpone a statewide caucus called for saturday, when the party was to decide how to apportion 15 of the state's national convention delegates
it's a quality snowstorm,'' said rick hauffe, acting director of the south dakota democratic party. ``it really dumped.''
the friday storm was expected to leave from 4 to 18 inches of snow across the state
hauffe said the caucus has been rescheduled for march 19
missouri rep. richard gephardt won the state's democratic primary on feb. 23, but national party rules would not permit the election to have any directly binding effect on the national convention delegates
the dispute with the national party centered on the timing of the primary, which came two weeks earlier than allowed by national party rules
the statewide caucus, meeting within the time allowed by the national rules, was to decide whether to allocate the delegates among the presidential candidates in proportion to the primary results. under the rules, the caucus is free to use the primary results or reject them entirely, basing the allocation instead on the presidential preferences of the people attending the caucus
if the caucus decides to use the primary results, only gephardt and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis would qualify for any delegates
based on the primary results, gephardt would receive nine pedged delegates to the democratic national convention and dukakis would get six, party officials have said
a close aide to president suharto was sworn in as vice president friday despite opposition from the parliament's moslem faction and some members of the military
state secretary sudharmono was elected to the post earlier in the day, hours after suharto was sworn in for a fifth five-year term. the five factions of the people's consultative assembly reached a consensus to elect sudharmono after the moslem united development party dropped its candidate, party chairman jailani naro
the decision to withdraw naro's candidacy came after suharto named the 61-year-old sudharmono as his choice for vice president in a meeting with the assembly leadership
sudharmono was formally nominated by the governing golkar party, an acronym for the indonesian words ``golongan karya'' or functional group. he was also supported by the assembly's government-nominated military faction, the government-nominated provincial faction and the nationalist christian indonesian democratic party faction
suharto, 66, reportedly told golkar members last month that the next vice president should be able to lead the nation should the president become incapacitated
military sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said some members of the army had opposed his nomination. they supported instead the newly appointed armed forces commander, gen. try sutrisno, 52, a popular figure and a former suharto aide
an army general took to the podium following suharto's re-election thursday to protest nominating procedures for the vice president
we indonesian soldiers who believe in god and defend honesty and justice have heard rumors that the nomination of the vice president is not being fairly and correctly carried out,'' said brig. gen. ibrahim saleh, an assembly member from the government-nominated military faction
there are certain things that we feel are against our consience,'' said saleh, who was escorted out by assembly officials before he could finish his statement
sudharmono, a retired army lieutenant general, is a military lawyer by training. he became one of the country's leading bureaucrats after years of government apprenticeship, first under the late president sukarno and then as a founding member of the suharto administration
addressing the parliament after he was sworn in, sudharmono said an ability to work closely with the president was of extreme importance
i extend my deepest gratitude to president suharto for giving me this honor and trust to work with him in the coming five years,'' he said
authorities broadcast warnings friday to tibetan rebels to turn themselves in by march 20 or face punishment, according to a western source in the tibetan capital of lhasa
the source, a tibetan-speaking traveler, said vans with loudspeakers were driving through the city every hour repeating the same message
police with machine guns, meanwhile, remained posted in front of the city's holiest temple, the sprawling, white-washed jokhang temple, and on the roofs of nearby buildings, western tourists said. it was at the jokhang that last weekend's riots began
they're warning people to do their duty, report troublemakers. they'll be rewarded if they give information,'' the tibetan-speaking traveler said in a telephone interview from beijing
she said one announcement called ``for people to surrender _ people who were involved in the disturbances _ before the 20th, otherwise they would be punished.''
thousands of tibetans demanding independence from china stoned police and set bonfires throughout lhasa last saturday in a day of violence triggered when one buddhist monk stood up at a prayer festival and began shouting anti-chinese slogans
official reports said one chinese police officer and one tibetan were killed. however, an american traveler in lhasa who saw some of the violence said tibetans estimate 21 tibetans and three police were killed
the official xinhua news agency said a hero's funeral was held friday in lhasa for the dead policeman, 21-year-old yuan shisheng, who was stabbed and thrown out of a second-story window. it said more than 2,500 mourners attended
the hong kong branch of the china news service, also an official mainland agency, reported that a local tibetan civil and religious official and two 18-year-old tibetans were arrested wednesday. the brief report said they were accused of taking part in violent anti-chinese protests in october
at least 14 people were killed in the largest of those protests, when thousands of tibetans stoned and burned a police station on oct. 1
the china news service report did not say why the three were arrested only now. it was the first official report of any arrests since the march 5 uprising
unofficial reports of wide-scale arrests continued to filter out of lhasa. estimates ranged up to 1,000, but none of the figures could be confirmed. authorities have refused to allow foreign reporters to visit lhasa this week and have halted sales of plane tickets to lhasa to all foreigners
the approximately one dozen foreign travelers in lhasa have been virtually the only source of information on events in the remote mile-high city surrounded by mountains
an ethnic tibetan from nepal who left lhasa on friday said police came to his uncle's house several times in recent days, making house-to-house checks for suspects
the western woman reported 10 arrests among the families of her tibetan acquaintances. she said the tibetans reported police dragged suspects from their homes in the middle of the night, beating them
she said she had stopped visiting tibetan friends for fear of drawing police attention to them
she said it was ``almost impossible'' to telephone outside of lhasa, and interrupted the interview several times to say, ``people here (running the hotel) are getting very nervous'' about her conversation
trucks carrying armed police also drove through the city friday, but in smaller convoys than earlier in the week, the foreigners reported
on wednesday and thursday, one american said he counted more than 100 trucks, each carrying 20 to 30 police, driving in a parade through the city in a show of force
even under normal circumstances, tibet is a heavily militarized region because of its long border with india, with which china has clashed several times. large police and military installations rim the capital city of about 150,000 people, and some western experts estimate there is one chinese soldier for every 10 tibetans
china claims tibet has been part of its empire since the 13th century. however, the remote region was effectively ruled for much of that time by the buddhist monasteries and the dalai lama, whom tibetans regard as a reincarnation of their protector god
the current dalai lama, regarded as the 14th in a line of reincarnations, fled to india in 1959, nine years after chinese communist troops entered tibet. his flight was triggered by a massive anti-chinese uprising in which thousands of tibetans were killed
athens has linked its improving relations with turkey to its talks with the united states on military bases in greece, a government spokesman said friday
greece and the united states ended their fourth round of negotiations on a new agreement to replace one expiring in december
the talks were also dedicated this time to the exchange of views between the two sides on issues of principle that have been put forward by the greek government,'' said spokesman sotiris kostopoulos
kostopoulos apparently was referring to greek demands linking a new accord to progress on greek-turkish problems
relations between the two neighboring allies have been steadily improving since premier andreas papandreou's recent meetings with turkish prime minister turgut ozal. greece and turkey have quarreled over aegean airspace and seabed rights
the united states has said it wants to avoid regional politics in the bilateral base negotiations
there are four u.s. bases in greece: two near athens and two on the southern island of crete. greece receives more than $300 million a year in military credits as payment
more negotiations are scheduled in athens next month and in washington in may. ast, picking up 7th graf pvs, ``no use ....'</note>
strong winds and unseasonably warm temperatures whittled a 70-year-old musher's lead in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race to a matter of minutes, according to standings this morning
at last report, joe redington, known as the ``father of the iditarod'' because he helped organize the first race 16 years ago, still was on the trail between cripple and sulatna crossing today, the seventh day of the race
it's only 47 miles between the two checkpoints, and the length of time it was taking redington to cover the distance was a reflection of the weather. normally, iditarod teams average 8-10 mph
all 50 dog teams in the race from anchorage to nome were slowed thursday by temperatures that climbed into the 40s, turning the trail soggy and overheating the cold-loving huskies who pull the sleds
redington waited 11 hours after reaching cripple for more favorable weather, and by the time he decided to move, second-place herbie nayokpuk decided his team was rested enough to push on
nayokpuk, known as the shishmaref cannonball, had arrived in cripple more than six hours behind redington, but he left at 3:20 p.m., only five minutes after the leader
in third place was martin buser of big lake, who pulled into cripple at 2:50 p.m. he was followed by four-time iditarod champion rick swenson of two rivers at 3:20 p.m.; joe garnie of teller at 3:22 p.m.; and defending champion susan butcher of manley at 4:35 p.m
redington, who arrived in cripple, 525 miles from the start, at 4:50 a.m., tried leaving at 9 a.m. thursday, but the sun-softened snow turned him around
no use to fight that. let it harden up a little bit,'' he said just before leaving thursday afternoon. ``the dogs were right up to their bellies, going along about 4 to 5 miles an hour. i went out about three miles and came back. thought i'd wait a while.''
the delay gave an advantage to teams that have been hounding redington since he took the lead 260 miles back in rohn, but he said there was little choice, given the soft trail
it doesn't hurt to give the dogs a little more rest,'' he said
from cripple, the trail heads to ruby, on the yukon river, then follows the frozen river to kaltag and cuts over to unalakleet on the bering sea coast
the first musher to reach nome will win $30,000. the next 19 finishers will split the rest of a $150,000 purse
two teams have dropped out of the race, and two of the more than 800 dogs running have died, race officials said. both deaths were ruled accidental
having friends in high places brought in a load of booty last year for top u.s. government officials, who collected $232,404 in presents that ranged from the edible to the incredible
when soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev came to washington to sign an arms treaty in december, he brought 35 ounces of russian black caviar for president reagan, worth $875
from west german chancellor helmut kohl, reagan received a $300 case of german wine; from canadian governor general jeanne suave, a $10 bottle of maple syrup; and from king hassan of morocco, ``a large basket of delicacies and foodstuffs'' with a price tag of $100
first lady nancy reagan was given two enlarged photogrphs, taken by a french satellite, of the reagans' ranch in california's santa ynez mountains. that and other gifts came from french prime minister jacques chirac. value: $1,500
among other gifts from foreign officials, which were listed by the state department in friday's federal register, was an ak-47 automatic rifle, ``with separate box of ammunition,'' given to former defense secretary caspar weinberger by chinese gen. yang shangkun
secretary of state george shultz's wife, helena, was given a $20 ``horse tail fly whisk'' by women from the cameroon people's democratic movement
and gen. manuel antonio noriega, who is being pressured by the united states to step down as panama's military ruler, sent a dozen bottles of champagne worth $285 to the u.s. army southern command at fort clayton, panama, last july 4
edible gifts, like the syrup and the caviar, can be consumed by the recipients. less expensive items also can be kept, but federal law requires that anything worth more than $180 be turned over to the government to go into a museum or to be auctioned off. in many cases, the gifts can be retained ``for official use'' in the offices of the recipient
in each case, the gifts were accepted because ``refusal would have caused embarrassment to donor and u.s. government,'' the state department said
the reagans received a total of $81,178 in presents, the most expensive of which was a $12,600 crystal bowl and platter from swedish prime minister ingvar carlsson
knowing of mrs. reagan's fondness for smart clothes, semra ozal, wife of the turkish prime miniser, gave the first lady a brown leather dress with black velvet and gold bead decorations, a matching fur-trimmed leather jacket and a black leather evening suit, also trimmed with fur. the outfits were valued at $700
the prime minister, turgut ozal, gave the president a pair of carved-wood walking sticks decorated with silver-colored metal and bearing pictures of the reagans. they were valued at $120
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir gave the reagans a calligraphic sculpture forming the hebrew letters resh and nun, which spell the word ``ron'' phonetically and also stand for the hebrew characters for ``ronald'' and ``nancy.'' it was worth an estimated $750
many of the gifts were in some way identified with the donor nation. african countries tended to give handmade craft items, middle eastern countries often gave rugs, and some foreign leaders gave pictures of themselves
at least one gift couldn't be appraised. reagan was given a stone launched by the romans in the first-century seige of masada, in southern israel, which israeli president chaim herzog had encased in lucite and mounted on black marble
vice president george bush reported receiving a pair of $4,475 ``gyro-stabilized binoculars'' from jordan's gen. zeid bin shaker and a $5,700 set of olympic commemorative coins from former south korean president chun doo-hwan. bush got his own caviar from gorbachev as well, 35 ounces also valued at $875
senate republican leader bob dole of kansas received from gorbachev a black lacquer box, worth $300 to $500, that was decorated with a picture of moscow. sen. robert kasten, r-wis., was given a pair of unappraised elephant tusks by president hissene habre of chad. and sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., and two aides received watches and cuff links worth a total of $8,500 from the amir of bahrain
cia director william webster got a long list of items, ranging from a $350 indo-persian silk wall hanging to a gold egyptian ceremonial sword worth $1,000. the identity of the donors was deemed too sensitive to be disclosed
the marine corps, already renowned for its rigorous physical conditioning, is about to make things tougher for those who have already made it through basic training
a new training policy order, signed last week and now being prepared for distribution to the field, will require all commands to refocus their physical conditioning program so that it goes beyond just staying in shape to pass the standard physical fitness test
among other things, all marines are going to be expected to start lifting weights or to engage in some equivalent type of ``progressive resistance training'' such as ``isometric exercises or partner resistance exercises.''
the new directive was signed by brig. gen. f.e. sisley, the corps' deputy chief of staff for training, but was really prompted by gen. alfred m. gray jr., the man who took over as the corps' commandant last july
gray, a stocky, tobacco-chewing general who rose through the ranks by staying away from the pentagon, complained shortly after arriving in washington he was sick and tired of seeing his marines jogging for exercise ``in cute little sneaks.''
marine headquarters ``looks like a morgue'' every afternoon because everyone is out jogging to ``look nice,'' gray added
i think if we would run a little more each day we'd be the best looking outfit ever to get run off a hill.''
reflecting that philosophy, the new directive states: ``historically, the purpose of many physical conditioning programs has been to prepare marines for fitness testing, rather than training them for the physical rigors of combat
the focus, therefore, of our programs must change. each commander must emphasize unit and combat fitness training, (instead of) physical fitness testing, and reflect this distinction in training plans and schedules.''
the directive makes it clear the corps is not changing its standard physical fitness test, which all marines must pass at least once every six months. that test requires marines to meet standards for a 3-mile run and performing sit-ups and pullups
rather, the directive says commanders must ensure their marines face ``a minimum program of three hours per week'' of exercises that can be divided between anaerobic conditioning, progressive resistance training and aerobic conditioning
anaerobic conditioning would include calisthenics and other exercises ``to increase speed, flexibility and agility,'' while aerobic includes running and any exercise that ``enhances cardiovascular endurance.''
weight-lifting will fulfill the requirement for progressive resistance training and is needed because of the ``correlation of muscular strength and endurance to success in combat operations,'' the directive states
moreover, when a marine is finished with his regular physical conditioning, his commander should make sure he gets some ``occupational conditioning,'' the directive continues
a marine who is schooled as an infantryman, for example, should face some ``progressive load-bearing marches, dry net training, swimming, obstacle courses, confidence courses, etc.,'' the directive says
and once the marine is done with his occupational training, his commander should include some ``competitive conditioning activities ... to foster competitive attitudes.''
however, the directive does warn the commander to keep in mind ``the stark truth of the saying, `no enemy has ever been killed by a basketball.'''
the overall objective, the directive concludes, ``is to develop in marines a reserve level of physical fitness that will enhance their chances of winning in a combat situation.''
a private college group urged president reagan on friday to sign the civil rights restoration act, even though the act fails to include a broad exemption for religious schools
richard f. rosser, president of the national association of independent colleges and universities, said his organization was the main proponent of efforts that failed in the house to add a so-called religious tenet amendment to the bill
but the association of 800 private institutions, including catholic and other religious-affiliated colleges, still wants reagan to sign the bill, which restores the scope of civil rights laws restricted by the supreme court in a 1984 case involving grove city (pa.) college
rosser, in a letter to reagan, said it was made clear during the house debate that the legislative intent of the new bill is ``to give deferential treatment to requests for religious exemption under title ix.''
as the lead organization seeking passage of a religious tenet amendment ... we hope that the religious liberty concerns we articulated can be addressed by the congress at a future time,'' rosser said
we want to reiterate our unqualified support for this legislation,'' he added
reagan has repeatedly threatened to veto the legislation, which was passed by margins of 75-14 in the senate and 315-98 in the house _ easily enough to override a veto
the senate approved the bill last month after adding an amendment that says nothing in the bill or existing law requires any institution to perform or pay for abortions
the house passed the bill march 2 despite a written warning from reagan that he would veto it ``if it is presented to me in its current form.''
he said then it ``dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local governments and the private sector'' and ``poses a particular threat to religious liberty.''
the restoration act specifies that entire institutions and government agencies are covered by federal laws protecting the civil rights of women, minorities, the handicapped and the elderly if any program or activity within the institutions receives federal aid
the bill exempts farmers getting crop subsidies, people on food stamps and others receiving federal assistance
when sen. paul simon asked local supporters this week to cast nine votes for him in illinois' democratic primary, it wasn't an incitement to vote fraud
simon's plea reflected illinois' two-part presidential ballot: a non-binding ``beauty contest'' preference vote and dozens of local races for the democratic and republican delegate slots that are the real prize on tuesday
unlike many states in which delegates are apportioned on the basis of a statewide vote, illinois' delegates are elected directly by voters in congressional district races
it's a key feature of the political terrain for presidential candidates in illinois, offering advantages to simon, george bush and bob dole and posing daunting problems for others, political obervers say
the 82 republican and 113 democratic delegate slots to be filled tuesday are apportioned among the state's 22 congressional districts on the basis of relative strength in previous primaries
for example, in the heavily democratic 1st district on chicago's south side, democratic voters will select nine delegates and three alternates, while republicans will choose two delegates and two alternates
recruiting delegate-candidates is a key organizational hurdle for the presidential campaigns. without backers on the delegate ballot, a candidate can't translate illinois support into convention votes
the system is further complicted this year by the crowded presidential field, leaving voters in some areas to choose among as many as 70 delegate candidates
i am asking for nine votes,'' simon told backers at a springfield fund-raiser on wednesday. ``six for delegates, two for alternates and one for that beauty contest. all nine votes are important.''
simon's political roots in illinois gave him an edge in recruiting well-known delegate-candidates with a voter appeal of their own. his slates are studded with state legislators, labor leaders and party activists
basically, we looked for people that have well-known names or would bring in a supporting group: a labor-union leader, a person from nuclear freeze, an elected official or party leader,'' said mike kreloff, simon's illinois delegate coordinator
they'll help him hold off (michael) dukakis, but their impact is minimized by the fact that the presidential candidate's name appears on the ballot'' alongside the delegate-candidates, said steve copple, jesse jackson's national delegate coordinator. ``the bulk of the people are going to vote for their presidential candidates' supporters.''
illinois' delegate selection system is a handicap for jackson, whose stronghold is three predominantly black districts in chicago. those districts will elect 24 of the 113 democratic delegates, but his chances of success elsewhere are questionable
simon's other democratic foes had little success in recruiting big names, and only he and dukakis have full slates in every district. albert gore has no supporters on the ballot in three districts and richard gephardt is short of a full slate in five districts
even favorite son jackson has no delegate slate in the heavily republican 12th district, and is short of a full slate in three other districts
we were looking for people who had a fundamental commitment to al gore and his philosophy,'' said larry perlman, who runs the gore campaign in illinois. ``that meant we didn't get a lot of people who have been around party politics for a long time.''
on the gop side, bush and dole both assembled impressive slates with the help of their state chairmen, gov. james r. thompson and illinois house republican leader lee daniels. pat robertson also has a full slate in every district, but virtually all of his candidates are political unknowns
bush operatives acknowledge that well-known dole delegate-candidates such as former gov. richard ogilvie and former u.s. attorney dan k. webb might help dole revive his candidacy
i don't think name recognition alone is going to win for the delegates,'' said ed murnane, deputy director of bush's illinois campaign. ``but in the really close, tight races, that's where name recognition probably does have some impact.''
half the arab policemen in the west bank resigned by plo order friday and israeli soldiers closed the main gaza mosque on the moslem sabbath for the first time worshipers could remember
the al amari mosque in gaza city has been a rallying point for protest since riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, with prayer leaders sometimes calling over its loudspeakers for resistance to the army
israeli troopers shot and wounded nine palestinians during street battles after friday prayers at other mosques in the occupied territories. the army demolished the homes of four arabs accused of attacking either israelis or palestinians accused of collaborating with them
two alleged collaborators have been killed by fellow arabs, one of them a policemen. israeli bullets or beatings have killed at least 87 palestinians in more than three months of violence, and hundreds have been wounded
army units turned journalists away from hebron and nablus but the press restriction was not as widespread as on march 4, when nearly all the west bank was put off-limits
prime minister yitzhak shamir made his first public criticism of new u.s. peace proposals secretary of state george p. shultz brought to the region, declaring: ``the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz.'' about half the 500 arab police officiers in the west bank resigned in response to a call from the palestine liberation organization and underground united national command of the uprising, sources reported. the order was given in a leaflet circulated thursday
mustafa adani, 44, said he resigned after 25 years on the force along with ``almost all the police in the bethlehem station, about 50 to 55. the only ones who didn't quit were those who didn't know about the orders.''
a senior military official said the resignations would have ``a negative impact on other palestinians who work with israel in the territories. it is not very encouraging.''
leaflet no. 10 also demanded the resignations of west bank residents who serve in jordan's parliament, apparently to reinforce the plo role as the sole representative of palestinians
israel captured the west bank from jordan, and the gaza strip from egypt, in the 1967 middle east war
soldiers wounded eight palestinians, two of them seriously, during riots friday at a mosque in beit ummar, 10 miles south of jerusalem, according to officials at beit jallah and mukassed hospitals
the confrontation began when troopers tried to disperse arabs protesting outside the mosque. they fired tear gas and one canister broke a window, falling inside the mosque, arab witnesses said
half a dozen soldiers entered the mosque during prayers to ask the imam, or religious leader, to urge protesters on the mosque loudspeaker to go home, the witnesses said
the soldiers entered the mosque while we were still kneeling barefoot on our prayer rugs. people started shouting allahu akhbar (god is great),'' youssef hassan khalil, 30, said at mukassed hospital. he lay on a cot with a wounded right ankle
witnesses said the presence of israeli soldiers in the mosque during prayers inflamed the arabs, who hurled rocks and bottles and received volleys of tear gas, rubber bullets and gunfire in return
in the gaza strip, soldiers wounded a palestinian in the leg while trying to disperse protesters at the jabaliya refugee camp, hospital officials said
an army cordon around al amari in gaza prevented a weekly prayer service that normally attracts 2,500 worshipers
jerusalem's mufti, the ranking moslem religious leader, issued a statement accusing israel of blocking some mosques, raiding others and confiscating loudspeakers used to call palestinian moslems to prayer
sheik said adin alami called on worshipers ``to defend the mosques by all possible means despite the attackers.''
the army said it demolished three arab homes overnight in biddya, 30 miles northwest of jerusalem, to punish palestinians accused of involvement in an attack march 5 on an arab suspected of cooperating with israel
soldiers also blew up the home in hebron of ahmed mahmoud abdullah kawasmeh, whose 22-year-old son is accused of knifing an israeli settler from nearby kiryat arba five months ago
israeli troops have destroyed 14 palestinian homes since dec. 8, the arab-run palestine press service said
the rhode island supreme court on friday refused to block efforts to get a deposition from a priest regarding talks he had with another pastor later convicted of sexually molesting young boys
the roman catholic diocese of providence is being sued for $12 million by a narragansett woman and her son who contend the diocese knew the rev. william c. o'connell was molesting boys but did nothing about it. as a result, the suit contends, the boy became one of o'connell's victims
the family's attorney, r. daniel prentiss, has been trying to take a deposition from the rev. richard c. bucci. but bishop louis e. gelineau and auxiliary bishop kenneth a. angell, named as defendants in the suit with o'connell, argued any conversations between bucci and o'connell are privileged
the diocese contended the discussions are protected by a state law that prohibits a priest from testifying about ``confidential communication entrusted to him in his professional capacity.''
prentiss contended the state law is intended to prevent a priest from divulging what he is told in confession
my interpretation was that a statutory privilege absolutely does not apply and cannot be used to silence a witness the way they were trying here,'' prentiss said friday
monday, a superior court judge denied the diocese's request to permanently block the deposition, but granted church attorneys a temporary stay pending a supreme court appeal
prentiss and diocese attorney william t. murphy met in chambers friday with supreme court associate justice florence k. murray
about an hour later or less, i got a telephone call from the court saying there was not going to be a stay of the deposition,'' prentiss said
there was no elaboration on the decision, prentiss said
he said bucci is scheduled to give his deposition monday
murphy indicated he would not appeal the high court's decision
o'connell was arrested in 1985 on charges of sexually assaulting three boys. he was accused of fondling them in the rectory of st. mary's church in bristol and in his south kingstown summer cottage between 1982 and 1984
he pleaded no contest to 26 separate counts in 1986 _ seven of them involving the plaintiff in the civil suit _ and was sentenced to one year in jail. he also agreed to spend two years in therapy at a church-run program for clergy members with alcohol and psychological problems
the woman and her son contend the diocese and the bishops failed to remove o'connell from his position as pastor of st. mary's after being informed of his sexual involvement with boys, some of them altar boys
buccci, an assistant pastor at st. mary's in 1984 and 1985, has not publicly admitted discussing o'connell's behavior with diocesan officials. but he did file statements with police about o'connell, and he provided information to the state department for children and their families
forty million children in 34 countries will be vaccinated in the next four years under a program to eradicate polio in latin america and the caribbean, a doctor said friday
dr. ciro a. de quadros, an adviser to the world health organization, said governments in the region have committed $350 million to the project, which is expected to cost $450 million
the rest is to be donated by other groups such as the u.s. agency for international development, unicef, who, and the private rotary international
quadros spoke at a three-day meeting of development experts, doctors and health ministers in this alpine town. the conference is sponsored by the task force for child survival, whose members include unicef, who, the u.n. development program, the world bank and the rockefeller foundation
quadros told the group that the polio campaign expects to reach 10 million of the 11 million children born in latin america each year between now and 1991. the goal is to reach 85 percent of the children in every country in latin america, either through established health care systems or special immunization days
the campaign is an intensified version of a project already under way
in paraguay and the dominican republic, health workers have gone door-to-door administering the oral polio vaccine. nine countries last year held special immunization days, including el salvador, where government troops and rebels called a one-day truce to allow children to be immunized
we are four years away from wiping out polio and we are very confident,'' quadros said, adding that the incidence of the disease is already low when compared to other childhood diseases
fourteen latin american countries last year reported about 900 cases of polio, he said, three times more than in europe
the united states has been virtually free of the paralyzing virus for a decade
so, the long-term goal of the polio project not just to wipe out polio,'' quadros said in an interview. ``it is to establish an infrastucture, a health care system in developing countries that can be used for other types of immunization and for delivering other care.''
in addition, success in fighting polio is expected to boost the morale of health care workers and communities struggling against the enormous medical problems that confront the impoverished third world
dr. william h. foege, executive director of the task force and former head of the centers for disease control in atlanta, said lessons learned in south america will be used to set a date for eradicating the disease in asia, africa and elsewhere
among those attending the meeting at a 16th century stone monastery in the french alps are world bank president barber conable, unicef executive director james p. grant, who director general halfdan mahler, leaders of more than a dozen other international aid agencies and health ministers from 11 countries
since the early 1980s, task force organizations have been cooperating to vaccinate children against diptheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis and neonatal tetanus, in addition to polio. the project, aimed at developing countries, has raised immunization from 5 percent to 50 percent of the world's children in less than a decade
a senior state department official on friday defended an agreement giving japan access to u.s. nuclear wastes and disputed reports that negotiations with congress to avert a move to kill it had broken down
we're more than prepared to continue the discussions with the congress to see if there is a basis for moving forward on the agreement,'' fred mcgoldrick, director of the office of non-proliferation and export policy, said
mcgoldrick said the agreement concluded last november with japan and facing a disapproval vote next week in the senate has adequate safeguards against proliferation and terrorism
we think the agreement is very much in our interest,'` mcgoldrick said. ``if we do not have this kind of agreement, the japanese will simply go elsewhere to buy their enriched uranium. that not only has commercial implications _ we would lose export revenues _ it means we do not have nonproliferation controls and influence that we have in this agreement.''
two former pentagon officials and the congressional general accounting office have been sharply critical of the pact, which allows japan to retrieve plutonium, the primary ingredient of nuclear weapons, from u.s. nuclear fuel once the fuel has been used
critics of the nuclear cooperation agreement said thursday they may move to kill the accord next week in congress
the former pentagon officials, richard n. perle and frank j. gaffney jr., said the defense department was not given a significant role in negotiations and considers the agreement ``seriously flawed.''
the strong position that the department has taken against nuclear proliferation would have helped to shape the accord differently,'' they said in a letter written to sen. john glenn, d-ohio, and obtained by the associated press. ``that, we are quite sure, is why the department of state went to such lengths to work around us.''
perle and gaffney cited two provisions of the agreement as ``especially troublesome.'' first, they said, the pact gives japan advance u.s. consent for 30 years to reprocess and use american plutonium in any japanese facility without restriction on the amount or the purpose
second, they said, the pact ``imposes extraordinary and unprecedented restrictions on the right of the united states to suspend that prior consent.''
perle and gaffney said they were the pentagon officials responsible for non-proliferation issues while the agreement was negotiated
a gao report, meanwhile, said the agreement would leave the united states without ``effective control'' over reprocessing of the hazardous material
the feb. 29 report also found fault with the agreement's provisions to guard against proliferation and said it deprived congress of its oversight function
congressional opponents want the united states to have the right to review japanese use of plutonium on a case-by-case basis, and to be able to suspend the agreement to counter terrorism threats or address other national security concerns
the congressional foes also want the agreement to be reviewed every five years
these changes would require renegotiating the terms with japan, which the state department declines to do, said a congressional source, speaking on condition of anonymity
mcgoldrick said the united states has ``an unfettered right to suspend our approval to use plutonium that would result in a significant increase in the risk of proliferation or a threat to the national security.''
and, he said, the pact includes ``defined safeguards'' against misuse of the plutonium
mcgoldrick said canada and australia, which have strong non-proliferation policies, have entered into similar agreements with japan and west european countries without case-by-case restrictions
the gao report said the agreement did not meet various requirements of the atomic energy act. it said giving blanket approval to japan for reprocessing plutonium ``would leave the united states with no effective control over the life of the proposed agreement.''
in december, the senate foreign relations committee voted 15-3 to return the pact to president reagan and asked that it be renegotiated. opponents argued that it sets a precedent to encourage potentially hazardous trade in plutonium, which is a potent cancer-causing agent
under the agreement, japan would ship the spent nuclear fuel from the united states to reprocessing plants in britain or france, which would separate plutonium from the waste. the plutonium then would be shipped to japan by air. say</head>
dogs that helped seize $135 million worth of drugs in less than a year have enraged drug traffickers who are offering $30,000 to anyone who kills the animals, federal authorities say
the threats are aimed mostly at one dog, nicknamed rocky, who has become a sort of mascot in the fight against drugs and is used in many drug awareness programs for children, according to terry mcintosh, deputy regional chief of the u.s. border patrol in dallas
however, mcintosh said wednesday, the threats made by telephone a few months ago to the mcallen office cover all 14 dogs used by the border patrol
the callers said they have put out the word they will pay to have the dogs killed,'' mcintosh said
the dogs are stationed in mcallen and laredo as well as in marfa, el paso and del rio
mcintosh said the dogs have been guarded round the clock since the threats
informal meetings were held friday in the afghanistan peace talks after what u.n. mediator diego cordovez said was a week spent tackling ``enormous difficulties'' in the proposed settlement to end nine years of fighting
he told reporters that he asked the afghan and pakistani representatives to seek ``strengthened instructions'' for the next session scheduled monday in the indirect talks between the two sides
this would be just one day before a march 15 target date set for the negotiations by soviet leader mikhail gorbachev last month. he said moscow would bring home its troops beginning may 15 if the settlement was signed by march 15
however, sources close to the talks have said the date was not meant as a deadline after which the soviet pullout might be in doubt
in peshawar, pakistan, meanwhile, a moderate faction that split from the alliance of moslem afghan guerrillas last week rejoined the alliance friday
sibghatullah mojaddedi told members of his afghan national liberation front that assurances from other leaders and from pakistani officials persuaded him to rejoin the guerrillas' effort to hammer out an interim government to oversee the withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan
mojaddedi split with the alliance because he was worried that moslem extremists would dominate the interim government
in geneva, cordovez reiterated that agreement existed ``on the substance of things.''
the problem now concerns the sequence of actions in afghanistan, leading up to and including the withdrawal of the 115,000 soviet troops
it also hinges on pakistan's insistence that an interim government be ready to take control in kabul before the soviets begin their withdrawal
emerging with him from a closed-door meeting was the chief pakistani delegate, acting foreign minister zain noorani, who said the negotiations were ``inching slowly.''
pakistan's position about the interim government came under new fire from the soviet union thursday with moscow's special envoy, nikolay kozyrev, saying the talks had ``bogged down'' because of it
kozyrev warned that islamabad would bear the responsibility if there was no final agreement despite completion of all the main elements of the settlement
he also said that moscow felt free to continue military assistance to afghanistan even after the troop withdrawal. he rejected a u.s. demand that military aid should be cut off simultaneously to both the kabul government and the anti-communist guerrillas. kozyrev said assistance to the government was not covered in the draft agreements
sources close to the pakistani delegation said the cut-off issue was among items discussed with cordovez at the informal meeting friday but they did not dsclose details
washington _ president reagan, stepping up u.s. economic pressure on panama, today ordered that a $6.5 million payment due that country on tuesday be put into escrow
the move was part of a series of sanctions designed to weaken panama's military-dominated government, which reagan called ``illegitimate,'' and orce strongman manuel antonio noriega from power
reagan called on noriega to resign as commander of the panamanian defense forces and said in a statement that the united states can no longer conduct business as usual with noriega's government
reagan ordered that u.s. government payments due to panama be held in escrow until constitutional rule is restored in panama. the payment due tuesday relates to operations of the panama canal
reagan also ordered that the trade benefits panama receives under a special system set up for third world countries be withdrawn. similarly, he suspended panamanian participation in the caribbean basin initiaitve, under which some panamanian products receive duty-free access to u.s. markets
in addition, reagan said he has ordered that panama be subject to intensified scrutiny by u.s. immigration and customs officials
the purpose of that move, he said, is to ``apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers.''
secretary of state george p. shultz said there was no need to impose an additional sanction relating to the fees panama receives from alaskan oil shipments transferred to u.s. east coast ports through a panamanian pipeline
shultz told a news conference those fees already have been frozen based on earlier court action
shultz noted that the president's statement referred to the panamanian government as ``illegitimate.''
that's a very strong word,'' shultz said, underscoring the seriousness with which the united states views the situation there
he accused noriega of trying to impose a military coup in panama by deposing president eric arturo delvalle, whom the united states regards as the legitimate constitutional authority
under the caribbean basin initiative, panama and about 20 other countries are eligible to sell most products duty-free to u.s. markets
but this measure will have mostly symbolic impact because the bulk of panama's exports to the united states are not subject to duties in the first place. panama exported between $342 million and $388 million worth of products to the united states last year, according to figures provided by u.s. government agencies
on thursday, the house voted 367-2 in support of a non-binding resolution demanding noriega's ouster
the resolution, which took note of allegations of drug trafficking, murder, money laundering and racketeering against panama's defense forces, was approved shortly before the white house meeting was convened
it called on reagan to ``consider seriously'' additional economic and political sanctions
members on both sides of the political spectrum lashed out at noriega and gave the administration virtually carte blanche to impose additional sanctions. rep. mel levine, d-calif., said ``the government of panama is in the hands of a thug, a common criminal.''
the government said friday that retail sales edged up 0.6 percent in february, bolstered by strong demand for autos, but economists expressed worries that sales in january were much weaker than previously believed
in good news on the inflation front, wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, pushed down by drops in both food and energy costs
for the first two months of the year, the labor department said prices have been rising at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, half the modest 2.2 percent increase in 1987. analysts said inflation should remain moderate for the rest of the year
the commerce department report on retail sales said that consumers purchased $128 billion worth of goods last month, up $714 million from january after adjusting for seasonal variations. while the february increase was in line with expectations, many economists focused on a sharp downward revision to the january data
instead of a 0.5 percent rise in sales, the government said sales actually fell 0.2 percent during january, showing that the consumer sector is weaker than previously believed
ever since the record collapse of stock prices in october, analysts have been worried that consumers would become more cautious and cut back on spending. since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, any significant slowdown in this area could topple the country into a recession
the large downward revision in january shows that the consumer sector is quite weak,'' said bruce steinberg, an economist with merrill lynch. ``car sales are doing o.k. with the incentives but other than that, nothing seems to be doing very well.''
david wyss, an economist with data resouces inc., a private forecasting firm, said that since october, americans have been building up savings, reflecting worries about the future caused by the stock market decline
but he said that strength in other sectors, reflected by the strong employment gains in february, should provide enough momentum to keep the country out of a recession. wyss predicted that overall economic growth, as measured by the gross national product, would be an anemic 1.5 percent this year, less than half the 3.9 percent gnp growth turned in during 1987
auto sales in february increased 1.6 percent following an even stronger 2 percent advance in january. february sales accounted for almost one-fourth of total retail spending during the month
without the strength in auto sales, which has been bolstered by new incentive programs, total retail sales would have risen a smaller 0.3 percent last month
the general merchandise category, which includes department store sales, suffered a 1.6 percent decline in sales in february following a 0.1 percent decline in january. january department store sales had originally been reported as an increase and the back-to-back declines in this key sector were particularly disappointing to economists
consumer spending is weaker than we had anticipated, but we weren't looking for much strength in this sector this year anyway,'' said sandra shaber, an economist with the futures group, a washington consulting firm
sales of all durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, were up 1.6 percent in february, boosted by the increase in car sales, while sales of non-durable goods edged down 0.1 percent
wyss said the car data indicated to him that dealers were having trouble selling used cars and consumers should be able to find some good deals in this area in the months ahead
sales at building materials and hardware stores jumped a sharp 2.3 percent in february while sales at furniture and appliance stores were up a more modest 0.3 percent
sales at specialty clothing stores climbed 0.6 percent in february, only a partial rebound following a giant 3.3 percent january decline
sales at gasoline stations fell 1.6 percent in february while sales at restaurants edged up 0.1 percent and sales at drug stores posted a 0.6 percent increase
sales at grocery stores enjoyed a 0.7 percent rise in sales in february, reversing a 0.6 percent january decline
the labor department report on wholesale prices said that food prices declined 1.1 percent in february while energy prices dropped 0.8 percent. the cost of lettuce, which had skyrocketed through the late fall and early winter, fell a dramatic 70 percent
ford motor co. is recalling 214,900 cars of various designs from the 1982 and 1983 model years to fix pollution-control equipment, the environmental protection agency said friday
the company has begun notifying owners of 185,000 cars from 1983 equipped with the 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine to bring them in for adjustment of the exhaust air-injection systems. these cars were sold as the ford escort, escort exp and escort wagon and the mercury lynx, lynx ln-7 and lynx wagon. about 4,000 cars originally were sold in california, which has stricter standards than those applying in other states
cars with this engine equipped with fuel injection, or designated ``high output,'' are not affected
these cars have been exceeding the federal emission standards for carbon monoxide and unburned fuel, epa said
the agency said ford also will recall 29,900 cars from the 1982 model year to fix an exhaust gas recirculation system which can cause excessive emissions of nitrogen oxides
the cars affected all have 2.3-liter four-cylinder engines and automatic transmissions. they were sold as the ford mustang, granada and fairmont and the mercury capri and zephyr. cars originally sold in california are not affected
dealers will check the carburetor spacer plates, which allows some exhaust to enter the intake manifold, and clean them of deposits if necessary
alpine skiers who seek out daring runs on unmarked trails accounted for half of all swiss avalanche deaths last winter and also pose problems for the environment, officials said friday
maj. hugh lindsay, a close friend of britain's prince charles, was killed thursday by a snowslide while skiing outside the normal slopes above klosters, switzerland, the traditional royal winter resort
the heir to the british throne escaped unhurt
the swiss federal avalanche research institute had warned thursday of considerable avalanche danger above 5,250 feet in the region. the party was skiing at about 5,900 feet
one obviously doesn't like seeing anyone getting killed. but when you ski off the path, that is your own responsibility,'' said david bramwell, a british skier vacationing in this remote village 90 miles southeast of zurich
in a statement before leaving switzerland, charles said everyone in his group understood the dangers before they embarked into the avalanche-prone area
i would like to emphazise that all members of my party, including myself, were skiing off the piste (trail) at our own risk and we all accepted ... that the mountains have to be treated with the greatest respect,'' charles said
but many vacationing skiers and residents in klosters indicated they thought charles should have not been so willing to lead his companions down the dangerous slope
last winter, eight of the 16 people killed by snowslides in switzerland were off-trail skiers, said claude francois jaccard, director of the avalanche research institute atop mount weissfluhjoch
over the long-term, they make up about 30 percent of all avalanche deaths. the toll is highest among ski hikers who tour across mountains on skis often for days, jaccard said
about 1 million skiers, including many foreigners, cut loose on unmarked runs every year, the swiss national association for sports says
christian tischauser, chief ski warden at corvatsch, about 30 miles south of klosters, recently called on the swiss government to consider legislating curbs on off-trail skiing
neighboring austria has banned the practice as of this year, with violators facing fines
switzerland has not followed suit. but one recent outing became expensive for three swiss who set off an avalanche as they skied off marked trails near zermatt
a court last month made them pay the cost of sending out search teams
swiss authorities, tourism offices and sports associations have taken the tack of appealing to skiers' responsibility when venturing off regular runs
some resorts in the grisons region, where klosters is located, already have limited such skiing
a nationwide information campaign was launched late last year to make off-trail skiers aware of safe areas to practice the sport
the basic capital for tourism is unblemished nature,'' said peter anrig of the swiss tourism association
inexperienced skiers are known to rip through saplings, ultimately killing off a future tree in a country concerned about widespread forest damage from pollution, he said. snow tourists also tend to litter in the otherwise virgin areas
alpine animals are jolted by off-trailers, experts say, citing the example of the snow grouse. skiers often scare the birds out of snow caves in which they hibernate, leaving them to die of cold and consumption in glacial temperatures
swiss avalanches have killed an average of 27 people each year over the past 50 years, according to the federal institute. six out of 10 victims are skiers
lindsay's death brought this winter's toll to 12
seventy members of the israeli parliament on friday presented a petition calling on president reagan to pardon jonathan j. pollard, the navy analyst who was convicted of passing secrets to israel
the petition, presented to u.s. ambassador thomas pickering, was signed by most of the right-wing likud bloc in the knesset, or parliament, and by the left-wing mapam faction. it was a rare display of unity among israel's divided legislators
the committee for justice for the pollards released news of the petition in the united states
it called on reagan to pardon pollard, a civilian navy intelligence analyst convicted last year of selling secrets to israel and sentenced to life in prison. the petitioners also asked reagan to pardon pollard's wife, anne henderson-pollard, who was sentenced to five years in jail for being an accessory
it is very rare for an issue to so cut across party lines as does the plight of the pollards,'' according to the petitioners. ``all israel is praying for their release.''
the israeli government was severely embarrassed by pollard's arrest outside its washington embassy in 1985, saying it had not authorized the spying operation. public pressure, however, forced the government to foot the bill for some of pollard's legal fees
the pollard committee noted that the pollards' punishment was particularly harsh in view of the fact that he spied for a u.s. ally
in general, ``spies for allies are treated more leniently, if they are prosecuted at all,'' the committee said
thousands of workers across norway left their jobs for several hours friday to protest a government proposal to limit wage increases
the labor government introduced the wage limitations in parliament friday, and prime minister gro harlem brundtland condemned the protests as illegal
the bill would limit the average worker's increase on a weekly paycheck to 3.5 percent. the government argued the move is needed to make norwegian products more competitive and curb last year's 8.7 percent inflation rate, more than twice the european average
the bill represents the most severe economic package since a 15-month wage-price freeze was approved 10 years ago. it would limit pay raises to 15 cents an hour in the next two years
bus drivers, municipal employees, nurses and thousands more workers in oslo and 10 other cities left their jobs. norwegian radio went off the air for two hours
about 1,000 people demonstrated against the bill outside parliament in oslo. ``we do not accept being robbed of our right to negotiate,'' said jan andersen-gott, spokesman for a white-collar trade union federation
six trade federations representing about 400,000 workers were involved in the protests, the norwegian news agency ntb reported
the proposed law followed the lines of an agreement reached two weeks ago between employers and norway's largest trade union federation, which represents about 350,000 members
the legislation would take immediate effect upon passage, which could be within a week. withdraw slogan. no pickup.</note>
the archbishop of canterbury's office on friday attacked the ``jesus is alive!'' postmark that is being stamped on millions of letters mailed in britain, but the post office said it would not withdraw the slogan
bishop ronald gordon, archbishop robert runcie's chief of staff, said the post office's decision to frank letters with the easter message was inappropriate and an imposition
the belief that jesus is alive is at the heart of the christian faith and christians must be expected to wish to affirm it on appropriate occasions,'' gordon wrote in reply to a letter of protest from the british humanist association
but the imposition of a postmark by a public monopoly is hardly an affirmation of faith since the sender can exercise no choice in the matter. in this respect the imposition may be regarded as insensitive,'' he added
the post office said it was surprised by the criticism and said many religious groups had used the postal service in the past to spread religious messages
there has been a large measure of popular support for this particular postmark,'' said a post office spokesman, speaking on condition he not be identified
the postmark, which also has drawn protestfrom jews, is being stamped on nearly all letters mailed in britain. it says ``jesus is alive!'' next to a cross
paul slennett, an evangelist bookseller, paid the post office the equivalent of $92,000 to use the postmark for six weeks starting march 1. he says it is an easter message and that god told him to do it
underworld assassins ambushed and shot to death two local officials in southern italy, police reported friday
the town councilmen from afragola, near naples, were attacked thursday as they drove home from a council meeting, police said. an undetermined number of assassins riddled their volvo with gunfire and fled in their own car
the victims were identified as paolo sibilio, 39; and francesco salzano, 40. both were christian democrats
investigators said the killings appeared linked to attempts by organized crime to gain contracts for reconstruction of buildings damaged in an earthquake in the area in 1980. sibilio was in charge of awarding such contracts
a local official in southwestern china was expelled from the communist party after his use of influence to buy up scarce fertilizer led to a protest by 400 farmers, a newspaper reported friday
the party expelled liu xingdong, deputy secretary of tiefeng township in sichuan province, according to the official china daily. it said liu was under investigation for using the ``back door'' to buy up chemical fertilizer
such fertilizers are in chronic short supply in china, and there are reports in the official media of widespread corruption in their sale and distribution
the report said liu last october asked the local supply cooperative to sell him 990 pounds of fertilizer for family members. the report said cooperative workers and truck drivers took that cue to use their own connections to obtain fertilizer before it was distributed to local farmers
when distribution began in december, farmers reportedly broke into the cooperative to get fertilizer and remained there for three days until county officials persuaded them to hand it all back, the daily said
the report said four farmers who led the protest will face trial
a group of u.s. senators told mikhail s. gorbachev on friday that soviet superiority in tanks and artillery scared the west into a nuclear defense, so cutbacks in those arms should precede strategic missile reductions
the senators said they sensed the soviet leader is less worried about president reagan's strategic defense initiative, but they said they doubted that signaled greater tolerance of it
i think there has been a lessening of soviet apprehension about sdi,'' said sen. sam nunn, chairman of the senate armed services committee. ``i think they recognize that it is a long-term project.''
the senators met with reporters after a weeklong exchange with high-level soviet military and political officials
the kremlin wants to link a superpower agreement on reduction of strategic weapons to compliance with the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. the treaty outlaws space-based defense systems like that seen under sdi, popularly known as the ``star wars'' program
nunn said the americans pressed for ``delinkage'' of the two issues, but they ``did not get any encouragement at all along that line.''
the official news agency tass, in its account of the meeting, said gorbachev reiterated the kremlin's ``allegiance to its position on a direct linkage'' of missiles cuts with abm compliance
violating it destroys the entire machinery of the agreement,'' tass quoted gorbachev as saying. ``we shall never be able to bridle the rabid charger of the arms race if it is let loose in outer space.''
gorbachev and reagan signed an agreement eliminating all medium-range nuclear weapons at their washington summit in december
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said he assured gorbachev that the treaty was likely to be ratified this spring ``with no crippling amendments'' and that the concern of the congress and administration had turned to the issue of how to cut strategic, or long-range nuclear arms
u.s. and soviet negotiators are at work in geneva on a proposed treaty to eliminate 50 percent of the superpowers' long-range, or intercontintal nuclear missiles
both sides have said they would like the treaty ready for signing in late may or early june when reagan visits moscow, but the senators expressed doubt it would be ready in time
nunn said the kremlin should first cut its overwhelming superiority in conventional weaponry such as tanks and artillery
there is a great correlation between our first-use reliance on nuclear weapons and their massive conventional forces,'' nunn said
he said he explained to gorbachev during the group's meeting, which lasted more than three hours, that a soviet rollback of tanks and artillery from eastern europe would go far in reducing the fears of america's european allies about a soviet military threat
the north atlantic treaty organization nations, which will lose their medium-range missiles under the agreement signed in december, have balked at further nuclear cuts without prior reductions in soviet conventional arms
we would like to see the soviet union save some money so it can devote it to their economic development,'' nunn said he told gorbachev
the senate group, which also included sens. william cohen, r-maine, alan simpson, r-wyo., and carl levin, d-mich., also met in the past week with soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, communist party foreign affairs secretary anatoly f. dobrynin and army chief of staff sergei f. akhromeyev
zbigniew nowakowski jumped ship in the dead of winter with little more than the clothes on his back and hope. less than two months later, he and fellow defectors from polish vessels are working to build their personal american dream
nowakowski and 16 other polish seamen walked off four ships docked in or near boston in late january, saying they wanted to flee oppressive political and economic conditions at home
most left wives and children. none spoke english. they have had their share of struggle. but they say they have no regrets
i knew it would be difficult at first, and i expected hardships,'' said nowakowski, 36. ``i have no intention of ever leaving.''
defector artur misiaczuk shook his head vehemently when asked if he ever considered returning to poland during the darker moments of his adventure
return? no, this is my home now,'' he said
the two men, both of whom say they were members of the outlawed solidarity free trade union, spoke friday through an interpreter
the immigration and naturalization service is processing asylum requests from the 17. while declining specific comments about the applications, ins district director charles cob said requests from soviet bloc countries ``have a higher percentage of approval than those from other countries do.''
sitting in a booth of the polish-american citizens club in dorchester, a tough, working-class section of boston, nowakowski and misiaczuk chainsmoked american cigarettes, a luxury in their homeland
our initial dream has come true, and that is to have the freedom of mobility,'' said misiaczuk, 25, who left his wife and 11-month-old daughter in the seaport of szeczin
we want to fullfil our personal american dream, which is the american dream of all immigrants who come here, to eventually bring our families here and to continue living and working and geting acclimated to american society,'' he said
nowakowski, a fellow szecziner, who left behind his wife, a 2-year-old son and a daughter, 12, looked even further ahead
i intend to work very hard in the next 20 years,'' he said. ``to me, the most important thing is that i am free now and i will be free in 20 years
our overall goal is to be with our families, and yes, to have our own homes eventually, a nice place to live and for our families to live with us.''
the two now share a two-bedroom apartment in south boston with two fellow polish defectors. nowakowski works nights in a food processing plant, while misiaczuk is a general laborer for a construction contractor
neither the cramped quarters nor the hard work draw complaints. nowakowski, a trained refrigeration technician who attends english classes by day, spoke with relish about working his way up
eventuallly, through school and my own personal ambition, i'd like to have my own business,'' he said
several of the poles spent their first night in america in the office of mayor raymond s. flynn, and nowakowski and misiaczuk spoke enthusiastically of the financial and moral support given them since, both by the city and boston's sizeable polish community
but all the help cannot bridge the occasional loneliness. misiaczuk's voice trembled when he described his first telephone call with his wife
we cried as soon as we heard each others' voice, because we knew in our hearts that we would not be seeing each other in the near future, and she told me that they laid her off from work because of my defection,'' he said. ``i miss them tremendously
but they are heartened by my stay here and ... about the fact that things are working out better here than initially expected.''
he brightened when asked about his favorite things in america
pizza,'' he laughed. ``and madonna.''
a soviet dissident said friday he saw scores of tanks and soldiers, police and militia keeping order in a frightened southern city where ethnic rioting killed at least 32 people
andrei shelkov, who works on the independent political publication glasnost, said residents of sumgait were still ``hysterical'' about the rioting that broke out there two weeks ago
shelkov told a news conference in moscow that he was in sumgait, in the republic of azerbaijan, for about five hours on wednesday. he returned to moscow the following day
shelkov said that on one street, ``there was a solid line of light tanks. i counted 47 of them.''nearby were about 40 civilian buses full of soldiers, he said
streets were full of soldiers, police and civilian militia. a curfew was in effect, but businesses and schools were operating, shelkov said. he said he talked to azeris, as the natives of azerbaijan are called, and russians in sumgait but did not meet any of the estimated 18,000 armenians who lived in the industrial city of 160,000 people
tensions between armenians and azeris, whose republics are next to each other, erupted in violence in sumgait on feb. 28. the rioting was believed sparked by armenians demands that nagorno-karabakh, an armenian-dominated region of azerbaijan, be annexed to armenia
an hour-long general strike had been proposed in armenia on friday, but a communist party official in the armenian city of kafan told the associated press it was canceled to avoid stirring up unrest
gamlet kocharyan, a member of armenia's party central committee and of kafan's governing body, said by telephone that tanks and troops remained in regions where ethnic tensions had erupted, but that ``the situation is quieting down a little.''
we are waiting for the 26th,'' when a party and government meeting on the fate of nagorno-karabakh is to be held, he said
kocharyan said armenians are convinced the moscow leadership will make ``the only just decision'' and return nagorno-karabakh region to armenia
former political prisoner sergei grigoryants, the editor of glasnost, said he traveled to the armenian capital, yerevan, to witness a march tuesday by hundreds of thousands of fellow armenians in memory of those killed in the sumgait rioting
he showed journalists photographs of streets packed with people and said they were taken at the march
some armenians claim the death toll in sumgait was 350 to 400, but the government has put the official death toll at 32
shelkov said he could not reach the cemeteries in sumgait because they are outside the city, and roads were blocked off
western reporters have not been allowed to travel to the region
shelkov said he was told by a nurse who worked in a maternity hospital that azeris broke in during the riots and threw babies out the window, and that one woman had been disemboweled
a man who addressed a gathering of armenians in moscow on tuesday also said he had seen the body of a slain pregnant woman and her mutilated unborn baby
neither report was confirmed
the army arrived on march 2 to restore order to sumgait, shelkov said
it was simply a hysterical scene,'' he said of his conversations with residents of the city
the russians and azeris claimed that the violence was the work of azeris who came to sumgait from throughout azerbaijan
grigoryants said armenians at tuesday's memorial march did not blame average azeris for the killings
almost every armenian family will recall how azerbaijanis hid them or tried to hide them,'' he said
but he said armenians were angry with the moscow media for portraying as extremists those who demonstrated in favor of annexation of nagorno-karabakh
azeris are predominantly shiite moslems and most armenians are christians
seven knife-wielding men robbed a watch company friday and stole about $2.3 million in spare parts in the biggest recorded robbery in hong kong's history, police said
police said the robbers entered the watch company on the 12th floor of a factory building and tied up five employees before escaping with 13 cartons of watch movements
no one was injured in the heist which occurred in the kwai chung industrial area in the new territories. there were no arrests reported
friday's robbery broke a record set last month when a gang of masked men snatched $1.65 million in gold and cash from a trading company's van on its way to the airport
a clergyman who is a leading anti-apartheid activist said friday he received two death threats in the past week and that his house and office were stoned
the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches, said he received a call friday on his private telephone line from a man who said: ``we are going to kill you.''
a similar call was received monday, boesak said
boesak said a stone was thrown through a window of his office near cape town while he was at a meeting there thursday night. his children called 15 minutes later from the family home nearby to say a brick had been thrown through a front window, boesak said
boesak, anglican archbishop desmond tutu and other church leaders have pledged to lead opposition to the white-led government's recent crackdown on black anti-apartheid organizations and activists
in a series of tough moves starting last month, the government banned political activity by 18 groups, imposed restrictions on individual activists and introduced legislation to prohibit foreign funding of political activity
the clergymen plan a series of protest rallies sunday and have indicated they may defy any attempt by authorities to stop them
pro-government newspapers have assailed the church leaders' stance and suggested that authorities should not tolerate civil disobedience
boesak, 42, is of mixed-race and is one of the co-founders of the united democratic front, the nation's largest anti-apartheid coalition. the udf was one of the 18 organizations banned from political activity
the ban was challenged in court papers filed thursday by three of the groups _ the congress of south african trade unions, the detainees parents support committee and the release mandela committee
peter harris, a lawyer involved in the challenge, said the groups contend that the new restrictions ``comprise so fundamental an inroad into the ordinary rights of citizens that they could never have been contemplated by parliament.''
a supreme court hearing on the challenge is expected in late april or early may
the country's roman catholic bishops held a news conference in johannesburg to express ``profound dismay'' at the crackdown
the drive-in church can move, but when the spririt moves its members, they'll have to keep their hands off the horn
the city's planning commission on thursday approved the new location for the drive-in church on the condition that its mobile worshipers abandon a tradition of honking their horns when they are compelled to make a joyful noise
for 18 years, sunday services have been held at the woodland drive-in theater. but the drive-in is being torn down, causing the fifth reformed church to hunt for a new locale
city officials said the threat of increased sunday traffic and the possibility of a particularly moving sermon causing a racket at the new site prompted some opposition to the plan
so church officials said they'd tell the faithful to flash their lights when they felt particularly illuminated during services. commissioners thought that idea was ok, but wrote a no-horn-honking provision into the resolution supporting the proposal
the wheels of bureaucracy sometimes grind slowly, but the passage of a 199-year-old resolution that has ``more mold on it than 6-month-old bread'' may be setting a record
the west virginia legislature has approved the legislation, 197 years after the mother state endorsed it. the 1789 federal constitutional amendment allows congress to approve a pay raise for itself, but the raise would not be effective until the following congressional session
the amendment was approved by eight states before it dropped by the wayside in the 1790s, said the sponsor, del. david mckinley. virginia, which divided to form west virginia in 1863, approved it 197 years ago
but congress neglected to put an expiration date into the proposal and it has hung around ever since, mckinley said
the house of delegates approved it last month and the senate followed suit on thursday, endorsing it on a 34-0 vote
del. jim humphreys balked at the proposal. ``it's got more mold on it than 6-month-old bread,'' he said. ``i just don't think it's serious. it's a waste of our time is what it is.''
but mckinley defended the resolution. ``it's a classy little piece,'' he said. he added of the nearly 200-year-old proposal, ``it's a sleeper.''
the news around newport news isn't good for those who are tired of having their hometown mistaken for a newspaper
lawmakers in the southeastern virginia city have rejected a proposal that would drop the cryptic ``news,'' making the city's name simply newport
based on historical facts and information, it would serve no good purpose to change the name of newport news to newport,'' the city's historical commission said thursday
the suggestion for the name change came from councilman joseph c. ritchie, who said he was tired of going on business trips and saying he was from newport news, which invariably brought the response, ``how do you like working for a newspaper?''
the committee discovered that around the turn of the century, the city tried to persuade officials of newport, va., near blacksburg, to change their hamlet's name. then newport news could become the newport
but the original newportians resisted, taking their case to court, where, as the current names suggest, they won
in its research, the commission also established that the ``newport'' in the city's name came from explorer capt. christopher newport, but where the ``news'' came from is anybody's guess. premier and adds details. adds byline. no pickup.</note>
premier giovanni goria resigned friday as the leader of italy's 47th postwar government, saying there was no reason to delay the fall of the shaky coalition for talks to smooth the transition of power
it was the third time the christian democrat quit since taking office in august, but president francesco cossiga rejected his earlier resignations and persuaded him to stay on
goria handed in his latest resignation to cossiga on friday night. cossiga asked him to stay on as a caretaker premier until a new government can be formed
goria, who at 44 was italy's youngest premier, resigned for the first time in november in a dispute with the tiny liberal party
he quit again feb. 10 after defectors in his own party caused him to lose a series of secret votes on the budget. however, cossiga talked him into returning to office to help pass the national budget before the april 30 deadline
the lower house of parliament gave final approval thursday night to a budget that includes a deficit of 122 trillion lire, or $98.8 billion. the spending plan was very different from the original proposed by the coalition, which forecast a deficit of $83.3 billion
with the budget passed, goria's days were numbered as the head of the coalition of christian democrats, socialists, republicans, social democrats and liberals
throughout goria's seven months in office, political infighting and defections in secret votes made it difficult for him to govern
goria was expected to resign next week with the start of consultations among leaders of the various political parties about his successor
but goria said he decided to step down immediately because it was clear that the ``intentions of some parties was not to reach an understanding that had the interest of the country'' at heart
he did not specify any political party, but cabinet ministers from various parties said goria quit because of socialist party opposition to the government's plan to resume construction at a nuclear power plant
the government announced a moratorium on the construction of the plant after voters in a referendum expressed their opposition to nuclear power
the government's decision wednesday to go ahead with the project angered the socialist party leaders
at the time of his resignation in february, analysts suggested some christian democrats wanted to undermine goria and make party secretary ciriaco de mita the premier
why do americans have different beers for different times of the day, asked a visiting soviet public relations executive who was confused by some u.s. advertizing techniques and wound up confusing his hosts
valentin v. kozitsyn, who is traveling with a soviet cultural exhibit now at cincinnati's union terminal center, had some questions for members of the cincinnati public relations company he visited thursday
employees at smith kaufman public relations were confused by his beer question
they understood when kozitsyn explained that he had seen a television commercial saying ``the night belongs to michelob.''
and another thing: ``why is k mart america's favorite store?'' he asked
any advertising or public relations effort in the soviet union is ``done very slowly, with much care and deliberation,'' kozitsyn said. he described the american media as fast, colorful and timely
there is much to learn about the methods here,'' he said
much of thursday's informal discussion was spent explaining to kozitsyn the distinctions between u.s. advertising, public relations and journalism
in our country, it isn't so important to explain everything,'' he said
kozitsyn said interest in public relations methodology is increasing in the soviet union because the country, under communist party leader mikhail gorbachev, is taking a hard look at its traditions
we have not only successes _ we have mistakes,'' kozitsyn said. ``there is a need for us to explain our mistakes in history and modern life. ... there is the need to understand truths.''
there is much we need to teach our own people, and much to learn about accomplishing that,'' kozitsyn said
lora l. doerr, an account supervisor with smith kaufman, said the cincinnati firm first came in contact with kozitsyn while arranging publicity for the exhibit. from mcfarlane, walsh and reagan; subs pvs 12th graf bgng, robinson filed, to make 2nd reference to walsh.</note>
former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane pleaded guilty today to four misdemeanor charges of withholding information from congress about reagan administration efforts to help nicaraguan contra rebels during a statutory ban on military aid
mcfarlane, standing before u.s. district judge aubrey e. robinson jr., admitted that he withheld information about the activities of lt. col. oliver l. north and other members of the national security council staff in three 1985 letters to house committees
he also admitted withholding information from the house foreign affairs committee when he told the panel on dec. 8, 1986, that he was unaware of any efforts to solicit donations for the contras from a third country
each of the four charges carries a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a $1,000 fine
after entering his plea, mcfarlane told reporters that he did withhold information from congress on the occasions cited in the charges, but added:
my actions were motivated by what i believed to be in the foreign policy interest of the united states.''
mcfarlane said that since the iran-contra affair became public in late 1986, he had spent more than 200 hours testifying privately and publicly without immunity from prosecution. he promised to continue cooperating ``until this matter is finally resolved.''
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh said he could have sought more serious perjury charges against mcfarlane, but settled for the misdemeanor charges because the former white house aide had shown remorse and had tried to correct his original testimony
president reagan, boarding a helicopter for a weekend at camp david, md., refused to comment when asked about mcfarlane. ``it's in the court,'' reagan shouted to reporters
each charge carries a minimum sentence of one month in prison, but robinson reminded mcfarlane he could receive a maximum four-year sentence
you understand that imprisonment could be consecutive?'' the judge asked
i understand that,'' said mcfarlane, who spoke in a very soft, subdued voice
q. ``this is the action you knowingly took with respect to writing the letters?''
a. ``it is, your honor.''
referring to testimony mcfarlane gave the house foreign affairs committee, the judge asked, ``that was a knowing response?''
it was, your honor,'' mcfarlane replied
robinson filed under seal a letter of cooperation that mcfarlane and his attorney, leonard garment, had signed as part of plea bargain struck with walsh, who is investigating the iran-contra affair
robinson did not set a date for sentencing, indicating that he will assess mcfarlane's degree of cooperation with the prosecutor before making a decision
mcfarlane was released on his personal recognizance
the charges of withholding information from congress were detailed in a criminal information, which is filed when a defendant hs agreed to enter a guilty plea to charges
secretary of state george shultz, asked at the white house about mcfarlane's guilty plea, told reporters that ``if he has made some mistakes, i don't know about that. ... bud mcfarlane continues to have my strong friendship.''
the document filed today alleges that mcfarlane made false statements in letters sent in 1985 to the house intelligence and foreign affairs committees and a foreign affairs subcommittee
the charges involve assurances to congress that members of mcfarlane's national security council staff, specifically lt. col. oliver l. north, were not involved in private efforts to help the contras
in an oct. 7, 1985, letter to the house intelligence committee, mcfarlane wrote that ``lieutenant colonel north did not use his influence to facilitate the movement of supplies to the resistance,'' the information said
in addition, it said, mcfarlane assured the committee there was ``no official or unofficial relationship with any member of the nsc staff regarding fund raising for the nicaraguan democratic opposition.''
another charge states that on sept. 5, 1985, mcfarlane withheld information from the house intelligence committee when he wrote: ``i can state with deep personal conviction that at no time did i or any member of the national security council violate the letter of spirit'' of the boland amendment, which banned u.s. military aid to the contras
the sept. 5 letter also stated that ``we did not solicit funds or other support for military or paramilitary activities either from americans or third parties.''
the charge notes that the letter ``unlawfully withheld material information'' from the panel because mcfarlane ``then and there knew and believed that a member of the nsc staff had violated the letter or spirit of the boland amendment by, among other things, soliciting support for military and paramilitary activities of the contras and offering certain advice for the conduct of the contra's military activities and organization.''
the letter was written in response to an aug. 20, 1985, letter from the panel's chairman, rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., requesting information about news reports that the nsc staff was helping the contras
another charge relates to dec. 8, 1986, testimony in which mcfarlane told the house foreign affairs committee that he was not aware of any third country or citizens of a foreign nation helping the contras
the concrete character of that is beyond my ken,'' mcfarlane told the committee
the court documents said mcfarlane was withholding his knowledge that ``since 1984 the nationals of the third country referred to had expressed willingness to contribute millions of dollars to the contras,'' and that mcfarlane gave a ``representative of that third country with the number of a contra-controlled bank account into which the funds could be deposited.''
the plea bargain was negotiated by mcfarlane's attorney, leonard garment, and walsh, who is expected to seek a round of indictments in coming weeks from a federal grand jury that has been investigating the arms sales to iran and diversion of profits to the contras
mcfarlane has testified extensively before the grand jury impaneled by walsh. last year, mcfarlane tried to kill himself with an overdose of the tranquilizer valium the day before his scheduled testimony before a presidential commission that investigated the iran-contra affair
two other iran-contra figures have entered guilty pleas in walsh's investigation and are cooperating with the independent counsel
two conservative fund-raisers, carl r. ``spitz'' channell and richard miller admitted last year that they participated with north in an illegal scheme to use a tax-exempt foundation to raise money for the contras
mcfarlane, who resigned as white house national security adviser on dec. 4, 1985, traveled with north to tehran in may 1986 aboard a plane that delivered spare parts for hawk missiles that had previously been shipped to iran by the israelis
mcfarlane carried a cake and a bible to give to the iranians during negotiations over the release of american hostages being held in lebanon
during testimony before congressional investigators last summer, mcfarlane said he ordered his nsc staff not to solicit private funds for the contras
north, however, testified that ``i never heard those instructions.'' he said mcfarlane had asked him to help keep contra forces operating after congress imposed a ban on direct u.s. military aid
mcfarlane said he was not aware that arms sale proceeds were being diverted to the contras until north told him about it during their return trip from iran
north testified that mcfarlane told him to include false information in a chronology of the arms deal which was prepared in the fall of 1986, while the iran-contra affair was uraveling
mcfarlane denied he knowingly falsified the chronology, and said incorrect information was given to him during a meeting led by north
the state board of regents began an investigation friday of a board member and a state education department employee who wrote a guidebook designed to help students pass a new regents-required examination
a statement issued by board vice chancellor r. carlos carballada said a four-member regents committee would investigate circumstances surrounding publication of the book and any possibility of a conflict of interest
the guidebook, designed to improve student performance on the new social studies evaluation test required of all sixth-graders, was written by regent louise matteoni and renee levitt, an education department employee
state education commissioner thomas sobol said he was investigating levitt's role in the development of the book, which is published by scribner laidlaw
a brochure from the publisher promoting the book says it ``offers test-taking practice in multiple-choice formats, identical to those on the new york state program evaluation test.'' the test was first given last may
the promotional literature does not identify matteoni as a member of the board of regents
the 16-member board of regents sets education policy for the state. the board members, elected by the state legislature, serve without salary
in an interview with the albany times-union, matteoni said she didn't perceive any conflict of interest in what she had done
i thought i was doing something for the children of the state and teachers of the state,'' said matteoni, a brooklyn college education professor
levitt, reached at her new york city office, refused to talk about the book, which is sold to schools in packages of 30 for $140
levitt is a $49,094-a-year associate in reading education and has worked for the education department for almost 15 years, said department spokesman chris carpenter
carballada's appointment of the panel to investigate production of the book came after complaints by the chairmen of the legislature's education committees. graf, `malta's state ...' adds 2 grafs to update with message from malta prime minister to gadhafi.</note>
panicked soccer fans fled knife-wielding ruffians and triggered the collapse of a sports stadium in libya, killing at least 20 people, according to news reports friday
malta's state radio said two libyans were arrested in tripoli after the collapse
newspapers in belgrade, quoting a report from the yugoslav state news agency tanjug from tripoli, said at least 20 people were killed and hundreds injured when a stadium dividing wall fell thursday during a match between malta and libya
joe sacco, the general secretary of the maltese football association who was in tripoli with the maltese team, said friday there was speculation in the libyan capital that the death toll could be higher
the libyan news agency jana said a row of seats collapsed at the june 11 stadium and that a ``number of spectators were injured.'' the stadium reportedly has a capacity of 70,000, it was not immediately known how many people were at the game
the times of malta said panic occurred when someone in the stands brandished a weapon and the spectators rushed to get out
politika ekspres, a belgrade daily, said the incident began when several fans pulled out knives during a quarrel
some spectators returning to malta told reporters at the airport the same story while others quoted people in the stadium as saying a man was terrorizing the crowd with a snake
politika ekspres said spectators seeking safety toppled an iron fence. at the same time, a six-foot thick, 15-foot long wall dividing the second from the third level of the stadium also crashed down
it is hard to believe that anyone under it could have remained alive,'' politika ekspres said, quoting eyewitnesses
several hundred people reportedly were injured when the crowd from the third level surged down, creating panic that soon spread to other parts of the stadium
people rushed to all exits, and that caused more injuries, the paper said
finally, about 5,000 fans in the field started chasing the culprits. one of them was captured but police managed to drag him free from the hands of the crowd, politika ekspres said
malta's department of information said the foreign ministry was informed that no maltese nationals were involved in the accident
the libyans were leading 1-0 in the exhibition game between the two national teams. the game was stopped and did not resume
maltese prime minister edward fench adami sent a message friday to libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi extending ``our condolences and deepest sympathies to the familes of the bereaved and to all those hit by this tragedy.''
the people of malta join me in sharing your profound grief at this unhappy moment during the sports festival,'' fenech adami said in the message
arnold f. willat, who developed the first cold permanent wave for women, has died. he was 102
the detroit-born electrical engineer, who died monday, boasted in 1952 that he would pay $1,000 to the first woman whose hair he couldn't curl. a newspaper story at the time said no one collected
at age 95 he was named to the cosmetology hall of fame
willat manufactured and sold his own solutions and equipment for permanent waves for 50 years, and only last year his willat co. of san francisco discontinued manufacturing cold wave solutions. willat curl papers and dispensers are still found in beauty shops
one of the nation's early electrical engineers, with a degree from georgia tech in 1907, willat traveled the east coast after graduation, and came to san francisco with his wife in 1913
at a manufacturer's request, willat developed an electricity-and-heat permanent wave machine for beauty shops but eventually found a better way to curl hair
willat's son, forest of greenbrae, calif., said his father gave up rights to several patents in the 1960s after winning large settlements from major manufacturers. the younger willat said scores of companies soon were making and selling cold wave kits
willat is survived by two other sons, thoreau of new mexico and leon of mill valley, calif.; 11 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren
services will be private
iran and iraq stopped nearly two weeks of attacks on each other's cities friday, but the iraqis said they got in the last volley with 11 missiles fired before their afternoon truce deadline
hundreds of civilians have been killed or wounded since the exchange began feb. 29
eight rockets were aimed at tehran on friday and three at the iranian holy city of qom, the official iraqi news agency reported. it said the last missile left its launcher at 3:44 p.m., just 16 minutes before time iraq said it would stop shooting
an iraqi military communique said iranian leaders would ``be sparing the blood of their people'' if they also observed a cease-fire, but if they did not, ``by god, we will make them taste bitter defeat, and we will deal them unprecedented, violent blows.''
tehran's official islamic republic news agency said eight civilians were killed and 20 wounded friday, bringing the toll since the missile exchange began feb. 29 to 165 killed and 440 wounded. iraq has reported many deaths and injuries, but has not given figures
thousands of people have been killed in periodic rounds of the ``war of the cities'' since the persian gulf neighbors went to war in september 1980
iraq said its jets raided an iranian tanker in the gulf and seven cities in iran, but maritime officials said they could not confirm the ship attack. iran said civilians were killed in the air raids
in washington, u.s. military sources said iran had begun building launch pads for silkworm anti-ship missiles on abu musa, one of its gulf islands, potentially increasing its ability to menace shipping
there were no reports of iranian missile attacks after two were fired thursday night, but iran said its artillery pounded basra and other southern iraqi cities and its warplanes bombed iraqi troop concentrations. iraq said women and children were killed in the shelling
a military spokesman said on tehran radio later friday that iran had stopped its ``deterrent attacks'' on iraqi cities, but would respond if iraq attacked iranian residential areas
turkey was instrumental in arranging the truce, which it had intended to begin thursday. the turks have good relations with both sides and represent the interests of each on the other's territory
iran had said it would start its cease-fire thursday afternoon, but presumably continued its attacks when iraq did the same
manuser mottaki, iran's ambassador to turkey, said friday in ankara that the iranians would honor the truce if iraq did. both combatants had made similar statements while turkey was arranging the cease-fire
iraq reported firing 71 missiles in the 12 days, 59 of them into tehran, and iran said it launched 29, all but two at baghdad
tehran was safe from attack by surface-to-surface missiles until now because it is 290 miles from the border and iraq did not have rockets capable of reaching it. iran periodically fired missiles into baghdad, which is only 80 miles from the frontier
iraq said it developed its own long-range missile, but military analysts say it is using soviet-made scud-bs with strap-on boosters for added range. they say iran also uses scud-bs, which can fly 190 miles without boosters
the defense officials in washington, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said u.s. intelligence had not yet detected efforts by iran to move any of its chinese-built silkworms to abu musa
iran has batteries of silkworms, which have a range of about 50 miles, on its shore of the narrow strait of hormuz, southern gateway to the persian gulf
it also has fired missiles believed to be silkworms into kuwait's main anchorage from the faw peninsula, which it captured from iraq early in the war
in washington, the pentagon announced that the 16th convoy operation of 1988 had ended quietly friday with two reflagged kuwaiti tankers steaming out of the persian gulf into the gulf of oman
the sea isle city and chesapeake city, which began the southbound transit (from kuwait) through the persian gulf on tuesday, were escorted by the guided-missile frigate uss simpson,'' the pentagon said
a man convicted in the slaying of a drug dealer later fell in love with a police officer's daughter and lived with her family for several months before his secret was revealed
ross basurto, 24, was sentenced thursday to 10 years to life in prison for his role in the november 1985 killing of mark b. borgerson, 25. basurto admitted in january that he was present when borgerson was killed
officer jose r. lopez and his daughter, rachel, testified for leniency on behalf of basurto at sentencing, before multnomah county circuit judge richard l. unis
lopez, a 20-year police veteran, told the judge basurto, using the name jay adams, came to live with his family in july 1986. basurto, who met rachel after the killing, was her boyfriend before he moved in with the family
he told me that he had just moved up from california,'' lopez said. ``he lived with us four or five months.''
as a police technician, lopez had collected evidence at the scene of the borgerson killing. but lopez said he never suspected basurto of wrongdoing
basurto, he said, had a good record as an employee of a gas station and later a towing company
testimony indicated that rachel lopez, who is nine months pregnant with basurto's child, learned her boyfriend's real name and read police reports on the killing while working that summer at the police bureau's records department. she said she hopes to marry basurto
she never revealed what she had discovered to her father, who learned basurto's real identity only after his arrest last october. basurto was recognized by an individual who had read an item about the crime in a newspaper
between the time he moved in with the lopez family and his arrest, basurto also lived in yuma, ariz., and fort lauderdale, fla
basurto is the third and last defendant convicted in the killing
basurto admitted carrying a gun and being present when a co-defendant shot borgerson after the two had gone to the victim's apartment to steal drugs
defense lawyer gary carlson said basurto was a peaceful, industrious person ``who got swept away'' by an unfortunate friendship
but prosecutor john foote characterized basurto as a man of many sides who had shown his best side to his family and friends
two former bank executives were portrayed friday as greedy men hungry for wealth as prosecutors began presenting their case in a fraud trial linked to the near-demise of continental illinois bank and trust co
u.s. district court jurors, who may sit through six weeks of testimony, listened to detailed descriptions of alleged fraud that involved millions of dollars and stretched from the oil fields of oklahoma to continental's offices in chicago
the government has accused former continental vice president john lytle of buying high-risk loans from now-defunct penn square bank in oklahoma city in exchange for nearly $600,000 in kickbacks between 1980 and 1982
defendant william patterson, former head of energy lending at penn square, gave the kickbacks to lytle in the form of unsecured loans, the government contends
a third defendant, tulsa oil driller jere sturgis, is accused of making payments to lytle in hopes of getting future loans from continental
the three men have pleaded innocent
ladies and gentlemen, you're going to hear evidence that will prove that john lytle was not serving the interests of his employer,'' assistant u.s. attorney mark l. rotert said
he contended lytle ``was completely financially dependent on bill patterson.''
lytle's lifestyle, rotert said, involved the kind of ``consumption of goods that is associated in this country with the wealthy, the well-off.''
he was adding rooms to his home in northbrook. he took vacations _ not one-week vacations, not two-week vacations, but month-long vacations,'' rotert said
lytle, who worked at continental from 1959 until his dismissal in 1982, bought furs and rare automobiles, took trips to the french west indies and stayed in a luxurious condominium in vail, colo., where he liked to ski, the prosecutor said
he had a hot tub there with a retractable roof. he could sit back and see the craggy peaks of the rocky mountains,'' rotert said
patterson, meanwhile, was the third-largest shareholder in the first penn corp., parent company of penn square bank, the prosecutor said
the success of penn square bank was his future, his career, his livelihood,'' rotert said
patterson is accused of paying lytle to ensure continental's involvement in loans with penn square
continental would be the principle lender in most cases, but penn square benefited from finder's fees worth thousands of dollars, rotert said
continental and penn square became lending partners on millions of dollars in loans, largely because of the relationship between lytle and patterson, the prosecutor said
lytle's job as the head of continental's gas and oil lending operation in oklahoma did not involve routine loan approvals, but he constantly overruled loan officers who opposed risky deals with penn square
mr. lytle did what mr. patterson wanted him to do,'' rotert said
lytle, 52, and patterson, 37, are charged with misapplication of bank funds and wire fraud
sturgis, 40, charged with wire fraud, is acccused of joining the alleged scheme by helping lytle cover the unsecured loans from patterson after continental discovered lytle's personal dealings
penn square collapsed in july 1982 under the weight of energy loans it could not collect. in 1984, continental survived the largest run on deposits in banking history, with the help of a $4.5 billion government bailout
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and resources committee, expressed his support friday for increasing the minimum wage to $5.05 per hour over four years but said he still remains committed to raises tied to inflation
i continue to support indexing,'' said kennedy, in a statement released by his washington office. ``it's the best way to make the minimum wage a living wage.''
kennedy said his committee has scheduled action on the minimum wage bill during the week of april 11
the house education and labor committee voted thursday to raise the federal minimum wage to $5.05 an hour in several steps over the next four years
the vote to increase the minimum wage to $5.05, instead of the $4.65 voted last week by the house labor standards subcommittee, was seen as an attempt by supporters of an increase to gain a bargaining chip that will assure the minimum wage will be at least $4.65 when the measure leaves the house
last week, the subcommittee approved a bill to raise the $3.35-an-hour minimum wage to $3.85 in 1989, $4.25 in 1990 and $4.65 in 1991. at the same time, the subcommittee voted to strip the bill of a controversial proposal that would have indexed or tied future increases to the rate of inflation
a fourth year increase is less satisfactory, but it could make a stronger package, given the president's veto threats,'' said kennedy. ``the last time congress raised the minimum wage in 1977, we enacted a four-step increase, too.''
a 25-year-old albanian oil company employee seeking political asylum in greece crawled under an electric wire fence and gave himself up to authorities, police in this northern town said friday
the man, identified as spetim kenai, from the southern albanian town of fier, crossed the border in daylight wednesday before presenting himself at the local police station in the border village of pogoniani, a police spokesman said
he has now been moved to the united nations refugee center outside athens and plans to ask for political asylum,'' said the spokesman, who requested anonymity in accordance with greek practice
according to a report in the conservative athens daily, free press, the man said 17 soldiers and an army officer also recently fled the self-isolated balkan state by crossing the border into yugoslavia
a man who apparently was living in the attic of a marshall university dormitory and told students he was the football team's new quarterback was arrested as a fugitive, police said friday
perzell dinkins, 22, was taken into custody thursday on a fugitive from justice charge, said campus security capt. gene crawford. dinkins was being held friday pending $500 bond, officials said
dinkins faces felony charges in lawrence county, ohio, for allegedly receiving stolen property, crawford said. he also has outstanding arrest warrants in ashland, ky., and jackson, miss., but the charges in those cities were not immediately known, he added
campus security searched the attic of hodges hall after residents reported a man living there, marshall's student newspaper, the parthenon, reported friday
he had some clothing there _ he left it there and would come in frequently to take a shower and change clothes,'' crawford said
the parthenon reported that dinkins told residents of hodges hall he was the new quarterback for the football team. the mens' dormitory houses most of the school's male athletes and residents had seen dinkins there for several days, the paper said
crawford said dinkins didn't tell police he was on the football team, ``but he did say he was trying to get a football scholarship.''
dinkins said he had been living in the huntington area since january but denied living in the dormitory, police said
a baptist minister and a secretary insisted friday that a convicted killer who has escaped florida's electric chair six times is innocent and should not be executed next week
the rev. sam sparks and christine bass also said they were disappointed that gov. bob martinez refused to meet with them friday to hear evidence they hoped would clear willie jasper darden
i think a lot of people in florida are wondering why he won't sit down for even 15 minutes with ms. bass and me. that seems reasonable,'' said sparks
meanwhile, darden's attorneys filed a last-ditch appeal on his behalf friday in the florida supreme court. no immediate ruling was issued
the governor said he was satisfied the courts had reviewed darden's case thoroughly
there is nothing that would change my mind. ... the evidence was clear, the rulings were proper by the courts,'' martinez said
sparks and ms. bass appeared at a news conference called by amnesty international, which has tried to focus international pressure on the governor, who signed a seventh death for darden this week, one day after the u.s. supreme court turned down an appeal
soviet dissident andrei sakharov, american actress margot kidder and british rock star peter gabriel are among those opposing his electrocution
amnesty international delivered to the governor's office petitions bearing the signatures of 10,000 people in the netherlands who opposed florida's system of capital punishment. the group also urged its supporters to call or cable the governor's office friday
it is a violation of human rights,'' said magdaleno rose-avila, head of the group's campaign to abolish the death penalty
darden, 54, has survived more death warrants and has been on florida's death row longer than any other inmate except one. his case has become a focal point for capital punishment opponents who say his trial was tainted by racial prejudice. darden is black, and the man he was convicted of killing was white
sparks and ms. bass have issued affidavits about the events of sept. 8, 1973, that conflict with the versions of the killing related by the victim's wife and prosecutors
darden was convicted of killing lakeland furniture store owner james turman during a robbery that netted $15. a store employee also was shot three times and crippled, and turman's wife had to fend off a sexual attack
sparks said turman's wife had told him all blacks looked alike to her and that her identification of darden was unimportant because the lawyers had told her that darden committed the crime
helen baum, formerly helen turman, recently denied having made that statement to sparks and reaffirmed her identification of darden as the one who shot her husband. mrs. baum said it was her sister who made the statement sparks quoted, but sparks insisted that it was mrs. baum
ms. bass, a lakeland secretary, said darden had an accident near her house and that he waited for a tow truck until 5:35 p.m. her house was eight miles from turman's store and prosecutor say the crime occurred at about 6 p.m
willie darden is innocent, and i know it,'' ms. bass said
ms. bass said she tried to meet with darden's attorney to tell him what she knew, but was rebuffed
sparks said he did not come forward sooner because he had been told by mrs. baum about a month after her husband's death that darden confessed to the crime. sparks said he didn't know otherwise until he started talking to ms. bass and they compared notes on the crime
a doctor who taped a suicide note to the wheel of his van at niagara falls and disappeared after he was charged with attempted murder of his estranged wife has telephoned his father
he has contacted me and i told the fbi and the court and so forth,'' howard johe, a charleston architect, said friday of his son, dr. david johe. ``i don't know what will happen now. i think the less said, the better.''
johe said his son got in touch with him in the past few weeks
until that call, the family had believed that david johe, 35, had committed suicide in july
in june, authorities arrested johe and accused him of breaking into the bradford, pa., home of his estranged wife, blair plott johe, and trying to strangle her
several days after his release on bond, police in niagara falls found johe's van parked in a motel parking lot. a note taped to the steering wheel read: ``goodbye. i hope the water's not too cold. i guess i'll never know. david.''
both the elder johe and his daughter, sara johe, said a note left in david johe's home and articles sent to the family convinced them he had planned to kill himself
a body was never recovered
bradford township, pa., police chief david doyle has maintained that he didn't believe the doctor was dead
johe, an orthopedic physician, specialized in reattaching severed limbs, fingers and toes
about 50 conservationists and residents of this scenic philadelphia suburb gathered friday to protest a planned power line through a farm made famous by artist andrew wyeth
wyeth, who is from chadds ford, used the kuerner farm for more than 1,000 studies and at least five paintings over 45 years
he spent as much time here as i did farming. he painted while we worked,'' said karl kuerner jr., 61, who raises cattle and grows hay on the 35-acre farm
philadelphia electric co. plans to place wooden utility poles on a 250-foot stretch of the farm as part of a 11-mile power line between a concord substation and kennett square, said bill jones, a spokesman for the company
growth in the area southwest of philadelphia near the delaware state line makes the new line necessary before peak demand in the summer, he said
the existing lines in the area were overloaded almost daily when the temperature got over 90 last summer,'' jones said, adding that there were several brief blackouts because of the demand
philadelphia electric serves 1.4 electric customers in southeastern pennsylvania and northern maryland
a power line already traverses the kuerner farm, with three 100-foot metal towers standing on a meadow near a shingled barn. the new line would come within 35 feet of the barn, kuerner said
demonstrators holding signs outside the entrance to the kuerner farm said an alternate route along a nearby highway would have less of an impact on the environment
route 1 has already got poles and everything. it's not going to affect the aesthetics,'' said harry g. haskell jr., a former mayor of wilmington who grew up with wyeth in chadds ford
wyeth was ill with the flu and could not attend the demonstration, said john sheppard, a spokesman for the brandywine river museum, where many of wyeth's paintings are displayed
j.l. peters, a division manager for philadelphia electric, said the route over the kuerner's farm had the least impact
we are cognizant of the natural beauty of the chadds ford area and we have spent considerable time and effort looking at all the possible routes through the area so as to minimize the impact on the aesthetics,'' peters said
we are convinced the route we have selected achieves that,'' he said
wyeth's paintings using kuerner's farm include ``snow flurries,'' which is on display at the national gallery in washington; ``evening at kuerners''; ``trodden weed''; ``pine baron''; and ``young bull.''
he has a special feeling for the land,'' haskell said
kuerner said wyeth still paints at the farm
he comes quite often, mostly snow scenes,'' he said
outgoing president antonio ortiz mena of the inter-american development bank predicted on friday that its loans to latin america will increase from last year's $2.361 billion to between $2.5 billion and $3 billion in 1988
we can continue on this level until the end of the century,'' ortiz mena told a news conference
the bank, owned by 44 governments, is a major source of loans to raise the living standards of latin american countries, most of which have seen declines in recent years from their already low levels
after 17 years with the bank, ortiz mena is returning to his native mexico. he will be succeeded by enrique iglesias of uruguay
ortiz mena blamed the drop in the bank's lending in part on the drop in the value of the u.s. dollar, which he said cost the bank $1.2 billion last year and will cost it another $2 billion in 1988
the bank is deep in a dispute with the u.s. government, its biggest shareholder, which is seeking more control over its lending
ortiz mena denied that he had blocked a u.s. effort to place a new man as the bank's executive vice president _ james w. conrow, deputy assistant secretary of the treasury for developing nations. he said the report was a ``fabrication.''
ortiz mena will not be going to a meeting of the bank's board of governors to be held in caracas, venezuela, on march 21. he said there would be discussion there of additional resources for the bank from japan. he would not give a figure
he added that there would also be discussion of increasing japan's voting strength in the fund, now 1.08 percent of the total. the united states, the largest contributor, controls 34.5 percent of the votes
ortiz mena said the major challenge for the inter-american bank is to help reverse the present situation in which capital is flowing out of latin america instead of into it. the outflow, much of it interest on old debts, is estimated at $15.7 billion for 1987
latin american countries can not fulfill theur debt commitments unless there is economic growth,'' ortiz mena said. ``to achieve growth, it needs investment. there can be no investment if it is exporting capital. it needs to import capital.'' mounts</head>
lyndon larouche's attorneys demanded access friday to information a prosecutor relied on when he said a top fbi official conferred with a key figure in the iran-contra scandal about an effort to collect information against larouche
the attorneys said the information might help them prove their contention that former white house aide oliver north asked the fbi and cia to infiltrate larouche groups because they were interfering with north's private contra-resupply effort
also friday, the trial judge again delayed the resumption of testimony in the fraud and conspiracy case against larouche, six aides and five organizations because of pending searches of government records, including those of the white house and vice president george bush, for any evidence suggesting infiltration of larouche groups
a prosecutor said the records searches ordered by u.s. district judge robert e. keeton would take up to three weeks
assistant u.s. attorney john markham urged the judge to allow testimony to continue in the interim, but defense lawyers said they would be unable to competently question witnesses without first having all evidence of possible government infiltration of larouche groups
keeton said the earliest the jury would be called back to court was tuesday. he also said he would decide monday if a longer delay was necessary
also friday, the larouche attorneys unleashed several new allegations of prosecutorial and government misconduct. they charged the government withheld documents favorable to defense claims that evidence against larouche and followers was fabricated by government agents working undercover in the political extremist's organizations
in a memo sent to north by retired air force maj. gen. richard secord, one of north's principal operatives in the contra-resupply network, secord said that ``our man'' told him retired army sgt. maj. fred lewis had gathered ``info against larouche.''
lewis is the executive vice president of rhyolite management systems, a texas company the larouche lawyers contend was one of several private companies run by former military officers used by the cia to carry out covert activities
assistant u.s. attorney john markham had told larouche defense lawyers that ``our man'' referred to oliver ``buck'' revell, a top fbi official involved in counterintelligence operations. markham since has said he was mistaken and that the reference was to john cupp, a secord associate who worked in the resupply effort
secord and cupp, in interviews this week, also have said the reference was to cupp. both denied any role in or knowledge of a government effort to spy on larouche
if `our man here' is in fact oliver revell, it would create a motive for high-level forces in the fbi and national security council to conceal that in order to protect mr. revell,'' the defense motion said
markham did not immediately respond to the request for information concerning revell. an fbi spokesman earlier this week refused to relay questions from the associated press to revell, saying the agency would not comment on matters that were at issue in a current trial
an fbi document declassified this week quotes lewis and two other men as saying top fbi and cia officials asked them to infiltrate larouche groups. larouche lawyers said they had evidence the three asked larouche aides to assist them in illegal activities
markham contended in a document filed friday that lewis and the two other men were lying when they said they had been asked to infiltrate larouche groups
larouche attorney odin anderson also said friday that he had evidence showing revell intervened to block a planned meeting between larouche and william clark, who at the time of the alleged incident was president reagan's national security adviser
the united states and vietnam have scheduled another meeting this weekend to discuss the search for american servicemen missing from the vietnam war, the pentagon said friday
the so-called technical meeting of mia specialists from the two countries will begin in hanoi on saturday and extend through tuesday, the pentagon said in a statement. the last such meeting was held in january
the u.s. team will be led by lt. col. joe harvey, commander of the joint casualty resolution center in hawaii, the pentagon said
rosa l. parks, who sparked the 1955 alabama bus boycott, was discharged friday from johns hopkins hospital, a spokesman said
ms. parks, 75, received a pacemaker tuesday, said hospital spokesman phil kibak
ms. parks, of detroit, was in baltimore for medical tests and to help plan a national birthday celebration scheduled for her in june, said spokesman ghita levine. she chose to undergo tests at johns hopkins at the request of dr. levi watkins jr., whom ms. parks met at a speaking engagement here in january, levine said
nearly 33 years ago, ms. parks refused to give up her seat to a white man on a segregated bus in montgomery, ala. she was arrested, and the black community retaliated by boycotting the buses
a woman was being held friday on charges she tried to smuggle a gun, hidden in a lemon pie, into the county jail, authorities said
sherry spencer, also known as lea spencer, 24, of elkview is charged with two felony counts of aiding an escape attempt and one misdemeanor count of carrying a dangerous weapon, sheriff robey knight said. he would not identify the prisoner to whom spencer allegedly was trying to smuggle the weapon
sheriff's department sgt. russell goodwin said spencer was arrested after she showed up at the roane county jail on sunday and dropped off a lemon pie for a prisoner
the pie was in an aluminum dish, and because prisoners are prohibited from receiving metal objects, a guard transferred the pie to a paper plate. as he did, russell said, a .22-caliber pistol and 13 rounds of ammunition dropped out
the gun and ammunition were wrapped in plastic, russell said
spencer was being held in the wirt county jail pending $12,500 bond, knight said. a preliminary hearing is scheduled wednesday
here is a chronology of gary hart's 1988 campaign for the presidency:
april 13 _ hart declares candidacy, promising voters ``a presidency you can be proud of.''
april 24 _ hart aides confirm federal election commission is questioning legal status of $421,000 debt still owed at end of 1986 from hart's 1984 campaign
may 3 _ miami herald reports young woman, later identified as part-time model donna rice, spent much of weekend with hart. hart denies she stayed at his washington apartment. des moines register says poll of democrats in iowa shows hart with 65 percent support
may 6 _ hart's wife, lee, says she believes her husband when he says nothing happened between him and rice. poll of new hampshire democrats shows massachusetts gov. michael dukakis leading hart, 27 to 17 percent. a week earlier, same poll showed pair tied at 32 percent
may 8 _ hart withdraws from presidential race
sept. 8 _ he says in television interview, ``i am not running for president. i'm out.''
dec. 15 _ he re-enters democratic race, filing for new hampshire primary. ``let the people decide,'' he says. he immediately jumps to top of democratic field in national and iowa polls
january _ hart's campaign suffers another blow when reports surface that hollywood producer stuart karl improperly bankrolled campaign. hart later acknowledges several contributions were illegal and returns money
feb. 8 _ he wins only 1 percent of vote in iowa caucuses
feb. 16 _ he wins 4 percent of vote in new hampshire primary
march 8 _ he finishes with 3 percent of vote overall on super tuesday
march 9 _ federal election commission announces hart has not received enough support to be eligible for matching federal campaign funds
march 11 _ hart withdraws from race for second time
nine wheaton college graduates go to court monday in an attempt to prevent the school from using funds raised by alumnae for new coeducational purposes
the group claims to represent hundreds of alumnae around the country upset by the school's plan to admit men this fall for the first time in its 154-year history
at issue is $10.7 million raised by alumnae from 1983 to 1985 in a telephone fund drive marking wheaton's 150th anniversary, says alumna mary anne marsh
the theme of the drive was preparing women for the 21st century,'' said marsh. ``we had been given no idea they planned to make the school coed.''
alumnae first received letters informing them of the plan to go coeducational in january 1987, marsh said. but she added, ``it's very clear that this plan was conceived before the first phone was picked up.''
the trustees of this college of 1,200 students 30 miles south of boston endorsed the move last may. at that time, president alice emerson said the change was not being made for financial reasons but because of a nationwide decline in high school graduates and studies showing a waning interest in single-sex colleges
nancy mccann, another of the nine alumnae, expressed anger about the plan
it's important to keep women's colleges alive,'' she said. ``there should be options. women's colleges afford women the chance to take a real leadership role while they are trying out their wings before they go into the real world.''
wheaton spokeswoman lisa byrnes said the school would ``seek judicial approval to use these funds for coeducational purposes'' at monday's hearing in bristol county probate court
u.s. rep. mario biaggi and six co-defendants were greedy thieves who plundered a now-defunct bronx defense contractor for millions of dollars, the government charged friday as the wedtech corp. racketeering trial unfolded
this is a case about corruption and greed and the purchase and sale of public offices. it is a case about public officials who want to get paid twice, once by the people who elected them to do their job, again by someone else,'' assistant u.s. attorney howard wilson told the jury in u.s. district court in manhattan
this case involves the story of the rise of a little company in the bronx'' that began in 1965 as a machine shop and grew by 1978 to $1.5 million in sales by taking advantage of laws that promoted the growth of minority-owned enterprises, wilson said
seven years later, this company had grown like topsy'' to a defense contractor with 1,000 employees and $117 million in revenues, becoming ``the biggest single employer in the bronx,'' he said
the success was achieved through corruption and lies.''
this case is part of a scandal that also led to the indictment of former white house aide lyn nofziger and two former associates of attorney general edwin meese iii
nofziger was convicted last month of lobbying former white house associates within one year after he left the government on matters including a federal contract for wedtech
defendants in the manhattan trial are biaggi, 70: former bronx borough president stanley simon, 57; bernard g. ehrlich, 59, of bedford, biaggi's former law partner and a former major general in the new york national guard; biaggi's son richard, 38, of fort lee, n.j.; peter neglia, 39, of armonk, the former regional administrator of the small business administration; john mariotta, 57, scarsdale, former wedtech chairman; and ronald betso, 39, of brooklyn, a former cop and friend of neglia's
they all treated this company like a gold mine,'' said wilson. ``some took a lot. some took a little. but they all took.''
they engaged in the scheme by saying that mariotta, who is hispanic, was the majority owner of wedtech, and thus the company was entitled to a federal program that allowed companies to get government business without bidding, the government says
the minority member of the company must own more than 51 percent of the firm. but in fact, wilson charged, mariotta owned less than half
biaggi at one point demanded 5 percent of wedtech's revenues, but that was too much for wedtech officials, wilson said, who then gave him 5 percent of wedtech stock that was put in his son's name
at another point, biaggi asked for $50,000 for expediting a lease before the city's board of estimate, the prosecutor said, and the law firm his son worked for received the money the day after the lease was signed
in addition, the law firm earned $1 million in retainers' fees from wedtech from 1978 to 1985, wilson said
simon, who was borough president from 1979 to 1987, demanded and received over $50,000 that came in cash in envelopes, meals, chips for gambling in atlantic city casinos, pink marble in his home, a trip to rome and contributions in his name to charities, wilson said
he also got a job for his brother-in-law at wedtech and took half his raises over the years, wilson said
neglia as regional sba head and then as acting chief of staff in washington was wedtech's ``paid-for friend,'' wilson said
among other things, wilson contended, neglia warned the company about a congressional inquiry, provided navy specifications for bidding on a pontoon contract wedtech wanted and helped wedtech obtain contracts of increasing value
neglia was paid with stock options, frequent meals, contributions to the republican party in his name and the promise of a job once he left office, wilson said. less than a month after leaving the government in early 1986, he went to work for the law firm biaggi and ehrlich
mariotta embezzled about $1 million and sold wedtech stock worth between $6 million and $8 million, wilson charges. ehrlich was ``mario biaggi's partner in the plunder of wedtech. when he got it, he split it,'' wilson charged
richard biaggi became a lawyer in 1982 and ``became the front man in this case,'' wilson said, sometimes taking money or stock in his father's name. betso was a smaller player who took stock options in his name for his friend neglia, wilson alleged
wilson said he would present testimony from wedtech accountants, supervisors, workers, sen. alfonse d'amato, and four former officials who have pleaded guilty to crimes involving wedtech
defense attorneys begin presenting their arguments monday
in life, bill britt's refusal to budge from his makeshift hut in the woods earned him the image of cantankerous eccentric. but friends and family on friday mourned the 52-year-old hermit as a free spirit who loved nature
my father never really was a hermit,'' said his tearful daughter, ingrid boughner, 28. ``he was a naturalist. ... he was the most colorful and articulate human being. he loved me for being me and he gave me the courage to be myself.''
bill britt was a truly rare human being. there are not enough accolades to describe him. he had a zest for life, a passion for freedom, independence and the beauty of the woods,'' said bill baird, the abortion activist who befriended britt 20 years ago
britt's daughter and son, britton steven boughner, 30, as well as his mother, marion, 86, two brothers and many other relatives gathered with his friends for the memorial service at a funeral home
the oak casket at the front of the room was bedecked with flowers. someone had also placed on it a photograph of the hermit hugging one of his beloved trees. there was also a stuffed toy raccoon, a memory of the man's love for wild animals, and a hand-made card written by his son and daughter
the family planned to cremate the body. baird said he would scatter the ashes saturday at britt's favorite tree despite objections that a license is needed
britt was once a married man with a house, three children and a job in an office. it all crumbled when he divorced in 1969
britt cast off his three-piece suits and his three-piece name, britton william boughner. he began to spend time in the woods at the state-owned chestnut hill reservoir, near the affluent suburb of the same name where he was born and raised. they called him the ``hermit of chestnut hill.''
but he was hardly a recluse
britt was shrewd and stubborn, given to tears when he didn't get his way. he resembled a tall child as he rode the trolleys and hunted for pay phones to call reporters, clad in cast-off clothing and dragging a clattering armful of plastic buckets that served as his portable office
bear-shaped and nearly toothless, britt had blind eyes swollen with infection. he refused welfare and lived on the nickels he got for empty bottles and cans
two years ago, britt became the subject of legal efforts to pry him from the patch of state land
britt fought back by cultivating the image of misunderstood hermit who wanted only to be left alone among the trees. it landed him a spot on ``late night with david letterman.'' actor mickey rooney suggested making a tv movie about britt's life
a sympathetic judge respected britt's wish for a suburban eden and ordered the state to find a suitable alternative site
britt refused them all
last july, he was finally forced from state land and moved to the adjacent boston cemetry
officials said britt froze to death about two weeks before his body was found monday at the chestnut hill cemetery. his remains were found by his daughter and son, inside the lean-to where he lived
an american peace activist held by contra rebels for nine days said friday the experience was ``the most terrifying'' of his life and his captors threatened to kill him if he tried to escape
richard boren, a 30-year-old witness for peace volunteer from elkin, n.c., said he was forced at gunpoint to go with the contras after they captured him during an attack march 1 on a northern farm cooperative
they freed him wednesday night, suffering from a cold but unharmed
witness for peace, based in durham, n.c., opposes u.s. policy on nicaragua and support for the rebels, and seeks to document contra human rights abuses
the explosions sounded like they were all around, literally, i thought we'd end up getting killed,'' boren said of the rebel attack on the cooperative
i heard a shot right at the door to the house i was staying in,'' he said. ``i looked up and saw isabel ramos, the 13-year-old girl, was wounded.''
he said he left the house with his arms raised and was taken, along with 12 nicaraguans, by the contras. ``i asked them if they were going to kill me and their response was `yes' if i ran'' away, he added
boren said his release wednesday night near quilali, a village 170 miles north of managua, surprised him. he said he plans to go back to the united states for a while to see his family and friends
i have now personally experienced the terror the nicaraguan people are subjected to at the hands of the contras,'' he said. ``it has been the most terrifying experience of my life and i doubt the emotional scars from the experience will ever completely heal.''
he was the second american member of witness for peace captured by the contras. last october, the rebels held robert fisher for two weeks in central chontales province
the american-arab anti-discrimination committee said friday it has asked attorney general edwin meese iii to place israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir on its border ``watch list'' and order that he not be allowed to enter the united states as a private citizen
the committee also filed suit in federal court demanding u.s. government documents relating to shamir's activities as a member of the militant stern gang which waged guerrilla warfare in the struggle for an independent state in what now is israel
we believe in the adc there should be one stand for terrorists, one for friend and foe alike,'' said abdeen jabara, president of the committee. ``we believe the u.s. government should have one yardstick.''
shamir is to visit the united states next week, meeting with president reagan on wednesday. even if he were on the watch list, shamir would not be turned away since he is coming in an official capacity
the united states last year placed austrian president kurt waldheim on its watch list because of his suspected participation in nazi war crimes during world war ii. the watch list is so called because u.s. consular officials around the world check the list before issuing visas for visits to the united states
the basis for this request rests on the long history and involvement of mr. shamir as a leader of the infamous stern gang which was responsible for numerous acts of terrorism,'' said the adc's letter to meese, dated thursday. the department of justice had no comment on the letter
the court petition, also filed thursday, asked for documents in the possession of the departments of justice, defense and state, the cia and the immigration and naturalization service
shamir's violent opposition to the british forces in palestine led to his imprisonment on at least two occasions,'' the court complaint said. ``shamir was in charge of organization and operations of lehi (the formal name of the stern group) which had adopted a policy of individual acts of terror.''
jabara said his group wants the documents to back its efforts to have shamir declared persona non grata
shamir has never renoucned his participation with the above mentioned groups nor has he ever denounced their use of terrorism,'' the adc complaint said. ``shamir is legally excludable from entering the united states.''
the state department on friday questioned the right of the soviet union to provide arms to the government in afghanistan, denouncing the regime in kabul as ``a faction in the afghan civil strife.''
in a strong statement, department spokesman charles e. redman said u.s. aid to the afghan rebels who have waged a civil war for more than eight years would not be halted until the soviets stopped their assistance to the kabul government
there will be no cutoff of support for the resistance under any other circumstances,'' redman said
on thursday, nikolai kozyrev, the soviet foreign ministry's adviser on afghan affairs, declared that moscow would not stop arming the kabul government as part of an agreement for an afghan cease-fire
the official accused pakistan and the united states of holding up a peace agreement that would end the war and allow the soviets to withdraw an estimated 120,000 troops from the country
it was not immediately clear what impact the u.s. and soviet disagreement on aiding the rival groups would have on negotiations the united nations is holding in geneva between pakistan and afghanistan
soviet general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev had offered to begin a troop withdrawal on may 15 if an agreement was concluded by next tuesday
the geneva draft agreement calls for ``noninterference'' in afghanistan
redman said it was ``only logical'' that the provision apply to the soviet union as well as the united states
the soviets cannot claim a right to aid a faction in the afghan civil strife just because that particular faction tries to call itself the government of afghanistan,'' the spokesman said
the war in afghanistan, in fact, is on this central issue, concerning the very legitimacy of the kabul regime,'' he said
even with soviet support, redman said, ``the present kabul regime has been barely able to secure the capital and a few other cities.''
the u.s. official did not mention the u.s. weapons, including stinger anti-aircraft missiles, that washington has sent the rebels through pakistan
the stingers have downed soviet and afghan aircraft and helicopters and forced pilots to fly higher, reducing the effectiveness of air power against the guerrillas
tass charged friday that u.s. economic sanctions against panama are an attempt to subjugate that central american nation and reclaim the panama canal
the official soviet news agency said in its commentary, ``reports on developments around panama leave no doubt that the washington administration intends to crush the independence of that country and perpetuate u.s. domination over its territory, first of all the panama canal zone.''
it described drug-trafficking accusations against panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, as ``a convenient pretext'' for interfering in internal panamanian affairs
it is only a short time ago that gen. noriega was regarded in washington as `one of ours,''' tass stated
president reagan stepped up economic pressure on panama friday, ordering that a $6.5 million payment due panama next week be put into escrow
trade benefits were suspended earlier and reagan ordered intensified scrutiny of panama by u.s. immigration and customs service officials
on thursday, the u.s. house of representatives passed a non-binding resolution demanding noriega's ouster. reagan has refered to the panamanian government as ``illegitimate.''
tass said the united states is trying to pressure panama into renegotiating agreements requiring u.s. soldiers to leave by the year 2000
what washington would really like is to do away with panama's independence, make it back into the obedient u.s. puppet it used to be, and seal the u.s. right forever to own part of panamanian territory and keep u.s. military bases there,'' tass said
noriega was indicted by u.s. grand juries in florida in february on drug-trafficking and money-laundering charges. he has denied the charges
the tass commentary lectured washington it should ``look first at what is happening under its very nose,'' and accused lt. col. oliver north and former national security advisers robert mcfarlane and john poindexter of ``direct involvement in drug-related crimes'' as part of the iran-contra scandal
here, at a glance, are developments in the economic picture friday:
retail sales edged up 0.6 percent in february, but sales in january were much weaker than previously believed
instead of a 0.5 percent rise, sales actually fell 0.2 percent during january, showing the consumer sector is weaker than previously believed
auto sales in february increased 1.6 percent following a 2 percent advance in january. february sales accounted for almost one-fourth of total retail spending during the month
without the strength in auto sales bolstered by new incentive programs, total retail sales would have risen a smaller 0.3 percent
wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, pushed down by drops in both food and energy costs
for the first two months of the year, the labor department said prices have been rising at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, half the 2.2 percent increase in 1987. analysts expect inflation to remain moderate for the rest of the year
food prices declined 1.1 percent in february while energy prices dropped 0.8 percent. the cost of lettuce, which had skyrocketed through the late fall and early winter, fell a dramatic 70 percent
the dow jones average, down more than 20 points at midafternoon, closed with a gain of 8.95 at 2,034.98. for the week the average lost 22.88 points
the u.s. dollar fell against other major currencies in quiet european trading. in tokyo, the dollar closed at 127.80 japanese yen, down from thursday's close of 128.20 yen. later in london, it fell to 127.80 yen
the british pound continued to climb against the dollar, trading at $1.8535 up from $1.8435 late thursday. the pound has leaped by 4 percent in value against the dollar this week
dealers said trading was light and without direction both in typical pre-weekend fashion and because traders were waiting for the january u.s. trade report to be issued next thursday
federal aviation officials on friday unveiled a regional air traffic control center's new computer system, part of a $197 million nationwide system they say will improve air safety even though it will be replaced within 12 years
published suggestions that the new computers already are outdated are ``very, very misleading'' because the agency wanted computers with proven reliability, not the newest models available, said ed harris, an associate administrator of the federal aviation administration
we would have been crazy to gamble on a system that was unproven,'' harris said before the dedication of the new computers at the los angeles air route traffic control center
the center, in palmdale about 50 miles north of downtown los angeles, controls instrument flight operations in 177,000 square miles of airspace over southern and central california, southern nevada, southwestern utah, northwestern arizona and the pacific ocean out to 250 miles off california's coast
attention has been focused on the region's heavy mix of commercial and general aviation aircraft since a small plane flew into restricted airspace over suburban cerritos and collided with an aeromexico jet on aug. 31, 1986, killing 82 people. cerritos is 20 miles southeast of the airport
since the crash, several reviews of faa records indicated its radar and tracking network was a jumble of different computers and outdated electronics, many of which were inoperable or down for repairs a considerable amount of time
the los angeles center is the 13th of 20 faa traffic control centers nationally to activate the new computer system, made by international business machines corp
but the faa will start replacing the new computers _ as well as display screens and other equipment used by controllers _ with a highly advanced, $2 billion to $4 billion nationwide system by 1995, and intends to complete installation by the end of 1999, said william carson jr. of ibm
thousands of ibm 3083s like the ones unveiled friday were sold to banks and businesses until ibm stopped making them last year, carson said
computer technology ``is advancing so quickly that if you waited for state-of-the-art, you'd never buy anything,'' said nobby owens, an faa deputy associate administrator. ``the old (ibm 9020) system was at capacity. the reliability of this (ibm 3083) equipment offers use exactly what we want.''
faa spokeswoman elly brekke said ibm 3083 computers already have been activated at traffic control centers in oakland, calif., which covers the san francisco bay area; seattle; houston; denver; boston; washington; chicago; albuquerque, n.m.; memphis, tenn.; cleveland; atlanta; and miami
scheduled to get the computers by mid-year are centers in new york city; minneapolis; kansas city, mo.; indianapolis; jacksonville, fla.; fort worth, texas, including the dallas area; and salt lake city, she said
the new ibm mainframe computers are up to 10 times faster and have four to five times the storage capacity of the equipment they will replace,'' faa administrator t. allan mcartor said in a prepared statement
this will allow the air traffic control system to keep pace with projected traffic growth over the next decade and accomodate the introduction of new automation functions that will both enhance safety and increase controller productivity,'' he added
the los angeles center's system was activated march 1, but was formally dedicated friday by h.c. ``mac'' mcclure, faa regional director
the ibm 3083s will be equipped with conflict-alert programs to give controllers flashing warnings if two planes start to get too close, even if one of the planes isn't under a controller's jurisdiction, owens said, adding other software will help improve traffic flow
the 600-employee center in palmdale handled about 1.9 million flights last year and is the fifth busiest in the nation
the faa said the new computers are only one aspect of its $12 billion, 20-year modernization plan, which also will include new landing systems, better radars and a major upgrading of weather reports for pilots. fourteen percent of the modernization project has been completed nationwide, with 70 percent of the work under contract
robert c. mcfarlane left congressional iran-contra investigators in little doubt last spring that he had deliberately misled congress about efforts inside the reagan administration to sidestep a ban on aid to nicaragua's contra rebels
some committee members said at the time they felt the former national security adviser's under-oath testimony must have been true because it was so self-damaging
mcfarlane put the seal on that judgment friday when he pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor charges accusing him of withholding from congress the fact that the administration had helped the contra movement stay alive, in part through soliciting secret multi-million dollar contributions from third countries
by pleading guilty, mcfarlane in effect admitted he made false statements in letters sent in 1985 to the house intelligence and foreign affairs committees and in testimony in december 1986 before the foreign affairs panel
in that testimony mcfarlane made this statement: ``i did not solicit any country at any time to make contributions to the contras. i have seen reports that various countries have.''
that was challenged by john nields, chief counsel of the house iran-contra panel, who referred to the country involved as ``country 2'' although it had been independently identified as saudi arabia
now in fact, you did have a pretty good idea of country 2's funding of the contras, didn't you?'' nields asked
yes,'' mcfarlane replied
nields: ``in fact, as you've testified yesterday and today, you had a hand in obtaining contributions totaling approximately $32 million from country two?''
mcfarlane: ``yes.''
nields: ``but you did not tell that to the foreign affairs committee at that time?''
mcfarlane: ``no, i was trying to use some tortured language, inappropriately i think. ... it wasn't a full account. ... this isn't as full an account as i could have given.''
later, he said that testimony and his statements in the 1985 letters were ``clearly too categorical on my part.''
in other portions of his iran-contra testimony, mcfarlane said he had helped alter documents, failed to shut down an out-of-control covert operation and did nothing when marine lt. col. oliver l. north told him he planned to hold a ``shredding party.''
mcfarlane said repeatedly that if anyone was at fault in all of this, it was he
summing up, rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., chairman of the house committee, rejected mcfarlane's attempt to take all of the blame
as the national security adviser you are the spokesman for the president of the united states,'' hamilton told the witness
and when we write to you, we do not write to mr. mcfarlane, we write to you as the representative of the president
and when you spoke to the congress and when you wrote to the congress, we accepted your words and your assurances as those of the president
you spoke for the president,'' hamilton said. ``and the responsibility must rest with him, as well as with you. you cannot, it seems to me, accept responsibility for mistakes, as admirable as that may be, and thereby absolve the president of any responsibility.''
there is no rebuttal,'' mcfarlane replied
mcfarlane, who has testified at length before the grand jury empaneled by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh, attempted suicide last year by swallowing 30 to 40 valium tablets one day before his scheduled testimony before a presidential commission that also investigated the iran-contra affair
walsh was not permitted to use mcfarlane's testimony before the iran-contra panel as evidence in his case, since mcfarlane testified before the congressional committee under a grant of limited immunity
after resigning as national security adviser on dec. 4, 1985, mcfarlane was asked the following may to lead a secret mission to tehran to open contact with so-called moderate iranians thought to have influence with lebanese radicals holding several kidnapped americans
with north as a member of the party, the group traveled aboard an aircraft carrying spare parts for hawk missiles previously shipped to iran by israel
the cake and the bible signed by president reagan, which mcfarlane also carried as gifts, were to become celebrated symbols of the affair
koko, the cover girl gorilla who communicates through sign language, may be bred with colossus, reputed to be the largest lowland gorilla in captivity, a zoo official said friday
koko, whose ability to use sign language and doting upon a pet kitten landed her on the cover of national geographic magazine, has signed to her keepers that she wants to have a baby, said penny patterson, director of the gorilla foundation at woodside, calif., where the ape lives
she may get that chance with the aptly named 600-pound colossus, who is moving sunday from new hampshire to florida, said pat quinn, president and director of the zoo near this panhandle city
an initial attempt at breeding may be through artificial insemination, but quinn said he hoped colossus eventually would be able to mate naturally with koko and other females
semen will be obtained from colossus just before he is flown in a chartered dc-3 from benson's animal park in hudson, n.h., to nearby pensacola and then trucked to the zoo, quinn said
we are hoping to obtain some of that for use with koko because she is very anxious to become a mother,'' said ms. patterson
koko's original pet kitten, which she named all ball because the manx cat had no tail, was hit by a truck and killed after the national geographic story. but koko was given a replacement she named smokey, now full-grown
koko, 16, and a male gorilla, michael, communicate with sign language to express their feelings, ask for food and certain teachers and inquire about other animals
colossus' sperm may be used because captive gorillas sometimes develop incest taboos against cage mates so michael would be unsuitable, ms. patterson said. also, colossus was captured in the wild as an infant 20 years ago and isn't inbred with zoo gorillas
we hope to socialize him so he will breed naturally with females,'' quinn said
colossus has never seen another gorilla outside his original family. the socialization process would start by letting colossus see, smell and touch a male chipanzee, said quinn. then he would be introduced to another bachelor male gorilla or a non-productive female before trying to mate him
quinn said he is working closely with lester fisher, director of chicago's lincoln park zoo and chairman of the gorilla species survival plan for the american association of zoos and aquariums
fisher, a veterinarian, said nothing definite has been decided on breeding yet, but that he was happy to see colossus remain within the zoological community because he is the first gorilla in a long time to go on the auction block. he would provide a new gene pool because he was born in the wild
the plan is designed to develop a self-sustaining captive breeding program in north america because the number of animals in the wild are dwindling and threatened by encroaching civilization
after his arrival sunday night, colossus will be kept isolated for several days, with a coming-out news conference scheduled for friday, quinn said. daughter</head>
the father of a teen-age nude dancer who killed herself said he signed away his rights to the story ``to clear my conscience for being a failure,'' a newspaper reported friday
robert mancini said he signed the waiver for south florida promoter ron sachs, who is negotiating with warner brothers on a made-for-television movie about tina mancini. the 17-year-old killed herself two years ago
last october, theresa jackson, tina's mother, was convicted on three felony child abuse charges by jurors who agreed she had coerced her daughter into working in nude-dance bars
mrs. jackson is free on bail while she appeals the convictions and one-year jail sentence. she has been prevented from profiting from her daughter's suicide under the state's so-called ``son of sam'' law, in which a felon can be denied some or all of the money or ``any other thing of value accruing ... for an accounting of that convicted felon's crime.''
mancini, 47, who said he and mrs. jackson divorced while she was pregnant with tina, their second child, said he waived his rights ``to clear my conscience for being a failure ... for failing to reach tina.''
he said in an interview from his home near los angeles that he didn't see his daughter until she was 14 when she visited him for a few months
i tried to give her a normal life for a while _ disneyland and hiking in the mountains,'' mancini said. ``i always wish i'd have been smart enough to keep her here. it would be nice if we could save some other kids.''
sachs told the fort lauderdale news and sun-sentinel that warner brothers made an offer to make a television movie based on a proposal he presented and would co-produce. he can now depict mancini in the movie about tina
mancini said he will receive no money for the waiver
we're pretty much in accord on the story,'' said sachs, who owns the story rights of tina's grandfather, charles gouveia. ``i am almost certainly going to make a deal with warner brothers.''
sixty-three percent of social security managers said in an internal survey that they were uncomfortable with deep staff cuts and most said staff morale was poor, a union reported friday
kenneth t. blaylock, president of the american federation of government employees, released what he called a bootleg copy of the survey and said, ``dorcas hardy got more than she bargained for in this survey.''
he said it backs up union complaints to congress about the reagan administration's cuts in social security's staff. the agency, which had nearly 80,000 workers in 1984, is now down to 69,345, with 6,000 more jobs slated for elimination by 1990
phil gambino, a spokesman for the social security administration, confirmed that commissioner dorcas hardy ordered the survey of her managers last august ``and it showed there is quite a bit of concern and anxiety.''
we're aware there are a lot of anxieties and we're going to act on that,'' said gambino. hardy plans to start meeting in april with managers in each of social security's 10 regions to discuss their concerns
at the same time, gambino said, ``the performance of our employees is excellent and client satisfaction has never been higher.'' a recent check by the general accounting office indicated that most people are pleased with the service they get from social security
according to afge, the survey was distributed to all 9,000 social security supervisors grades 14 or below, and more than 4,700 responded
asked if they were comfortable with the way the agency was managing staff cuts, 67.2 percent said they were not, 14.2 percent said they were comfortable and 18.5 percent were undecided
asked to judge employee morale, 53.5 percent said it was poor or extremely poor. fifty-five percent said they would not recommend social security to friends as a good place to work
the union said some of the responses to the survey corroborated afge's charges that social security encourages ``cheating'' to meet productivity deadlines
it quoted one anonymous supervisor as writing on the questionnaire: ``everything looks great on paper, but the reality is ssa is going to pot.''
afge represents 60,000 social security workers
blaylock said the survey was ``a strong testimonial for an independent social security administration run by competent career federal employees instead of political appointees who know little or nothing of what ssa is all about.''
andy gibb, the british-born pop singer and former teen idol, died of heart inflammation and there was no evidence that drugs or alcohol were involved, doctors said friday
constable michael harvey of the oxford coroner's office said no inquest would be held because gibb died of natural causes
gibb died thursday at john radcliffe hospital, oxford, after complaining of stomach pains. he was about to resume singing and start recording for island records after years of personal and drug problems
brothers robin, barry and maurice of the bee gees singing group said the body ``will be flown back to his home in los angeles as soon as possible and a memorial service will be held there.''
all friends and family mourn the passing of this exceptionally talented and well-loved artist,'' they said in a statement issued through robin gibb's personal assistant, ken graydon
a hospital statement friday said: ``mr. gibb died from inflammation of the heart of the sort commonly caused by a virus. there is no evidence that his death was related to drink or drugs.''
the bee gees statement said: ``the family and friends of the gibbs are shocked by the untimely death of andy gibb. his passing was completely unexpected
he died of myocarditis, a rare viral infection of the heart muscle. this tends to occur without any warning and there is no effective treatment. the pathologist found no evidence that alcohol or other substances were implicated in any way.''
rob partridge, publicist for island records ltd., said gibb became ill last weekend and was admitted to the hospital ``essentially for observation.''
prior to him falling ill, i'm unaware of any heart condition at all,'' partridge said
asked whether the record company was disturbed by speculation about a drug-related death, he replied: ``of course we are. we wouldn't have signed anyone if there was the slightest suspicion of any kind of drug use
the andy gibb we knew was bright and optimistic and very ambitious for his new recording deal. he had just gained a pilot's license. ... those are not the kind of things drug addicts do.''
robin gibb, 39, spoke to reporters friday at london's heathrow airport. he was meeting his 72-year-old father, hughie gibb, arriving from los angeles
there was no question of andy using drugs,'' he said. ``i don't know where that story came from, but there is absolutely no truth in it. he was not using cocaine again.''
the oxford hospital said the two-time grammy award nominee died at 8:45 a.m. thursday
it was so unexpected,'' robin gibb said. ``andy had been ill with stomach pains for about four days.''
in 1982, andy gibb said he became heavily involved in drugs and dropped his career after the breakup of his highly publicized relationship with television star victoria principal
three years later, he entered the betty ford rehabilitation center in rancho mirage, calif., for treatment of a cocaine habit
an obituary friday in the times of london said gibb's ``immense success could hardly have been founded on vocal qualities alone.''
what sent the young fans wild was his pretty face, flowing blond locks, and his lithe figure, which radiated the healthy, tanned sex-appeal of a male farrah fawcett-majors,'' the daily said
jesse jackson campaigned across his native state on the eve of its democratic presidential caucus, stressing that his candidacy stands for blacks and whites
jackson emphasized issues he said blacks and whites alike believe in: raising the minimum wage, cleaning toxic waste dumps, reducing the flow of drugs into the country, subsidizing day care and saving the family farm
it's not so much black versus white as it is barracudas eating us small fish. they don't eat fish by color. they eat fish by size
what makes south carolina one today? we meet not in confrontation. we meet at the plant gate ... we meet at the toxic waste dump ... we meet on the corner where drugs are being distributed and killing the people.''
the candidate said a new challenge for the new south is to ``find common ground where the people can come together.''
the south carolina education association conference at a columbia motel was at a standstill as teachers waited in the halls and entrances for more than an hour to see jackson. the cooks and maids stopped working to join the greeting line when the greenville native arrived
when he arrived, they screamed, cried, reached out to shake his hand or just tried to touch him
i'm delighted to be home again,'' jackson said as he stood on a chair in an impromptu speech
you taught me,'' said the candidate who was educated through high school in greenville. ``you can have somebody in the white house that you taught. send me...''
jackson told crowds friday that half of the states have held primaries or caucuses and he has finished first or second in all but a few of them
south carolina and louisiana were the only states jackson won in 1984. most political experts and campaign officials concede that jackson should win the lion's share of 44 delegates at stake saturday
a survey of democratic chairmen and vice chairmen indicated jackson is the front-runner, with gore a distant second
twenty-five said jackson was likely to win their counties, five indicated they thought gore would win their counties, two said rep. richard gephardt might win and none predicted dukakis or sen. paul simon would win their counties
when he became president reagan's national security adviser in october 1983, robert c. mcfarlane epitomized the success that can come from a combination of luck, hard work, smarts and having the right mentors
as the son of a texas congressman, a u.s. naval academy graduate, career marine officer and protege of former secretaries of state henry kissinger and alexander haig, mcfarlane had reached the pinnacle of power
he mediated fights between the state and defense departments at home and between israel and its neighbors abroad, helped salvage the mx nuclear missile and put out fires for the administration on capitol hill
more than anyone else in this administration, bud mcfarlane is the guy who has the confidence of members of congress,'' rep. les aspin, d-wis., and chairman of the house armed service committee, said at the time
he had gotten the job despite opposition from conservative ideologues who wanted it to go to former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick. and no sooner did mcfarlane get the job than it began to unravel
within a week, 241 u.s. marines were killed in beirut, and mcfarlane lost his first major dispute as national security chief. reagan sided with defense secretary caspar w. weinberger to pull out the marines rather than retaliate militarily as mcfarlane and secretary of state george p. shultz urged
it only got worse. disputes between mcfarlane and new white house chief of staff donald t. regan erupted, eventually leading to mcfarlane's resignation in december 1985
while citing personal reasons and the desire to spend more time with his family as his reasons for resigning, mcfarlane later told interviewers that white house infighting made the job ``no longer fun and professional'' and he complained that reagan ``did not have a great interest in foreign affairs.''
then there was iran-contra _ a scheme through which the administration sold arms to iran and used the proceeds to finance nicaraguan rebels in violation of a congressional prohibition on aiding them militarily
although no one knew at the time, mcfarlane was a central player in those events both before and after he left the white house
on friday, mcfarlane, 51, agreed to plead guilty to four misdemeanor charges of withholding information from congress on the administration's secret help to the nicaraguan contras
his plea was an appropriate epilogue to two years of drama that included a secret flight to tehran in may 1986 with plane load of missile parts to be swapped for u.s. hostages, a suicide attempt and sorrowful confessions that he bore the brunt of the blame for the iran-contra affair
what really drove me to despair was a sense of having failed the country,'' mcfarlane told the new york times upon his release from the hospital after taking a overdose of the tranquilizer valium in february 1987
if i had stayed at the white house, i'm sure i could have stopped things from getting worse,'' he said
two months later in televised hearings, mcfarlane told inquiring congressmen and the nation how ``i regret and continue to regret the mistakes i have made.''
because of his suicide attempt just two months earlier, congressmen did not bore in on mcfarlane as much as they did some other witnesses. maintaining a stoic presence, mcfarlane complained of being treated like ``a fragile flower'' and told his questioners: ``shoot your best shot.''
while his testimony was viewed as being fuzzy on the details, he became a model for the psychotherapy community
psychologist joyce brothers praised him as a man ``who, though there was nothing left for him ... is very heroic on the stand.''
he's shown a great deal of ego strength ... after being through the worst that life has to offer, near death,'' ms. brothers said. ``people can see someone else who has been through the valley and come out safely on the other side.''
mcfarlane also has been a model, as an achiever, in his earlier secondary posts. after graduating from the naval academy in 1959, he began a 20-year marine corps career that included stints at strategy schools and war colleges here and abroad between tours of combat duty in vietnam
while still a marine, he was brought into the white house as a military and legislative aide to president nixon, switching to then national security adviser henry kissinger's staff and remaining there when brent scowcroft succeeded kissinger under president ford
after president carter's election, the marine corps sent mcfarlane to okinawa. unhappy with the assignment, he resigned in 1979 with the rank of lieutenant colonel and took a staff job with the senate armed services committee, working primarily for sen. john tower of texas, then the panel's ranking republican and later its chairman
with reagan's election in 1980, secretary of haig, as secretary of state, hired mcfarlane as his military counselor. when reagan in 1982 named undersecretary of state william p. clark as his national security adviser, mcfarlane moved back to the white house as clark's deputy assistant
twenty-one months later, clark decided he would rather be interior secretary and mcfarlane was elevated to the top national security job
president reagan on friday renewed his threat to veto trade legislation under consideration by a house-senate conference committee if it is ``anti-consumer, anti-jobs and anti-growth.''
speaking to representatives of a trade coalition gathered in the auditorium of the old executive office building, reagan said, ``i would note that on tuesday, those who had predicted that protectionism would be embraced in the south were proven wrong.''
reagan was referring to election returns on super tuesday in which rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., a proponent of tough trade sanctions against other nations, managed to win only one of 20 states, his homestate of missouri
too many backers of the trade bill talk about making america more competitive but support provisions that would bench some of the best competitors on our team,'' the president said. ``they talk about saving jobs, but they want provisions that have the potential to destroy thousands if not millions of american jobs.''
reagan said that any trade bill passed by congress should not violate accords the united states has signed in the general agreement on tariffs and trade
he also said the provisions of any such legislation should not ``provoke retaliation against our bombing export business,'' bringing a roar of laughter from the audience. reagan quickly corrected himself, saying, ``wait a minute _ our booming export business.''
alaska democrats gave jesse jackson a narrow victory over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in a precinct caucus preference poll, announced friday
but it was the large bloc of uncommitted delegates that generated the most interest among the presidential campaigners
with about 90 percent of alaska's 442 precincts reporting, jackson claimed 872 delegates, or 34.9 percent of the total, to dukakis' 769 delegates, or 31 percent. a close third were the 768 delegates, or 30.8 percent, who remained uncommitted
the winners will attend 27 district caucuses on april 9-10, selecting 390 delegates to attend the state convention in fairbanks on may 13-15
the 12 delegates emerging from the state convention will attend the democratic national convention in atlanta in july and will be bound to a specific candidate at least for the first ballot. in atlanta the state also will have five ``super delegates,'' the governor and four members of the democratic national committee
commenting on the results of the preference poll, conducted among delegates selected at the precinct caucuses thursday night, bob speed, executive director of the alaska democratic party, said, ``that huge uncommitted figure represents a lot of people who want to support a democratic candidate but who haven't made up their minds.''
he added, ``the strong showing by the jackson and dukakis people shows the level of their campaigns. it was the lack of organization by the other candidates rather than apathy on the part of the delegates that made them go uncommitted.''
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. finished far back with 47 delegates or about 2 percent, followed by illinois sen. paul simon with 18 delegates, and missouri congressman dick gephardt, who had 16 delegates, less than 1 percent each
russ meekins, state chairman of the dukakis campaign, said organizers will be trying to sway the uncommitted delegates before next month's district caucuses
as of now, counting the gore, simon and gephardt supporters as uncommitted for purposes of selecting national delegates, the breakdown is five for jackson, three for dukakis and four uncommitted
henry lancaster, statewide coordinator for the jackson campaign, said with blacks comprising just 3 percent of alaska's population, his candidate's appeal was based on the anti-drug and economic issues he's been voicing around the nation
this state has a lot of working-class people who've come from the south, the midwest and the northwest,'' lancaster said. ``in down times, people are looking for solutions. and this is a down time.''
that reference was to the collapse of alaska's oil-fired economy. about 85 percent of the state's budget is supported by oil revenues, and world oil prices are less than half what they were three years ago
the democrats chose 2,496 delegates in caucuses around the state thursday night. the caucuses were open to any registered democrat and anyone who wished to register at the door
a former officer who was the principal witness in a series of miami police corruption trials was sentenced friday to 10 years in prison for his part in a cocaine ripoff ring
rodolfo arias, 32, had pleaded guilty to tax fraud and conspiracy to possess cocaine with intent to distribute
his testimony has opened many cans of worms,'' u.s. district judge kenneth ryskamp said of arias, who helped convict three officers of drug-related corruption in the so-called miami river cops trials in recent months
the case was named after the officers' most highly publicized theft, a 1985 raid on a smuggling boat on the miami river in which three drug guards drowned after jumping into the water. the officers stole millions of dollars in cocaine for resale
arias' cooperation was also instrumental in obtaining a dozen guilty pleas before the trials, as well as the suspension or investigation of nearly 100 miami officers whose names surfaced during the investigation
when this plea agreement was signed, we never realized what that cooperation will be. there will be more indictments yet to come,'' said special federal prosecutor russell killinger
arias could have received up to 20 years, but ryskamp honored the government's recommendation for a 10-year maximum
arias will receive credit for time spent in the federal witness protection program and could be free in five years, said his attorney, eugene sauls
this court has ambivalent feelings about this case,'' said the judge, acknowledging arias' cooperation but adding that the former officer's crimes ``cry out for retribution.''
another officer who cooperated with prosecutors received a 15-year sentence friday. carlos pedrera, 27, had pleaded guilty to the same counts
arias and pedrera were among a large group of officers the police department was forced to hire quickly after the mariel boatlift and liberty city riots in the early 1980s
many of the officers worked the midnight shift, and arias testified that his increasingly corrupt group turned miami's streets into its private crime kingdom
the officers routinely took small quantities of drugs and cash from suspects they detained, then expanded into stealing drugs directly from dealers
eastern airlines, embroiled in labor problems, has been forced to cancel numerous flights because of a shortage of pilots, and there is no sign the pilot drain is easing, an eastern executive testified friday
eastern's loss of pilots and details about the impact of that loss were disclosed during testimony in a federal court hearing on whether eastern should be allowed to go ahead with plans to lease 26 eastern jets to orion air, a north carolina cargo carrier
the air line pilots association is asking the u.s. court of appeals to stop the eastern-orion deal, claiming it is designed to circumvent the pilots' labor contract. eastern has said it wants orion to fly the planes with non-union pilots in case of a strike at eastern
in an attempt to show that eastern is planning to lease only spare aircraft to orion, the miami-based carrier produced internal documents showing a sharp increase in the number of pilots who have left the company
the departures and a high rate of sick leave by pilots at the airline are leaving aircraft sitting idle, testified william r. croucher, eastern's director of planning and administration
eastern submitted to the court internal documents showing that 500 pilots left the company for various reasons in 1987, a number that croucher said is nearly 10 times the historical average pilot attrition rate at the airline
he said so far this year, 259 eastern pilots have either left the company or have given notice to depart within 90 days. the airline anticipates losing a total of 600 pilots this year, according to croucher
the pilots union has said previously that the labor turmoil at eastern and a push by management to seek labor concessions has caused hundreds of pilots to seek early retirement or quit to join other airlines even though they are sacrificing their seniority
the figures provided by eastern in court friday, however, are the first details as to how serious the pilot drain has become at the airline, which has about 4,000 pilots. croucher said the airline is hiring about 30 pilots a week, but that because of long training periods, the number is inadequate to make up for the losses
croucher said the pilot shortage has forced eastern to cancel several thousand flying hours that had previously been scheduled for march and april and to cut back total planned flying hours for the rest of the year
during three days last month _ feb. 26 through feb. 28 _ eastern canceled a total of 135 single-point flights because no cockpit crews were available
judge barrington d. parker, who is hearing the orion-eastern case, continued the matter until next monday after granting a pilots union request for internal eastern documents on various eastern aircraft, including those that are to be leased to orion
eastern had refused to turn over the documents, claiming that they could be used by the pilots union to gain information about eastern's plans in event of a strike. parker directed that the documents be made available only to the union's three lawyers and two union members and that they not be copied
the simbrah association is being added to an agriculture department list of registered cattle breeds so owners can qualify for higher federal payments when animals are slaughtered under the department's brucellosis eradication program
brucellosis is a highly contagious disease, james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said friday
our experience has shown that indemnities encourage owners to remove infected animals from their herds to prevent the spread of the disease,'' glosser said
brucellosis can be passed on to humans _ where it is known as undulant fever _ through raw milk from infected cows
simbrah cattle are a cross between simmental and brahman, the department said. approximately 2,200 u.s. producers own registered simbrah cattle
the indemnity rate for all dairy cattle, and registered beef cattle and bison is $250 per animal, while the payment for non-registered beef and bison is $50 per animal
officials said the new rule goes into effect on april 11. running, picking up in 9th graf pvs, throughout the</note>
republican sen. bob dole, scrambling to salvage his presidential campaign, challenged gop front-runner george bush on friday to show up for a live 30-minute television show dole has purchased for saturday night
earlier friday, as he campaigned around illinois, dole vowed to stay in the race at least through the state's primary on tuesday, though he said he would reassess his chances after that
dole, who pulled most of his tv ads off the air in illinois earlier this week, said he had bought television time on a chicago station and would broadcast live from a small college in galesburg, ill
he challenged vice president bush to join him there for a debate at knox college, which was the site of one of the famous lincoln-douglas debates
bush has declined dole's repeated challenges to a one-on-one debate. but dole said, ``in any event, i'll be there to discuss the issues. i dare george bush to have a debate with bob dole.''
bush is tentatively scheduled to be in galesburg saturday night to attend a gop dinner
earlier in the day, dole had joked with reporters that he might have a cardboard cutout of bush on the stage if the vice president wouldn't show up in person
we're hanging by our fingernails,'' dole said at an airport news conference in moline. ``we need to somehow capture the attention of the illinois voters.''
dole, campaigning across central and western illinois, denied reports that he and his aides had discussed the possibility of pulling out of the race. but he conceded there had been some discussion of another less drastic option
there was some talk about maybe just canceling a couple of days' events to heighten whatever we're going to do later,'' dole said at a stop in bloomington, where he spoke to illinois farm bureau leaders
dole said his deep staff cutbacks were ``just good management,'' made to save money and because most of the workers were no longer needed after super tuesday
campaign aides said dole also was buying television time to air ads on sunday
throughout the day, dole made it clear that his task in illinois, if he is to overtake bush, is to draw the vice president out on issues and to separate him from the good will that many republicans feel for president reagan
i'm sort of running against the ghost of ronald reagn,'' the senator said
in addition, dole said that bush's victories on tuesday had given him a big boost in polls
what we need to do is slow down this super tuesday momentum,'' dole said
one effort by dole is to continue to press bush to participate in one-on-one debates even though the vice president has declined
if we could just discuss the issues in one state ... i will win,'' dole said. ``it's pretty hard to slow down a freight train if you don't talk about the issues.''
one issue on which he has pressed bush is the vice president's involvement in the iran-contra affair, a subject that was back in the news friday as former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane agreed to plead guilty to four misdemeanor charges that he withheld information from congress
it is going to revive that whole issue again and i've said from the start that it's not going to go away. that's why it should be addressed,'' dole said. bush ``is going to have all these things happening through the summer,'' he said
one uncertain element in dole's strategy is how illinois voters will react to the possibility that a bush victory in their state could effectively end the gop nominating race. dole maintains there are many voters who have yet to decide which candidate they will back
i know there are a lot of people, probably 20 percent, who are just now beginning to focus on who the candidates are,'' said dole. ``it's like last-minute christmas shoppers. some people don't even know what they're going to buy until the last 24 hours and then they buy whatever is left. we don't want that to happen.''
asked whether he would abandon the race if he loses next week, dole said, ``we will reassess after illinois. i am going to be very realistic about this.''
the government and bell helicopter textron signed agreements friday under which the fort worth, texas, company will pay $88 million to settle claims that it overcharged for military helicopter spare parts
the settlement, disclosed earlier in the week, is considered one of the largest ever in a defense contracting case
it resulted from inaccurate cost accounting information bell gave the government from october 1982 to october 1985, the justice department said in a statement
the justice department's civil division and the army each signed separate agreements with the company
during the course of the investigation, bell consistently maintained that there was no wrongdoing. and the u.s. attorney's office in fort worth said it notified bell on friday that the office has declined criminal prosecution in the case
that effectively closes our case,'' assistant u.s. attorney ron eddins said in fort worth. ``we did that because of all of the factors that were disclosed during the investigation. their coming forward and agreeing to work things out with the pentagon was a part of it too.''
eddins said the justice department's civil fraud division ``has also issued an agreement with them that accepts the payment and the administrative agreement to settle the civil issue. the case is closed there too.''
bell president l.m. horner said the settlement, which he described as ``encompassing issues well beyond those which were investigated, cleans the slate and will allow for the normalization of relations between bell and the army.''
under the settlement, bell will pay the government $69 million within the next 30 days. the government will also have its choice of about $11 million in spare parts inventory. additional provisions of the agreement make it worth somewhere in the neighborhood of $88 million, the pentagon's chief spokesman, dan howard, has said
bell will forgo claims to about $6 million worth of interest on contract progress payments withheld by the army and about $1.5 million in legal fees. offsetting that will be a $1.1 million payment by the army to bell to cover a separate contract that got sidelined in the dispute
maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman, has said most of the overcharges came as a result of an accounting system used in handling army contracts. bell switched to a computerized accounting and inventory system that had the effect, among other things, of accelerating the company's requests for army progress payments for work performed
bell agreed to implement a new accounting system that met the army's approval in october 1985
europe's ariane 3 rocket lifted off on schedule friday night for a mission to place french and u.s. communications satellites into orbit and reaffirm its role as the west's only active launcher
the rocket blasted off at 7:28 p.m. from this jungle space center on the northern coast of south america _ ariane's 21st launching and the first of eight planned for this year
andre payet, chief of mission, said no technical problems were reported and weather conditions were good for the launch of the rocket, owned by the european space agency
the launch was first scheduled for december but was delayed for extra tests after anomalies were detected in the oxygen and liquid hydrogen third-stage engine
we preferred to take the time to understand the problem,'' said frederic d'allest, president of arianespace, esa's commercial arm
third-stage engine failure was the cause of three of ariane's four failed launches _ in september 1982, september 1985 and may 1986. the last failure, the 18th launch, left the rocket grounded for more than a year
the other failed launch occurred in may 1980 because of a problem with the first-stage engine
ariane produced a perfect 20th launch nov. 21, 1987, but the west german television satellite it placed into orbit developed problems with its solar panels and is not fully operational
the 21st launch will thrust into orbit the american gte spacenet corp.'s fifth satellite, spacenet iii r-geostar r01. the satellite is aimed at increasing the company's wide-ranging telecommunications services in the united states and help set up a system of satellite communication with mobile units such as trucks, cars and trains
two transponders on spacenet iii purchased by the associated press are to provide the new york-based news cooperative with domestic satellite delivery services over the next 10 years. a satellite being used is nearing the end of its operational service
the french telecom ic, the third in a series of satellites owned by france telecom, the state-owned telecommunications system, is used for telephones, radio and television transmissions as well as military communications
the new satellite is to replace telecom 1-b, which broke down jan. 15
with the u.s. space shuttle grounded and titan 4 and delta rockets not yet competitive, ariane remains the only active launcher for commercial satellites in the west. however, arianespace is watching the return of the americans to the lucrative space market as well as competition from the soviet union, china and japan
including friday's payload, arianespace has 43 satellites on its order books worth $2.36 billion, according to the company
to keep up with the orders, the kourou space center has made two launch pads available
ariane's 21st launch is to be the first of eight this year, with nine launches each planned for 1989 and 1990, d'allest said earlier this week
the environmental protection agency said friday it had approved field tests in wisconsin for a genetically engineered bacterium designed to improve the ability of alfalfa to use nitrogen in the air as a fertilizer
the bacterium, rhizobium meliloti, grows naturally on alfalfa roots, and mutant forms have been used to enhance plant growth in the past
using the techniques of recombinant dna, biotechnica inc. of cambridge, mass. has re-inserted the genes responsible for nitrogen use _ nitrogen fixation _ back into the organism, giving it two copies of the genes
lab and greenhouse tests indicate this will enhance alfalfa yield, according to an epa announcement when the company applied for permission to test 13 months ago
epa has an active regulatory program for genetically engineered pesticides, but this bacterium is not a pesticide. it is the first genetic engineering case under epa's authority to regulate new chemicals, and the test will precede under approval of the company's ``premanufacture notice'' for a new chemical
the tests will be conducted in pepin county, wis., a county lying on the mississippi river about 20 miles southwest of eau claire
police chief jess ``doc'' hale was suspended friday after being charged with taking less than $200 from a drugstore cash register
hale, 47, was released on his own recognizance after pleading innocent to the misdemeanor charge. trial was set for may 24. he declined comment after the court appearance
pulaski county chief deputy prosecutor lloyd king said hale took money over the past several weeks from buice drug store, a popular coffee stop for police officers
the amount was not disclosed, but the misdemeanor charge means it was less than $200. buice drug store is owned by state rep. george wimberly
king said the prosecutor's office was tipped off by a resident of the county, but he would not elaborate. radio station karn, citing unidentified sources in the state police, said police secretly videotaped hale taking money
city manager tom dalton announced hale's suspension with pay
when i have sufficient information to determine whether the chief has violated the rules,'' dalton said, ``i will at that time make my decision as to whether or not to institute formal disciplinary action against the chief.''
hale earns $64,070 a year and also collects a pension of $18,766 from the police department, from which he retired as an assistant chief in 1982 after a 20-year career
he rejoined the force as chief 17 months ago after running the medicaid fraud division of the state attorney general's office
sen. paul simon, insisting he has ``as good a chance as anyone'' to become the democratic presidential nominee, campaigned friday for home-state support in next tuesday's illinois primary
simon sought the votes of educators and college students in his bid to beat illinois rival jesse jackson, his chief challenger in the state primary according to a new poll
we want to send a message to the nation from illinois,'' simon said in asking educators to help him win the primary. ``part of that message is that for people who need quality education, this administration has been out to lunch,'' he added
next, it was off to northwestern university in evanston where he drew applause from a crowd of about 1,000 students when he called for increasing grants and government loans to college students
saying again that he figures it will take more than one ballot for the party to settle on a white house nominee at the democratic national convention in atlanta in july, simon said at a north side pancake restaurant: ``i think i have as good a chance as anyone.''
a washington post-abc news poll published friday said simon and jackson were in a virtual dead heat in illinois at 38 percent and 33 percent, respectively, among 402 likely democratic voters, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was third at 16 percent. the difference between simon and jackson was within the poll's margin of error of plus or minus 8 percentage points
after being endorsed by the polish daily zgoda, a polish language newspaper, simon campaigned on friendly turf at the illinois education association's representative assembly meeting
simon, who serves on the senate labor and human resources committee's subcommittee on education, arts and humanities, noted that the educators' union had supported him in his successful 1984 bid to oust republican sen. charles percy against long odds
four years ago when i was running for the u.s. senate, there was not a single poll that showed paul simon winning. but the iea hung in there and didn't listen to the polls and, believe it or not, there was one final poll on a tuesday that showed paul simon winning,'' he said as the crowd applauded and cheered
he told the 750 union delegates and alternates what they wanted to hear. if elected president, he said, he would seek to raise teachers' salaries, improve preschool education programs and increase public school funding. he also called for a ``massive assault'' on illiteracy
i am the only candidate running for president who, either in state legislative service or in congressional service, has ever requested to be on the education committee,'' simon said
i mention that to show you i'm not just giving you another speech. i'm giving you a commitment to education that's been there for my whole lifetime,'' simon said
a powerful late-winter blizzard whitened the black hills of south dakota, with heavy snow and winds up to 65 mph barreling through parts of that state, colorado and nebraska on friday before moving east into minnesota
blizzard warnings extended from northeast colorado across the nebraska panhandle and northwest nebraska into much of south dakota. parts of interstate 80 in western nebraska were shut down
in south dakota, rapid city reported winds of up to 65 mph and heavy snow. nearby lead and deadwood had up to 3 feet of snow. sturgis had 20 inches, spearfish, 18, and custer and hill city 14
snow and strong winds also hammered the nebraska panhandle throughout the morning and afternoon. wind gusts of 40 to 50 mph reduced visibility to near zero. crawford received up to 16 inches of snow
the blizzard also blasted the northeast plains of colorado, where winds gusted to 50 mph at wellington, akron and fort morgan
wind-chill readings across much of north dakota, were from 10 below zero to 25 below. some interstates were closed
snow also continued to fall across much of wyoming, where rock springs received 15 inches, laramie, 11, and cheyenne, 7
the storm moved slowly northeastward into minnesota, where up to 3 inches of snow was measured north of bemidji. wind gusts of 49 mph were reported at duluth
elsewhere, cloudy skies prevailed across much of the great lakes, with some snow across upper michigan. the rest of the nation enjoying pleasant weather, with the southern plains and middle and lower mississippi valleys logging temperatures in the 60s and 70s. the atlantic coast states reported readings in the 50s and 60s
on the west coast, skies were mostly clear, except for fog along the pacific northwest coast. southern california had wind gusts to 40 mph
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 10 degrees at limestone, maine, to 88 at mcallen, texas
saturday's forecast called for the late-season storm system to bring widespread showers and thunderstorms from the lower ohio and western tennessee valleys into the lower mississippi valley and western georgia. blowing snow was likely from the middle missouri valley into parts of the great lakes. snow and sleet were forecast for central wisconsin, with rain across the lower great lakes and ohio valley and scattered snow in the northern plains and central rockies
high temperatures should be in the 20s, 30s or 40s across much of the nation, dipping into the teens across the northern plains into northern minnesota and reaching into the 50s and 60s from the pacific northwest through the southern rockies, northern texas, the middle mississippi, lower ohio and tennessee valleys into parts of the middle atlantic states. highs should hit the 70s in southern california and parts of texas across the lower mississippi valley and gulf coast region, the southern atlantic states and northern florida. southern texas and southern florida should see highs in the 80s. debate, subs 6th graf with 3 grafs, ``dole bought...</note>
republican bob dole tried to rescue a presidential candidacy that was ``hanging by our fingernails'' on friday and the democratic presidential race left behind gary hart, who acknowledged ``the people have decided'' against him
democrat jesse jackson continued to roll with a narrow victory over michael dukakis in alaska's precinct caucuses. he looked for further encouragement in saturday's caucuses in south carolina, his native state, and in tuesday's primary in illinois, his adopted state
the democratic sideshow in south carolina aside, the presidential campaign in both parties focused on illinois. its primary posed an opportunity for george bush to slam the door on dole's presidential hopes, and could present the democrats with a clearer race _ or a more muddled one
trailing bush badly in delegates and in polls in that state, dole pulled more than $200,000 in television ads off the air and dismissed more than half his campaign staff
we're hanging by our fingernails,'' he said in moline. ``we need to somehow capture the attention of the illinois voters.''
dole bought a half hour of live television time on a chicago station for saturday night and said, ``i dare george bush to have a debate.''
he pointed to the plea to iran-contra charges friday by former white house aide robert c. mcfarlane and said the iran-contra issue won't go away for bush
dole said his campaign had between $1 million and $2 million on hand. but he was reeling from his 17-state collapse on super tuesday, when bush won 16 of those states and took a giant step toward the nomination
what we need is to slow down this super tuesday momentum,'' dole said
we will reassess after illinois,'' he added. ``i am going to be very realistic about this.''
the only other republican left in the race, following jack kemp's withdrawal a day earlier, was pat robertson. he campaigned in peoria, ill., and vowed, ``i'm in it until new orleans,'' where the republicans hold their convention
bush campaigned with illinois gov. james r. thompson at his side, telling farm leaders he hoped to ``win as big in the land of lincoln as i did in the land of cotton.''
he said he would decline a one-on-one confrontation with dole, recalling he tried that with ronald reagan in 1980 _ a meeting that probably cost bush the nomination
i may be older, but i'm a lot smarter now, too,'' he said
hart ended his democratic campaign for a second time, flanked by family members at a denver announcement
i got a fair hearing and the people have decided and now i should not go forward,'' he declared
hart's exit contained only a trace of the defiance that marked his initial departure last may
once the prohibitive front-runner for his party's nomination, hart dropped out the first time amid disclosures of his relationship with miami model donna rice. he returned to the race in december, but he failed to win a single delegate and never reached double-digit percentages in the primaries
sen. albert gore jr. continued his attacks on dukakis, saying the massachusetts governor's lack of experience in foreign policy means he'd be ``a president who needs on-the-job training.''
his complete lack of experience in foreign policy is, i think, a major issue at a time when the next president must be prepared to seize the opportunities for a new relationship with the soviets,'' gore said
dukakis said he hopes to get a share of illinois' delegates and demonstrate ``i can appeal to people all over the country.''
dukakis began airing a new commercial that spoke to the possibility of a brokered convention being talked up by paul simon's campaign. ``some people would like to turn back the clock, to go back to the days when the voters didn't really pick their presidential nominee. they say you must turn over that power to them, to use at a brokered convention,'' the narrator intones
new york gov. mario cuomo also chimed in, saying democrats should get behind the candidate with the most delegates at the end of the primaries, even if he doesn't have a majority
if mike dukakis has 41 percent, get everybody together in a room and say, `jesse, gore, gephardt, you came close, but mike's the candidate,''' cuomo said. ``let's pick the guy who's ahead after california.''
democrat richard gephardt campaigned in chicago and complained about two rivals who hit him with a barrage of negative television ads in the south
i feel like dukakis and gore have mugged me in an alley,'' he said. ``they are borrowing my rhetoric, but they don't have any substance behind it.''
jackson claimed 35 percent of the vote in a nonbinding preference poll at thursday night's alaska caucuses. dukakis was next with 31 percent
campaigning in south carolina, jackson urged blacks and whites to unite around him
it's not so much black versus white as it is barracudas eating us small fish,'' jackson said. ``they don't eat fish by color. they eat fish by size.'' affair</head> to cbs; picks up 13th graf pvs, earlier, in; subs 18th graf pvs, mcfarlane told, to include additional quote</note>
former presidential aide robert c. mcfarlane pleaded guilty friday to misdemeanor charges that he misled congress by assuring lawmakers the reagan administration was not helping arm nicaraguan rebels during a ban on u.s. military aid
president reagan's former national security adviser pleaded guilty to four counts of withholding information from congress when questioned about news reports that members of his staff, particularly lt. col. oliver l. north, were helping to raise money and ship arms to the contra rebels
mcfarlane, who agreed to cooperate fully with independent counsel lawrence e. walsh's investigation, could be sentenced to up to four years imprisonment and fined as much as $400,000 for the guilty pleas he entered before u.s. district judge aubrey e. robinson jr
robinson released mcfarlane on his own recognizance and did not schedule a sentencing date. mcfarlane was subdued and spoke in a soft voice when responding to questions posed by the judge
you understand that imprisonment could be consecutive?'' robinson said, referring to the option of making the four one-year terms concurrent or consecutive
i understand that,'' mcfarlane said without showing any emotion
the judge later asked, ``do you know any reason i should not accept the plea?''
no,'' mcfarlane said
mcfarlane played a major role in the iran-contra affair, even after he resigned as national security adviser in december 1985. the following may, he led a secret mission to tehran to open contact with so-called moderate iranians who were thought to hold influence with kidnappers of american hostages. he brought with him a cake and a bible signed by president reagan
mcfarlane attempted suicide in february 1987 by taking an overdose of a tranquilizer the day before he was scheduled to testify before a presidential commission investigating the affair
president reagan, leaving the white house friday afternoon for a helicopter trip to camp david, md., refused to comment on mcfarlane's plea
it's in the court,'' he shouted to reporters
north, who is expected to be indicted for his role in the iran-contra affair, was asked by cbs news about mcfarlane. ``i wouldn't comment about mr. mcfarlane,'' north said. ``but as i think i told you once before, this marine is never going to plead guilty to any charge and i'll fight this or any other allegations of misconduct forever.''
earlier, in an impromptu news conference following the hearing, walsh acknowledged that mcfarlane could have been charged with perjury, a felony that carries a five-year sentence for each charge
but walsh said he agreed to the misdemeanor plea because of the former national security adviser's willingness to cooperate with walsh's investigation and his ``undisguised expressions of remorse after the false testimony.''
he tried to correct his testimony and actually imposed injury upon himself in a fit of depression,'' walsh said of mcfarlane's suicide attempt
walsh called mcfarlane's guilty plea a ``very important'' development in his 14-month investigation. in the coming weeks, the investigation is expected to yield a round of indictments against north and others, including rear adm. john m. poindexter, who was mcfarlane's successor as national security adviser
it furthers the work of the office of independent counsel because he has agreed to cooperate fully with our office in the pursuit of the remainder of our investigation,'' walsh said
mcfarlane told reporters, ``i did indeed withhold information from the congress. i believe strongly that, throughout, my actions were motivated by what i believed to be in the foreign policy interest of the united states.''
after the iran-contra affair unraveled in late 1986, mcfarlane said ``i believed profoundly that it was my personal obligation to testify voluntarily and fully to those bodies formally established to investigate this matter.''
the charges involve statements that mcfarlane made in three 1985 letters to house committees and in testimony before the house foreign affairs committee on dec. 8, 1986, when he denied knowing about solicitations of donations to the contras from an unidentified foreign country
the charges involve assurances to congress that nsc staffers, specifically north, were not involved in private efforts to help the contras and that mcfarlane knew of no foreign donations to the rebels
mcfarlane admitted withholding information from the house permanent select committee on intelligence in letters he wrote on sept. 5, 1985, and on oct. 7, 1985, in response to queries about reports that his staff was secretly helping the contras in violation of the 1984 boland amendment's ban on direct or indirect military aid to the rebels
in the oct. 7 letter, mcfarlane wrote that ``lieutenant colonel north did not use his influence to facilitate the movement of supplies to the resistance.''
he further assured the panel in the letter that there was ``no official or unofficial relationship with any member of the nsc staff regarding fund-raising for the nicaraguan democratic opposition.''
this includes the alleged relationship with general singlaub,'' mcfarlane said
the letter was misleading, the charge said, because mcfarlane knew that north ``had used his influence to facilitate the movement of certain supplies to the contras'' and he knew that ``a member of the nsc staff had had contact with retired maj. gen. john k. singlaub regarding fund-raising for the contras.''
in the sept. 5 letter, mcfarlane told the panel ``i can state with deep personal conviction that at no time did i or any member of the national security council staff violate the letter or the spirit of the law.''
we did not solicit funds or other support for military or paramilitary activities either from americans or third parties,'' he wrote
he made a similar assurance in a sept. 12, 1985, letter to former rep. michael barnes, d-md., who then headed the house foreign affairs subcommittee on western hemisphere affairs
the fourth charge relates to dec. 8, 1986, testimony in which mcfarlane told the house foreign affairs committee that he was not aware of any third country or citizens of a foreign nation helping the contras
the concrete character of that is beyond my ken,'' mcfarlane told the committee
the charge noted that mcfarlane was withholding the fact he was aware that citizens of the unidentified country had been donating millions of dollars to the contras. mcfarlane also withheld the fact that he had provided a representative of the country with the number of a secret bank account where the funds could be deposited, the charge said
mcfarlane told the congressional iran-contra committees that as early as may of 1984, he had met with the ambassador from what was called country 2, which later was learned to be bandar bin sultan of saudi arabia
the ambassador offered to provide $1 million a month to sustain the contras at a time their money was running out. mcfarlane told the panels he had not solicited the money, but that it had been offered as a gift after he bemoaned the likelihood of the reagan administration winning additional contra support from congress. u 14th `six of'</note>
it was 50 years friday that the nazis annexed this country. austrians honored the dead and demonstrated against president kurt waldheim, who was made a silent spectator by his questionable wartime past
conservative and socialist politicans emphasized that some austrians committed atrocities in the nazi era, challenging the long-held view that the nation was a victim of the nazis. huge crowds cheered adolf hitler's troops when they marched into his homeland march 11, 1938
a minute of silence drew little response friday on the streets of vienna and few people turned out in the early morning to watch political leaders lay wreaths at monuments to fallen soldiers and victims of the nazis
shops, businesses and schools were open
about 300 protesters gathered outside the presidential offices in the imperial hofburg palace, demanding that waldheim resign, and dozens vowed to hold a three-day vigil. waldheim has said he will not leave office until his term expires in 1992
at a memorial ceremony in the hofburg, foreign minister alois mock praised waldheim as having given austria ``prestige in the world'' in his decade as u.n. secretary-general, which ended in 1982
mock heads the conservative people's party, which backed waldheim for president in 1986. he was the only official to mention him directly at friday's ceremonies marking the annexation, or anschluss
waldheim was forced to cancel a speech at the ceremony because of unresolved questions about whether he committed war crimes while serving as a german army lieutanant in the balkans in 1942-45. some prominent austrians had said they would not attend if he spoke
franz vranitzky, the socialist chancellor, told a special cabinet session austrians must ``recognize the fact of historical guilt (and) draw lessons from the past failures of society.''
he dismissed the idea that austria was just a victim of the nazis
many austrians unwillingly donned german uniforms, he said, but others ``did not see a shameful coercion in this, but a simple test of strength in which _ for the most varied reasons _ they fulfilled their assigned duties.''
addressing about 900 students later, he urged young austrians not to ``make blanket accusations against an older generation or to reproach them ... after the fact with moral mistakes, blindness, bias and a lack of will to defend themselves.''
he said one of the terrible aspects of nazism was that it arose in countries that regarded themselves as cradles of culture and guarantors of western traditions
six of the seven parliamentary deputies of the small greens party walked out as soon as waldheim entered a special session of parliament. the greens invited austrians to join them in marking the anniversary at the site of a former concentration camp
in a leaflet, they said they boycotted the parliamentary ceremony because waldheim was there
on this particular day, the presence ... of a guest who `like hundreds of thousands of others only did his duty,' is not representative of the austria we want to remember,'' the leaflet said
the flier was referring to waldheim's repeated declarations that he was only doing his duty during the war
waldheim kept his war past a secret until march 1986, when it surfaced during his presidential campaign. a panel of historians concluded last month that waldheim was in close proximity to nazi war crimes but did nothing to prevent them
the report left open the question of waldheim's guilt or innocence in atrocities, and waldheim has always denied wrongdoing, but he has come under increased pressure to resign
dozens of anti-waldheim protesters chanted ``we do not accept waldheim, resistance is our duty!'' as survivors of nazi concentration camps and resistance fighters met on the square where the feared gestapo had its vienna headquarters
speaking in front of a monument to the victims of nazism, the socialist minister of social affairs, alfred dallinger, stressed that ``not only those who can be clearly identified as perpetrators were guilty.''
guilt was also shared by the many who allowed what was carried out by others: those who ran along, who concurred, who adapted themselves or looked away,'' he said, to loud applause
the 14th great-grandchild of matriarch rose kennedy, the mother of president john f. kennedy, was born friday morning at a district of columbia hospital
officials at the office of sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., said the senator's niece _ victoria lawford pender, 30, the daughter of pat kennedy lawford and the late actor peter lawford _ gave birth to an eight-pound, nine-ounce girl at 6:30 a.m. at georgetown university hospital
the infant, named alexandra lawford pender, was due on the day of the super tuesday presidential primary elections but arrived a few days late
ironically her mother, victoria, was born on election day in 1958 when her uncle john kennedy won re-election to the senate from massachusetts
pender is married to washington attorney robert pender
officials say both mother and child are well. says</head>
the new york post will add some panache to its blue-collar image built on sex and crime, the tabloid's new publisher promised friday
we don't want to emasculate the new york post,'' peter o. price told the city club, a civic group. but he added: ``our challenge is to make the new york post noticed for the right reasons and not for the wrong reasons.''
the improved post, he said, will aim for depth in its writing, a manhattan focus, an even beefier sports section and more positive stories about education and race relations. it might also launch a sunday edition, he said
the post, the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper, officially became the property of developer peter kalikow on monday
australian-born newspaper baron rupert murdoch, who had owned it since 1976, sold the money-losing tabloid to comply with federal regulations barring ownership of a tv station and a newspaper in the same city. murdoch owns wnyw
murdoch's post was loud, lively and controversial. his british tabloid style relied heavily upon sex, crime and violence,'' price said. ``many advertisers ... refused to place ads in the newspaper, which they considered out of step with the image they were trying to portray.''
price said the emphasis on what some regard as ``terribly lurid things'' is ``perhaps not so bad as people may think.''
the pulse of journalism in the new york post is that sense of the city, that savvy, provocative, bold quality that's very often talked about pejoratively because of rupert murdoch,'' he said
it very often gets people upset. but it certainly does not go unnoticed. our challenge is to make the new york post noticed for the right reasons and not for the wrong reasons.''
kalikow paid $37.6 million for the paper, which has been losing money and circulation for years. it was founded in 1801 by alexander hamilton
kalikow acquired the post only after the paper's 10 unions agreed to a $22 million package of concessions, including a last-minute gift of $3 million from murdoch
the canadian mortgage and housing corp. has refused to revise building codes that have effectively barred american manufactured plywood from being used in canada, the commerce department said friday
a change in the canadian building codes is a key part of the plywood provisions in the proposed u.s.-canada free trade agreement and rep. ron wyden, d-ore, said that congress will have to get tough with the canadians in writing provisions to implement the agreement
rep. don bonker, d-wash., said he was disappointed in the canadian decision and that while he thought the overall free trade agreement was a ``excellent package, on this provision our negotiators got taken to the cleaners.''
claire buchanan, a commerce department spokeswoman, declined comment but said the decision was under review
the reagan administration had linked the elimination of plywood tariffs on both sides of the border to a revision in construction regulations by the cmhc, a government-controlled mortgage authority
canadians insist american plywood is not sturdy enough to withstand the harsh climate of canada, a claim officials of the american plywood industry say is unfounded
rep. peter defazio, d-ore., called the canadian refusal ``protectionism plain and simple.''
if the administration gives into this, they are just confirming it will be one-way free trade and that will be a disaster for the northwest plywood industry,'' defazio said
while construction sponsored by chmc accounts for only 10 percent of canada's construction plywood market, administration officials had hoped it would be a ``foot in the door'' for american plywood manufacturers and that changes would eventually be made in other building codes that have restricted u.s. imports
the door got slammed today,'' wyden said. ``this represents a major inequity in the free trade agreement and it is just more fodder for our position that we need tough enabling legislation.''
oregon is the top plywood producing state in the nation
wyden, defazio and other northwest congressmen, at a house subcommittee hearing earlier this week, had warned that the free trade agreement would do little to open the canadian market to american-maufactured plywood while at the same time it would give canadian plywood manufactuers unrestricted access to american markets
the agreement calls for the total elimination of the 20 percent u.s. tariff on canadian plywood and the 15 percent canadian tariff on u.s. plywood over 10 years
wyden and others have suggested that a provision be inserted in the treaty's implementing language that would call for a review of american access to the canadian market before u.s. tariffs are totally eliminated
it looks like that's the way we will have to go,'' wyden said. be scattered on cricket field; picks up 4th graf pvs, ``charles, his ...inserts 3 grafs after 16th: ``at this point... with charles going to windsor.</note>
prince charles flew home friday with the body of a friend who was killed by a swiss avalanche that nearly engulfed the future king as it roared down a mountain in a ``terrifying matter of seconds.''
with maj. hugh lindsay's pregnant widow, sarah, the prince watched as six soldiers from his dead friend's royal lancers regiment bore the flag-draped coffin from the red and white jet of the queen's flight
the 39-year-old heir to the throne was praised for helping save the life of another skier in his party but called foolhardy for skiing perilous slopes off the main trails of the klosters resort
a private funeral service in devon was being arranged for lindsay, but no date was announced. independent television news reported that lindsay, an avid cricket player, had said he wanted his ashes to be scattered on the cricket ground in his home town of budleigh salterton
charles, his wife, princess diana, and sister-in-law, sarah, the duchess of york, all dressed in black, walked under leaden skies from the jet at northolt air base near london
they were met by mrs. lindsay, 34, a buckingham palace press officer who had helped answer inquiries about thursday's accident before discovering her husband had died
she and lindsay, also 34, were married last summer and she expects a baby in may. he was a former aide to queen elizabeth ii, the prince's mother
in a handwritten statement read to reporters at the zurich airport after the royal party left, charles said he and five companions were skiing ``at our risk and we all accepted ... that mountains have to be treated with the greatest respect and not treated lightly.''
when the avalanche started ``with a trememdous roaring'' he and three others skied out of its path, charles said
then, ``to my horror, maj. hugh lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson just failed to ski clear and were swept away in a whirling maelstrom as the whole mountainside seemed to hurtle past us to the valley below. it was all over in a terrifying matter of seconds.''
he described helping dig patricia palmer-tomkinson out of the snow with a shovel, then with his hands. both of her legs were broken and she is hospitalized in switzerland
the royal party cut the skiiing holiday short. it began tuesday and ended tragically at 2:45 p.m. thursday when the avalanche hurtled down the mountain toward charles; mrs. palmer-tomkinson; her husband, charles; lindsay; swiss guide bruno sprecher; and a swiss policeman
they were skiing off the main track between the treacherous gotschnawang and drostobel trails at an altitude of about 5,800 feet when the snowslide began about 300 feet above them. officials had warned of avalanche danger at 5,200 feet and higher
herr sprecher acted with incredible speed and total professionalism,'' the prince said. ``he skied down as fast as possible, having told the swiss policeman to radio for assistance.''
sprecher located mrs. palmer-tomkinson by a beeper on her body
mr. palmer-tomkinson and i skied down and just arrived as herr sprecher had reached mrs. palmer-tomkinson's head,'' the statement said. ``he gave her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and revived her. he gave me the shovel to dig her out and i tried using my hands as well
at this point i sat with mrs. palmer-tomkinson while he (sprecher) quickly went to try and locate maj. lindsay. he found him about 15 yards above mrs. palmer-tomkinson, but tragically he had been killed outright during the fall.''
mrs. lindsay left the northolt base with her father. she was carrying a bag apparently containing some of her husband's belongings that the duchess of york had given to her
prince charles departed for windsor castle, 20 miles away, to see the queen and diana and the duchess of york went to kensington palace
thereafter their movements for the weekend are private,'' buckingham palace said
the accident highlighted the sometimes risky behavior of britain's royals
hours before the avalanche, the duchess of york, 28 and four months pregnant, took a bad fall skiing
that night, the royal navy ship on which her husband, prince andrew, is serving lost a helicopter with two crewmen off portugal. andrew, younger brother of charles, was not involved but he is a helicopter pilot
the avalanche was the worst accident for the royal family since prince william of gloucester, a cousin of the queen, died in a crash during an air race in 1972
newspapers clamored on friday for charles and other members of the royal family to give up dangerous pursuits
why was he there?'' the tabloid sun asked. ``charles has consistently risked his life by going on increasingly deadly slopes.''
charles is an ardent polo player who has taken many falls, and had a near-collision while flying a plane. on his first parachute jump he snarled the rigging and fell several thousand feet before untangling it
the police department rolled out its fabled battering ram after a two-year absence to break into two fortified houses where crack allegedly was being sold
civil-rights lawyers who in 1986 forced police to garage the ram expressed satisfaction with the way the use of the armored vehicle was authorized under new guidelines but promised to keep a close watch on future deployments
in a thursday night raid, police used the vehicle with a 14-foot metal pole to smash into a house in south central los angeles. officers arrested five suspected drug dealers and seized drugs, weapons and hundreds of dollars in cash
police also raided four other houses without the ram in the same operation and took more than 25 people taken into custody
on wednesday night, police seized about $10,000 worth of cocaine and about $500 in marijuana after ramming into another south central house where rock cocaine, a crystalline form of the drug also called crack, allegedly was being sold
it was the most heavily fortified rock house we've seen in a couple of years,'' said police spokesman cmdr. william booth. the house was reinforced with gun turrets, metal bars and steel mesh, he said
police chief daryl gates, who arrived after the thursday night raid, pointed out the security measures used by the suspected drug dealers
see how the bolts come all the way through?'' gates said, pointing to a steel-barred window. ``there's no way you can pull those bars off. you need a ram.''
police said they had not used the ram in drug raids since february 1986. they wheeled it out in october when an armed man barricaded himself in a house, but did not use it
joan howarth, an attorney for the american civil liberties union who had challenged the police department's use of the ram and forced its suspension, said she was satisfied with the way it was used
the judge told the lapd it could not use the ram until they did a surveillance of the locale to make sure there were no children present,'' she said
ms. howarth had represented a woman whose house was the first target of the ram, in 1985. the ram burst into a room only moments after the woman's 5-year-old son and two other children left it
as a result of that case, the state supreme court ruled that police must get a judge's certification and a search warrant before using the ram, a ruling the u.s. supreme court upheld in october
booth said obtaining judicial approval for use of the ram this week was not difficult
we just don't run up and use it. part of our tactics is to make a purchase just minutes before entering,'' which enables undercover officers to look inside the house, he said
the ram has become a featured part of tv shows and films. in last summer's ``dragnet'' movie, it was used to raid a suspected drug factory that turned out to be a dairy processing plant. up 7th graf pvs, the letter ...</note>
the united nations issued a strong protest at the u.s. decision friday to go ahead with closing the palestine liberation organization's observer mission
the plo called it a ``stab in the back'' to the middle east peace process
u.s. ambassador herbert okun informed secretary-general javier perez de cuellar of the justice department decision friday morning, said u.n. spokesman francois giuliani
he said perez de cuellar ``strongly protested this violation of the headquarters agreement,'' the 1947 treaty under which new york became home to the united nations
the u.s. state department also has said closing the plo mission would violate the pact, and even america's closest allies have denounced the closure. giuliani said perez de cuellar's legal staff is studying several options. he refused to elaborate, but one possibility would be a legal challenge when the justice department seeks a court order closing the mission
zehdi labib terzi, the plo's united nations observer, said the plo would not challenge the justice department move in court
we will not go into american court. we will have nothing to do with american courts,'' he told reporters after meeting with u.n. legal advisers. ``this is a matter between the united states and the united nations.''
he said the plo would ask arab nations to request a meeting of the general assembly to consider whether u.n. headquarters should remain in new york
calling the u.s. decision a ``stab in the back'' to mideast peace efforts, terzi asked, ``how could the united states really look like a peace broker when they want to throw out the representative of the palestinian people, which is the principle party to the conflict?''
the letter okun handed perez de cuellar said the justice department will initiate legal action to close the mission around march 21. it said the united states will not try to shut the offices until the litigation ends
the mission is located in a four-story townhouse the plo owns on manhattan's fashionable upper east side
the united nations released copies of okun's letter at a briefing
the united states has refused binding arbitration of the dispute, its worst with united nations
at a special meeting last week, the 159-nation general assembly asked the world court in the hague to rule on whether the united states must agree to arbitration. arguments before the court are set for april 11
congress passed an anti-terrorism law in december ordering the mission closed by march 21
u.n. officials and many diplomats regard the threat to the plo mission as a challenge to the independence of the united nations
it's a very serious development,'' said norwegian ambassador tom eric vraalsen. ``it goes beyond the plo because it violates the headquarters agreement.''
several arab diplomats have suggested moving the general assembly to geneva if the mission is shuttered. other diplomats say western nations probably would block such a step
last year, the state department closed down the only other plo office in the united states, a washington information office, in an attempt to head off legislation to close the u.n. mission
the united states and israel consider the plo a terrorist organization. the united nations recognizes it as the only legitimate representative for palestinians. 03-11 0853</first> crash</head> update with comment by ntsb chemist. inserts 3 grafs after 15th graf bgng: schwartz said ... to update with comment from pilot's employer. picks up 16th graf pvs bgng: the air ..., editing to tighten.</note>
the pilot of the continental express commuter plane that crashed near durango, colo. in january, killing nine people, had traces of cocaine in his urine and evidence of the drug's by-products in his blood, the national transportation safety board said friday
it appeared to be the first such accident involving u.s. commercial airlines in which evidence of drug use by the pilots had been found, aviation authorities said
the board did not characterize the finding as a cause of the accident or indicate whether the pilot might have been impaired. investigators have not determined whether the pilot or co-pilot was flying the airplane at the time of the accident
nine people, including both crew members, perished in the jan. 19 crash. the eight survivors were rescued after one of them, peter schauer, trudged 1{ miles over a snowy mountainside to a house
dr. merrit m. birky, an ntsb chemist, said the cocaine found in the pilot's body ``is a small amount,'' but he declined to comment further
dr. sorell l. schwartz, a pharmacology professor at georgetown university, said that based on the amounts of the traces found, the pilot was not under the influence of cocaine at the time of the accident
schwartz also said it was unlikely that a habitual user of the drug would feel any lingering effects from the amounts of cocaine detected in the pilot's body
there can be impairments,'' he said. ``there can be impaired mental function, but that's not usual.''
the potential impairments could include a sense of well-being, he said
safety board spokesman alan pollock declined to characterize the findings
this investigation continues, and has quite a long way to go,'' he said. ``we don't expect to find a probable cause for a number of months.''
he noted that investigators have not determined whether the pilot, steven s. silver, 36, of denver, was operating the twin-engine turboprop aircraft when it plummeted into a mountainous part of southeastern colorado about 10 miles east of durango
test results on the co-pilot, ralph harvey, 42, of denver, are expected within the next two weeks, pollock said
the tests showed that silver's blood contained 22 nanograms per milliliter of benzoylecgonine, a by-product of the body's breakdown of cocaine. a nanogram is one-billionth of a gram
silver's urine contained the same amount of cocaine, and 1,800 nanograms per milliliter of the by-product. no other drugs were detected
schwartz said cocaine leaves the body quite quickly, with half of it being removed every 45 minutes. he said that based on the information, he could not estimate how much cocaine had been used or when
silver was an employee of trans-colorado airlines inc. of colorado springs, which leases planes and crews to rocky mountain airways, a continental airlines subsidiary that operates in colorado as continental express
bill white, a denver attorney speaking for trans-colorado, said the company was ``obviously surprised. we're concerned.'' white said he did not know how long silver had been a pilot for trans-colorado
there is certainly no way the company would condone anything like that (cocaine use),'' he said. ``if there had been any indication, he (silver) would not have been on the payroll. it's not the type of thing you do more than one time and get another chance.''
the air line pilots association said it was ``deeply disturbed'' by the report and added that ``this would be the first instance where drug use by a pilot was shown to be the cause of an accident at a u.s.-scheduled airline.''
the association, which represents the pilots of the nation's major airlines, said, however, the report ``leaves unanswered more questions that it resolves.''
before we draw any conclusions, we must determine the accuracy of the report, eliminate the possibility of a false positive reading, determine the quantity and recency of the dosage, determine whether the pilot was actually impaired at the time of the accident, and then demonstrate that the impairment, if any, played a role in the accident,'' said alpa president henry duffy
george james, president of airline economics inc., a washington consulting firm to the airline industry, said he was not aware of another commercial airline accident in which drug use had been involved
just thursday, the department of transportation proposed a drug testing program for more than a half million airline employees
in a statement released by his office, transportation secretary james burnley called the incident ``a tragic reminder that not even commercial aviation is exempt from the drug abuse problem which plagues our society.''
the fairchild-swearingen metroliner crashed at about 7:30 p.m. in light snow as it was approaching laplata county airport in durango. the flight originated in denver
wyoming on friday became the last state to raise its drinking age to 21
gov. mike sullivan signed into law a bill raising the age from 19 effective july 1
when this becomes effective, we will no longer be an island,'' he said. ``it is in the best interests of the state, the country and, foremost, in the best interests of the young people of this state.''
the signing marks the end of several years of debate on the issue in the legislature, which has been unable to pass such legislation largely because of arguments that wyoming should not give in to ``federal blackmail.''
wyoming stood to lose $8.2 million in federal highway funds immediately if the increase were not in place in july
the government would continue to withhold funds until the state adopted the increase, which was called for in a 1984 federal law
albert gore jr., calling himself the candidate with campaign momentum that will eventually carry him to the presidency, said friday he expects to do extremely well in south carolina's democratic caucuses saturday
the tennessee senator, campaigning in the state's largest cities on caucus eve, told a crowd of a few hundred supporters at the statehouse that his strong super tuesday showing, when he won six of the 21 democratic events, surprised everyone
i believe that momentum is going to continue right through the convention in atlanta and right through november,'' he said. ``i'm excited about the possibility of victory.''
gore is expected to finish a strong second to jesse jackson in the south carolina caucuses
asked what state in the north he could win to prove he is not just a southern regional favorite, gore refused to be specific, saying only that he figured he would do well in illinois and michigan
gore said he has been in south carolina more than any of the other candidates and his campaign has bought the most television ads in the days before the caucus sessions
we have worked very hard in this state and i think we have an opportunity to extremely well here,'' gore said
gore noted that he supported legislation to restrict the growth of textile imports. such imports have caused plant closings and job losses in the state's largest industry
current textile trade agreements are being ``brazenly violated,'' gore said, adding that as president he would be sure that agreements are enforced
in the upstate friday, gore spoke to textile employees in lyman where he said the reagan administration is aiding the wealthy in the hope that others will eventually benefit
rather than asking what's best for those who are already well off, i want to ask what is best for the man and the woman who work in the textile mills, who work in the apparel industry, the person who is behind the typewriter, the small businessperson, the small farmer, and the person at the grass roots,'' he said. affair</head> with mcfarlane sidestepping issue of pardon. picks up 21st graf pvs bgng: the charges ...</note>
former presidential aide robert c. mcfarlane pleaded guilty friday to misdemeanor charges that he misled congress by assuring lawmakers the reagan administration was not helping arm nicaraguan rebels during a ban on u.s. military aid
president reagan's former national security adviser pleaded guilty to four counts of withholding information from congress when questioned about news reports that members of his staff, particularly lt. col. oliver l. north, were helping to raise money and ship arms to the contra rebels
mcfarlane, who agreed to cooperate fully with independent counsel lawrence e. walsh's investigation, could be sentenced to up to four years imprisonment and fined as much as $400,000 for the guilty pleas he entered before u.s. district judge aubrey e. robinson jr
robinson released mcfarlane on his own recognizance and did not schedule a sentencing date. mcfarlane was subdued and spoke in a soft voice when responding to questions posed by the judge
you understand that imprisonment could be consecutive?'' robinson said, referring to the option of making the four one-year terms concurrent or consecutive
i understand that,'' mcfarlane said without showing any emotion
the judge later asked, ``do you know any reason i should not accept the plea?''
no,'' mcfarlane said
mcfarlane played a major role in the iran-contra affair, even after he resigned as national security adviser in december 1985. the following may, he led a secret mission to tehran to open contact with so-called moderate iranians who were thought to hold influence with kidnappers of american hostages. he brought with him a cake and a bible signed by president reagan
mcfarlane attempted suicide in february 1987 by taking an overdose of a tranquilizer the day before he was scheduled to testify before a presidential commission investigating the affair
president reagan, leaving the white house friday afternoon for a helicopter trip to camp david, md., refused to comment on mcfarlane's plea
it's in the court,'' he shouted to reporters
north, who is expected to be indicted for his role in the iran-contra affair, was asked by cbs news about mcfarlane. ``i wouldn't comment about mr. mcfarlane,'' north said. ``but as i think i told you once before, this marine is never going to plead guilty to any charge and i'll fight this or any other allegations of misconduct forever.''
earlier, in an impromptu news conference following the hearing, walsh acknowledged that mcfarlane could have been charged with perjury, a felony that carries a five-year sentence for each charge
but walsh said he agreed to the misdemeanor plea because of the former national security adviser's willingness to cooperate with walsh's investigation and his ``undisguised expressions of remorse after the false testimony.''
he tried to correct his testimony and actually imposed injury upon himself in a fit of depression,'' walsh said of mcfarlane's suicide attempt
walsh called mcfarlane's guilty plea a ``very important'' development in his 14-month investigation. in the coming weeks, the investigation is expected to yield a round of indictments against north and others, including rear adm. john m. poindexter, who was mcfarlane's successor as national security adviser
it furthers the work of the office of independent counsel because he has agreed to cooperate fully with our office in the pursuit of the remainder of our investigation,'' walsh said
mcfarlane told reporters, ``i did indeed withhold information from the congress. i believe strongly that, throughout, my actions were motivated by what i believed to be in the foreign policy interest of the united states.''
after the iran-contra affair unraveled in late 1986, mcfarlane said ``i believed profoundly that it was my personal obligation to testify voluntarily and fully to those bodies formally established to investigate this matter.''
in an interview later with nbc news, mcfarlane sidestepped a question as to whether he thought president reagan might pardon him
that's not for me _ and i don't think it ought to be for the american people _ the issue. i guess that's really my central concern (is) ... why this really happened, and to see if we can't correct the way we do business between the president and the congress so that this kind of thing doesn't happen again,'' mcfarlane said
the charges involve statements that mcfarlane made in three 1985 letters to house committees and in testimony before the house foreign affairs committee on dec. 8, 1986, when he denied knowing about solicitations of donations to the contras from an unidentified foreign country
the charges involve assurances to congress that nsc staffers, specifically north, were not involved in private efforts to help the contras and that mcfarlane knew of no foreign donations to the rebels
mcfarlane admitted withholding information from the house permanent select committee on intelligence in letters he wrote on sept. 5, 1985, and on oct. 7, 1985, in response to queries about reports that his staff was secretly helping the contras in violation of the 1984 boland amendment's ban on direct or indirect military aid to the rebels
in the oct. 7 letter, mcfarlane wrote that ``lieutenant colonel north did not use his influence to facilitate the movement of supplies to the resistance.''
he further assured the panel in the letter that there was ``no official or unofficial relationship with any member of the nsc staff regarding fund-raising for the nicaraguan democratic opposition.''
this includes the alleged relationship with general singlaub,'' mcfarlane said
the letter was misleading, the charge said, because mcfarlane knew that north ``had used his influence to facilitate the movement of certain supplies to the contras'' and he knew that ``a member of the nsc staff had had contact with retired maj. gen. john k. singlaub regarding fund-raising for the contras.''
in the sept. 5 letter, mcfarlane told the panel ``i can state with deep personal conviction that at no time did i or any member of the national security council staff violate the letter or the spirit of the law.''
we did not solicit funds or other support for military or paramilitary activities either from americans or third parties,'' he wrote
he made a similar assurance in a sept. 12, 1985, letter to former rep. michael barnes, d-md., who then headed the house foreign affairs subcommittee on western hemisphere affairs
the fourth charge relates to dec. 8, 1986, testimony in which mcfarlane told the house foreign affairs committee that he was not aware of any third country or citizens of a foreign nation helping the contras
the concrete character of that is beyond my ken,'' mcfarlane told the committee
the charge noted that mcfarlane was withholding the fact he was aware that citizens of the unidentified country had been donating millions of dollars to the contras. mcfarlane also withheld the fact that he had provided a representative of the country with the number of a secret bank account where the funds could be deposited, the charge said
mcfarlane told the congressional iran-contra committees that as early as may of 1984, he had met with the ambassador from what was called country 2, which later was learned to be bandar bin sultan of saudi arabia
the ambassador offered to provide $1 million a month to sustain the contras at a time their money was running out. mcfarlane told the panels he had not solicited the money, but that it had been offered as a gift after he bemoaned the likelihood of the reagan administration winning additional contra support from congress. election</head>
president augusto pinochet on friday rejected an opposition demand to allow more than one candidate to run for president, saying it would create ``chaos and anarchy.''
pinochet, the army commander who has ruled chile since a 1973 coup, vowed to carry out the government's plan for a single candidate in a yes-or-no plebiscite sometime this year
pinochet made the remarks in an address to the nation to mark the seventh anniversary of the military-drafted constitution, which the opposition wants amended
in a pre-dawn attack before pinochet's speech, leftist guerrillas fired submachine guns and at least two rocket grenades at a suburban santiago police station, wounding two officers and three civilians, officials reported
they said several ``extremists'' in two cars carried out the attack and one of the injured policemen was in serious condition
officials reported three other guerrilla attacks early friday in the santiago area, but no casualties
another police station and a patrol car were fired at, they said, and at least four electric-power pylons were damaged by bombs, blacking out some neighborhoods
army patrols in combat gear were deployed in this capital city of 4.5 million people before pinochet's speech, which was broadcast on national radio and television
according to the constitution, the commanders in chief of the army, navy and air force and the head of the national police will pick a single presidential candidate for a yes-or-no vote
pinochet, 72, is allowed by the constitution to seek election for the 1989-97 term, and appears to be seeking the nomination. he led the coup that ousted the elected government of marxist president salvador allende in september 1973
no date has been set for the plebiscite, but government officials have said it will be in the second half of this year
in his 35-minute speech, pinochet made no reference to his candidacy but said the next president ``must identify himself'' with the constitution imposed by the military
if the government granted the opposition demand to amend the constitution and block the government's election plan, ``a situation of public unrest and serious uncertanties would follow,'' he said
according to the constitution, if voters reject the military candidate in the plebiscite this year, an open presidential election must be called in 1990 with pinochet remaining in power until then
several thousand people gathered in front of a government building in downtown santiago as pinochet, in a general's uniform, arrived to make his speech. some said they were government employees and had been ordered to go there
police said there were scattered scuffles in santiago between government supporters and dissidents after pinochet's speech. portrayed...</note>
the usually tame soviet media provided sensational coverage friday of the hijacking of an aeroflot jetliner by a family of jazz musicians, digging up details about the private lives of the air pirates
interrupted flight,'' read the headline of sovietskaya rossiya. ``combat aboard a plane,'' screamed the labor newspaper trud
the simeons throw off their mask'' proclaimed pravda, the official voice of the communist party, referring to the name of the jazz ensemble
nine people died in the attack, including five of the 11 hijackers
the reports included dirt on the musical family from siberia and described in detail how they were duped into thinking they had landed in finland
even under soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign for glasnost, or openness, the reports offered a rare account of an act of terrorism in the soviet union
the hijackers were all members of the ovechkin family, a siberian jazz ensemble from irkutsk that went by the name ``seven simeons.''
armed with a bomb and shotguns, they boarded the leningrad-bound tupolev-154 in irkutsk, and after a refueling stop in kurgan demanded that they be taken to london, the newspapers said
but the pilot set the plane down on a small airfield near leningrad. five of the hijackers, including the ``hero-mother,'' described as the ringleader, three passengers and a stewardess were killed in an ensuing shootout
the newspapers covering the story didn't rely on dispatches from the official news agency tass; they assigned their own correspondents
trud said the group, which was named after a russian fairy tale about a large family of farmers, was a hit in irkutsk and was gaining popularity nationwide
the ensemble visited japan in november. their pictures appeared in the local press frequently and they were the subject of a documentary film
the group had been scheduled to play a concert march 4-6 in irkutsk, but canceled because one of the brothers was ill, according to trud. the real reason for the cancellation, the paper suggested, was that they were preparing to flee the country
at that time they were selling all their household goods,'' trud reported
pravda said the trip to japan swelled their heads
the boundless praise apparently made their heads spin; the ovechkins began to dream about the `good life' abroad,'' it said, without citing a source
it said the family members had everything going for them. they had jobs and profited nicely from a private farm plot. but pravda said there was a dark side
the mother, ninel ovechkin, continued to deal in vodka, even after her husband died a few years ago from excessive drinking
the media reports indicated that mrs. ovechkin, described as a plump, well-dressed woman of over 50, had at least 11 children
before setting out for the irkutsk airport, the ovechkins left a note on their apartment door saying they were going to another siberian city and would return friday, according to pravda
all members of the family but the eldest sister boarded the flight, trud said
they carried only hand baggage, mainly musical instruments, according to pravda. everything was searched except for the string bass, which wouldn't fit in the x-ray machine, pravda said. the ovechkins refused to allow the bass to be checked into the baggage compartment, and nothing suspicious was found in a visual inspection, pravda said
tass said thursday the weapons used in the hijacking had been smuggled aboard the plane in the instruments

the newspapers portrayed stewardess tamara zharkaya as a martyr who negotiated calmly with the hijackers, who were armed with 16-gauge, sawed-off shotguns

this girl took a tremendous responsibility upon herself,'' pravda said. ``she succeeded in psychological victory over the bandits.''
sovietskaya rossiya quoted pilot first class valentin kupriyanov as saying the crew decided to accept the demand because the hijackers were becoming dangerous
to avoid placing the passengers at risk, we decided to fulfill the demands of the bandits and fly abroad,'' kupriyanov recalled. ``the ground (flight controllers) approved our action. but the closer we got to leningrad, the clearer it became that we would not reach even nearby finnish or swedish airports.''
izvestia said the flight crew contacted the ground, and a plan was worked out to dupe the hijackers into thinking they were landing in finland
an assault team was waiting when the tu-154 touched down, media said
the attack was over in minutes. with possible asylum countries for noriega. picks up 9th graf pvs bgng: the administration ...</note>
president reagan imposed new sanctions friday against panama, trying to weaken military strongman manuel antonio noriega's grip on power and end ``the illegitimate noriega regime.''
in a written statement, reagan said, ``i believe that general noriega would best serve his country by complying with the instruction of president (eric arturo) delvalle to relinquish his post.''
delvalle, the civilian figurehead president regarded as the legitimate constitutional authority by the united states, has been in hiding since feb. 26 when he tried unsuccessfully to fire noriega as commander of the panama defense forces. noriega is under indictment in the united states on drug-smuggling and racketeering charges
reagan ordered that u.s. government payments due panama be put in escrow until constitutional rule is restored in panama. a $6.6 million payment is due next tuesday for operations relating to the panama canal
he also suspended trade preferences panama receives under a special system for third world countries and the caribbean basin initiative. secretary of state george p. shultz said $96 million worth of goods would be affected annually
in addition, reagan ordered stepped up scrutiny of panama by u.s. immigration and customs service officials ``to apprehend drug traffickers and money launderers.''
panamanian ambassador juan b. sosa told a news conference he was pleased with reagan's announcement. he said that by themselves sanctions will not be enough to bring down noriega but that this goal will be achieved when combined with the actions of the panamanian people
based on information he refused to disclose, sosa said he was ``very optimistic'' that noriega intends to depart panama shortly
abc news quoted diplomatic sources as saying the government of spain was prepared to offer asylum to noriega
the two countries most mentioned by opposition leaders as possible asylum sites are paraguay and the dominican republic. opposition leaders say they have sounded out the dominican republic and that noriega sent two military colleagues to paraguay this past week, possibly to discuss asylum prospects
the administration is trying to force noriega's ouster and weaken the military-dominated government by increasing the cash-squeeze in panama. measures already taken with u.s. support have caused a severe cash shortage, prompting the government to suspend many banking operations, crippling panama's economy
u.s. military and economic aid to panama was cut off last year following the initial popular uprisings against noriega in june. last week, the united states ruled that panama was not cooperating in efforts to control drug trafficking
under the finding, the united states was required to stop military and economic assistance _ which already had been done _ and to oppose panamanian requests for assistance in international lending institutions
reagan said noriega's resignation ``would contribute very substantially to reducing political tensions and set the stage for a prompt transition to democracy in panama
until such a time as democratic government is restored in panama, the u.s. cannot proceed on a business-as-usual basis,'' the president said. ``today, therefore, i have taken a number of steps against the illegitimate noriega regime that will contribute significantly to the goal of a democratic, stable and prosperous panama.''
underscoring reagan's use of the word ``illegitimate,'' shultz told a news conference, ``that's a very strong word
what we think should happen is that he should leave panama, and we want to see a return to civilian democratic rule, and we also expect to see the panamanian defense forces resume an honorable and proper role'' in a constitutional government
he said noriega ``has to get out of the way.''
shultz said there was no need to impose an additional sanction to cut off fees panama receives from alaskan oil shipments which are transferred to u.s. east coast ports through a panamanian pipeline. he said that money already has been frozen under a temporary restraining order from a u.s. court. a source speaking only on condition of an/nymity said later that the order was issued by a court in massachussetts and ran until friday
the first national bank of boston agreed to freeze activity on panamanian government accounts until the state department lifts sanctions against the nation, according to a settlement filed in u.s. district court there. the action stemmed from a civil suit filed earlier this week by sosa
a federal judge tuesday issued a temporary injunction against payments to any panamanian government agency from accounts at bank of boston and four florida-based banks. in addition, a restraining order was issued friday by a federal judge in new york against the bank of boston international, which holds a panama government clearing account
shultz accused noriega of trying to impose a military coup in panama by deposing delvalle
shultz said the u.s. actions will escalate panama's cash shortage. ``that does have some effect on the economy but it also has an effect ... on the immediate ability to manage things.''
he said the united states did not impose a broad trade embargo against panama because ``we don't want to punish the panamanian people.'' instead, he said, ``we're anxious to see general noriega get out of there.''
shultz added, ``we're trying to very carefully and deliberately but strongly take actions that are focused in on things that we think will make a difference.''
three men convicted in a scheme to create more than $350 million in bogus tax deductions for celebrities such as andy warhol, lorne green and sidney poitier drew sentences friday ranging from probation to two years in prison
irs officials believe the scheme was the largest tax-fraud case in u.s. history, said assitant u.s. attorney stuart abrams said late last year
the three promoters of the scheme were indicted in 1987 on charges of creating more than $1.3 billion in fraudulent losses and interest expenses while trading in treasury bill futures and other government securities
those losses generated bogus tax deductions for investors such as actor michael landon, former postmaster general preston r. tisch, tisch's brother, cbs president laurence a. tisch, the late lorne greene and tv producer norman lear
the investors are not accused of wrongdoing but will have to square accounts with the irs. they had expected to receive $4 in tax deductions for every $1 invested
charles agee atkins, 33, of amelia island plantation, fla., was sentenced by u.s. district judge morris lasker to two years in prison, four years' probation and 500 hours a year of community service
atkins is the son of former ashland oil co. chairman orin e. atkins
william hack, 62, of new york city was sentenced to four months in prison, four years, eight months' probation, and 1,000 hours a year in community service. he was fined $25,000
ernest grunebaum, 52, of chappaqua, n.y., was placed on probation for five years and ordered to do 400 hours of community service a year
the three were convicted in december of conspiring to defraud the internal revenue service; they could have received five years in prison on that count alone. atkins and hack were also convicted of numerous tax offenses
soviet citizens are engaged in ``heated discussions'' about whether a new criminal code now being written should retain capital punishment, tass said friday
in a report from riga, capital of latvia, the official soviet news agency said a final decision will be made after nationwide discussion. defendants sentenced to death in the soviet union are executed by firing squads
heated discussions are going on over the problem of capital punishment,'' tass said. ``some people insist that it should be repealed altogether, while others insist that it should be preserved for some special cases. the latter view predominates at the moment.''
the state-run media occasionally report executions of people convicted of such crimes as treason, murder and wide-scale bribery and corruption. the reports have not indicated how frequently the death penalty is imposed
in an interview with igor karpets, a latvian law professor, tass said the revised code will contain a new section covering punishments for ``crimes against peace and humanity.''
what behavior that section is intended to discourage was not clear, but one possibility is terrorism
soviet officials have referred frequently to the review of the 28-year-old criminal code, but have not said when the draft will be completed
twenty-one children forced to take refuge at two farms when a late-season blizzard waylaid their two school buses settled in for a second night of campstove meals and makeshift bedding friday
one of the farms had no electricity
the storm hit a little faster than we thought,'' said bus driver sharon grubbs, who had eight children with her when the storm bore down thursday afternoon, with heavy snow and winds up to 55 mph reducing visibility to zero
she said she and fellow driver linda barrett, who had 13 children on her bus, were in radio contact when they decided to find shelter rather than continue taking children home from the banner county school in harrisburg
ms. grubbs' crew landed at jack and karen holt's farm about 17 miles west of harrisburg. holt was snowed in elsewhere
the storm knocked out electricity at the farm late thursday and things were still chilly friday afternoon as the wind buffeted the farmhouse, said ms. grubbs
ms. grubbs and mrs. holt used a camping stove to cook meals as children huddled in their coats and under blankets. ``we're kind of hurting,'' said ms. grubbs. ``we've tried to fix one hot thing for every meal.''
the three boys and five girls, ages 7 to 13, have been playing games and listening to a battery-operated radio. they telephoned their parents to let them know they were safe, said ms. grubbs, a 10-year veteran bus driver
they've been super for us,'' she said. ``they've cooperated so well, but they ride the bus together every day.''
mrs. barrett and her 13 passengers found refuge at agnes wynne's farm, about 20 miles from harrisburg
mrs. wynne, who lives alone, said she was worried the food won't last. ``we've managed so far,'' she said. ``i guess we just take each day as it comes.''
menus so far have included chili and homemade noodles, mrs. barrett said. children were sleeping wall-to-wall in the two-bedroom farmhouse, said mrs. wynne
the children have been playing games and even doing homework, since many had their school and library books, mrs. barrett said
the kids have been really good,'' she said. ``we have one kindergartner and i don't think he's ever been away from home before.''
mrs. barrett said the youngest spoke with his parents on the phone and seemed to be coping well
mikhail s. gorbachev is to visit belgrade next week and sign a new guarantee of yugoslavia's independence, which the late president tito declared forcefully in 1948 by breaking with the soviet union
senior yugoslav officials said friday the declaration also appears to indicate the future course of soviet relations with other nations
gorbachev is scheduled to arrive monday and stay four days on the first official visit to this nonaligned communist country by a soviet leader since 1976
the new document will update previous declarations of 1955 and 1956 and ``further confirm principles of non-interference on the basis of equality and sovereignty,'' ilija djukic, the deputy foreign minister, told reporters
the late leonid i. brezhnev was the last kremlin leader to pay an official visit to yugoslavia, which broke with the soviet bloc over ideological issues in 1948 but maintained economic and political links
brezhnev attended tito's funeral in may 1980. tito had visited moscow in 1979
the declaration calls for ``non-interference of any kind in the internal matters of the two countries,'' a senior official said on condition of anonymity
he said the document also appears to represent a message about a general change in soviet policy under gorbachev
the declaration, to be made public during the visit, is said to call for cooperation with all nations and parties ``regardless of ideological differences'' and ``full and principled implementation of human rights in the whole world,'' the official said
here are the winning weekly state lottery numbers picked this week:
lotto: 10; 18; 20; 32; 33; 34
play 4: 7-2-9-6
wednesday megabucks: 04; 09; 17; 19; 26; 36
pick 6 lotto: 07; 08; 10; 14; 31; 34. bonus: 27730
wednesday lotto 48 game: 03; 07; 28; 33; 45; 46. supplementary 25
big 4 lottery: 6-8-6-7
grand lot game: 6-7-8; 7-4-1-2; 6-9-5-1-2; 7-5-5-6-9-6;
gold dropped $2.52 an ounce on the hong kong market saturday, opening at $442.96. it closed friday at $445.48
a truck driver barged into his estranged wife's home and blasted away inside with a shotgun friday, then jackknifed his rig on a busy freeway and held officers at bay for five hours, police said
ronald stone, 34, put down his double-barreled shotgun and surrendered at 7:20 a.m. after threatening to shoot anyone who approached, police said. no serious injuries were reported
stone, who had engaged police in an armed standoff a decade ago, was taken to the solano county jail and booked for investigation of attempted murder, said police chief gary tatum
the standoff closed interstate 80, the east-west artery between san francisco and sacramento, forcing miles of backed-up traffic onto bypass routes
stone's brother, jim, 38, of grass valley, said stone went to his wife's house, ``thinking everything was all right again. but she said, `get out of here.' that's when he wigged.''
stone's wife, jackie, said: ``i thought i was going to die.''
tatum said stone's wife had called police at 12:46 a.m. to report that her husband, from whom she had been separated for about a month, was at the door and appeared drunk. by the time officers arrived, he was gone
tatum said they received a second call about half an hour later from one of stone's children saying stone had returned
lt. gary mallory said stone kicked his way into the house where mrs. stone, their three young children, and mrs. stone's mother were staying. according to mallory, stone told the children, ``it's time for your mother and i to die.''
stone's mother-in-law and the children fled as stone went upstairs, found mrs. stone, who had been hiding, and attacked her, mallory said
she escaped, but stone fired four blasts from a 12-gauge shotgun inside the house, then two more from the porch after she ran outside, said mallory
when police arrived, stone threatened to kill himself, mallory said. then he leaped into his tractor-trailer and drove for an hour at speeds of up to 90 mph, with police pursuing
on the freeway, he jackknifed the empty truck, apparently on purpose, mallory said. police closed the freeway in both directions. stone sat in the vehicle with ``lots of ammunition,'' said mallory
police talked with stone, first by cb radio and then via a military-style field telephone tossed into the cab. ``he was distraught and felt as though his marriage was on the rocks. he no longer wanted to live,'' said tatum
stone gave up after five hours, firing a final blast out the truck window. he suffered minor powder burns but was otherwise unhurt
in 1978 in vacaville, stone held off police with a gun in a domestic dispute, tatum said. no shots were fired and no one was injured, according to police, who had no further details. relatives said he spent some time in jail as a result. electricity</head>
nine mile point 2 went into permanent commercial operation friday after 11 years of delays and cost overruns that have made it the nation's most expensive nuclear plant at a cost of $6.3 billion
the 1,080-megawatt plant, which was to have been completed in 1977 for $423 million, went on line at 3 p.m., providing electricity to more than 9 million new yorkers, said niagara mohawk power corp. spokesman william romano
it becomes the 105th nuclear plant operating commercially in the united states
i feel great,'' said niagara mohawk president william donlon. ``it's been a difficult period, it's been difficult on the company. but we did succeed. we did not fail where others have.''
nine mile 2, on the lake ontario shoreline north of oswego, will generate enough electricity to replace about 6 million to 8 million barrels of oil per year, said romano
besides niagara mohawk, four other utilities own the boiling-water reactor _ new york state electric and gas, long island lighting co., rochester gas &amp; electric corp., and central hudson gas &amp; electric corp
nine mile 2, which already has produced 250 million kilowatt hours of commercial electricity during testing, will be brought up to 100 percent operating capacity over the next several days, romano said
niagara mohawk was granted its construction permit for nine mile 2 in 1974, and began construction a year later. work was not completed until june 1986
niagara mohawk has attributed the cost overruns and delays on upgraded safety standards and plant design changes required by the nrc. critics have blamed mismanagement, inefficient procurement practices and union corruption
here are the winning weekly state lottery numbers picked so far this week:
lotto: 10; 18; 20; 32; 33; 34
play 4: 0-7-1-7
wednesday megabucks: 06; 09; 14; 16; 17; 30
pick 6 lotto: 02; 16; 20; 26; 31; 36. bonus: 77160
wednesday lotto 48 game: 09; 19; 21; 11; 31; 41. supplementary 34
big 4 lottery: 3-1-8-8
grand lot game: 9-7-1; 2-6-4-7; 5-8-1-0-7; 8-3-3-3-5-6;
a federal appeals court on friday upheld the reagan administration's refusal to release $180 million in revenue sharing funds that had been withheld two years ago under the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law
the ruling, by a three-judge panel of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit, reverses a lower court which had ordered treasury secretary james a. baker iii to release the money
an attorney for three associations representing local governments said an appeal of the latest decision was ``virtually certain.''
my sense is the court did not fully comprehend the nature of our legal arguments. ... i think it's virtually certain we'll ask the court to reconsider its decision,'' said david c. vladek, a lawyer for the national association of counties, the national league of cities, the u.s. conference of mayors and 10 city and county governments
the dispute involves president reagan's feb. 1, 1986 order under the gramm-rudman law that set aside 4.3 percent of budget items, including $180 million from that year's $4.2 billion appropriation to the revenue sharing trust fund
the local governments argued that the law provided that sequestered 1986 budget money should remain in government trust funds and be paid out in 1987. they argued that even though congress had abolished revenue sharing after 1986, it intended that any money remaining in the trust fund be distributed
revenue sharing, begun under the nixon administration, provided nearly all local governments with unrestricted federal grants
u.s. district judge joyce hens green, in a ruling last july 28, found in favor of the local governments, and said baker had illegally transferred the revenue sharing money from the trust fund to the general fund
however, judge john r. gibson, who wrote the appeals panel's decision reversing judge green, said congress' intent with the gramm-rudman law was clearly to reduce the federal budget deficit
merely freezing (the monies in 1986) and resuscitating them (in 1987) would not result in any meaningful deficit reduction and could be characterized by critics to be a sham,'' said gibson, who was joined by judges patricia m. wald and david santelle
the result in this case may be harsh, but we believe it is consistent with congressional intent,'' wrote gibson, who was designated to the case from the u.s. court of appeals for the eighth circuit in st. louis
among the plaintiffs are new york city, kansas city, mo.; milwaukee county, wis., and cuyahoga county, ohio, which includes cleveland
the u.s. conference of mayors, at the time of the original district court decision last summer, had estimated that new york would receive $10 million; chicago, $2.6 million; los angeles, $2.2 million, and detroit $1.3 million of the money
other estimates were $606,000 for new orleans, $554,000 for indianapolis, $677,000 for washington, d.c., $440,000 for denver and $104,000 for des moines. estimates for other cities were not provided
eds: note that a9996 and a9997 should have been slugged am-news digest, 3rd ld-writethru, sted 2nd ld-writethru
a british air force transport that made an emergency landing en route to the falkland islands left thursday after britain agreed it would return to ascension island, uruguayan officials said
the hercules c-130, carrying a crew of seven and a cargo of tires, cylinders of oxygen and munitions, left carrasco international airport outside montevideo at nearly two days after landing here, airport authorities said
the plane developed an oil leak while flying from its base on ascension to mount stanley in the falklands, british ambassador eric vines said
officials said the return to ascension was a condition set by uruguaya's foreign minister, luis barrios tassano, the former ambassador to argentina
argentine authorities claimed the landing was no accident but part of the controversial military manuevers that britain began monday in the falklands
argentina and britain fought in 1982 over sovereignty of the remote south atlantic islands. the 74-day war, won by britain, killed 712 argentines and 256 britons
argentine foreign minister dante caputo said the emergency landing was actually a test to find out how uruguay would react in case of actual need during a similar wartime situation
vines denied it
a kenyan millionaire developer and arms dealer was acquitted thursday of conspiring with five other africans, including a nephew of kenya's first president, to import 1,900 tons of marijuana into the united states
stephen mwangi, 49, was found innocent by a federal jury in its fifth day of deliberations. mwangi testified that he had come to this country with one of the accused men to speak to potential investors in a land deal
he was arrested in october with a ugandan and four other kenyans, including samuel muigai, 36, a former kenyan army officer. muigai's uncle was jomo kenyatta, kenya's first president
muigai and the four others have pleaded guilty and face terms of up to 20 years in prison at sentencing later this month
all six were arrested after being driven by a customs agent posing as a drug buyer to the port in gloucester city, where $1 million worth of marijuana was seized
the deal was arranged in long-distance calls between an informant and defendants other than mwangi. the calls were taped, along with a conversation in the car when the agent was driving the men from philadelphia to new jersey
assistant u.s. attorney james patton alleged that mwangi was a silent backer of the deal, which was ultimately to involve three tons of marijuana. spat' ^eds: leads with 16 grafs to update with ex-aide saying he advised mecham that alleged threat was a `little spat.' adds background on mormon beliefs. picks up 6th graf pvs, `asked by ...'; subs 17th graf pvs, `mecham faces ...' to conform.</head>
a former aide to gov. evan mecham said friday he looked into an alleged death threat and assured the governor it was a ``little spat'' between employees that would ``probably go away by itself.''
max hawkins, former department of administration chief, took the stand for the defense at mecham's senate trial, where the governor is accused among other things of trying to thwart an investigation of the alleged threat against a witness testifying before a grand jury investigating mecham's finances
hawkins said he confronted his employee, prison construction chief lee watkins, who was accused of making the threat against donna carlson, and got a different version of the story first reported by mecham aide peggy griffith
mrs. griffith has testified that watkins warned that her friend carlson should stop talking or she might ``go on a long boat ride.''
but hawkins said watkins told him: ``i told peggy she should tell donna she should keep her mouth shut and stop running down the governor in the press.' he said, `there are a lot of people out there who are excitable and some harm may come to her.'''
hawkins said that mrs. griffith told a smiliar story and that he did not think this constituted a threat
asked what he told the governor, hawkins said: ``it was a matter that would probably go away by itself. that it was a little spat, a frivolous matter, probably lee blowing off steam and peggy reacting to it and to leave it alone and it would go away.''
hawkins was fired by acting gov. rose mofford, who took office after the 63-year-old mecham was impeached by the house on feb. 5
mecham, who took office in january 1987, is the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades
besides being accused of ordering an aide not to cooperate with the state attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat, mecham was charged by the house with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and loaning $80,000 in state money to his auto dealership
in earlier testimony friday, one of mecham's closest aides said the governor believed he was ``divinely guided'' in making executive decisions
sam steiger, a special assistant who was forced out of office by his own indictment on political extortion charges, also described a bitter battle between mecham and the state's attorney general, whom steiger blamed for mecham's downfall
i had the feeling that the governor did and does feel he is divinely guided,'' steiger said in response to a question by sen. john mawhinney, a republican like mecham
mawhinney asked if there was truth to rumors that mecham, a devout mormon, ``could and would make decisions on specific pieces of legislation through, he believed, some divine inspiration.''
yes, the governor believes his motives are divinely inspired,'' said steiger, ``at least adhering to principles that are divinely inspired
mormon doctrine holds that faithful christians may receive guidance from god regarding wordly endeavors, including their occupations. church leaders also teach that god inspired the political principles in the u.s. constitution, and that it is god's will that government adhere to them
asked by the associated press about steiger's comment on divine guidance, mecham would say only: ``sam, he's a little off the wall in some of his comments, too.''
although steiger's defense testimony only peripherally addressed the charge, he held senators riveted with his blunt, colorful descriptions of the mecham administration
steiger blamed the governor's troubles at least partially on his fierce battle with fellow republican attorney general robert corbin
that fight, he said, stemmed from mecham's resentment that he ``took an inordinate public beating'' over eliminating the state's martin luther king holiday for executive branch workers when it was really the attorney general's idea
corbin had advised all 1986 gubernatorial candidates that the holiday had been illegally declared that year by then-gov. bruce babbitt and that corbin would have to sue the governor if it was observed
in the most vitriolic comments of the trial's two weeks, steiger described corbin as ``not very bright but politically adept'' and suggested he manipulated legislators
he (corbin) has deluded many of you into thinking he is a competent person,'' he told the senators
he declared that corbin had turned the attorney general's office into ``one of the most expensive in the country'' and disliked mecham's cost-cutting policies
i believe those people are capable of setting up anybody,'' he said of corbin and his staff, ``but i have no knowledge they did.''
contacted for comment on steiger's remarks, corbin said: ``oh well, you know sam. just remember the position he is in with regard to our office and you can draw your own conclusions.''
steiger is being prosecuted by corbin's office on charges that he tried to extort a vote from a parole board member
mecham faces a criminal charge brought by corbin's office alleging that he concealed the $350,000 campaign loan
he also faces a recall election may 22, but that could change if he is convicted by the senate. a two-thirds vote of senators could remove him from office, and a second two-thirds vote could bar him from holding any state office again. later libyan report</note>
panicked soccer fans fled knife-wielding ruffians and triggered the collapse of a sports stadium in libya, killing at least 20 people, according to news reports friday
malta's state radio said two libyans were arrested in tripoli, the libyan capital, after the collapse
newspapers in belgrade, yugoslavia, quoting a report from the yugoslav state news agency tanjug from tripoli, said at least 20 people were killed and hundreds injured when a stadium dividing wall fell thursday during a match between malta and libya
but the libyan news agency jana said two spectators were killed. the jana report, monitored in london, said some people had been treated and released and 16 were hospitalized
joe sacco, the general secretary of the maltese football association who was in tripoli with the maltese team, said friday there was speculation in the libyan capital that the death toll could be higher
jana said a row of seats collapsed at the ``june 11'' stadium. the stadium reportedly has a capacity of 70,000. it was not immediately known how many people were at the game
the times of malta said panic occurred when someone in the stands brandished a weapon and the spectators rushed to get out
politika ekspres, a belgrade daily, said the incident began when several fans pulled out knives during a quarrel
some spectators returning to malta told reporters at the airport the same story while others quoted people in the stadium as saying a man was terrorizing the crowd with a snake
politika ekspres said spectators seeking safety toppled an iron fence. at the same time, a six-foot thick, 15-foot long wall dividing the second from the third level of the stadium also crashed down
it is hard to believe that anyone under it could have remained alive,'' politika ekspres said, quoting eyewitnesses
several hundred people reportedly were injured when the crowd from the third level surged down, creating panic that soon spread to other parts of the stadium
people rushed to exits, and that caused more injuries, the paper said
finally, about 5,000 fans in the field started chasing the culprits. one of them was captured but police managed to drag him free from the hands of the crowd, politika ekspres said
malta's department of information said the foreign ministry was informed that no maltese nationals were involved in the accident
the libyans were leading 1-0 in the exhibition game between the two national teams. the game was stopped and did not resume
prime minister edward fench adami of malta sent a message friday to libya's leader, col. moammar gadhafi, extending ``our condolences and deepest sympathies to the familes of the bereaved and to all those hit by this tragedy.''
the people of malta join me in sharing your profound grief at this unhappy moment during the sports festival,'' fenech adami said in the message. picks up 5th graf pvs, three journalists ...</note>
panama's military-backed government ordered cuts in public services friday as new u.s. sanctions compounded a financial crisis. police firing tear gas broke up an opposition rally
the beleaguered government of strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega reportedly also was considering delaying or reducing paychecks due early next week to nearly 150,000 public employees. a spokesman said no decision was made on those steps
several businessmen said they were warned their stores could be expropriated if they refused to cash public employees' paychecks
a planned demonstration by government opponents in the central banking district was broken up friday afternoon by riot police firing tear gas grenades and spraying the stinging, acrid liquid from portable canisters
large numbers of police prevented any sustained gathering of demonstrators. small groups gathered and then ran, setting a few fires. an associated press photographer at the scene reported more journalists on hand than police, spectators and demonstrators
at one site there were about 60 journalists and fewer than 20 protesters, who loudly chanted ``justice!'' and taunted the police
three journalists were injured when police sprayed gas in their faces at close range. they were: lucia annunziata, a reporter with la repubblica of rome; david walters, a photographer with the miami herald; and manolo iscala, a cameraman for spanish television
the nation's new chief executive, manuel solis palma, ordered his cabinet into emergency session after president reagan imposed several new sanctions, including putting some panama canal fees in escrow
a spokesman for solis palma characterized reagan's action as ``a state of war.''
the cabinet ordered working hours in all government offices slashed from eight to six hours daily
it also told government agencies and departments to cut their use of electricity, fuel and telephones, and asked employees to take vacations due them immediately
treasury minister hector alexander was quoted by a panama city newspaper as saying upcoming paydays of public employees ``are going to have to be deferred'' because of a growing cash shortage
the newspaper la estrella said the treasury minister did not elaborate on his remark about delaying paychecks, which was carried in a brief, three-paragraph story friday morning
a source close to panama's government said the cabinet also contemplated delaying paychecks to government workers, reducing their pay temporarily and giving them partial payment in food instead of cash
the u.s. sanctions were announced on the 10th day of a bank closure forced by a cash shortage in panama. the country uses the american dollar as its currency and its central bank normally receives transfers from the u.s. federal reserve
the united states halted those transfers last week and attorneys for ousted president eric arturo delvalle have tied up an estimated $50 million in official panamanian funds in private u.s. banks
directors of six supermarket and one pharmacy chains said mario rognoni, the trade and industries minister, told them the government could expropriate the chains if they did not cash public employees' paychecks
they said in a statement they would consider a general strike if the government followed through on its ``veiled threat.''
if they cashed the checks, they would have no money to operate ``in less than 24 hours,'' the directors said
rognoni denied he made any threat and said he only wanted to advance the idea of having chains give food to employees and deduct the value from the paychecks
panama's most recent problems began in february when noriega was indicted in florida on u.s. drug-trafficking and money laundering chages
on feb. 25, president delvalle tried to remove noriega as chief of the defense forces. instead, noriega arranged for the legislature to dismiss delvalle, and a political and economic crisis ensued
washington responded by imposing economic sanctions on panama and declaring its support for delvalle, who went into hiding
on friday, reagan stepped up u.s. economic pressure by ordering that a $6.5 million canal payment due tuesday be put into escrow
reagan ordered several other measures and called on noriega to resign
in boston, the first national bank of boston agreed to freeze panamanian government accounts until the state department lifts sanctions against the nation, according to a settlement filed in u.s. district court
the panamanian government normally disburses about $33 million in paychecks every two weeks, but its cash reserves are said by diplomatic sources and private economists to be approaching zero
the government managed to pay its 15,000 soldiers thursday, but must meet a bi-monthly payroll for the nation's 20,000 public school teachers on monday and thousands of other government workers on tuesday
the school teachers form a powerful lobby that brought down a civilian president in 1979 over a pay dispute
public employees in general are considered to be among the few remaining backers of noriega. livestock</head> minnesota, pickup 2nd graf pvs, `students heading ...'; subs 8th graf `up to ...' to update snowfall totals; inserts 1 graf after 16th, `wind gusting...' with motel roof blown off; inserts 1 graf after 19th, `the men ...' with cattle industry spokesman's comment.</note>
a blizzard plastered the northern plains with deep snow driven by wind up to 65 mph friday, endangering newborn calves and stranding travelers along hundreds of miles of blocked highways in colorado, nebraska, wyoming and the dakotas
the storm barreled into minnesota on friday night. blizzard warnings were issued for the northwestern part of the state, and wet snow and 35 mph wind made driving hazardous
students heading home aboard two school buses were caught by the storm thursday and were spending their second night as guests at two farms, one of which had no electricity
we feel it is in the best interest of the public to not, not go out on the highway,'' said capt. pius ternes of the north dakota highway patrol. ``we don't want someone getting stranded. it's just a very dangerous situation.''
we've mostly had people sliding off the road. we're not even pulling them out. we're just getting people out of the vehicles,'' nebraska state patrol dispatcher alex haberkorn said in scottsbluff
several hundred pupils in colorado spent the night in their schools. some travelers tried to sleep on the floors of a courthouse. north dakota capitol workers were sent home friday about an hour after they arrived
there were numerous minor accidents as vehicles slid on ice and snow, and many schools closed. snow plows could not keep up with blowing, drifting snow in many areas. wyoming state offices were closed, although the legislature met
hard-hit nebraska was not expected to get relief until late friday or early saturday. the storm was expected to track across minnesota and wisconsin
up to 40 inches of snow fell in two days in the mountains of utah at the alta ski resort, with 37 inches at snowbird. three to 4 feet had fallen around lead and deadwood, on the edges of south dakota's black hills. visibility in areas was down to zero
school bus driver linda barret and her 13 riders took refuge thursday at a farm some 20 miles from harrisburg, neb., when the storm cut visibility, and bus driver sharon grubbs and her eight riders, ages 7 to 13, wound up at a farm 17 miles from harrisburg, in far western nebraska
they were still there friday and planned to spend a second night. the electricity had been out at the second farm, owned by jack and karen holt, since late thursday
it's kind of like the old days,'' ms. grubbs said. she and mrs. holt used a camping stove to cook meals while the children huddled under blankets
outside scottsbluff, neb., jim and elizabeth davis of hot springs, wyo., spent about 15 hours stuck in their car before they were rescued friday. davis, 68, said he and his 67-year-old wife had apples and candy, plenty of blankets and a full gas tank
for one resort, the storm was too much of a good thing
we must have close to 4 foot. even the ski slopes are closed,'' said bob ekeren, manager of the terry peak lodge in the black hills. snow buried cars at the lodge and would-be skiers stayed inside friday morning, he said
right now you can't hardly see your hand in front of your face,'' ekeren said. ``i've never seen this much snow in my life. it's just unbelievable.''
wind gusting to 60 mph was reported friday morning at fort morgan, colo., and to 65 mph at rapid city, s.d. western nebraska had gusts to 50 mph
the wind blew off a 20-by-30 foot section of roof at a rapid city hotel, and it landed on three cars. no one was hurt. ``if there would have been someone down there, it would have killed them for sure,'' said manager gregory lester
friday was the 100th anniversary of the start of the four-day great blizzard of 1888 in the east. that storm claimed 400 lives
the weather threatened thousands of newborn calves, and ranchers in the nebraska sandhills region worked around the clock to get animals to shelter
the men are just exhausted. ... we worked all night long,'' said marianne beel. ``we had 300 calves born yesterday. we're dragging them in, separating them from their mothers.''
dick kjerstad, chairman of the south dakota beef checkoff campaign committee, said friday the storm could be a severe blow to the state's cattle industry. ``if it lasts another day, there could sure be some big losses,'' he said
in the nebraska panhandle, all roads in and out of kimball were closed and civil defense director dan jenson estimated 600 travelers spent the night in the town of 3,800 residents
hotels and motels were filled, and residents opened their homes, he said. but many spent the night at the kimball county courthouse, and about 200 truckers slept in their trucks
i've never seen so many gosh-dang people,'' jenson said
interstate 80 was closed for more than 300 miles, from walcott, wyo., to rock springs, neb., because of snowdrifts and low visibility. many other roads also were closed in eastern wyoming, including almost 140 miles of interstate 25, and in western nebraska
the closing of roads into laramie, wyo., marooned skiers at the snowy range ski area, which has no overnight accommodations. co-owner terri collins said about 180 people spent the night on the floor and tables and most were too tired friday morning to go skiing on 12 inches of fresh snow
we've got all the roads closed. people have to stay home,'' said kathy moan of the wyoming highway patrol. she said roads in and out of cheyenne and gillette were closed and the eastern part of the state was immobilized friday morning
about 100 miles of interstate 90 was closed overnight in western south dakota, and sections of i-94 were closed in north dakota. several northeastern colorado highways also were closed, including sections of interstates 25 and 70, the state patrol said
in northern colorado, 250 to 300 of the 1,200 students in the weld county school district spent the night in schools because buses couldn't get them home thursday, said superintendent bob gudka
the kids are having a ball,'' gudka said. as for the teachers, he joked, ``we may have to get psychological help for them later on.''
he said parents in four-wheel-drive vehicles fetched some students friday morning and a few were sent home on a convoy of buses accompanied by other four-wheel-drives
dennis day, a tenor who appeared on jack benny's tv and radio shows and recorded ``danny boy'' and other irish ballads, was hospitalized in critical and unstable condition, a hospital spokesman said friday
the 71-year-old singer whose trademark line was a sprightly ``gee, mr. benny!'' was brought to the emergency room wednesday after a fall at his home, said armen markarian, a spokesman at st.john's hospital and health center
while in the emergency room, day complained of a severe headache. a scan showed bleeding in the brain and he was rushed into surgery, markarian said. ``he's been in critical condition since then,'' the hospital spokesman added
in july, day's spokesman announced that he had been diagnosed with amyotropic lateral sclerosis, a degenerative nerve disease also known as lou gehrig's disease. however, markarian said day's condition did not appear to be related
day was born eugene denis mcnulty in new york city. his singing career began in 1939 as a naive kid with a golden voice on jack benny's radio show
he recorded such songs as ``peg of my heart'' and ``clancy lowered the boom,'' and appeared in several films, including ``buck benny rides again,'' ``music in manhattan,'' ``one sunday afternoon'' and ``the girl next door.'' news digest: chicago _ pm-political rdp, a0486; bloomington, ill, _ pm-dole, a0477; denver _ pm-hart, a0438; washington _ pm-us-panama, a0421; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0446; washington _ pm-stubborn israeli, a0412; vienna, austria _ pm-austria-anschluss, a0495; new york _ pm-stocks-collar, a0448</note>
the military regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega made its army payroll, but panama's deposed president and economists predicted it will not be able to pay civil servants next week
that could further erode support for the general, chief of the 15,000-strong panama defense forces and considered the real power behind panama's civilian government
the government had to withdraw substantial funds from the central national bank of panama and divert receipts from state-owned utilities in order to back the army payroll thursday, diplomatic sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
two former pentagon officials and the general accounting office are sharply criticizing a pact with japan for the retrieval of plutonium from u.s. nuclear wastes
critics of the nuclear cooperation agreement said thursday they may move to kill the accord next week in congress
the former officials, richard n. perle and frank j. gaffney jr., said the defense department was not given a significant role in negotiations and considers the agreement ``seriously flawed.''
elisabeth ann zinser resigned today as president of gallaudet university in a victory for students demanding a hearing-impaired president for the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf
the university, which was shut down by protests over zinser's appointment five days ago, never has had a deaf president in its 124-year history
my decision to resign was reached with great difficulty as i came to understand how deeply some see the social stature of deaf persons reflected in the presidency of this university,'' zinser, who has normal hearing and doesn't know sign language, said in a statement early today
a 15-year-old boy convicted of killing a classmate with a baseball bat ``to know what it was like'' has been sentenced to life in prison, becoming the state's youngest prison inmate
rod matthews could be paroled in 15 years under the mandatory sentence he received thursday after being found guilty of second-degree murder in the nov. 20, 1986, slaying of 14-year-old shaun ouillette
two former friends of matthews testified he told them of planning the killing and took them to see ouillette's body, which police did not find until nearly four weeks later in woods in canton, a suburb 15 miles south of boston
prince charles was reported found trembling and weeping after an avalanche swept two close friends in his skiing party down a steep, unmarked alpine slope, killing one and breaking the other's legs
charles, the prince of wales and heir to the british throne, escaped unhurt
the loose snow cascaded down as charles, 39, and five companions were skiing thursday at about 5,800 feet in an area of the swiss alps that authorities earlier in the day warned was prone to avalanches. the area was off the main skiing trails
gov. evan mecham's defense lawyer angered senators by accusing the senate majority leader of showing ``overwhelming'' bias against the governor during his impeachment trial
jerris leonard lashed out thursday at majority leader bob usdane when the republican lawmaker questioned whether the impeached governor's new lawyers erred when they said weeks ago they were ready to defend mecham
usdane ``ought to show a little more impartiality,'' said leonard. ``his bias and prejudice are overwhelming,'' and under normal trial circumstances he should be disqualified, the attorney said
frederic remington, the painter and sculptor best known for his depiction of the wild west, deserves recognition as an american master, say the curators of a traveling exhibit of his work that opens here today
remington has been seen superficially,'' said michael edward shapiro, chief curator at the st. louis art museum. ``he's been stereotyped as a cowboy artist when he was a very sophisticated new yorker who drew from a lot of sources and created his own style, which has astonishingly imprinted itself on the conscience of our country.''
shapiro and peter h. hassrick, director of the buffalo bill historical center in cody, wyo., organized ``frederic remington: the masterworks,'' the first major traveling exhibit of remington's work. news digest: washington _ am-us-panama; panama city, panama _ am-panama; undated _ am-political rdp; boston _ am-polish seamen; london _ am-drake expenses.</note>
former presidential aide robert c. mcfarlane pleaded guilty friday to misdemeanor charges that he misled congress by assuring lawmakers the reagan administration was not helping arm nicaraguan rebels during a ban on u.s. military aid
president reagan's former national security adviser pleaded guilty to four counts of withholding information from congress when questioned about news reports that members of his staff, particularly lt. col. oliver l. north, were helping to raise money and ship arms to the contra rebels
mcfarlane, who agreed to cooperate fully with independent counsel lawrence e. walsh's investigation, could be sentenced to up to four years imprisonment and fined as much as $400,000 for the guilty pleas he entered before u.s. district judge aubrey e. robinson jr
gary hart, declaring ``i got a fair hearing and the people decided,'' quit the 1988 presidential campaign for good friday, three months after rejoining a race from which he had been driven by revelations about his personal life
hart, the one-time democratic front-runner who had been drubbed in every contest since re-entering the campaign, advised the five surviving candidates to debate more and attack each other less
asked if he would ever seek the white house again, he said lightly, ``not this year; twice in one year is enough.''
a blizzard plastered the northern plains with deep snow driven by wind up to 65 mph friday, endangering newborn calves and stranding travelers along hundreds of miles of blocked highways in colorado, nebraska, wyoming and the dakotas
students heading home aboard two school buses were caught by the storm thursday and were spending their second night as guests at two farms, one of which had no electricity
we feel it is in the best interest of the public to not, not go out on the highway,'' said capt. pius ternes of the north dakota highway patrol. ``we don't want someone getting stranded. it's just a very dangerous situation.''
half the arab policemen in the west bank resigned by plo order friday and israeli soldiers closed the main gaza mosque on the moslem sabbath for the first time worshipers could remember
the al amari mosque in gaza city has been a rallying point for protest since riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, with prayer leaders sometimes calling over its loudspeakers for resistance to the army
israeli troopers shot and wounded nine palestinians during street battles after friday prayers at other mosques in the occupied territories. the army demolished the homes of four arabs accused of attacking either israelis or palestinians accused of collaborating with them
prime minister yitzhak shamir on friday attacked u.s. peace proposals for the first time in public, charging that they were ``fraught with danger'' and incapable of bringing peace to the region
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz shuttled through the region last week to urge arab and israeli acceptance of the plan
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz,'' shamir was quoted as saying by the israeli daily newspaper haaretz
the government said friday that retail sales edged up 0.6 percent in february, bolstered by strong demand for autos, but economists expressed worries that sales in january were much weaker than previously believed
in good news on the inflation front, wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, pushed down by drops in both food and energy costs
for the first two months of the year, the labor department said prices have been rising at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, half the modest 2.2 percent increase in 1987. analysts said inflation should remain moderate for the rest of the year
iran and iraq stopped nearly two weeks of attacks on each other's cities friday, but the iraqis said they got in the last volley with 11 missiles fired before their afternoon truce deadline
hundreds of civilians have been killed or wounded since the exchange began feb. 29
eight rockets were aimed at tehran on friday and three at the iranian holy city of qom, the official iraqi news agency reported. it said the last missile left its launcher at 3:44 p.m., just 16 minutes before time iraq said it would stop shooting
prince charles flew home friday with the body of a friend who was swept off a swiss mountain by an avalanche that nearly engulfed the future king as it roared down the slope in a ``terrifying matter of seconds.''
with maj. hugh lindsay's pregnant widow, sarah, the prince watched as six soldiers from his dead friend's royal lancers regiment bore the flag-draped coffin from the red and white jet of the queen's flight
the 39-year-old heir to the throne was praised for helping save the life of another skier but called foolhardy for skiing perilous slopes off the main trails of the klosters resort
austria on friday marked the 50th anniversary of its annexation by nazi germany with solemn memorials to the dead and demonstrations against president kurt waldheim, whose wartime past relegated him to silent spectator at official ceremonies
conservative and socialist politicans emphasized that some austrians were perpetrators in the nazi era, challenging the long-held view that austria was simply a victim of adolf hitler when he sent his troops into the alpine nation on march 11, 1938
a minute of silence drew little response on vienna streets, and few viennese turned out in the early morning to watch political leaders lay wreaths at monuments to nazi victims and fallen soldiers
about 2,500 gallaudet university students and supporters claimed victory in a capitol hill rally friday after elisabeth ann zinser resigned as president of their school for the deaf, but they vowed to continue their protests until their other demands are met
zinser, who is not deaf and does not know sign language, was named to the post last sunday but announced her resignation early friday morning after protesters virtually halted all classes this week. zinser said she had stepped down in response ``to this extraordinary social movement of deaf people.''
students and activists marched across the capitol lawn friday bearing signs and banners and chanting ``deaf president now,'' ``no hearing president'' and ``deaf power.''
gov. evan mecham believed he was ``divinely guided'' in making executive decisions, one of his closest aides testified friday at mecham's impeachment trial
sam steiger, a special assistant who was forced out of office by his own indictment on political extortion charges, also described a bitter battle between mecham and the state's attorney general, whom steiger blamed for mecham's downfall
i had the feeling that the governor did and does feel he is divinely guided,'' steiger said in response to a question by sen. john mawhinney, a republican like mecham
lyndon larouche's attorneys demanded access friday to information a prosecutor relied on when he said a top fbi official conferred with a key figure in the iran-contra scandal about an effort to collect information against larouche
the attorneys said the information might help them prove their contention that former white house aide oliver north asked the fbi and cia to infiltrate larouche groups because they were interfering with north's private contra-resupply effort
also friday, the trial judge again delayed the resumption of testimony in the fraud and conspiracy case against larouche, six aides and five organizations because of pending searches of government records, including those of the white house and vice president george bush, for any evidence suggesting infiltration of larouche groups
with help from a u.s.-led aid program, a rundown site dividing roman catholic and protestant areas of belfast is being transformed into an industrial park for fledgling businessmen
it is one of about 40 projects that have been promised money from the multimillion-dollar international fund for ireland, the most tangible outgrowth of the anglo-irish agreement of 1985 that aims to help reconcile feuding catholics and protestants in northern ireland
the $1.6 million-townsend enterprise park will create space for 45 new businesses near the towering ``peace wall'' dividing the protestant shankill road district from the catholic falls road
frank murphy, the project head, said it would not have gone forward without the fund's $440,000 contribution
but just as the fund is getting off the ground, its future has been put in question following an announcement that the u.s. state department is dropping the fund from its 1989 allocations. of the fund's present kitty of $86.8 million, $85 million has come from washington with $35 million more due this year
the rationale behind the fund is that in a province with a 17-percent unemployment rate and the collapse of its traditional heavy industries, only economic revival can eliminate slums, joblessness and resentment
another project helped by the fund aims at turning the first-century ruin of navan fort in county armagh into a tourist site. another has given $4,500 to frank o'donnell, a 24-year-old londonderry catholic unemployed for two years, to open his own business selling hand-carved fireplace mantels
when the fund was set up in 1986, the u.s. congress approved $120 million over three years to stimulate economic regeneration and foster catholic-protestant reconciliation. seventy-five percent was earmarked for northern ireland and 25 percent for border counties in the irish republic to the south
some protestants are suspicious, since the anglo-irish agreement grants the irish republican government in dublin a say in their affairs. the rev. ian paisley, the northern irish protestant hardliner, called the fund ``yankee blood money'' and urged a boycott of its projects
the european economic community, which had been expected to make a major donation, has held back because london and dublin can't agree on a joint application for funds. canada is contributing $10 million spread over 10 years, and new zealand has given a one-time $300,000 payment
bob myers, u.s. consul general in belfast, said in an interview the united states wants more countries to contribute to the fund
but concern rose in ireland in february when u.s. deputy secretary of state john whitehead said the united states ``does not receive a real return'' on its contribution to the fund and was dropping it from the state department's 1989 foreign aid allocations
in its present state, the fund would die without the u.s. donation, and irish-american congressmen, such as sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., say they are confident congress will continue to support the international fund
the fund's board has so far allocated only 20 percent of its money, about $16 million, to some 40 projects. it says about 2,000 applications have come from both catholics and protestants, despite paisley's call for a boycott, and hopes to have distributed the whole amount within 18 months
i would have liked to see quicker progress. ... but i'm absolutely certain if we plunged in, spending money like drunken sailors, it would have been disastrous,'' said charles e.b. brett, the lawyer and former public official who chairs the fund's seven-member board
the board gives priority to job-creation programs, tourism and venture capital companies. one idea never tried before is the joint marketing of irish goods from both north and south
the board has also approved projects to help universities develop marketable products and more than half a dozen programs to launch entrepreneurs like o'donnell in londonderry
danny morrison, publicity director for sinn fein, the outlawed irish republican army's legal political wing, and the rev. matthew wallace, a catholic priest on the townsend park board in belfast, complained that the fund was putting too little into catholic areas where unemployment is 2{ times higher than in protestant areas
wallace said he preferred to see american companies investing in northern ireland and creating real jobs
that's more important than the money itself from the fund _ the money will do nothing,'' the priest said
i don't think we can expect violence to end unless we do something about unemployment,'' said franklin adair, a banker who heads the youth enterprise scheme _ yes. the fund's first grant of $88,500 went to yes, which is helping hundreds of people under 25 to start businesses
we must give young people something to hold on to,'' adair said. ``otherwise, what do they have to lose? that's where i think the american funds can be best used _ in positive creation of employment. that's the way to achieve peace.''
the government has rejected proposals for cease-fire talks under the central american peace plan and the guatemalan military has gone on the offensive against leftist rebel strongholds in the countryside
president vinicio cerezo turned down guerrilla proposals for talks as ``a good-for-nothing petition.'' a few days before he did that, the roman catholic archbishop, prospero penados del barrio, accepted a request from the rebels to mediate between the two sides
the rebels, the church and most political parties have urged the resumption of talks between the government and rebels in madrid, spain, last october _ the first in the 27-year-old war
but gen. hector gramajo, the defense minister, repeated the military's insistence that the rebels abandon their weapons first
the army is very close to achieving a total victory,'' he said
a few days before the october talks began in madrid with the guatemalan national revolutionary union, the umbrella for three guerrilla forces, the army announced new operations in the rebel-controlled northern part of quiche province and on the southern side of lake atitlan, where the rebels have been most entrenched
establishing a cease-fire is one of the commitments guatemala agreed to in signing the central american peace plan last aug. 7 along with nicaragua, el salvador, costa rica and honduras
gramajo maintained, however, that with an amnesty that requires rebels to disarm and participate in the political process, ``there is no need for talks.''
the rebels refute gramajo's claims that they have only 500 to 700 now under arms, down from 2,500 to 3,000 in 1986, and that the military offensive is a success. in the early 1980s, rebel strength was estimated at 4,000 to 6,000 combatants
there is a flareup in the war in guatemala, basically because of the army offensive,'' said one of the guerrilla respresentatives who went to madrid in october, speaking on condition of anonymity. he called the army's current offensive the ``biggest ever in strictly military terms.''
the army has thrown most of its strength of 43,000 personnel, including air support, into the effort, mainly focused on quiche
the guerrilla organization claims 3,500 combatants in its three armies _ the guerrilla army of the poor, the group fighting in quiche, a northwestern province; the organization of the people in arms, generally in the lake atitlan area and west to san marcos, and the rebel armed forces in the northern peten panhandle province
gramajo placed the army's casualties from september to mid-february at 83, while the rebel source put them at 700 from october through december. neither side gave rebel casualties, which generally are lower because guerrillas use ambushes and other tactics that avoid direct combat
one of the army's main targets is what it considers the rebel support population in northern quiche _ thousands of campesinos, most of them indians, who have hidden from the army for as long as seven years
they remained behind when thousands of others fled into neighboring mexico or cities in the early 1980s, when more than 400 villages were destroyed and tens of thousands of civilians killed in the northwest highlands
highlands residents, diplomats and human rights groups claim the army did most of the killing. the army blames the guerrillas
the rebels say they are fighting for what they call real democracy and national sovereignty and against social injustice and poverty
the most visible effect of the offensive in northern quiche around the area of nebaj is the hundreds of refugees being brought to the army base there. gramajo says a sign of the army's success is its ``rescue'' of 2,200 of the 4,000 peasants in the area
although the army is allowing them to return to a few villages near nebaj where it has re-established permanent posts and is putting in roads, the refugees must first receive three months of army ``re-education'' in ``patriotism and nationalism,'' officers said
villagers farther north remain closed to them
right now they can't return to those places,'' the civilian affairs officer at the base said. ``the army is going to have more success the fewer the people who are there.''
one refugee identifying himself only as diego said some refugees are captured by the army and others turn themselves in when soldiers appear
we saw, well, that there was no way out because the army was covering all the points,'' he said in a whisper outside a wood-plank army barracks at nebaj
even in the 100-degree heat of midday, the niger valley echoes with the sounds of the women beating their wash against the stones on the river bank
their back-breaking day's work will earn them an average of 250 west african francs (88 cents)
the women, their hard work and low pay epitomize the problems facing this west african nation shackled by constant drought and the economic difficulties that arise from it. the world bank ranks mali as one of the five poorest countries in the world, with a per capita income of $148 a year
the washerwomen, all from the dogon tribe, were driven out of their homes in the north to bamako four years ago by the devastating sahelian drought. they remain excellent vegetable farmers and the river banks behind them bloom with radishes, tomatoes and strawberries
but they live in isolation, on the outskirts of this city of 1 million. they do not speak french, mali's official language, nor do they know bambara, the lingua franca of the region
they are tolerated by their countrymen because, for the moment, there is no other room for them and there is still residual sympathy for the suffering they endured in the drought of 1983 and 1984. but another dry spell could quickly make them unwanted, another burden on a country already unable to feed itself
average rainfall varies from 47.2 inches in the south, to the desert north with less than 8 inches
the next drought will mean the loss of more farm land and even more people will be forced south, toward bamako, to compete for the scant resources
this huge, largely desert or semidesert country, with its 8.4 million people spread across an area larger than california and texas combined has never known prosperity. according to the economic-trends report from the u.s. embassy, it will need continued foreign help for the forseeable future
despite a national commitment to economic reform and relatively good soils in the south, cereal production has fallen in recent years,'' the report said. ``over the past 10 years the climate throughout mali, particularly the great inland delta of the niger, has become drier. this has resulted in serious losses of crops and cattle, declining agricultural productivity, and increased reliance upon donations of grains from the west.''
the report says mali has made serious attempts at mending its ailing economy, forcing retirements and imposing staff cutbacks in the public sector, but 70,000 government employees remain on the roles, three-fourths of all salaried workers in the country
in 1986, while under the squeeze of economic reform, the bottom fell out. the price of cotton, the country's chief export, plummeted. the government discontinued much of an austerity package that formed the basis for loans from the international monetary fund and world bank, but the imf money stoppoed coming because the government gave up on the austerity commitment
now mali is broke
teachers, on strike since mid-february for salaries three months in arrears, have been joined by students demanding that scholarship payments be brought up to date
president moussa traore said recently he hoped the 18-month-long ``misunderstanding'' with the imf could be cleared up and loans would be coming again
we have said that we favor the structural adjustment program, but we also favor the preservation of our human dignity, and despite our difficulties, the world economic situation, and drought _ which we do not control _ we want people to understand us,'' he told a news conference
structural adjustment does not mean throwing workers into the streets without compensation. nor does it mean dismantling the economy of a country or destroying the basis of an economy. we are still expecting help from our partners.''
march is salsa star ruben blades' month: his new album is being released and his latest movie, ``the milagro beanfield war,'' opens
blades, who writes most of his songs, also has a master's degree in law from harvard university. how does he find time to do so much?
the answer is that i am very well organized,'' he said in a recent interview. ``i select chunks of time based on my interest, i block that time and when it arrives i do only what that time has been devoted for
i begin to plan things usually a year or two before the event occurs. even if at the time the event doesn`t seem like its going to happen, i begin to plan for that event
my interests are so diverse,'' he added, ``that i keep surprising everybody by literally jumping from one thing to another and yet to another. for instance, when i went to harvard to do my master's, i didn't perform. during those two years, 1984 and 1985, i devoted my time to studying. i wrote some songs on the side, so to speak, but i didn't perform at all.''
after getting his degree, blades went to new mexico to shoot ``the milagro beanfield war,'' directed by robert redford, in 1986. it was his first screen appearence since teaming up with whoopi goldberg in ``fatal beauty,'' which was released that same year
the year 1985 saw the release of ``crossover dreams,'' a controversial film of dashed hopes and hot salsa in el barrio, starring blades and directed by the cuban-american filmmaker leon ichaso
ichaso has a very good eye for the absurd, which i think is a tremendous asset for anyone,'' blades said, talking about his work with various directors. ``redford, being an actor himself, is a very patient director, very protective. they both make actors feel very comfortable,'' he said
the milagro beanfield war'' will open in new york and los angeles march 18, and nationwide on april 1. blades' lp, ``nothing but the truth,'' will be released also on march 18, according to elektra records
the 39-year-old blades, who was born in panama and moved to the united states in 1974, described ``the milagro beanfield war'' as ``a comedy with a very serious point.''
the movie, based on the novel of the same title by john nicholson, is about the frictions and disputes between outside developers and local residents of a little, fictional town in new mexico called milagro
blades portrays bernabe montoya. ``he is the man in the middle. he is part of the community, but he has been appointed as a sheriff by the developers. ... he is the only one that has a genuine, independent outlook of both sides.''
blades said latin actors have more opportunity for film work today than 15 or 20 years ago. ``i think that because of the rising interest of the anglo public toward the latin culture and because of the impact of the political realities in central and south america, new opportunities are given now to latin actors and also latin directors,'' blades said
and i think this is a trend that will continue.''
sweet auburn,'' long the lifeline of black atlanta's business community, has lost its luster, and revitalization plans are hobbled by disagreement over what should be done in the district where martin luther king jr. preached and louis armstrong played
the city's auburn avenue area was a child of segregation. for years, a soaring black middle and professional class was allowed to do business or offer services nowhere else. in 1956, fortune magazine called auburn avenue the richest black business district in america
the avenue was a cradle of the civil rights movement. but it was the movement's success that eventually disseminated the middle classes to other parts of atlanta and started sweet auburn on its decline
whether it can be renovated without its few remaining businesses being ``gentrified,'' and whether the old flavor can or should be restored, are issues along the avenue
whatever is proposed, the older people in the area seem to disagree with it,'' said gordon joiner, a former chairman of the martin luther king historical district development corp. ``they all seem to agree that the area needs to be revitalized, but that's where the agreement stops.''
king's ebenezer baptist church, his birthplace and his tomb are on auburn avenue, and some redevelopment proposals center on that
the development corporation envisions reverting part of the avenue to the way it was when king was young. others want to revitalize the entire district into an area where people again will come to do business, using its past as a tourist draw
atlanta has budgeted $2.4 million this year for auburn avenue-area landscaping, improvements on the still-functioning municipal market building and historic facade renovation. the city also hopes to get some help from the national trust for historic preservation
most grant money for the auburn district has gone to the east end where the martin luther king jr. center for nonviolent social change sits and not to the dilapidated commercial sector
nearly 500,000 visitors a year travel the two-mile-long avenue from downtown atlanta to the king center
en route, visitors pass a few remaining bars, beauty shops, small restaurants and boarded-up businesses. they pass a four-story brick shell of a building with the names of lawyers, dentists, accountants and doctors in peeling paint on the remaining shards of windows
prostitution and drug deals flourish along the avenue, a high-crime area at night
the poor and the prostitutes were always there
the rev. william borders, 82, who just finished his 50th year as pastor at the wheat street baptist church, remembers being propositioned years ago. ``they used to make a pass at me and i would say, `don't you know who i am? i'm the preacher,' and they would say, `i don't care who you are. do you want to date me or not?'''
borders came to the avenue in the 1920s. ``it was a lot rougher out there then than it is now,'' he said
my mother used to tell us we were born too late to be in slavery and too early to be out of slavery.''
borders was instrumental in getting some substandard housing replaced by projects
atlanta's most prestigious black churches are still there, along with the national offices of the southern christian leadership conference; black fraternal lodges; one of the nation's first black-owned radio stations, werd; and the atlanta daily world, the nation's oldest black-owned daily newspaper
the masonic building, built by blacks in the early years of the century, sits atop an underground river. ``i'm proud to say we built it, and proud to say we ain't seen a drop of water yet,'' said x.l. neal, the grand master
old-line atlantans remember the area for some of the best food in town, and an alluring smoky pungence from the auburn avenue rib shack is comforting assurance that not everything has changed
over time, the region became known as ``sweet auburn.'' in the 1930s and '40s cab calloway, louis armstrong and others packed patrons into the top hat club, now long closed
the royal peacock hosted another generation of black entertainers such as otis redding and ray charles. it hung on for 25 years until it closed in 1973
the peacock has been leased by two white entrepreneurs who plan to reopen the second-story walkup as a blues and rock showcase
what visitors see of (black) atlanta is a poor reflection of what the auburn avenue area was all about,'' said daniel moore, director of apex, a privately funded organization building a permanent display of atlanta's black history on the avenue
for a number of years there have been plans for auburn avenue but no one has taken the task seriously,'' he said. he said a recent study about what might be done cost $240,000 and was one of a half-dozen over the past 10 years, all of them expensive
i don't see much chance of anything major being done before the (democratic national) convention,'' scheduled for atlanta in july, he said
politically, more has been said than done about the area, and no unified leadership has emerged
there are a number of factions on the avenue, and the avenue does not have a czar to speak for all factions,'' said portia scott, whose family has published the daily world since 1928. ``there are a whole lot of themes here, not just martin luther king.''
ben e. smith, a lifelong auburn avenue area resident and nightclub owner, agrees
of a move to put city funds from a defunct project into the area, smith said recently, ``i'll make sure the king center doesn't get everything. everything can't go to the gravesite.''
smith, who heads the sweet auburn merchants and professionals association, is urging unity among the remaining businesses to assure their interests are covered in any revitalization plans
smith, ms. scott and others fought hard against plans to tear out seven businesses on the avenue to make room for a black studies library and research center. fulton county officials have agreed to try to find an existing vacant building for the center instead
there is a diehard need for restoration that does not displace the merchants,'' smith said, adding that it is equally important to ``keep the history and character of sweet auburn,'' a street described by many atlantans as one of the few in town with any character left
cbs is beefing up its schedule with four new comedies, but from the looks of the first three, the shows themselves will need some beefing up before they will help cbs
because of its hour-drama-heavy schedule, the network wants more half-hour sitcoms. thus ``eisenhower &amp; lutz'' premieres tonight in two half hours, before and after ``newhart.'' its regular time period will be monday in place of ``frank's place,'' which moves to tuesday
trial and error'' and ``coming of age'' make their debuts tuesday. a fourth comedy, ``the dictator,'' also was to have premiered tuesday, but it has been delayed by the writers' strike. in the meantime, cbs will bring back ``my sister sam.''
the most promising of the three new comedies is ``trial and error.'' it falters occasionally in the premiere half hour, but mostly lands on its feet, thanks to the comic abilities of its two stars, eddie velez and paul rodriguez
velez plays john hernandez, a clean-cut young lawyer just hired by a big los angeles law firm. his childhood friend and now roommate, tony rivera (rodriguez), is a t-shirt entrepreneur
rodriguez, a stand-up comic, delivers the one-liners with professional aplomb. he takes his buddy to a fancy restaurant to celebrate his new job. the waiter lists the specials, including goat cheese, $8: ``goat cheese eight dollars?'' complains rivera. ``i got a buddy in alhambra who'll sell me the whole goat for four.''
velez's forte is physical comedy. acting cool in his new office with his modular phone, he whips the receiver around on its elasticized wire, but ends up having to hide from it when it gets out of control
the show doesn't make any heavy social points, but does manage a meaningful plotline when hernandez faces the fact that he was hired by the law firm because he is hispanic. the senior partner dismisses his protests by telling him there was a time he would have been rejected because of it. at rivera's urging, he decides to take the break for what it's worth
eisenhower &amp; lutz'' also shows promise with occasionally crisp writing and a likable star, scott bakula, playing a palm springs shyster who's practicing alone but thought eisenhower on the firm's name sounded prestigious
his secretary quits over her pay. ``remember two months ago when i interviewed for a job and we discussed salary and i said, yes, i wanted one?''
so his girlfriend (delane matthews), a cocktail waitress, fills in, typing up his resume before his meeting with a big law firm he thinks might hire him. he notes she included his alma mater, southeast school of law. ``i thought we were going to dress that up a little,'' says he. says she, ``i took `and acupuncture' off.''
the series is from mtm productions and executive producer allan burns, an emmy-winning writer formerly with ``the mary tyler moore show.'' the lines are smart enough, but the series needs to develop some heart
coming of age'' was apparently meant to be kind of a co-ed ``golden girls.'' it stars paul dooley as dick hale, a wise-cracking former airline pilot from pittsburgh reluctantly relocated to a sunny retirement village in the southwest with his wife, ginny (phyllis newman)
the comedy in the premiere episode is broad and sluggish, though dooley can almost pull it off. ``that's 27,'' he says, gazing out the window as his wife unpacks. ``what are you counting?'' she asks. ``gray heads,'' he says
alan young and glynis johns play neighbors ed and trudie pepper, who come over bearing a welcome pie. turns out ed baked the pie
so, basically, ed,'' says dick, ``you retired and became a woman.''
even dooley can't manage for long with material like this
the fourth comedy, ``the dictator,'' features christopher lloyd, best known to tv audiences as rev. jim on ``taxi,'' as joseph domino, supreme ruler of the south sea island nation of bando. after the overthrow of his government, he is exiled to rego park, queens. the premise sounds great, but it's a bad sign if the series has to be halted because there are too few scripts for even a limited spring run. when the series does premiere, look forward to seeing bob elliott of the comedy team bob and ray as guest star
elsewhere in television:
phil fills in _ phil donahue will fill in for bryant gumbel on the ``today'' show the week of april 4. gumbel is taking off time in preparation for his anchor duties when nbc broadcasts the olympics from seoul later this summer. gumbel will also be off the week of april 18, and former ``today'' host jim hartz will fill in that week. ..
no nukes _ ``crime story'' is filming a climactic, three-part season finale in acapulco, mexico. the occasion for the locale is a plotline that has torello and his strike force chasing villain ray luca and his crime empire to a small latin american country. in last year's season finale, luca was caught in a nuclear blast
fifty years after the nazis closed the world's first museum of jewish art in vienna, a private exhibit of jewish ritual objects has been drawing large crowds of visitors
some 800 items displayed at the ``judentum in wien'' (``jews in vienna'') exhibit housed by the museum of the history of vienna are all loans from a private judaica collection, regarded by art historians as one the most important private collections of jewish life
according to max berger, owner of the collection, most of the drawings, paintings, sculptures, medals, coins, manuscripts and handicraft on show were in danger of being destroyed or lost after austria's annexation by nazi germany in 1938
berger, a viennese businessman who survived a nazi concentration camp, pieced together his collection over years and this is the first time it has been shown in public
the exhibit displays mementoes of jewish life from the early 18th century until present, focusing on vienna as an important center in the history of european jewry. museum officials said it is the first step toward opening a permanent jewish museum here in the next two or three years
about 6,000 jews live in vienna today, compared with 200,000 who helped make this city a capital of science, culture and the arts before world war ii. they included sigmund freud, gustav mahler, stefan zweig, arnold schoenberg and hundreds of others
some 65,000 austrian jews perished in nazi concentration and death camps during the war
the exhibit is divided into eight sections, including ritual objects and hebrew writings, the jewish year and life, the history of the viennese jews, zionism, anti-semitism and persecution and jewish contributions to art and culture
it's the first time that the most important private judaica collection in europe is displayed for the austrian public after the war,'' karl-albrecht weinberger, a curator who helped set up the display, said in an interview
by march 3, the exhibit had been visited by some 30,000 people
on saturdays and sundays we have up to 500 visitors a day,'' weinberger said, adding that recently austrian school authorities advised schools to come and see the exhibit as part of their history classes
more young austrians gradually have been educated about the nazi past and the holocaust in the two years since the first disclosures that president kurt waldheim had covered up his wartime past as a german army lieutenant in the balkans
weinberger said the exhibit was planned before waldheim became president
the most valuable objects displayed are a silver-and-gold torah crown made in austria in 1810 and a torah plaque made in 1806 of gold-covered silver
the oldest display is a torah curtain made around 1700 of red velvet laced with silver threads
weinberger said the first jewish museum in the world opened in vienna in 1895, with a very big collection of jewish art
the nazis dismantled it in 1938. while some items were lost or destroyed, others were taken by the germans to prague where they planned to open a big anti-semitic jewish museum. the museum never materialized but some objects have remained in the prague jewish museum which opened after the war
asked if the austrians ever asked the czechs to return the items held by the vienna museum, weinberger said they never did
it's difficult to prove what objects belonged to the jewish vienna museum as all catalog were destroyed during the war,'' he said
your eyelids freeze, it's dark much of the time, polar bears stroll the streets every so often, and a heat wave is when the temperature goes above 40 degrees in the summer. not many outsiders go to the world's northernmost city, but a moscow-based associated press correspondent did and wrote this story when she thawed out. it is one of a series of periodic ap reports on life and culture in the byways of the world
igor perlovsky is a big man in dickson. he runs the only bar in town. he owns the only vcr
and for the 5,000 soviets who inhabit the world's northernmost city on the ice-bound kara sea, drinks and movies at perlovsky's ``coupole'' lounge are a cherished escape from the 10 months of winter when temperatures plunge to 75 degrees below zero and the wind freezes the moisture in the corners of people's eyes
outdoor sports are out of the question on the desolate ice desert that stretches more than 300 miles from here to the south. even for those hardy enough to play outdoors, it's hard to see a soccer ball during the three-month polar night. nor is there swimming during the two-month ``summer,'' when the mercury climbs to an average high of 40
there used to be an automobile in dickson, which is reachable only by air and sea, but the novelty of driving on the city's three or four roads wore off, and the 11-year-old moskvich subcompact has been garaged with only 70 kilometers (44 miles) on the odometer
every few weeks, a resident sights a polar bear lumbering along the moguled ice paths that pass for streets, and telling tales of narrow escapes from the arctic's natural inhabitants is a popular pasttime
police sometimes are summoned to chase the bears away by firing rifles into the air, but they are forbidden to shoot the beasts except in life-threatening situations: polar bears are protected by the soviet red book, the endangered species list
at first glance, dickson appears uninhabited. the plume from a single smokestack atop the city's steam-generating plant provides the first sign of life. on closer inspection, a few fur-hatted pedestrians can be seen bobbing between the snowbanks. the silence is broken by the roar of a jeep or the thrashing of a tracked ``vezdekhod'' _ the refitted armored personnel carriers that serve as dickson's police cars, ambulances and buses
the city, which lies 500 miles inside the arctic circle and 1,100 miles below the north pole, is named for oskar dickson, a swedish brewer and financier who bankrolled the international expedition that discovered the port in 1875. dickson's retention of his name through a century of political tumult in russia is evidence of its isolation from moscow and the official penchant for renaming places for soviet heroes
the first settlers arrived in dickson in 1915 to operate a radio transmitter at the port. by world war ii, a few hundred were living here to handle shipping on the yenisei river that flows into the kara just to the south
today, dickson's port is the gateway to the northern sea route that provides europe's only direct sealink to the pacific ocean
gennady m. svetkov, deputy chief of the city's governing council, said the port, which is the only major enterprise in dickson, generates revenues of 6 million rubles ($10 million) a year. that figure could skyrocket if the soviet union reopens the northern sea route as communist party chief mikhail s. gorbachev proposed last october. it has been closed to all but soviet vessels since 1964
in winter, supply ships, shepherded by icebreakers, make their way into the frozen port every month or so. but in july and august the waterfront bustles as soviet cargo ships ply the arctic ocean with goods bound for japan, china and points south
increased ship traffic and the arrival of foreign crews could change this arctic outpost, but dickson's city fathers regard an international port as a distant prospect
such decisions are in the hands of the mainlanders,'' said svetkov, referring to those who live beyond the tundra
for now, dickson's residents appear content to bear with the hardships to keep the sea lanes open and gather data from eight weather research stations drifting in the arctic ocean
it's not so cold here,'' said 20-year-old marina rovenska. ``it's just boring.'' miss rovenska, a clerk at dickson's shopping center, came here with her parents from the ukraine eight years ago
she and a friend, yelena cherevik, said young workers flock to perlovsky's bar several times a week for the best dickson has in social life
perlovsky, a 36-year-old native who returned after a few years as a seaman in odessa on the black sea, where it's warm, is a respected businessman among dickson's youth, who are paid double salaries for working under hardship. perlovsky bought a german-made video deck last year for a 10,000 rubles ($16,000) _ two years' his salary as a state bartender _ from a friend of a friend of a diplomat. his tapes, recorded from finnish television or soviet film libraries, have been collected through a farflung network of friends and connections. his library of about 100 titles cost him about 100 rubles ($160) each 
while perlovsky is a state bartender, he is a private video operator at the ``coupole,'' a wood-paneled anteroom of cafeteria no. 1. he operates in part ``na levo'' (literally, on the left), a russian expression for doing things outside the law. but his video bar exemplifies the freer hand soviets have in remote communities to bend the rules to make their system work
for 1.50 rubles ($2.50), or three times the price of a movie ticket elsewhere in the soviet union, a dickson resident can settle down at perlovsky's bar and watch a soviet film classic or western rock video _ once everyone has agreed on the night's selection. liquor appears to be in greater supply here than in most areas of the soviet union, again illustrating a concession from moscow, where gorbachev's tough anti-drinking crusade has made alcohol both expensive and hard to find
some guys come in here and drink themselves into such a state that they have to be helped home,'' said perlovsky, who as a former national rowing champion is equal to the task of bouncer. ``but i wouldn't say we have an acute problem with drunkenness, at least not like in central russia where guys will drink up their last kopek. most people just want a place where they can gather.''
older residents cite its advantages over other areas of the country. crime rates are low, they say, because thieves can't flee the city and stolen goods are hard to hide in housing that is mostly communal
the north is like a sifter,'' observed gennady ilchenko, the director of the weather station who has lived in dickson for 37 years. ``those who are weak or lazy or untalented fall out quickly.''
schoolteacher larissa duvinets, a 28-year resident, says children are taught in the city's two schools to value the northern lifestyle and plan for futures in their parents' footsteps
but city officials concede that at least 20 percent of dickson's population turns over each year
i don't think i'll stay here after school days,'' said 13-year-old sergei lutsenko as he led visitors on a tour of the city's three-room museum. ``i feel it's cut off from the outside world.''
he and his friends said they long for big-city life with subways and buses _ and the simple pleasures of summer, like swimming and going barefoot
the texas hill country seemed an odd backdrop to talk with a man who ruled louisiana much like a king when he wasn't rolling dice in monte carlo and las vegas, flirting with beautiful women or fighting off racketeering charges
but gov. edwin edwards is preparing to leave office monday, and his texas ranch has been a hideaway used more frequently by the governor who became the most propular official in the bayou state since huey long _ until he was undone by the collapse of oil and questions about his honesty that wouldn't go away
in a recent interview at the ranch overlooking the greenish waters of the south llano river, edwards spoke softly about his political career and about leaving it all behind
the 1,400-acre ranch is dotted with scrub oaks stunted by the scant rainfall, a far cry from edwards' louisiana estate, with its massive moss-covered oaks and enough green grass in the yard to more than feed the 60 head of cattle barely surviving on what they can find here
still, the texas spread is far from the swirl of politics and controversy that has been his life
edwards' brother once said, ``he's an introvert trying to be an extrovert.''
that's accurate,'' said edwards, gently rocking and fiddling with the bottom button of a down jacket. ``it's almost ludicrous to say that but i've done a good job in overcoming it. i have a basic tendency to get away. that's why i have this ranch.''
the ranch is not so much a place to relax for edwards, who at 60, still doesn't know how to take it easy
if he's not hunting, he's on that tractor or using a bushhog,'' an aide told a reporter
the reporter recalled a comment years ago by edwards' brother-in-law: ``he's not relaxed like a normal frenchman.''
maybe that's because he's ambitious,'' said edwards' mother-in-law
edwards sprouted from impoverished south louisiana, the son of a sharecropper. education was the only escape route
at 21 he had finished law school, and six years later, in 1954, he was elected to the crowley city council. from there he was elected to the state senate, to congress and finally to the governor's office in 1972 and again in 1976
he never lost an election
he was adored by the people because he brought ``les bons temps'' _ good times _ by prodding the legislature to tax oil at a percentage of value in 1973 just before prices soared. government was on easy street and the economy was beautiful
people were tolerant, even proud, of his candor when edwards commented that ``gambling turns me on.'' they smiled when he flirted openly with women
he left office after serving two consecutive terms, the most allowed by law, but returned in 1984 for an unprecedented third term, overwhelming one-term republican dave treen
edwards was so powerful that while the republican served, the populist cajun opened an unofficial governor's office and began collecting $13 million for a campaign that kept treen looking over his shoulder
edwards won with nearly 63 percent of the vote despite unfavorable publicity during his first two terms:
_ he had acknowledged receiving $20,000 from a south korean whose dealings with congressmen and others led to the ``koreagate'' investigations
_ he had shrugged off a book written by a former aide who accused edwards of selling state jobs and conquering legions of women
_ he was investigated by the internal revenue service after all of the publicity about his gambling
_ he was investigated during the fbi ``brilab'' probe that led to the conviction of a top aide
edwards survived it all
but in these last four years, the king was felled by the collapse of oil prices, which devastated the state's economy, and continued attacks on his honesty
louisiana has one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation and the government is nearly bankrupt
his answer to economic woes this term was a lottery and casino gambling, something lawmakers would not buy. edwards lost control of the legislature partly because of his two federal racketeering trials
he went on trial in 1985, accused of brokering hospital permits obtained while in and out of office. the jury was hung with all but two voting for acquittal
in 1986, a second jury acquitted edwards and all other co-defendants, including his brother, marion, and several friends and aides
i was shunned by the legislature during and between trials,'' edwards said, planting his boots on the ground to stop the rocking chair. ``they saw how u.s. attorney john volz used the federal grand juries. they were scared. `if they can do that to you, i don't want to be close to you.' there was an aura of fear in louisiana. if volz and the other republicans could do that to me, what could they do to legislators? that was the feeling.''
the polls showed that the people went along with the lottery idea and feeling the masses were still behind him, edwards tried last year for a fourth term
as a 44-year-old congressman, he had first swept into the governor's office on a reform platform. at age 60, he was beaten by buddy roemer, a 44-year-old congressman who used a reform platform, complaining that edwards had given louisiana a banana republic image
there's always been a mania to knock the man from the top of the mountain,'' said edwards. ``but it took them a lot of years. it's been a costly journey to the top
in the last four years, it's been even worse. my family has suffered. my net worth has gone down considerably. i've paid an awesome price, onslaughts on my integrity from unfair investigations, indictments. but i think i've faced it realistically and altruistically.''
in a 1979 interview, edwards was reminded that he said that what he would like more than anything else ``is to convince people i'm honest.''
i guess that is more what i would like to do now than ever, but it seems like it is something that is going to escape me,'' he said
but i remind the people that despite all of the money spent, all of the efforts made by people over the years, they've yet to prove anything.''
what's going to happen now? can edwards relax?
for about four days,'' he said, grinning. ``i guess the phones will continue ringing, people will still come to see me. i feel nothing is going to happen with a new administration. if that's true, i will be sought out. if not, i'll try to accept that.''
in the meantime, edwards will practice law with one of his sons and offer himself to the nation's universities as a lecturer for $5,000 per appearance. he'll talk about legalized gambling and his career
he'll also hunt, gamble and, yes, flirt
i don't believe i've mellowed with age,'' he said
spring has come to central alabama: the redbuds are blooming, the fire ants are pushing up fresh mounds of earth and jesse jackson is the people's choice in dallas county, where the infamous ``bloody sunday'' attack at the edmund pettus bridge shocked the nation 23 years ago
jackson overwhelmed the presidential primary field here tuesday, 23 years and one day after alabama state troopers savagely beat black voting rights advocates attempting to march from selma to montgomery. the episode, shown on national television, helped galvanize congress to pass the federal voting rights act later that year
on tuesday, jackson carried alabama by a narrow margin. but he held better than a 5-to-1 edge over his nearest democratic challenger in dallas county, where blacks constitute 55 percent of the 50,000 residents
the official county tally showed jackson with 4,872 votes to 923 for the runner-up, sen. albert gore of tennessee. vice president george bush easily won the republican race with 1,282 votes
selma mayor joe smitherman, who was serving his first term when bloody sunday took place, said he thinks a lot of white democrats didn't vote but would have gone for bush if they'd been able to cross over. however, he acknowledges that blacks gave jackson an undeniably smashing victory in selma and dallas county
the black community really turned out for jesse. he was here a week before the election, and i accompanied him as he walked through a poor, black section of town,'' said smitherman, who admits he was a segregationist back when it was fashionable
you had to be a segregationist to be elected in the south when i was starting out,'' said the 58-year-old mayor. ``but we've matured, i've matured. we were wrong to try and deny people their right to vote, and i'm sorry for what we did.''
given the changes that have occurred in selma, smitherman said, it's really no surprise jackson did so well
however, the man who led the bloody sunday march, rep. john lewis, d-ga., professed amazement that a black could score such a victory in dallas county
to me it is simply unbelievable,'' said lewis, when contacted at his washington, d.c., office. ``when hosea williams and i led that march back in 1965, only 2.1 percent of dallas county's black residents were registered to vote.''
since then, smitherman points out, a lot of the alabama river has flowed beneath the edmund pettus bridge
when i was first elected mayor in 1964 only 50 percent of our streets were paved and less than half of our homes were connected to the sewage system. but after 1965 we started taking advantage of the federal programs and grants that existed at the time. now, every street is paved and the sewage system is all over town
also, we now have an appointed black county school superintendent who makes more damned money than i do. half of the city council is black and the assistant police chief is black. blacks probably have made more progress in selma than in any other white-controlled city in the alabama.''
the rev. joseph rembert, pastor of brown's chapel where the bloody sunday march began, acknowledges there have been changes in selma. but he adds that whites still hold most of the power and that many of the changes have come about as the result of federal court actions initiated by blacks
attitudes are slowly changing in selma,'' he said. ``but, like most places, we've still got a long way to go. what we really need here, desperately, is jobs; our county unemployment rate runs about 16 percent and it's probably as high as 25 percent for blacks.''
rembert adds, though, that he would rather be one of selma's 27,000 residents than live in a big, northern city like new york
we don't have a utopia here but at least when we stage a protest these days nobody gets hurt. blacks and whites may fight to the bone over an issue but when it's over they also may go off and have lunch together, and that's a big change from the past.''
edwin moss, one of the city's three black city councilmen, said he has seen many changes during the 73 years he has lived in selma
we've made some big political strides in this county, and we've made social progress, too,'' said moss, who founded and manages a federal credit union with a largely black membership
now,'' he added, ``we need economic progress. we need jobs. we need financing for black-owned businesses.''
smitherman, in the midst of his sixth four-year term, agrees selma needs more jobs, but he's obviously proud of his city, with its wide main street and gracious neighborhoods. he points out he couldn't be mayor without the support of both blacks and whites and is quick to show visitors his accomplishments in integrating government and improving the local standard of living
that's why i, personally, like jesse jackson's message,'' he said. ``he's talking about the same things i deal with as mayor. he's talking about jobs, about the problems of working people, about the homeless and the poor.''
you know,'' he said, ``jesse reminds me a lot of george wallace, 20 years ago. they're both populists.''
yet, he said, neither he nor most other local whites voted for jackson last tuesday
it's funny, but you'll hear a group of whites talking politics and somebody will say, `jesse makes more sense than any of them.' then he'll up and add that he's voting for bush or gore. a black's just not going to get many white votes around here, not yet at least,'' smitherman said. ``i don't know why i didn't vote for jesse, maybe it's because i don't think he can win.''
at present, there is only one elected black county official in dallas county, which is under a federal court mandate to create four voting districts _ two predominantly white and two predominantly black _ by the fall election
that one black official is district judge nathaniel walker, who left selma and got his law degree at fordham university, then returned home. walker, the first black to hold countywide office here, said he is heartened by the changes he has seen in his hometown
i was among the marchers who were attacked on bloody sunday,'' he said. ``back then, the courthouse was off limits for blacks, it was a place to be feared
but jesse's victory is an example of what we were fighting for. last tuesday's election shows that the people recognize just how dear is their right to vote and that they're determined to exercise their franchise.''
john lewis, who was hospitalized for two days with injuries he received on bloody sunday, said much the same thing
that's what the civil rights movement was all about,'' lewis said. ``we were trying to build a bi-racial democracy in alabama and throughout the south. jesse jackson's overwhelming victory in a place like selma proves this is possible.''
strat douthat is the ap southeast regional reporter, based in atlanta
canadian liquor giant seagram co. ltd. has proposed buying orange juice producer tropicana products inc. for $1.2 billion to expand seagram's share of the beverage market
the canadian liquor-and-beverage giant's acquisition of tropicana from beatrice u.s. food corp. marks a ``diversification and an expansion'' of seagram's product line, seagram chairman edgar m. bronfman said thursday
securities analysts said the move into the juice business was a logical step for seagram, which has limited growth potential from its liquor products
investor marvin davis has made an unsolicited $780.3 million offer for loss-plagued lorimar telepictures corp
lorimar, based in this los angeles suburb, said thursday that davis made the $17-a-share cash offer in a letter asking that takeover negotiations be arranged between him and lorimar's management
the announcement came just three days after lorimar disclosed it was holding preliminary talks on the possibility of being acquired by new york-based entertainment giant warner communications inc
farmers group inc., a leading insurer, says its board unanimously has rejected an unsolicited $63 per share, or $4.4 billion, tender offer from the u.s. subsidiary of britain's bat industries plc
farmers also said thursday it was urging shareholders to reject the offer
farmers consistently has spurned bat's overtures since the british company proposed a friendly $60-per-share merger in january
batus had no comment on the rejection by farmers
colt industries inc., a large defense contractor, has accepted a $526.6 million cash buyout offer from a group led by senior management and a unit of morgan stanley group inc
the $17-a-share bid for all of colt's nearly 31 million common shares outstanding was approved by the company's board of directors and is expected to begin within the next five days, a spokesman said thursday
an investment partnership which previously indicated it would top a $940 million buyout bid for afg industries inc. has decided against making an offer for the glassmaking concern
forstmann little &amp; co. said thursday it decided against making an offer based on its review of afg's internal records and its own ``adherence to strict acquisition criteria.'' it declined to elaborate
a group led by afg's founder and chairman, r.d. hubbard, said from afg's headquarters in irvine, calif., that it intended to proceed with its earlier offer to take afg private in buyout valued at $33 a share
investor burt sugarman says two companies he controls had boosted their stake in media general inc. to 10 percent from 9.8 percent and would seek a shareholder vote on his $1.75 billion takeover offer
however, virginia-based media general disputed sugarman's contentions thursday on how the company's two classifications of stock would be allowed to vote on a merger
world oil-producing nations, aware that they cannot afford another 1986-style market collapse, probably will succeed in bringing an end to the recent erosion of prices _ at least temporarily, analysts say
after three months of declines, hopes of a turnaround stirred with a report from paris that officials of the organization of petroleum exporting countries were studying a plan to shave 5 percent off the production of all 13 members except iraq
analysts said the report sent oil futures broadly higher thursday on the new york mercantile exchange, even though it later was denied by opec officials
more than 2.4 million jobs are expected to be created in the united states this year, fewer than the 3 million created in 1987 but ``still a very healthy number,'' a business research company says
manufacturers and companies with fewer than 20 employees again will be leaders in creating jobs, according to dun &amp; bradstreet corp
the company on thursday announced the results of its annual survey of employment expectations at 5,000 companies
the union representing 6,700 flight attendants for northwest airlines says the contract the airline plans to impose april 1 is unacceptable and warned travelers about the possibility of a strike during spring break
but dennis quinn, the teamsters' national strike coordinator, stopped short thursday of saying flight attendants actually would strike
this is a continuation of the threat the union has made since a feb. 26 strike deadline passed, he said. since then, the attendants have been free to strike but have not done so, and the airline had been free to impose its latest contract offer
meanwhile, union members at a rally in philadelphia accused eastern airline's parent company of trying to financially cripple the air carrier to win wage concessions
the united auto workers union has agreed to early contract negotiations with chrysler corp. and the two sides soon will set a date for the start of talks, uaw president owen bieber said
bieber said thursday the talks could begin by mid-april
the union's main reason for granting chrysler's request for early talks is that the contract expiring sept. 14 doesn't contain protections negotiated last year at ford motor co., bieber said
case ih, a worldwide maker of agriculture and construction equipment, says it will reduce employment this year by 3,000 workers, or approximately 10 percent
the company, a subsidiary of houston-based tenneco inc., said thursday the reductions would occur through layoffs of hourly and salaried workers, retirements, attrition, termination of temporary employees and a hiring freeze
the stock market fell sharply thursday, as the dow jones average of 30 industrials tumbled 48.24 to 2,026.03
bond prices fell as energy and precious metals prices rose
the dollar was mixed in foreign exchange trading
grain and soybean prices retreated and livestock and meat futures were mixed
united auto workers president owen bieber says he is optimistic that early contract negotiations with chrysler corp. will produce an early settlement and soothe chrysler's bruised labor relations
the uaw's 140-member national chrysler bargaining council, representing 71,700 chrysler workers, voted thursday to grant chrysler's request for early talks
if i was overly pessimistic, i doubt that we would have called the meeting today or taken the action that we did,'' said bieber, who along with uaw vice president marc stepp had urged the council approve the request
no date has been set for the talks aimed at replacing the existing three-year contract that expires sept. 14, but they could begin as soon as late april. talks usually begin in midsummer
there will be no strike deadline, but the two sides will set a target date for a settlement when they decide a starting date for the talks
the company is hopeful that a new contract that is equitable to both sides can be reached expeditiously,'' said chrysler spokesman lloyd northard
bieber said the union will seek a two-year contract so that in 1990, all big three automakers' contracts can be negotiated together for the first time since the union reopened its chrysler contract in 1979 to make concessions needed by the company
last fall, the union negotiated a job-protecting industry pattern contract at ford motor co. the contract quickly was accepted at gm, leaving only chrysler workers without its protections this year
the union would not have agreed to early talks if chrysler had not indicated it was willing to accept the pattern as a basis for negotiations, giving chrysler workers
the relationship between the uaw and chrysler has been badly injured in the past few months by chrysler's abortive attempt to sell its 28,000-worker acustar inc. parts subsidiary
to block the plan, which the union said was a threat to companywide job security, angry workers prepared for a series of crippling plant-by-plant strikes and stopped participating in critical union-manangement programs for improving productivity and quality
last week, chrysler backed down and stepp moved quickly to settle a dispute at a key stamping plant in sterling heights, where the first strike was to occur. weekend talks brought a settlement early monday morning
but stepp didn't tell workers to renew participation the joint programs until the thursday meeting, after he received a written promise that top chrysler executives will resume monthly meetings with top union officials
in the past two years the chrysler-uaw ``round table,'' where union and company officials had consulted on major decisions since its creation in 1979, met only once, stepp said
stepp said the lack of round table meetings indicated chrysler had changed its attitude toward its workers for the worse
with the agreement of chrysler chief negotiator anthony st. john to resume the meetings, stepp said he believes workers' anger will ease
the two sides still must work out an acustar-related sore point. chrysler said it will close four acustar plants if it can't sell them within 18 months. the uaw wants to protect the plants' 2,000 workers
during the week of march 20, national union officials and the elected 10-member rank-and-file chrysler negotiating team will draw up their demands and strategies for fitting established auto industry contracts to chrysler
the gm and ford contracts prohibit plant closings unless production is cut because of slow sales, make the transfer of work to outside suppliers more difficult and slow the rate of attrition
they also contain a profit-sharing formula based on the companies' u.s. performance. at ford, workers reaped average profit-sharing checks of more than $3,700 apiece from ford's record $4.6 billion profit
chrysler workers have no profit-sharing formula and instead receive a $500 bonus annually regardless of their company's performance
interest rates on 52-week treasury bills have risen in the latest auction to the highest level since january
the treasury department sold $9.03 billion of the bills thursday at an average discount rate of 6.3 percent, up from 6.18 percent at the last auction on feb. 11
the rates were the highest since jan. 14 when the one-year bills sold for 6.67 percent. the new discount rate understates the actual return to investors _ 6.71 percent with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,363.00
companies making computer hardware and communications equipment may be growing rapidly, but a private survey released today finds many have been less profitable than the general run of american companies during recent years
intense competition from japan and other foreign rivals is one reason for the profit squeeze on those companies, according to harvey poppel, a partner in broadview associates of fort lee, n.j., the investment banking firm that conducted the survey
a broadview survey of 269 u.s.-based hardware and equipment companies found they had a median return on equity of 6.5 percent in 1987, with a large number of poorly performing small companies dragging down the results
poppel said the median return on equity for major american companies is typically about 11 or 12 percent
return on equity is a widely used measure of a company's performance. it is the company's profit as a percentage of its shareholders' equity, or net worth
when the survey results were adjusted to give the heaviest weight to the companies with the biggest stock market values, such as highly profitable international business machines corp., the average return on equity was 10.7 percent, roughly in line with the average for american business
broadview associates specializes in mergers and acquisitions in the computer software and services industry. poppel said a survey of nearly 200 of those companies found their return on equity was above average _ about 18.6 percent last year
poppel cited several reasons for the difficulties of the computer hardware and communications equipment companies:
_japan and other aggressive competitors are willing to accept lower profit margins to gain shares of the world market
_many nations protect their home markets and domestic companies, especially in the case of western europe with telecommunications equipment
_products have short life cycles, giving companies only a short time to recoup their heavy investments
_it is easy for new companies to enter the market, especially at the low end, because the basic components such as computer chips are readily available
in contrast, poppel said the information services companies have higher return on equity because their offerings cannot easily be rendered obsolete with new technology and are protected by high barriers to entry of new competitors
prices of products such as software and database services can be kept relatively high and companies have fewer expensive assets such as factories, poppel noted
it was a marketing phenomenon that turned into the focus of an international battle with multibillion-dollar implications
within a year of introducing its $4,500 pony subcompact to north america in 1984, hyundai corp. of south korea captured 7 percent of the canadian market. it then invaded the united states and sold 168,182 of its excels in just 10 months
but were the koreans exploiting a market void or unfairly dumping the autos at below-cost prices in order to grab a share of the lucrative market?
the canadian import tribunal is considering evidence from four weeks of hearings that concluded thursday over claims by domestic automakers such as general motors corp. and ford motor co. of unfair pricing by hyundai. hyundai could be slapped with a 26 percent duty if found to be dumping cars
the case has worldwide implications as america's car giants compete against asian rivals who've grabbed more than 25 percent of their auto market
a ruling is expected march 23 and both sides have the right to appeal
in anti-dumping hearings held in ottawa, gm and ford subsidiaries in canada accused hyundai of purposely setting below-cost prices to grab a niche in the competitive small-car market
the carmakers asked the canadian import tribunal to uphold revenue canada's preliminary finding last november that hyundai has been dumping pony, excel and stellar hatchbacks and sedans in canada at an average 26 percent cheaper than they cost in south korea
a 26-percent duty would add more than $1,000 to the price of hyundais in 182 showrooms across canada and could lead to similar cases against other foreign makes
gm and ford told the tribunal they were forced to slash prices and offer cash rebates in order to compete with hyundai's bargain-basement approach
future injury is going to take the form of reduced production, reduced employment and reduced utilization of productive capacity,'' penny bonner, legal counsel for the two companies, testified thursday
hyundai acknowledged using canada as a spearhead to penetrate the american market, but argued that it never hurt gm or ford because the rear-wheel-drive pony had no direct competition at the bottom end of the market
the pony was swept along because in a real sense there was no competition,'' said hyundai lawyer richard gottlieb. he termed the success of the ``nice little car'' a fluke, coming right at the end of a recession when american carmakers virtually had given up on the sub-compact market
in surprising testimony on thursday, lawyers for the canadian government's consumer affairs department supported hyundai. they said the korean company answered a need ignored by north american manufacturers, thereby helping consumers
hyundai zoomed to a 21 percent share of the small-car market in canada in 1985 with sales of 79,072 ponies and stellars
but since the preliminary anti-dumping ruling, the canadian subsidiary has been in a tailspin and some dealers have resigned, according to company spokesman greg young
it destroyed us in the marketplace in terms of public perception and confidence in the product,'' young said
while still the third-ranked import behind honda and toyota, hyundai expects to sell just 45,000 cars this year, led by the excel, which starts at $5,835
people may say, `i like the honda civic but before making up my mind i'm going to take a look at the excel.' but the honda salesman just says, `why bother?' because of the possible duties,'' young said
but he said the bad publicity has not reached the united states, and american hyundai sales are still climbing after reaching 263,610 cars last year
to save the day in canada, hyundai has launched a ``here to stay and proud of it'' tv and newspaper advertising campaign
it pledged to proceed with a $259 million manufacturing plant in bromont, quebec, and $16 million parts factory in newmarket, ontario. scheduled to open later this year, the plants will create 1,300 jobs and give hyundai the capacity to make 100,000 new-model compacts a year
the plants will expand a canadian car industry that grew out of the milestone 1965 auto pact with the united states which permits vehicles and parts to move duty-free across the border. dominated by gm, ford and chrysler subsidiaries, the canadian car and truck plants employ 140,000 workers with another 400,000 related jobs
young said hyundai will remain in business here, but may be forced to reassess operations if anti-dumping duties are imposed
it may be step one against all import car companies, against all competition,'' he said
investor marvin davis is seeking to get back into the entertainment business by making an unsolicited $770.1 million offer for troubled lorimar telepictures corp. and has indicated he may be willing to go even higher
davis' $17-per-share cash buyout offer was disclosed thursday, only three days after lorimar announced it was holding preliminary talks about a possible acquisition by new york-based entertainment conglomerate warner communications inc
a source close to the situation indicated davis, the former owner of 20th century fox film corp., was ``very serious'' about acquiring lorimar, the culver city-based entertainment concern best known as the producer of such television programs as `dallas'' and ``knots landing.''
lorimar appeared to give short shrift to the proposal, stating that it ``would bear davis' letter in mind.''
lorimar stock rose $1 to close at $15.37{ on the american stock exchange after the announcement of davis' offer. the company has 45.3 million common shares outstanding
davis made his offer in a letter to lorimar management
on monday, lorimar and warner announced they had entered preliminary merger talks over the weekend
analysts have suggested lorimar's stock is worth between $14 and $20 per share
lorimar is a leading producer of original television programming, but in recent years has been troubled as its ambitious plans to expand into other areas disintegrated, sometimes causing the company to incur losses or heavy costs that depressed earnings
for the first nine months of its current fiscal year, lorimar posted a loss of $82.6 million on revenue of $616.8 million. the deficit included $45 million in writedowns on five movies and $22 million in reserves for possible future losses in its home-video unit
the company replaced managements of both the movie and home-video units
for the fiscal year ended last march 31, the company lost $58.6 million, mostly because of restructuring costs, on revenue of $766.2 million
davis has been seeking to get back into the entertainment industry since selling fox to media magnate rupert murdoch in 1985 for $575 million. davis had owned fox for four years, but the company was beset by persistent losses
last year, he made an unsuccessful $321.9 million bid for the 90.6 percent he didn't already own of texas-based spectradyne inc., the nation's largest supplier of cable television and pay-per-view movies for hotels
on wednesday, four disgruntled shareholders filed a class action lawsuit against lorimar in federal court alleging the company overstated its income and net worth and did not reveal problems with its home-video unit, thereby causing investors to pay more for stock then they believed they should have
afg industries inc. is left with a single suitor following an investment partnership's decision not to top the $940 million buyout bid the glassmaker already has accepted from its chairman
forstmann little &amp; co., which previously indicated it might be willing to make a higher offer, said thursday it decided against making an offer based on its review of afg's internal records and its ``adherence to strict acquisition criteria.''
a company led by afg's founder and chairman, r.d. hubbard, stated from afg headquarters in irvine, calif., that it intended to proceed with its earlier offer to take afg private in buyout valued at $33 a share
afg's stock finished down $5 a share at $31.62{ in trading on the new york stock exchange
larry selwitz, a securities analyst for the investment firm bateman eichler, hill richards in los angeles, said the odds favored hubbard's bid for the company. ``i would be really hard-pressed to see who might come into it now,'' he said
another analyst, donald pattison of cyrus j. lawrence, morgan grenfell in new york, said forstmann probably decided against proceeding because of the strong possibility that hubbard would leave the company. ``he'd go off with his own company and probably eat their lunch,'' pattison said
forstmann little announced march 2 that it proposed paying more than $33 a share in cash for all of afg's common stock, subject to a review of afg's internal corporate information and meeting with afg management
on thursday, forstmann little said it had completed the review, that afg had promptly furnished requested confidential information and that afg management had cooperated fully in the review
based on this review and forstmann little's adherence to strict acquisition criteria, it has determined that it will not make an offer to acquire afg,'' the new york-based leveraged buyout specialist said
the firm declined to elaborate
afg announced feb. 25 that it had agreed to a buyout by a new company headed by hubbard that would pay $33 a share in cash for 94 percent of afg's common stock and $33 per share in preferred stock or a combination of cash and stock for the rest of the shares
afg has 28.5 million common shares outstanding
afg is one of the leading manufacturers of window glass and has a range of specialty glass products
hubbard's offer is being made by hubbard's clarity industries corp., which is offering to buy up to 26.8 million afg common shares
meantime, clarity said two afg shareholders had filed class-action complaints in delaware seeking to block its tender offer
clarity said the shareholders alleged the agreement between clarity and afg to take the company private constitutes self-dealing, deception and unfair dealing and breaches the fiduciary duties owed afg shareholders. takeover bid</head>
an impending battle for media general inc. is heating up, with television producer burt sugarman boosting his stake in the company and signaling a fight to force a shareholder vote on his $1.75 billion buyout bid
sugarman said thursday that two companies he controls boosted their stake in media general, the virginia-based broadcasting and publishing corporation to 10 percent from 9.8 percent
sugarman also repeated his contention that media general's board of directors was legally bound to put his buyout plan to a shareholder vote
however, media general disputed sugarman's contentions on how the company's two classifications of stock would be allowed to vote on a merger
media general has 28 million shares of class a common stock entitled to one vote each and 559,168 class b shares that have disproportionate voting rights and elect seven of the company's 10 directors
the family of media general's chairman, d. tennant bryan, owns 71 percent of the company's class b stock
shortly after sugarman made his $61.50-per-share takeover offer late last month, the bryan family said it wasn't interested in selling the company
in a letter sent thursday to media general's president and chief executive officer, james s. evans, sugarman contended that under media general's charter all shareholders should have equal voting rights in deciding on a proposed acquisition of the company by someone holding at least 10 percent of its stock
in all other cases, the class b stock would retain its special voting rights, sugarman contended
sugarman reiterated that if media general directors failed to put the proposed merger before shareholders, they ``will be breaching their fiduciary duty.''
media general disputed sugarman's claims, saying ``company counsel found sugarman's legal reasoning incorrect.''
media general said that under its charter any merger would require the vote of two-thirds of each class of stock. in addition to the charter requirement, the company said, virginia law requires that a merger be approved by more than two-thirds of the class b stock
media general owns a number of daily papers, including the richmond (va.) times-dispatch and news leader, the winston-salem (n.c.) journal and the tampa (fla.) tribune, plus 32 weeklie in southern california and a 40 percent interest in garden state newspapers inc., which owns 18 dailies and four weeklies in eight states. it also owns television stations, including wcbd-tv in charleston, s.c., wjks-tv in jacksonville, fla., and wxfl-tv in tampa, fla
sugarman is making his takeover bid through two companies he controls _ barris industries inc., the creator of tv programs such as ``the dating game,'' ``the newlywed game'' and ``the gong show,'' and giant group ltd., the parent of keystone cement co. and giant cement co. with units in pennsylvania and south carolina
take one liquor company, add one orange juice company, and the resulting mix could be a satisfying corporate cocktail _ at least that's how some industry experts characterized seagram co. ltd.'s plans to buy tropicana products inc
the $1.2 billion deal announced thursday will expand seagram's share of the beverage market and could result in a wider line of tropicana products, said robert s. reitzes, who follows seagram for the investment firm mabon, nugent &amp; co. in new york
it's a good fit,'' reitzes said ``it makes sense in their business.''
the canadian liquor-and-beverage giant's acquisition of tropicana from beatrice u.s. food corp. marks a diversification and expansion of seagram's product lines, seagram chairman edgar m. bronfman stated in announcing the deal
we have already broadened our base with seagram's (wine) coolers, and tropicana is another step in this direction,'' bronfman said
analysts said the move into the juice business was a logical step for seagram, which faced limited growth potential from its liquor business
they understand the business, and it's growing unlike most of their liquor products,'' said ian osler, an analyst with prudential-bache securities inc. in toronto
seagram will finance the acquisition _ to be made through the company's u.s. subsidiary, joseph e. seagram &amp; sons inc. _ initially with a combination of bank loans and short-term borrowings, seagram said
montreal-based seagram, best known for its distilled spirits and wines, in recent years moved into production of wine coolers and the sale of mixers such as tonic and ginger ale under the seagram name
seagram also is in the process of acquiring french cognac producer martell &amp; co. in a deal valued at $930 million. it also owns a 23 percent stake in du pont co
tropicana, headquartered in bradenton, fla., is a leading manufacturer and distributor of ready-to-serve orange juice and frozen concentrate. it had sales of about $750 million in its last fiscal year, which ended feb. 29, said marcelline thomson, a seagram spokeswoman in new york
seagram had net income of nearly $423.5 billion on sales of $3.3 billion in the fiscal year ended jan. 31, 1987. it reported a profit of more than $402.4 million on sales of $2.6 billion for the nine months ended oct. 31
chicago-based beatrice u.s. food corp. is a division of closely-held beatrice co., which put itself up for sale last september. the company also is considering the sale of its hunt-wesson operations, which produce vegetable oils, ketchup and la choy brand chinese food
beatrice co.'s predecessor, beatrice cos., was taken private in 1986 in a $6.2 billion leveraged buyout led by kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. since then it has sold most of its major assets, including avis car rental, international playtex inc. and its international foods business
a number of beatrice's consumer products businesses were spun off as e-ii holdings inc., which last month agreed to be acquired by american brands inc. after making a brief takeover move against the company
beatrice chairman donald kelly, who also is chairman of e-ii, had hoped to sell beatrice whole but could not find a buyer at his asking price, reportedly $4.5 billion
the credo of banana republic's new travel magazine is simple _ people shouldn't travel halfway around the world only to find the same hamburger joints they've got back home
we are on the brink of becoming mcglobe,'' warns mel ziegler, president of the san francisco-based clothier and editor-in-chief of trips, a quarterly launched nationwide this week
ziegler says 300,000 customers already have expressed interest in $10-a-year subscriptions to the magazine, which promises to ``lead you down the back alleys of cairo, onto forbidden islands or through your own hometown, in search of stories that will transcend the distinctions between traveler and fantasist...''
we wanted to publish the world's first honest travel magazine,'' he said in a recent interview. ``if you read most travel magazines, you get the idea travel is painless, nothing ever goes wrong. we all know nobody ever takes a trip like that.''
trips, which takes an iconoclastic approach to globe-trotting, is aimed at the same affluent urbanites who made such a success of the 10-year-old adventure-wear company, which was sold to the gap clothing chain for an undisclosed sum in 1983
it also attempts to latch onto a recent boom in travel magazines that has seen a handful of new publications in recent months
the inaugural issue is a trek into the offbeat and bizarre
articles include a journey through the apartheid world of south africa, bicycling with the 400-pound king of tonga in the south pacific and sneaking onto a secret hawaiian island
an interview with rod nordland, a correspondent-at-large for newsweek magazine, is billed as ``a palm-greasing primer'' on the art of baksheesh, the arabic word for petty bribery
but the advice doesn't just center on money: the article advises that a pack of cigarettes may convince a taxi driver in angola to get you to the airport and a bottle of liquor or contact points for a '57 chevy can get you just about anything in burma
also included is a section where world-weary travelers pass on tips to surviving off the beaten path
these include suggestions to carry a golf ball in your luggage, because many of the world's hotels don't have drain plugs, and to carry a roll of toilet paper not only for obvious uses but also for insulating boots, wrapping wounds, and serving as barter
trips is entering a rapidly expanding market. in 1986, the most recent year for which figures are available, americans spent $257 billion on domestic travel and $24.5 billion overseas, according to the new york times
as a result, travel magazines are enjoying a renaissance. the newhouse media conglomerate in september began publishing conde nast's traveler which, like trips, promises not to whitewash getaway spots. fairchild publications' travel today, a weekly tabloid, hit newsstands in january
ziegler says many americans he meets traveling these days are not on ``tour packages seeing foreign ports from a bubble, nor are they backpackers...
these are working people who have saved some money who like to enjoy cultures fully by immersing themselves in it.'' `unacceptable'</head>
the union representing 6,700 northwest airlines flight attendants is warning travelers about the possibility of a strike during the busy spring break
as the travel increases over spring break and easter, it is to our advantage to keep ready for a strike,'' dennis quinn, the teamsters' national strike coordinator, told a news conference thursday
however, he added, ``we have not set a firm strike deadline at this time.''
quinn's comments came as the union termed unacceptable the contract which northwest plans to impose april 1
the minneapolis airline has been free to impose the contract since a feb. 26 strike deadline passed and the union has been free to strike
terry erskine, northwest's vice president of law and labor relations, said he would not rule out making changes in the contract before april 1 if the union comes forward with suggestions
but quinn said, ``northwest intends to force a strike. it is moving into a situation where there are no other alternatives but a work stoppage, and that it is a very good reason for you to indicate, yes, we are serious.''
northwest spokesman redmond tyler denounced the teamster announcement as ``rhetoric'' and said spring travelers would encounter no problems even in the event of a strike
continue to plan your travel because we anticipate no disruption in service,'' tyler said. ``we regret any attempt to intimidate ... we are disappointed our employees would take this tactic to confuse their company's customers.''
meanwhile, a taped message on a teamsters hotline for flight attendants criticized the contract and said the company's move did not end the union's right to strike
northwest assumes you will accept this substandard contract. please show them how wrong they are,'' dottie malinsky, president of teamsters local 2747, which represents the minneapolis unit, told attendants on the taped message
this company action will backfire on them. nickel and diming the employees is not going to change the bad management at northwest,'' she said
teamsters have called a strategy meeting monday in washington, d.c., for local union officers and strike captains at northwest. leaders of the unions representing northwest ground workers and pilots are expected to attend that meeting, malinsky said
claudia bushbaum, secretary-treasurer for teamsters local 2747, said the airline's offer to negotiate on the contract was meaningless. northwest is unwilling to bend on the issue of when to elevate lower-paid employees, who are on what the company and union call a b pay scale, to higher pay scales, she said
if the company does not come back to the table and negotiate and move off of their position of the extended b pay scale, there is all likelihood we will strike when the time is right,'' bushbaum said. ``they're willing to sit across the table from you and say they're going to negotiate, but sitting across the table from you and saying `no' is not negotiations. and that is exactly the way northwest negotiates when we talk about the b pay scale.''
under the new contract, northwest says union membership would no longer be a condition of employment. bushbaum, who called that a ``union-busting tactic,'' said teamsters' attorneys were reviewing the legality of this action
erskine said wednesday that if attendants decide to strike now, the airline is prepared to hire permanent replacements. picks up 3rd graf pvs, the subcommittee ... a version moving on general news wires.</note>
labor secretary ann mclaughlin today said a proposal to raise the federal minimum wage to $5.05 an hour over the next four years may sound ``like the right thing to do'' but it actually would cause a loss of jobs
mrs. mclaughlin said the proposed increase, likely to be approved next week by the house education and labor committee, would be particularly hard on young people with no skills who are seeking their first jobs
this is a tough one. $5.05 an hour, i'm afraid would make almost any economist have some jitters,'' mrs. mclaughlin said in an interview on nbc-tv's ``today'' show. ``the body of economic thinking is that the increase in the minimum wage, while well-intentioned and it sounds like the right thing to do, actually will cause a loss of jobs, particularly impacting on young people who need to get into the workforce.''
education and labor committee chairman augustus f. hawkins, d-calif., scheduled a session next wednesday for final action on the minimum wage bill. the panel had been unable on thursday to address all the amendments to a proposal that was approved by the house labor standards subcommittee a week ago
the subcommittee approved an increase from $3.35 to $4.65 an hour over a three-year period, with a 50-cent raise in 1989 and a 40-cent jump in both 1990 and 1991
during the full committee's hearing, rep. carl c. perkins, d-ky., proposed an amendment for an increase of another 40 cents in 1992 in an effort to keep the federal minimum at approximately one half of the nation's average wage
the committee approved the perkins amendment on a vote of 18-14 with only two democrats, reps. austin j. murphy of pennsylvania and timothy j. penny of minnesota, joining republicans in opposing the proposal
murphy, chairman of the labor standards subcommittee, said his panel had fashioned a measure which would be acceptable to the full house and the senate and possibly the white house
we don't know what impact the fourth year will have on the loss of jobs,'' murphy said
rep. stephen j. solarz, d-n.y., however, read from a letter written to hawkins by labor secretary ann mclaughlin who said senior white house advisers would recommend to president reagan that he veto any legislation increasing the minimum wage
it doesn't matter what we do; the executive will be against it,'' he said
rep. dick armey, r-tex., who opposes any increase, proposed an amendment to the perkins measure to raise the base to $20 an hour, but withdrew it after hawkins called it absurd
the committee approved 20-13 an amendment by rep. tommy f. robinson, d-ark., to increase the ``tip credit'' for restaurant employers
current law allows employers of workers who regularly receive tips _ such as waiters and waitresses _ to count the tips as earned wages equivalent to 40 percent of the minimum wage
thus, a restaurant owner could pay a worker $2.01 an hour, with the remaining $1.34 _ 40 percent of today's $3.35-an-hour minimum wage _ supposed to come from tips
the robinson proposal would increase the credit to 50 percent
the senate has a companion bill, sponsored by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the labor and human resources committee, which raises the minimum wage to $4.65 an hour over a three-year period. news wires.</note>
retail sales, boosted by strength in autos, rose 0.6 percent in february, following a january decline, the government reported today
the commerce department said that retail sales rose a seasonally adjusted $714 million to $127.99 billion last month
while the february increase was generally in line with expectations, the government revised the january report to show a small decline of 0.2 percent, instead of an originally reported increase of 0.5 percent
even with the january decline, analysts said the retail sales report generally reflected that the october stock market crash has had little effect on consumer buying plans
ever since the record 508-point drop in stock prices which occurred on oct. 19, economists have been closely watching to see whether the consumer sector would weaken
since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, any significant faltering in this area could topple the country into a recession
continued strong gains in employment growth have apparently calmed initial jitters over the stock market. many economists have recently revised up their growth forecasts for 1988
the february report said that retail sales rose to the highest monthly total since august 1987
much of the strength came from a 1.6 percent rise in auto sales, which followed an even stronger 2 percent increase in new car sales in january
without the gain in autos, which accounted for almost one-fourth of total sales last month, retail sales would have risen a smaller 0.3 percent in february
the important general merchandise category, which includes department store sales, suffered a 1.6 percent decline in sales in february following a small 0.1 percent drop in january sales
sales of all durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, were up 1.6 percent in february while sales of non-durable goods edged down 0.1 percent
in the durable goods category, sales at building materials and hardware stores jumped a sharp 2.3 percent
sales at furniture and appliance stores were up 0.3 percent in february following an even stronger 2.7 percent january increase
sales at specialty clothing stores climbed 0.6 percent in february, only a partial rebound following a giant 3.3 percent january decline
sales at gasoline stations fell 1.6 percent in february while sales at restaurants edged up 0.1 percent and sales at drug stores posted a 0.6 percent increase
sales at grocery stores enjoyed a 0.7 percent rise in sales in february, reversing a 0.6 percent january decline. options and expenses, and total outstanding shares.</note>
colt industries inc., a major defense contractor and industrial concern, has agreed to be taken private in a $660 million leveraged buyout led by senior management and the investment firm morgan stanley group inc
the board of colt, whose name may be best known from its firearms business, approved an offer of $17 a share for all of its approximately 31.65 million common shares outstanding late wednesday and announced the plan on thursday. the price of colt stock options and expenses was included in the total price of the buyout
the offer was subject to several conditions, including a majority of the shares being tendered
colt shares surged $4.87{ to $18.12{ on the new york stock exchange on thursday, indicating some speculators believed an offer higher than the group's $17 a share bid would emerge
under the transaction, colt would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of colt holdings inc., a new company formed by the management team and morgan stanley leveraged equity fund ii, colt stated. about $1.4 billion of colt debt would remain outstanding, it said
the morgan stanley leveraged equity fund ii is a limited partnership that invests in leveraged buyouts, or deals in which a company is acquired largely with borrowed funds repaid through the target company's profits or sale of its assets
colt said morgan stanley and its equity fund unit have agreed to provide $460 million in short-term bridge financing for colt holdings, which would be repaid through a public or private offering of long-term debt
investors in colt holdings would put up another $200 million, colt said
colt chairman david i. margolis said the merger agreement would give colt ``the opportunity to establish and implement a more aggressive business program, including acquisition, than we could have undertaken alone.''
colt is a leading supplier of aerospace, automotive and industrial products. it employs about 22,000 people
kuwait said friday that it has raised its stake in british petroleum co. plc to 21.25 percent, breaching the level bp has said was acceptable
the kuwait investment office, an agency set up for the purpose of bp investments, said it intended to push the stake to 22.5 percent when market conditions permit. the group said it now holds 1.269 billion bp shares
bp chairman sir peter walters said last month that 20 percent was an acceptable holding
bp has declined to comment on the kuwaiti group's latest disclosure
in february the kio declared a 19.53 percent stake, or 1.165 billion shares
analysts say bp and the british government have failed to obtain kuwaiti assurances that it will stop buying the shares
i think bp will be very unhappy about the increased stake,'' said chris grudniewicz, an analyst at smith new court research. ``bp will probably now try to get the british government to lean on the kuwaitis to get some assurance they'll stop buying.''
recent heavy turnover in bp new shares had already raised speculation that the kio was building on its stake in bp
the london stock market remained largely depressed friday following a steep fall on wall street, but oil shares bucked the trend in heavy trading
at 2 p.m. local time, the financial times index of 100 leading shares hit the low for the day of 1814.4 points, down 20.2
the financial times 30-share index was down 23.1 points at 1,449.2. volume was a high 502.5 million shares
after a steep fall in new york, the dow jones industrial average closed off 48.24 points at 2,026.03
oil stocks, however, proved an exception with heavy trading continuing in british petroleum shares. total trading in the company amounted to more than a quarter of total stock exchange volume
the kuwait investment office confirmed friday it raised its stake in the company to 21.25 percent, or 1.269 billion shares. the new stake broke the 20 percent ceiling british petroleum had viewed as an acceptable holding for the kuwait office
manufacturers hanover corp., the nation's sixth-largest bank holding company, says it expects to net at least $807 million this year, and that the number would be much higher if brazil resumes payments on its debt
brazil is negotiating terms of an agreement to restart those payments, which it suspended last year. should that happen, manufacturers hanover's net earnings ``would kick up by another $150 million after tax,'' james hambleton, a senior vice president of the bank, said today
in its annual report released thursday, the bank said it will pick up about $230 million from the sale of ``undervalued assets'' in 1988
operating earnings should total at least $377 million, including $95 million after a restructuring announced earlier this year, according to figures contained in the report
in addition, it said it planned to apply about $200 million of tax benefits to its 1988 balance sheet. the benefits come from $342 million in tax benefits remaining from the $1.7 billion addition to loan-loss reserves last year
the huge loan-loss provision, which was made to cover shaky third world debt, was largely responsible for a $1.14 billion loss in 1987. several other major banks also suffered losses or decreased earnings due to the foreign debt crisis
manufacturers hanover said that as a result of the sale of ``undervalued assets,'' which it did not name, and the tax benefits, it expected to improve shareholders' equity
shareholders' equity is a corporation's net worth after subtracting all liabilities
restoring common shareholders' equity to 4 percent, the ratio prior to the reserving action, is our overriding priority,'' the company said
the stock market gave ground today, extending thursday's sharp decline
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 1.49 to 2,024.54 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by about 6 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 475 up, 590 down and 516 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 26.25 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop, which was the largest in more than two months
stocks got some support, however from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose as much as $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
among actively traded blue chips, general electric gained [ to 43[ and general motors rose \ to 70{, while international business machines slipped [ to 113| and exxon was unchanged at 41|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dipped .01 to 148.91. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .23 at 295.77
on thursday the dow jones industrial average dropped 48.24 points to 2,026.03
declining issues outnumbered advances by nearly 3 to 1 on the nyse, with 413 up, 1,198 down and 371 unchanged. big board volume totaled 197.26 million shares, against 210.90 million in the previous session. dropped word ``likely;'' also running on general news wires</note>
the u.s. geological survey has lowered its estimates of undiscovered onshore oil and gas in the united states by about 40 percent, but industry spokesmen question the data
the american gas association says the government is not counting all the different potential reservoirs, and the american petroleum institute says the new numbers for oil are just another in a long line of underestimates
terry uhl, the gas association's spokesman, calls it ``misinformation and disinformation'' to say onshore undiscovered reserves amount to 254 trillion cubic feet, down from 427 trillion cubic feet
the association uses the estimate of 400 trillion cubic feet from the potential gas committee, an industry panel operated by the colorado school of mines
ozzie girard, the geological survey's deputy assistant director for engineering geology, said thursday he doubted there was much difference between the survey and the gas committee estimates once adjustments for comparability are made
the survey has not counted gas in certain shales, tight sands or reservoirs of less than 5 billion cubic feet, all of which are counted by the committee. hard-to-exploit tight sands formations probably hold 100 trillion cubic feet, girard said
no such adjustments can account for the change in estimates of undiscovered onshore oil
the survey said undiscovered oil likely is between 19.6 billion barrels and 51.9 billion barrels, with the best estimate at 33.4 billion barrels. the range in 1981 was 41.7 billion barrels to 71 billion barrels, with the best estimate at 54.6 billion barrels
in 1981, the survey relied heavily on the judgment of expert geologists. in the last two reports, the survey has been able to use detailed drilling data from the entire country, girard said
charles dibona, president of the petroleum institute, said the nation has produced three times the oil estimated by a presidential commission in 1952 in the category of oil remaining to be discovered
you never know until you drill,'' dibona said
most of the change, girard said, resulted from drilling disappointments. in 1981, there had been major new finds in the overthrust belt east of the rockies, and government geologists thought ``the sky was the limit.'' but drilling failures since then have reduced expectations
also, some pools of oil have moved from the ``undiscovered'' to the ``discovered'' category
also, the price has fallen sharply. the 1981 study used $30 a barrel. the new study assumes a price of $18 a barrel. ``certainly there was some effect'' from the lower price, said girard, but he could not quantify it
this could mean lower estimates for offshore oil, which the minerals management service, sister agency in the interior department to the geological survey, estimated in 1985 at 12.2 billion barrels, down from 27 billion barrels in 1981
tom derocco, spokesman for the service, said new offshore estimates expected next month were made on the assumption that oil costs $18 a barrel. the 1985 estimates assumed $29 a barrel
he declined to say what the new estimates would be, but did say, ``there's no question economics has a lot to do with this.''
a higher price for oil makes pools with more expensive production costs profitable to drill
united technologies corp., which undertook cost-cutting efforts last year, paid its top executive compensation totalling more than $1 million in 1987, a 27.9 percent increase over the previous year
robert f. daniell, chairman, president and chief executive officer, for the hartford-based conglomerate received a salary of $637,500, incentive compensation of $450,000 and $16,393 for professional fees, physical examinations, leased automobiles and leased aircraft, according to a utc proxy statement released thursday
the total compensation amounted to $1,087,500 in 1987, according to the proxy issued in advance of the company's annual meeting april 18 at the hartford civic center
in the past year, utc has sold some operations, laid off workers and made management changes in a bid to become more competitive and cut costs
in 1986, daniell received a salary of $600,000 and incentive compensation totalling $250,000. his fringe benefits that year totalled $29,942, boosting his total compensation to $879,942
edward j. large, executive vice president for corporate development, was the second-highest compensated employee. he received $645,000, up 8.9 precent from the $593,125 received in 1986
danielle and large were the only two executives to be among the top five compensated utc employees in 1986 and 1987. disclosure of salaries for the five highest paid executives is required by the securities and exchange commission
utc earned $591.7 million, or $4.52 a share in 1987, up from $72.7 million, or 27 cents a share in 1986. the 1986 earnings were reduced by a $592 million write-off for restructuring and employee severance costs
in addition to pratt &amp; whitney, other utc subsidiaries include hamilton standard, sikorsky aircraft and otis elevators. graf pvs: james steel...</note>
oil prices may be headed higher again, after months of declines amid swelling inventories and lackluster demand
analysts say prospects of good summer demand and indications that major producers might take action to help curb the recent slide should help boost prices in coming months
unconfirmed reports that the organization of petroleum exporting countries was studying a plan to shave 850,000 barrels from its daily production sent futures contracts soaring on thursday, and that rally continued today
near midday on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, stood at $16.19 per 42-gallon barrel, up 19 cents from thursday, when the price closed up 51 cents at $16.00
refined products also built on thursday's strong advance. wholesale heating oil, up 0.90 cent thursday, stood at 44.44 cents per gallon, up another 0.51 cent. wholesale unleaded gasoline stood at 45.55 cents per gallon, up 0.41 cent after leaping 1.14 cents per gallon to close at 45.14 cents thursday
james steel, an analyst at refco inc. commodities, said traders were encouraged by reports that opec was considering cutbacks, even though cartel officials later denied that the purported idea of 5 percent output cuts for all 13 members except iraq was getting serious consideration
the organization of petroleum exporting countries also indicated that its pricing committee was unlikely to meet soon, despite calls by member venezuela for a meeting
but steel said futures traders pushed prices higher because the reports suggested the cartel was at least taking some action to deal with the declines before they started getting out of hand
in the persian gulf, for example, crude recently has been selling at levels between $13 and $14 per barrel _ far below opec's $18-per-barrel target _ while in the united states, west texas intermediate has been bouncing in the $15-to-$16 range after selling near $18 in january
analysts have blamed the slump on sluggish worldwide demand and swelling inventories, worsened by an unusually warm winter in europe
some opec members, desperate to preserve their market shares, have aggravated the decline by discounting prices to lure customers away from opec competitors and ``nopec'' countries, such as mexico, britain, norway and a host of other smaller nations
dillard spriggs, president of the petroleum analysis ltd. consulting firm, said crude prices could fall another dollar in two weeks if world production does not slow down quickly
in a worst-case scenario, buyers might then disappear to wait for even lower prices, heightening downward price pressure
but chances are probably pretty good they'll rein it in,'' spriggs said, citing prospects for increased summer demand. ``i think we're in this cycle of up-and-down that will go on until about 1990.''
analysts said opec's problem was that the production quotas the cartel set at its december meeting simply were too high
since december, opec's official aggregate quota has stood at 17.5 million barrels a day. spriggs said the cartel would have to cut production to about 16.8 million barrels daily to match demand and bring prices back to its $18-per-barrel target
as a result, cartel members had to discount the extra barrels to sell them, said ed krapels, of the washington-based energy security analysis inc. consulting firm
still, krapels said, ``the worst is over,'' because demand should pick up during the summer driving season
we expect the situation to be a little easier for opec to handle in the next three months than in the last three,'' he said
at the oppenheimer &amp; co. securities firm, oil analyst paul ting said he also believed oil prices will head higher, continuing in a cycle of ``strengths and weakness.''
opec is all too aware of the billions of dollars of income it lost by casting off production constraints in 1986, he said
back in 1985, nobody in his right mind would have thought oil could drop below $18 a barrel. they got quite a surprise when it got down to $8. i think they're not likely to repeat that again,'' ting said
i think they're going to get their acts together (because) they really can't live at prices significantly below $18 for a long time,'' he said
the stock market lost more ground today, extending thursday's sharp decline
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 48.24 points on thursday, dropped 3.65 to 2,022.38 by 11 a.m. today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 6 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 604 up, 693 down and 506 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 93.71 million shares at midmorning
a big chunk of that activity came in the stock of mfs intermediate income trust, which traded at 10 after a 200 million-share initial offering at that price
the debut of the closed-end investment company specializing in interest-bearing securities of 10 years or less marked the largest initial public stock offering ever in the u.s. market
otherwise, analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop, which was the largest in more than two months
stocks drew some support, however from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose as much as $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped \ to 42}; american express { to 26|; international business machines [ to 113|, and dow chemical 1\ to 85]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .08 to 148.84. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .27 at 295.73
while the market for new stocks has turned chilly since black monday last oct. 19, wall street has found strong demand for one category of new issue _ closed-end bond funds
in the first two months of 1988, standard &amp; poor's reports, investors snapped up more than $3.5 billion in shares of these investments
on friday, massachusetts financial services of boston added $2 billion more to the total with the debut of its mfs intermediate income trust, in what stands as the largest initial public stock offering ever
the attraction of these funds is not the hope of spectacular growth or quick trading profits, but rather yields as high as the 10 percent to 11{ percent range
there is no denying the appeal of such returns, especially in a period when interest rates have been generally declining, pushing the yield available on long-term government bonds below 8.5 percent
but some analysts wonder whether all the eager buyers look beyond the yield to gain a full understanding of this particular breed of security and how it has often behaved in the past
a closed-end fund operates very much like a mutual fund, with one very important difference
mutual funds stand continuously ready to sell new shares and redeem old ones, at a price that is determined by the net asset value of their portfolios on any given day
shares of closed-end funds, by contrast, are traded like any other stock on an exchange or in the over-the-counter market
the number of shares remains fixed, except for special occasions on which the fund might decide to increase it with a new offering or reduce it by buying in some of its stock
so while the operating performance of a mutual fund is the sole determinant of its price, a closed-end fund's price is also influenced by supply and demand forces in the open market
its shares can trade at a premium above net asset value, or a discount below net asset value
during periods of strength in fixed-income markets, such as at present, some bond funds may temporarily sell at a premium to nav,'' standard &amp; poor's analysts observe in the firm's weekly publication the outlook
if history is any guide, however, the premiums tend to shrink and give way to discounts once interest rates begin to rise.''
closed-end funds of all types have enjoyed a revival of interest in the past few years. fund managers say they like the format because it allows them to pursue their investment strategies undisturbed by the ebb and flow of money that can occur in mutual funds
in theory at least, a popular mutual fund may have to make bigger or riskier bets than it would like when money pours into its coffers. conversely, it may have to sell securities it would rather keep when redemptions increase
the recent evidence lends some support to this view. s&amp;p quotes statistics from lipper analytical services showing an average total return of 85 percent over the last five years for closed-end bond funds
in the same period, a comparable group of fixed-income mutual funds averaged a total return of 72 percent
nevertheless, veteran observers of closed-end funds say, when you are approached by a broker recommending a new fund, it makes sense to look at the similar alternatives that may be available in existing funds
says s&amp;p: ``consider acquiring a closed-end fund in the after-market, when premiums often shrink after a few months and you need pay only a normal brokerage commission and not a built-in initial underwriting fee of about 7 percent.''
campeau corp. says it has moved closer to completing the financing for its $6.18 billion tender offer for federated department stores inc
campeau is fighting a competing $6.1 billion offer by r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. to buy federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailing company. seeking support for its bid, campeau has announced each step in its efforts to win financing as they have been reached
campeau said thursday that citibank of new york and the new york branch of sumitomo of japan have agreed to provide $1.5 billion of a $2.66 billion secured loan that would be used in connection with purchase of federated shares
the toronto-based retailer said in a statement the two banks were confident the remaining $1.16 billion needed for the loan could be obtained through a syndicate of banks
campeau also said citibank would provide $1 billion and sumitomo $500 million of $3.13 billion in long term financing for the federated acquisition after the tender offer
campeau has offered to pay $75 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's stock and $44 a share in cash for the remaining 20 percent
the macy proposal, which is backed by federated management and the company's board of directors, would pay $74.50 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's shares and stock in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., for the remaining 20 percent
campeau earlier announced $1.5 billion in bridge financing from first boston corp., its financial adviser, and $1.4 billion in equity to put into the federated acquisition
the equity includes a $480 million loan from youngstown developer edward j. debartolo, $500 million in secured bank loans, $260 million in debentures from olympia &amp; york developments ltd., and a portion of the $770 million campeau expects to realize from the proposed sale of the brooks brothers division of its allied stores corp
besides the $3.13 billion in bank financing, campeau has agreed to sell federated's filene's stores in boston and foley's in houston to st. louis-based may department stores inc. for between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion in cash and notes
campeau and macy have both indicated they would sell federated's non-department store holdings, which include ralphs supermarkets, gold circle discount stores and children's place and main street specialty retailers
in a filing this week with the securities and exchange commission, macy indicated $2.9 billion in federated assets would be sold if its bid is successful. macy said the non-department store divisions would be put up for sale as well as ``certain other assets.''
analysts believe macy would sell two department store divisions, abraham &amp; straus and rich's, which directly compete with macy stores
grain and soybean futures prices opened mixed today on the chicago board of trade in the absence of strong market-affecting factors
wheat futures opened slightly higher in an early attempt to rebound from four weeks of falling prices, analysts said
wheat's been plunging here for 20-some sessions and the market's getting way oversold on a strictly technical basis,'' said walter spilka, an analyst for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. in new york
soybean futures were mixed with the nearby march contract slightly lower, reflecting the market's continuing fear of a large south american soybean harvest, spilka said
corn was slightly lower while oats were sharply higher in a reversal from thursday's losses
in early trading, wheat was } cent to 1\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.91 a bushel; corn was unchanged to } cent lower with march at $1.97 a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to 6\ cents higher with march at $1.87{ a bushel; soybeans were } cent lower to 1{ cents higher with march at $6.03 a bushel
livestock futures were mostly higher while pork belly futures were lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .15 cent to .45 cent higher with april at 73.37 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .08 cent to .50 cent higher with march at 82.05 cents a pound; hogs were .25 cent lower to .15 cent higher with april at 43.37 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .10 cent to .17 cent lower with march at 51.55 cents a pound
live cattle futures closed higher on thursday but other livestock and meat futures ended mostly lower
the stock market drifted lower today, extending thursday's sharp decline
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 48.24 points on thursday, dropped 3.48 to 2,022.55 by noontime today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 6 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 642 up, 760 down and 474 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 115.49 million shares at noontime, against 80.39 million at the same point thursday
a big chunk of that activity came in the stock of mfs intermediate income trust, which traded at 10 after a 200 million-share initial offering at that price
the debut of the closed-end investment company specializing in interest-bearing securities with maturities of 10 years or less marked the largest initial public stock offering ever in the u.s. market
otherwise, analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop, which was the largest in more than two months
stocks drew some support, however from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose as much as $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped \ to 42}; american express ] to 26]; international business machines [ to 113|, and dow chemical 1] to 85\
home shopping network, traded on the american stock exchange, fell ~ to 6|. the company reported lower quarterly earnings
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks stood at 148.92, unchanged from thursday's close. the amex market value index was down .28 at 295.72
union meatpackers say they will appeal a federal court verdict that found illegal a six-month strike outside john morrell &amp; co.'s sioux falls plant last year which erupted in violence several times
a jury in a $40 million lawsuit brought by the company against local 304a of the united food and commercial workers ruled thursday that union members' refusal to cross a picket line set up by members of another local was a violation of their contract
a new jury will be picked this summer or fall to decide the amount of damages, if any, that are due morrell
union officials are confident they will win on appeal, allen zack, a spokesman in washington
the jury had been asked to determine whether a may 1 walkout at the sioux falls plant was a sympathy strike and whether the current contract allowed the strike
about 2,500 local 304a members in sioux falls refused to cross a picket line set up may 1 by striking morrell workers from sioux city, iowa
the strike led to rock-throwing, vandalism and other incidents of picket-line violence during its early days. a state judge issued an injunction against the union because of the violence
the company argued that the work stoppage was a primary, or economic strike and not a sympathy strike and that the strikers broke their contract because they were concerned about possible wage cuts
the jury agreed with the union's contention that the work stoppage was a sympathy strike. but it agreed with the company's position that all strikes are illegal under morrell's contract with local 304a
union leaders testified that the no-strike clause in the contract prohibited sioux falls workers from striking over issues in their contract but that the may 1 strike was not over the sioux falls pact
morrell hired replacement workers at both its sioux falls and sioux city plants
u.s. district judge richard battey of rapid city presided
the stock market took another tumble today, extending thursday's sharp decline
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 48.24 points on thursday, dropped 21.22 to 2,004.81 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 491 up, 989 down and 454 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 155.58 million shares with two hours to go
a big chunk of that activity came in the stock of mfs intermediate income trust, which traded at 10 after a 200 million-share initial offering at that price
the debut of the closed-end investment company specializing in interest-bearing securities with maturities of 10 years or less marked the largest initial public stock offering ever in the u.s. market
otherwise, analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop, which was the largest in more than two months
stocks drew little lasting support from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose as much as $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped { to 42{; american express ~ to 26\; international business machines 1[ to 112|, and dow chemical 2 to 84|
home shopping network, traded on the american stock exchange, fell 1[ to 6]. the company reported lower quarterly earnings
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 1.27 to 147.65, and the amex market value index was down 1.35 at 294.65
fred w. o'green will retire at the end of this month after a 26-year career with the litton industries inc., the last seven as chairman, the company said friday
o'green, 66, will be succeeded as chairman by orion l. hoch, 59, who will retain his post as litton's chief executive
litton is a technology-based conglomerate involved in advanced electronics and defense systems, industrial automation and geophysical services
former merchant banker lord patrick spens was freed on $920,000 bail raised by two friends after appearing in court friday to hear charges related to the guinness financial scandal
spens, a former managing director of merchant bankers henry ansbacher and co. ltd, was arrested and charged thursday for his alleged role in one of britain's largest financial scandals
he was ordered to appear in court again april 12 along with four others charged so far in the affair, surrender his passport to police and not to contact employees from the ansbacher group
two business friends _ alan lewis, the chairman of a textiles company, and charles longbottom, former chairman of an ansbacher subsidiary _ paid spens' bail, the british domestic news agency press association reported
police are investigating guinness' tactics during its $4 billion 1986 takeover of distillers co. plc, a scotch whisky and gin maker, in what was then britain's biggest acquisition ever
spens, 45, resigned from henry ansbacher in january 1987 under pressure from the bank of england, and told reporters his alleged role in the guinness affair was perceived as an error of judgment
he was subsequently charged in two counts with involvement in the improper payment of an interest-free loan of $14 million from guinness to ansbachers to fund the buying of more than 2 million shares in the brewing giant
two other counts allege falsification of a document for ansbachers and conspiracy to create a false or misleading impression of the market value of guinness shares
guinness has admitted arranging the allegedly illegal repurchase of its stock in an apparent effort to boost the price and make its cash and stock offer for distillers more attractive than a rival bid from argyll group plc, a supermarket operator.  
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

cleveland _ a federal judge has scheduled a hearing to review the constitutionality of ohio's anti-takeover law, filed by the italian tiremaker pirelli in an attempt to prevent firestone tire &amp; rubber co. from using the law to thwart pirelli's $1.86 billion buyout bid
washington _ business inventories for january will be released at 10 a.m. by the commerce department

washington _ the current account report covering trade in merchandise and services, for fourth quarter 1987, will be released at 10 a.m. by the commerce department
detroit _ the nation's automakers will release auto sales for first 10 days of march
london _ chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson presents the british budget to parliament

washington _ housing starts for february will be released at 8:30 a.m. by the commerce department; industrial production for february will be released at 9:15 a.m. by the federal reserve
washington _ the house labor committee has scheduled a final vote on legislation increasing the federal minimum wage to $5.05 an hour over next four years
richmond _ a bankrupcty hearing is scheduled to review latest version of a.h. robins co. reorganization plan

washington _ merchandise trade for january will be released at 8:30 a.m. by the commerce department; factory use for february, release time uncertain, by the federal reserve
jabalpur, india _ the high court is scheduled to rule on union carbide's appeal of interim relief order to bhopal victims

washington _ president reagan's commission of privatization is scheduled to issue its recommendations
mexico city _ mexico marks the 50th anniversary of the nationalization of the oil industry
constance, west germany _ u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter and trade ministers of west germany, france, britain and spain meet to discuss the airbus and european subsidies to airbus
koppers co. friday sued shearson lehman hutton inc. and british investor brian beazer, accusing them of violating securities laws in trying to acquire the pittsburgh-based chemicals and construction company
koppers said it was attempting to break up ``an ongoing illegal scheme ... to acquire control of koppers in blatant violation of the disclosure requirements'' of securities laws
koppers asked the court to block the shearson and a beazer-controlled investor group from acquiring any more of the company's stock and to award damages over the alleged manipulation of the stock
bns partners on march 3 offered $45 per common share and $107.75 per preferred share, or $1.26 billion for shares it did not already control. the offer is scheduled to expire march 30
bns is a general partnership, 49 percent owned by bright aggregates inc., of dallas, itself a unit of beazer plc. the british company is chaired by beazer
shearson proposed making a tender offer for koppers to ... beazer. shearson was and remains the driving force behind the offer, and it controls the offer,'' koppers said
shearson officials did not immediately return telephone calls for comment. ``despite the fact that shearson has combined with an english predator to dismember an american company, it holds itself out to the public as assisting businesses in protecting against takeovers,'' the suit said
the lawsuit claims that the terms of the takeover financing are so vague that is questionable
bns does not have adequate funding to complete the offer and has obtained only a self-styled commitment for only about one-third of the amount that it will require,'' the suit said
koppers claims the offer is misleading in light of beazer's subsequent comments on plans to sell koppers' chemical and building products businesses, which together account for 40 percent of annual sales
koppers stockholders are being misled as to the value of the stock they are being asked to tender,'' the suit said
the securities and exchange commission said friday that painewebber inc. voluntarily has agreed to repay customers an amount the sec claims were overcharges in the sale of treasury bond coupons
the sec did not disclose the amount of the repayment or of the alleged overcharge by the brokerage house
the regulatory agency said in a statement that it was accepting the painewebber offer as settlement of a case involving alleged violation of anti-fraud provisons of u.s. securities laws
the sec alleged that between jan. 1, 1984 and july 31, 1985, paine webber charged its customers ``undisclosed excessive markups and markdowns not reasonably related to the prevailing market price.''
it said that the sales at issue involved ``stripped'' treasury bond coupons _ bonds stripped of their interest component and sold separately at a discount, a common practice of brokerage houses
the sec said it took into account that painewebber was volunarily agreeing to reimburse its customers
painewebber neither admitted nor denied the allegations in agreeing to the steetlement, the sec said
the securities and exchange commission said friday that painewebber inc. voluntarily has agreed to repay customers an amount the sec claims were overcharges in the sale of treasury bond coupons
the sec did not disclose the amount of the repayment or of the alleged overcharge by the brokerage house
the regulatory agency said in a statement that it was accepting the painewebber offer as settlement of a case involving alleged violation of anti-fraud provisons of u.s. securities laws
the sec alleged that between jan. 1, 1984 and july 31, 1985, paine webber charged its customers ``undisclosed excessive markups and markdowns not reasonably related to the prevailing market price.''
it said that the sales at issue involved ``stripped'' treasury bond coupons _ bonds stripped of their interest component and sold separately at a discount, a common practice of brokerage houses
the sec said it took into account that painewebber was volunarily agreeing to reimburse its customers
painewebber neither admitted nor denied the allegations in agreeing to the steetlement, the sec said
the stock market lost more ground in a bouncing session today, extending thursday's sharp decline
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 48.24 points on thursday, dropped 6.47 to 2,019.56 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 9 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 544 up, 998 down and 417 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 175.42 million shares with an hour to go
a big chunk of that activity came in the stock of mfs intermediate income trust, which traded at 10 after a 200 million-share initial offering at that price
the debut of the closed-end investment company specializing in interest-bearing securities with maturities of 10 years or less marked the largest initial public stock offering ever in the u.s. market
otherwise, analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop, which was the largest in more than two months
stocks drew little lasting support from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose as much as $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped [ to 42~; eastman kodak { to 41|; international business machines \ to 113{, and american telephone &amp; telegraph ] to 27~
home shopping network, traded on the american stock exchange, fell 1\ to 6\. the company reported lower quarterly earnings
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .60 to 148.32, and the amex market value index was down 1.35 at 294.65
kuwait will raise its stake in british petroleum co. plc to 22.5 percent but no more, and will not seek representation on the board of directors, an official of the persian gulf nation's investment arm said friday
the remarks, by the chief investment manager of the kuwait investment office, were the first direct statements of kuwait's immediate intentions toward bp
industry analysts disagreed on the arab country's motives. some said they believed kuwait's previous assertations that it was simply buying the shares as an investment
others suggested it was buying the stake as a first step in an effort to establish closer ties, ultimately giving kuwait access to bp's extensive refining and marketing operations in europe and the united states
the kuwaiti agency raised speculation it was building on its 19.53 percent stake by announcing early friday that it held 1.269 billion bp shares, or 21.25 percent
the stake breached the 20 percent level bp has said is acceptable
kio policy with regard to all its investments is to regard them as investments and not as a means of influencing the policy of the company in question,'' said the kuwait office's chief investment manager, trevor ball. ``this is equally so in the case of bp.''
the kio looks on this as a long term holding in a company for whose management and policy kio have a high regard and which it is confident will act in the interests of shareholders,'' he said. ``for that reason kio doesn't propose to seek representation on its board.''
the kuwait office said it will increase its stake to a target 22.5 percent as soon as market conditions permit. bp refused to comment on the situation friday
jeremy elden, an oil analyst at the british brokerage phillips and drew, said kuwait originally intended to build up a 25 percent stake in bp
elden said the 22.5 percent target stake ``looks like a classic compromise'' worked out between between bp chairman sir peter walters and kuwaiti oil minister sheik ali khalifa al-sabah
kuwait had hoped for a 25 percent stake in bp because that would give it the right to block special resolutions put to bp shareholders, elden said. the resolutions have to receive approval of at least 75 percent of the stockholders
that would have given them real power over the company, if they had ever wanted to exercise it,'' elden said
in milwaukee, wis., george j. gaspar, an analyst with the robert w. baird &amp; co. securities firm, said he thought kuwait eventually hopes to ``trade its stock for a position in bp's downstream operations
they keep saying it's only for investment, but i don't believe it,'' he said. ``i think kuwait is going to use its investment in bp to encourage some joint operation between the two.''
kuwait is just one of several large producers to have taken steps in the direction of acquiring interests that would provide guaranteed long-term outlets for their supplies
texaco inc. and saudi arabia are in the midst of negotiating a joint venture involving texaco's refining and marketing operations
those talks come less than two years after venezuela acquired half of southland corp.'s citgo petroleum co. refinery operations, an interest in champlain oil in the united states, and other ventures in europe
not all industry-watchers agree with gaspar's theory, however
stephen smith, an analyst at bear stearns &amp; co., said he believed kuwait's bp stake is ``just an investment.''
kuwait's got plenty of channels for its refined products already,'' he said. ``they've done at least two, maybe three deals for outlets in europe, where they're selling their products under the name, q8.''
the kuwaiti office began accumulating bp shares soon after bp's 2.7 billion pound share offering was massively undersubscribed last october. in february it declared a 19.53 percent stake, or 1.165 billion shares
walters indicated in february that he viewed the kuwait office's stake as acceptable provided the office didn't increase its holding beyond 20 percent
stock prices were mixed today as blue chips rebounded from a broad early decline
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 6.96 at 2,032.99
grain and soybean futures prices closed mixed friday in lackluster trading on the chicago board of trade
most soybean contracts advanced on higher soybean oil prices and on talk that u.s. soybean plantings will not exceed 60 million acres this year, analysts said
traders have been worried about the possibility of a sharper increase in planted soybean acreage, which totaled 57.4 million acres in 1987
the usda will release its first estimate of grain plantings for the new season on march 31
wheat futures ended fractionally higher, corn was slightly lower and oats closed modestly higher
trading volume was light as some traders headed for orlando, fla., the site of next week's national grain and feed association convention, said gordon linn, president of linnco futures inc. in chicago
at the close, wheat was unchanged to } cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.90{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1 cent lower with march at $1.96} a bushel; oats were 2\ cents to 4} cents higher with march at $1.86 a bushel; soybeans were { cent lower to 2 cents higher with march at $6.03{ a bushel
a late rally led by blue chips enabled the stock market to finish mixed today after a broad early selloff
analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop in stock prices, which was the largest in more than two months
but a midsession slide gave way to buying as the dow jones industrial average dropped to near the 2,000 level
stocks drew some support from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose more than $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
why do americans have different beers for different times of the day, asked a visiting soviet public relations executive who was confused by some u.s. advertising techniques and wound up confusing his hosts
valentin v. kozitsyn, who is traveling with a soviet cultural exhibit now at cincinnati's union terminal center, had some questions for members of the cincinnati public relations company he visited thursday
employees at smith kaufman public relations were confused by his beer question
they understood when kozitsyn explained that he had seen a television commercial saying ``the night belongs to michelob.''
and another thing: ``why is k mart america's favorite store?'' he asked
any advertising or public relations effort in the soviet union is ``done very slowly, with much care and deliberation,'' kozitsyn said. he described the american media as fast, colorful and timely
there is much to learn about the methods here,'' he said
much of thursday's informal discussion was spent explaining to kozitsyn the distinctions between u.s. advertising, public relations and journalism
in our country, it isn't so important to explain everything,'' he said
kozitsyn said interest in public relations methodology is increasing in the soviet union because the country, under communist party leader mikhail gorbachev, is taking a hard look at its traditions
we have not only successes _ we have mistakes,'' kozitsyn said. ``there is a need for us to explain our mistakes in history and modern life. ... there is the need to understand truths.''
there is much we need to teach our own people, and much to learn about accomplishing that,'' kozitsyn said
lora l. doerr, an account supervisor with smith kaufman, said the cincinnati firm first came in contact with kozitsyn while arranging publicity for the exhibit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down more than 20 points at midafternoon, closed with a gain of 8.95 at 2,034.98. for the week the average lost 22.88 points
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 7 to 5 on the new york stock exchange, with 864 up, 658 down and 458 unchanged
big board volume totaled 200.02 million shares, against 197.26 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose .53 to 149.45
crude oil prices moved deeper into $16-a-barrel territory friday, but analysts disagreed as to whether fundamental or technical factors were responsible for the two-day breakout above the $15 range
some said traders were anticipating new moves by oil producing countries to trim their excessive output, bringing world supply and demand closer into balance. others, noting that continuous profit-taking had dampened the rally friday, suggested that it lacked strong conviction
contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, closed 29 cents higher at $16.29 per 42-gallon barrel on the new york mercantile exchange, adding to thursday's strong 51-cent gain
refined products also built on thursday's robust advance. wholesale heating oil settled at 44.69 cents a gallon, up 0.76 cent after thursday's 0.90 cent gain. wholesale unleaded gasoline closed at 45.59 cents a gallon, up 0.45 cent after leaping 1.14 cents thursday
there's a growing confidence that, by whatever means it might take, our oil-exporting friends will contain the discounting and get prices moving up,'' said bob baker, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
since late last year, sluggish demand and growing surpluses have put downward pressure on oil prices. that weakness was aggravated by discounting on the part of members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries
analysts said the 13-nation cartel has been sticking to its aggregate quota of 17.5 million barrels a day, but that the total goal, set in december, was simply too high for the world's needs
as a result, by early this week prices had eroded to levels between $13 and $14 per barrel in the persian gulf _ far short of opec's $18 target _ and to $15.37 per barrel on the new york merc, $2 to $3 cheaper than january levels
indications that worried opec and non-member countries were attempting to find ways to boost those prices sent the market strongly higher thursday _ although crude had picked up 12 cents in light trading on tuesday and wednesday
while crude continued to gain ground in friday's session, however, product prices did not ``put in all that good a showing,'' said jayne ball, an analyst at the dean witter reynolds inc. securities firm
at this point, it's unclear whether this is just a technical correction ... or whether it's a serious recovery,'' she said
the first national bank of boston agreed friday to freeze activity on panamanian government accounts until the state department lifts sanctions against the nation
the action stems from a civil suit filed earlier this week by panama's u.s. ambassador, juan b. sosa, the recognized representative of the government of deposed president eric arturo delvalle
a federal judge tuesday issued a temporary injunction against payments to any panamanian government agency from accounts at bank of boston and four florida-based banks. in addition, a restraining order was issued friday by a federal judge in new york against the bank of boston international, which holds a panama government clearing account
under a settlement filed in u.s. district court in boston, the bank of boston prohibits transactions against any account of the republic of panama, banco nationale de panama or petroterminale de panama, unless approved by sosa
bank of boston, however, can transfer up to $4 million a month to petroterminale from its panama branch to cover salaries and operating expenses for the company, which runs a ship fuel pipeline alongside the panama canal
the settlement, presented to district judge edward harrington, was reached following talks between lawyers representing the bank and the delvalle government, overthrown in late february by gen. manuel antonio noriega
attorney michael gardener, representing the delvalle government, estimated the bank of boston handles ``several million dollars'' in panamanian government assets
bank spokesman wayne taylor declined to estimate a figure, but said the bank's settlement may set a precedent for sosa's suit against the florida banks
defendants in that suit are the citizens and southern international bank, republic national bank of miami, barnett bank of florida and the bank of new england international
a federal judge in miami has scheduled a march 16 hearing for the suit
on march 7, a federal judge in new york added 10 days to a restraining order preventing marine midland and bankers trust from transferring an estimated $50 million to the banco nationale de panama
irving trust was dropped from that order after agreeing not to transfer any money to the panama bank. last wednesday, another defendant, republic national bank of new york, was dropped when it agreed to transfer $10 million in panamanian funds to the federal reserve bank
delvalle is still recognized by the u.s. government as the legitimate head of panama
two u.s. grand juries in florida indicted noriega on drug charges feb. 4. delvalle sought to dismiss noriega feb. 25, but was ousted the next day by noriega supporters and went into hiding
a former defense industry official was sentenced friday to three years in prison and fined $5,000 for his part in a scheme that overcharged the government nearly $9 million in military contracts
roland edward fisher, 57, of suburban drexel hill, former vice president and general manager of litton systems, inc., pleaded unsuccessfully for leniency through his attorney before u.s. district judge robert kelly
litton was earlier fined $6.3 million for its part in the price-rigging conspiracy
assistant u.s. attorney nicholas harbest, in seeking lengthy incarceration, said ``fisher was entrusted with the taxpayer's funds and abused that trust. a prison sentence will send a ringing message to other defense industry executives that this type of conduct will no longer go unnoticed and unpunished.''
harbest told the judge that fisher, between january 1975 and december 1984, set prices for the goverment contracts litton obtained that were well above the real costs to produce the item and that other individual defendants participated in the scheme
specifically, fisher was found guilty of racketeering, obstruction of a government agency's proceedings, making false statements and mail fraud
two other litton employees were sentenced earlier in the case
michael millspaugh, 35, a former controller from buffalo grove, ill., received one year and a $10,000 fine, while joseph diliberto, 69, a former materials manager, of levittown, pa., received 5 years' probation and a $10,000 fine
both had pleaded guilty. problems</head>
the new york stock exchange's 5-week-old ``collar'' on computerized trading appears to be an effective therapy for easing volatility in the post-crash market and luring back frightened investors, analysts say
but the restriction also makes the market less attractive to investors who thrive on risk, which could drive them overseas
and some market experts even argue that the restriction would do little to squelch another panic
the collar, as nyse officials call it, has played a role in blunting runaway moves in the dow jones industrial average since it was enacted feb. 4, judging from the market's behavior since then
it works by banning use of the exchange's computers for a trading technique known as index arbitrage when the dow average moves 50 points from the previous close. an earlier, voluntary restraint was triggered by a 75-point change
since the 50-point collar was announced, it has never been breached. the dow average approached it three times, moving up 47.58 on feb. 10, up 48.41 on feb. 29, and down 48.24 on thursday
i think it's got to be more than coincidence that it doesn't get to 50,'' said richard wholey, a broker-analyst at the wayne hummer &amp; co. investment firm in chicago. ``i would say there's got to be a very strong connection.''
by comparison, in pre-collar days the dow average jumped 76.42 points jan. 4, fell 140.58 points jan. 8 and fell 57.20 points jan. 20. it exceeded a 50-point swing six times in december and four times in november
last october, when the market suffered the worst decline since the great crash of 1929, the dow average careened over 50 points 12 times, capped by the unprecedented 508 point plunge on black monday, oct. 19
some wall street strategists knowledgeable about index arbitrage believe the collar directly influences market behavior. when index arbitrage traders see the dow average moving 40 or more points beyond the previous close, they turn off the computers that run the automatic trading programs
the limit is a definite factor,'' said leigh stevens, stock index futures strategist at painewebber inc. in new york. ``the traders will see they are near it. they'll stop at that point, because if it's going to touch 50, they'd be forbidden to use it for the rest of the day.''
index arbitrage enables investors to sell massive volumes of stock in new york and simultaneously buy the equivalent stock-index futures traded in chicago, or vice versa, in an attempt to profit from price differences
the technique has been blamed for playing a role in the wall street crash and subsequent price swings that frightened millions of ordinary investors
several prominent wall street firms, concerned they were killing their own business and arousing congressional hostility, have since abandoned index arbitrage for their own accounts
i don't see anything under the surface that's detrimental about the new york stock exchange's limitation,'' said john a. conlon jr., executive vice president and director of institutional equity research at nikko securities co. international in new york. ``any step toward attempting to quell the kind of volatility we saw is an intelligent posture.''
others agreed but said the limit was discouraging speculators who thrive on the risky futures markets. this has helped cause a drop in the futures business and raised fears that less restrictive foreign markets will benefit
i consider the collar a stabilizer, and from the point of view of the country or market as a whole, it's very positive,'' said haskel b. benishay, an economics professor and market expert at northwestern university's kellogg graduate business school
but of course it's less exciting and creates less opportunities for index arbitrage program traders to make money,'' he said
some futures experts believe the nyse's move reflects a broader failure by the securities business to take coordinated steps aimed at averting another market collapse, a key recommendation of a presidential commission
the critics say the nyse's collar won't mesh with the circuit-breaking mechanisms imposed in the futures market since the crash
new price limits established to regulate stock index futures trading on chicago exchanges could theoretically paralyze those markets in response to a sharp decline in prices. in such a case, traders would rush to dump stocks on the nyse, which would be prevented by its collar from relieving the pressure
if we should have a sharp market break, the markets would unlink automatically,'' alger b. chapman, chairman of the chicago board options exchange, told an annual futures industry meeting in florida earlier this week. ``it would be worse than in october.'' 
the dollar declined in quiet trading friday as foreign-exchange markets awaited next week's release of u.s. trade figures for january
gold prices slipped after soaring as much as $7 a troy ounce on thursday. republic national bank of new york quoted a late bid price of $441.25 for an ounce of gold, down from $442.50 late thursday
currency dealers said the dollar opened lower in new york, reaching trading levels set in overseas activity, but moved little the rest of the day
volume was light in advance of the weekend. there was more interest in trading in the other major currencies, which dominated the markets for much of the week
earl i. johnson, assistant vice president with harris trust and savings bank in chicago, said the market was waiting for two announcements expected next week: the british budget, to be unveiled on tuesday, and u.s. trade figures for january, to be released thursday
the trade figures have set off wide swings in the dollar in recent months, and johnson said that trend may continue next week
traders are focusing on the british budget because the pound surged earlier this week in response to higher interest rates and continued economic strength in that country
the british pound continued to climb against the dollar friday, trading in london at $1.8535, up from $1.8435 late thursday. in later new york trading, the pound rose to $1.8562 from $1.8462 late thursday
the pound has leaped by 4 percent in value against the dollar this week. but traders said the rally appeared to be running out of steam on a statement thursday by chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson that sterling would be unable to sustain a further advance
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 127.80 japanese yen, down from thursday's close of 128.20 yen. later in london, it fell to 127.80 yen and in new york, it slipped to 127.295 yen from 127.955 yen late thursday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late thursday's prices, included: 1.6502 west german marks, down from 1.66345; 1.3696 swiss francs, down from 1.3785; 5.6460 french francs, down from 5.6665; 1,231.00 italian lire, down from 1,236.625; and 1.25705 canadian dollars, up marginally from 1.25685
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday's rate, included: 1.6615 west german marks, down from 1.6640; 1.3720 swiss francs, down from 1.3785; 5.6515 french francs, down from 5.6725; 1.8680 dutch guilders, down from 1.8720; 1,232.55 italian lire, down from 1,236.63; and 1.2553 canadian dollars, down from 1.2564
gold fell in london to a late bid price of $440.50 a troy ounce, down from late thursday's $443. in zurich, switzerland, gold was also lower, closing at a bid $441, compared with $442.50 late thursday
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $445.48, up from $438.42 late thursday
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold fell to $441.40 a troy ounce in late trading from $443.20 late thursday
silver bullion prices remained stable in london, where the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.36 a troy ounce, the same as late thursday. on the commodity exchange, silver fell to $6.230 a troy ounce in late trading from $6.265 late thursday
home shopping network inc., the leader in televised shop-from-home programs, said friday that telephone problems were responsible for a 44 percent decline in second-quarter earnings
the telephone problems _ since corrected _ prevented some potential customers from placing orders, and contributed to an inventory buildup that the company is still trying to reduce by cutting prices on some merchandise, according to roy speer, chairman and chief executive of home shopping
at a briefing for securities analysts conducted at the american stock exchange, speer said, ``we're out of the telephone problems now and we hope that the future will be bright.''
nonetheless, the st. petersburg, fla.-based company's stock slumped in the wake of the earnings report. home shopping fell $1.37{ a share to $6.12{ in trading on the amex
mark riely, who follows the company for the investment firm eberstadt fleming, said, ``the phone situation may have hurt them last year, but one would have expected sales to have been higher in last couple of quarters.''
for the three months ended feb. 29, home shopping said it earned $5.2 million, or 6 cents per share, compared with $9.3 million, or 10 cents a share, a year earlier
revenue for the quarter rose 16.6 percent to $192.8 million from $165.3 million a year earlier
for the first six months of its fiscal year, the company said it earned $8.3 million, or 10 cents a share, down 56 percent from $18.8 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier
six-month revenue rose 41 percent to $378.8 million from $268.7 million a year earlier
speer told the analysts that the company's sales of $582 million for the fiscal year ended aug. 31, 1987 had fallen far short of the $800 million the company had forecast for the year
but he said the reason was that the telephone system the company was using proved incapable of handling the volume of calls that home shopping's two television networks were generating
the company had ordered merchandise on the presumption that it would sell $800 million worth of goods last year, he said, and couldn't halt deliveries
as a result, he said the company's inventory rose steadily to a peak of $135 million in november. he said the company has been liquidating it gradually by cutting prices, but that the backlog remains at $78 million
the company didn't discover the telephone problem until last april, speer said, and has since changed telephone companies and filed a suit against its former telephone service supplier
he said the new phone system is operating well and that the company helped itself by moving its operations into a new and bigger facility in st. petersburg. the network's old facility was in clearwater
home shopping sells merchandise ranging from jewelry to computers on two television networks that are carried on cable systems seen by about 19 million subscribers or satellite dish owners and on 22 broadcast television stations reaching about 37 million households
the company has previously said it planned to sell financial services through the television networks, but officials indicated they are taking a more deliberate approach in that area
lowell paxson, president of home shopping, had told a marketing group last may that the television networks would be selling financial products by the spring of 1988. on friday, he said the telephone problems had commanded so much of management's attention that that timetable had been delayed
but he noted that in the past six months, home shopping had acquired two seats on the new york stock exchange and one seat on the amex and bought a dallas-based brokerage, wealth planning resource center
paxson said home shopping hopes to sell a family of investment funds through the television programs eventually, but said, ``we are going to move very slowly'' and declined to estimate when that would be
the stock market staged a strong recovery near the close friday to finish higher after a broad early selloff
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down more than 20 points at midafternoon, closed with a gain of 8.95 at 2,034.98. for the week the average lost 22.88 points
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 7 to 5 on the new york stock exchange, with 856 up, 676 down and 464 unchanged. earlier, declines had predominated by as much as 2 to 1
big board volume totaled 200.02 million shares, against 197.26 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose .53 to 149.45
analysts said traders were a bit unnerved by thursday's drop in stock prices, when the dow jones industrials fell 48.24 points for their largest loss in more than two months
but a midsession slide gave way to buying friday as the dow dropped to near the 2,000 level
stocks drew some support from falling interest rates in the credit markets, where prices of long-term treasury bonds rose more than $5 for each $1,000 in face value
the bond market got a lift from news of an unexpected 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index last month and a relatively modest 0.6 percent rise in retail sales for the same period
a big chunk of friday's activity came in the stock of mfs intermediate income trust, which traded at 10 on turnover of more than 35 million shares after a 200 million-share initial offering at that price
the debut of the closed-end investment company specializing in interest-bearing securities with maturities of 10 years or less marked the largest initial public stock offering ever in the u.s. market
among actively traded blue chips, general electric gained | to 43|; international business machines 1} to 115{, and exxon { to 42[. american telephone &amp; telegraph slipped \ to 28 and eastman kodak was down ] at 41}
home shopping network, traded on the american stock exchange, fell 1] to 6[. the company reported a 44 percent earnings decline for its latest fiscal quarter
super valu stores finished unchanged at 23 after trading as high as 24[. the company, which has been the subject of takeover speculation, said it hadn't received any offers and knew of no reason for the recent activity in its stock
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $5.93 billion, or 0.23 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 224.82 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 1.14 to 307.39, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 1.10 at 264.94
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped 1.28 to 375.48. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 296.09, up .09. supplies</head>
prices for may and july delivery of cotton surged friday on a combination of technical factors, bargain hunting and concerns about a drop in supplies, analysts said
on other markets, livestock and meat futures finished mostly higher in a volatile session; precious metals were mixed; grains and soybeans were mixed; energy futures advanced; and stock-index futures moved higher
strong technical buying boosted near-month cotton futures prices on the new york cotton exchange, but fundamental factors also played a role in the rally, said ernest simon, cotton specialist in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
from a fundamental point of view, the futures market is the cheapest market around for u.s. cotton,'' simon said
with futures priced three to five cents below cash, cotton users who do not need supplies immediately can buy cotton at a bargain on the futures market
but the buying interest also tends to raise futures prices, effectively bringing the futures markets more in line with cash prices
simon also noted some ``decertifications'' of deliverable stocks, indicating a company with obligations to deliver cotton planned to make those shipments using the type of cotton traded on the cotton exchange
cotton settled .60 cent to 1.45 cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at 63.20 cents a pound
cattle futures ended higher on the chicago mercantile exchange in a volatile session marked by a failed attempt to rally the live cattle market above its previous highs
traders bid the april contract up to 73.50 cents a pound, just .05 cent shy of the contract's lifetime high. but buying interest disappeared at that point and the april contract dropped to 72.67 cents on profit-taking late in the day, said philip stanley, an analyst with thomson mckinnon securities inc. in chicago. prices rebounded before the close, however
hog futures contracts advanced despite the week's slaughter of nearly 1.68 million head, the largest weekly slaughter of the spring. frozen pork bellies settled mostly lower on indications of growing supplies
live cattle settled .13 cent to .40 cent higher with april at 73.32 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .03 cent to .45 cent higher with march at 82 cents a pound; hogs were .25 cent lower to .10 cent higher with april at 43.25 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .45 cent lower to .70 cent higher with march at 51.20 cents a pound
gold and silver futures retreated on new york's commodity exchange in reaction to the labor department's producer price index report showing a 0.2 percent drop in wholesale prices last month, analysts said
gold settled $1.80 to $2.60 lower with april at $442.20 a troy ounce; silver was 3.5 cents to 8.7 cents lower with march at $6.23 a troy ounce
grain and soybean futures settled mixed in lackluster trading on the chicago board of trade
most soybean contracts advanced on higher soybean oil prices and on talk that u.s. soybean plantings will not exceed 60 million acres this year, analysts said
traders have been worried about the possibility of a sharper increase in planted soybean acreage, which totaled 57.4 million acres in 1987
wheat futures ended fractionally higher, corn was slightly lower and oats closed modestly higher
wheat settled unchanged to } cent higher with march at $2.90{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1 cent lower with march at $1.96} a bushel; oats were 2\ cents to 4} cents higher with march at $1.86 a bushel; soybeans were { cent lower to 2 cents higher with march at $6.03{ a bushel
crude oil futures prices advanced above the $16-a-barrel level reached thursday on the new york mercantile exchange. prices for future delivery of distilled products also advanced
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 16 cents to 22 cents higher with april at $16.20 a barrel; heating oil was .52 cent to .85 cent higher with april at 44.45 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .27 cent to .47 cent higher with april at 45.60 cents a gallon
stock-index futures moved higher on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 2.70 points higher at 161.45. the underlying spot index advanced 3.50 points, closing at 169.25
the following graphics are available in ap access
in this menu each graphic's file name (all caps) is followed by a brief description, time of input into the ap access host computer and the sau column measurement. all times are eastern standard

alaska, results of democratic caucuses 3-10, 3-11 430p, 1c x 3[
timeline, entry and exit into presidential race by candidates, 3-11 230p, 3c x 4[
bosses, many americans work for businesses that have at least 10 percent foreign ownership; no. breakdowns; 3-11 200p, 2c x 3{
econcharts, producer price index for feb. 88, 3-11 930a, 1c x 4\
stockcollar, nyse controls on computer-driven trading, 3-11 930a, 2c x 5{
mexpetro, chart showing value and percent of export revenues of petroleum exported in mexico, 3-10 535p, 1c x 7~
ncaa, blank bracket for basketball championship will be updated 3-13 with names for rounds one and two, 3-9 510p, 4c x 7{
almtriv, base art for weather trivia and almanac, trivia march 10-23 and almanac march 10-21, 3-9 510p, standard
the general services administration on friday extended by one month the deadline for bids on a new, multi-billion dollar government telephone system to give us sprint communications co. more time to draft its proposal
the gsa said it was ``reluctantly'' extending the deadline to april 29, but said it was doing so ``to insure the fullest possible competition'' for the contract, one of the biggest ever let by the government
besides sprint, only two other teams of companies are bidding on the project, the work for which will be split 60-40 between two vendors
the other bidders are a team led by american telephone &amp; telegraph co. and another headed by martin marietta corp. with mci communications corp
us sprint, a joint venture of gte corp. and united telecommunications inc., will team with gte government systems, according to industry sources who spoke on condition they not be identified by name
the contract for the new telecommunications system, called fts-2000, is valued at as much as $25 billion over 10 years. the winners will replace the government's 25-year-old phone system with a state-of-the-art network for voice, data, video conferencing and other communications services
the extension is the fifth time the bid deadline has been postponed since the contract was opened to bidding in january 1987. last fall, under pressure from congress, the gsa revised the contract to split the award between two vendors instead of giving it all to one bidder
us sprint originally had teamed with electronic data systems to bid on the project, but they withdrew, citing confusion in the procurement process. however, after the contract was revised us sprint decided to re-enter the bidding
us sprint officials declined to comment on the company's request for the extension, but the gsa said us sprint needed the additional time ``to address many functions and aspects of the procurement they had previously assigned to eds'' in the original joint venture
gsa administrator terence c. golden said the agency determined that ``us sprint is indeed committed to competing for fts-2000 and has in place the necessary resources to live up to its commitment to submit a proposal by april 29.''
bond prices rose friday in reaction to news of a decline in wholesale prices and slower-than-expected retail spending
the treasury's bellwether 30-year bond rose 21-32 point, or about $6.56 per $1,000 in face amount, as its yield fell to 8.50 percent from 8.55 percent late thursday
the government reports were interpreted as bullish for bond prices, said elizabeth g. reiners, vice president for money-market research at the investment firm dean witter reynolds inc
the labor department reported that wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in february, following a 0.4 percent rise in january. bond traders were heartened by the slowing in inflation, ms. reiners said
the bond market fears inflation because it erodes the value of fixed-income securities
also friday, the commerce department reported retail sales rose 0.6 percent in february. but the department also revised its january figures to reflect a drop in consumer spending that month
consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, so any dropoff heightens concern about a possible recession. but bond traders respond bullishly to such negative statistics because the federal reserve board is considered unlikely to rein in credit by raising interest rates if the economy is sluggish
bond prices and interest rates move in opposite directions, so lower interest rates mean bonds would be worth more
partially offsetting the favorable news from the government was an increase in oil prices and a small decline in the value of the dollar
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term government issues ranged 1-16 point to 3-32 point higher, intermediate maturities rose between 5-32 point and 13-32 point and 20-year issues rose 23-32 point, according to figures provided by telerate inc., a financial information service
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 2.39 to 1,181.83
in corporate trading, industrial and utility issues rose { point in moderate trading, according to the investment firm salomon brothers inc
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.93 to 284.23
in the municipal bond market, the bond buyer index of 40 actively traded general-obligation and revenue bonds rose 5-32 point to 89 9-16 as of 3 p.m. est. the average yield fell to 8.04 percent from 8.06 percent
yields on three-month treasury bills fell 1 basis point to 5.73 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 1 basis point to 5.83 percent and one-year bills dropped 5 basis points to 6.24 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted late in the day at 6 9-16 percent, unchanged from late thursday. fe</head>
a delaware chancery court judge friday denied henley group inc.'s request for a preliminary injunction against santa fe southern pacific corp., clearing the way for santa fe's restructuring plan to proceed
the legal action is the latest in a series of manuevers involving santa fe and a pair of companies _ henley and olympia &amp; york of toronto, canada _ vying to take over the chicago-based railroad and energy conglomerate
the court's denial means santa fe will immediately begin issuing debentures of $5 per share to stockholders who already received a special cash dividend of $25 per share, santa fe spokesman bob gehrt said
the debentures, at 16 percent interest, come due in 2004. the payments are part of a restructuring plan aimed at thwarting a hostile takeover bid from henley of la jolla, calif
henley had filed a lawsuit seeking an injunction to block issuance of the debentures
the lawsuit also asked the court to declare santa fe's recently enacted shareholder-rights plan invalid, to rescind the appointment of two olympia &amp; york executives to the santa fe board, and to allow henley to propose an amendment that would make it possible for henley to elect a majority of directors at the santa fe's annual meeting may 24
vice chancellor jack b. jacobs denied all four requests
we're studying the ruling and considering our alternatives,'' said henley spokesman norman ritter
olympia &amp; york, controlled by the canada's reichmann family, had launched a tender offer to boost its own holdings in santa fe, but agreed to support the restructuring in exchange for board representation. hospital</head>
wall street speculator john mulheren, accused of plotting to kill convicted financier ivan boesky and a former boesky aide, arrived at a private psychiatric hospital thursday after a federal appeals court lifted an order preventing his release from prison detention
mulheren went to the carrier foundation in belle mead, n.j., following the morning ruling by the 2nd u.s. circuit court of appeals in manhattan
the family and john are delighted with the results and look forward to the day when john can be home with them,'' said one of mulheren's attorneys, otto obermaier
the court denied the government's motion to continue holding mulheren in the metropolitan correctional center, saying evidence provided by a psychiatrist showed the speculator presented no danger
the government had argued that the private facility was not secure enough to house mulheren, the senior partner at jamie securities co. and a former friend of boesky, central figure in an insider trading scandal
mulheren, carrying a loaded assault rifle, was arrested feb. 18 by the police outside his rumson, n.j., home
he was charged with threatening to kill boesky and michael davidoff, boesky's former head trader. the men reportedly have implicated mulheren in possible securities law violations
mulheren's lawyers argue that he is a manic depressive who had failed to take a drug used to control impulses. tax fraud</head>
charles agee atkins, the convicted promoter of a billion-dollar tax scheme that attracted celebrities, was sentenced friday to two years in prison and four years' probation
atkins told u.s. district judge morris lasker that he felt ``deep remorse and i accept the responsibility for what occurred.''
lasker told atkins that he felt the defendant was the ``most culpable'' of the three defendants, but noted that he had received hundreds of letters on his behalf
a co-defendant, william hack, was sentenced to four months in prison, four years, eight months on probation and fined $25,000. the judge ordered him to perform 1,000 hours a year in community service during probation
the third co-defendant, ernest grunebaum, was given a six-month suspended sentence, probation of five years and ordered to do 400 hours of community service a year during probation
they remained free on bail and their sentences were stayed by the judge pending the outcome of their appeals, according to james a. moss, atkins' attorney
a 31-count indictment in march 1987 accused the three of creating more than $1.3 billion in fraudulent losses and interest expenses while trading in treasury bill futures and other government securities
those losses generated more than $350 million in bogus tax deductions for the investors, among them actor michael landon, the late andy warhol and postmaster general preston r. tisch
others include tisch's brother, cbs president and chief executive laurence a. tisch, the late lorne greene, television producer norman lear and actor sidney poitier
lasker also sentenced atkins to spend the first six months of probation at a community center and then do 500 hours a year of community service for the remaining time. moss said the center is a halfway house for those getting out of prison
the three were convicted in december of conspiring to defraud the internal revenue service; they could have received five years in prison on that count alone
atkins, of amelia island plantation, fla., also was convicted of 27 other tax-related counts; hack, of new york city, was convicted of three; grunebaum, of chappaqua, n.y., was convicted on 13 more counts. grunebaum was acquitted on two counts
those who invested are not accused of wrongdoing but will have to square accounts with the irs about back taxes on the $4 in tax deductions they were supposed to get for every $1 invested. shareholders</head>
a federal judge in nevada on friday ordered insurer farmers group inc. to put a merger proposal from unwanted suitor batus inc. before shareholders at farmers' annual meeting may 20
the court also ordered farmers to make its shareholder lists available to batus by next wednesday so batus can effectively solicit proxies for its proposal
however, the judge did instruct that the non-binding proposal be revised to recommend only that farmers' board reconsider its decision not to negotiate with louisville, ky.-based batus, the u.s. subsidiary of bat industries plc of britain
as initially drafted, batus' proposal recommended that farmers immediately enter negotiations with batus
earlier this month, batus began a hostile $63-a-share, or $4.4 billion, tender offer after its initial friendly overtures were spurned by farmers. the offer expires march 30
batus said it was ``very pleased'' with the court action, which requires farmers to include batus' negotiation proposal in farmers' proxy cards being sent to shareholders for the annual meeting
in a separate statement, farmers didn't go beyond outlining the decision and reiterating its opposition to batus' takeover effort
farmers, based in los angeles, filed suit in nevada because that is where it is incorporated
the judge's decision came just one day after farmers' board of directors unanimously rejected the batus offer as inadequate and urged its shareholders to do likewise
farmers said thursday it was exploring a variety of alternatives to a batus takeover, including restructuring or merging with another company, adding that it has held discussions with an unidentified third party about a possible leveraged buyout
batus has asked repeatedly to meet with farmers management to discuss all conditions of its takeover bid including price, but farmers has said it is not interested in such a meeting and believes batus' offer is substantially less than the company is worth
farmers is the nation's third-largest home and auto insurer after state farm and allstate and is the seventh-largest property and casualty insurer
nasa reductions in shuttle redesign efforts have been blamed for morton thiokol inc.'s layoff of more than 100 workers from its space division
morton thiokol spokesman rocky raab said friday that another 100 employees have been transferred from the division to other jobs in the company's wasatch operations
the space division has a work force of more than 2,600
raab said the layoffs came after the company learned nasa is going to limit some small-scale tests and other analyses in the shuttle redesign efforts
however, none of the large-scale tests will be cut, he said
the company has been working on a redesigned shuttle booster rocket since the jan. 28, 1986, challenger disaster. a presidential commission blamed a leaking rocket seal for igniting the explosion that destroyed the shuttle and killed its seven-member crew
meantime, morton thiokol also is reorganizing management in its strategic division to improve safety control and efficiency, raab said
two other divisions under the aerospace group, tactical and automotive products, won't be affected by the changes, he said
raab offered few details of the management restructuring, but the standard-examiner reported friday that a morton thiokol employee, who asked to remain anonymous, said the move was at least partially due to the dec. 29, 1987, fire at an mx missile motor plant that killed five workers
i think that put the icing on the cake,'' said the employee
the nation must take ``bold controversial actions'' to control federal spending in order to reduce the huge budget deficit, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said thursday
greenspan also indicated the fed would continue making the battle against high inflation the cornerstone of its long-term monetary policy
greenspan, at a luncheon of the federal reserve's 12th district banks, emphasized that future federal budget cuts _ not tax increases _ would be a major factor in bringing down the massive deficit
hiking taxes ``carries with it the risk that expenditures also will be raised, and that the resulting deficit improvement will be small,'' greenspan said
he referred to the tax resistance movement of the 1970s, chiefly triggered by california's successful tax-limiting proposition 13 ballot initiative
greenspan _ who previously has called for slashing the budget deficit _ reiterated the federal reserve's recent report to congress that gross national product was expected to grow by 2.5 percent in 1988, while time prices were expected to climb between 3 percent and 4 percent
the nation could not count on continued foreign capital inflows to help finance the deficit, greenspan said, calling such a trend ``neither a satisfactory nor a sustainable solution over the long run.''
greenspan also said that keeping inflation pressures under control was critical to continued progress in reducing the deficit
in this regard, monetary policy must maintain, as a long-run objective, establishing reasonable price stability,'' he said
greenspan praised what he said was the public's alertness to the dangers of inflation, and said he sensed ``there is still a deep reservoir of support for policies to keep inflation in check.''
