araguan soldiers; no pickup.</note>
honduran troops on wednesday surrounded about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers who entered the country chasing contra rebels, military intelligence sources told the associated press
they said the sandinista troops had crossed about 3 miles into the honduran border province of olancho, east of the capital of tegucigalpa, and had remained in the area for 24 hours
one official, who asked not to be identified, said the nicaraguan troops ``have been surrounded by our army ... and we are only waiting superior orders to enter into action.''
there really is tension and there is crisis, however we are acting with prudence but with strength in these affairs, and we hope that everything will stabilize in the next two days,'' he said
the honduran military went on alert, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
foreign minister carlos lopez contreras said that honduras' president, jose azcono hoyo, contacted nicaraguan president daniel ortega to demand the withdrawal of the troops
ortega has not confirmed the presence of sandinista soldiers in honduras, and the nicaraguan foreign ministry has denied any incursion
in washington, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said the united states was dispatching 3,200 soldiers to southern honduras to carry out training exercises and to be ``a signal to the governments and the people of central america.'' he said they would not enter any combat zones
earlier, fitzwater said azcona had asked the united states for help in dealing with an invasion
intelligence officials said the sandinista troops apparently entered honduras to destroy a base camp of the u.s.-backed contras
we have done everything possible to avoid a confrontation that would drastically affect ... both countries,'' one source said
the superior council of the armed forces, the country's highest military body, was in session most of the day, the officials said. earlier wednesday, azcona met for about six hours behind closed doors to discuss the situation with top officials and the armed forces military chiefs
lopez contreras told reporters at a news conference that the military command was reviewing battle plans in case the sandinista forces continued occupying honduran territory
in managua, ortega refused to confirm or deny that nicaraguan troops had encroached on honduran soil
lopez contreras did not comment on reports that the reagan administration was dispatching u.s. troops to honduras
we don't want to create a national panic. we only ask our compatriots to have confidence in the government and in the armed forces,'' he said
the foreign minister added that azcona had demanded that ortega order the ``withdrawal of the troops because they are raising tensions and producing insecurity in the border.''
azcona also asked presidents of costa rica, el salvador and guatemala to appeal to ortega ``to abstain from bringing about aggressive military actions against honduras,'' lopez contreras said
the government and the army are ready to put into action the right of legitimate defense,'' the foreign minister declared
military intelligence sources said that at least 2,000 sandinista troops were inside honduras and that another 4,500 were near the border in the bocay region. denounces attack. picks up 7th graf pvs, the litle-known ...</note>
a man who fired guns and grenades from behind a tombstone killed three people and wounded 68 at an ira graveside service wednesday before enraged mourners cornered and beat him
young catholics rioted in the streets afterward
belfast police arrested the gunman at the end of a wild chase over graves in the milltown roman catholic cemetery during which he hurled grenades at the pursuing mourners and fired until his gun jammed. they identified him as michael stone, a protestant, but gave no other information about him
thousands of mourners screamed and dived for cover when shots shattered the silence of the cemetery in early afternoon, as the coffins of three unarmed ira members killed by british soldiers in gibraltar were being lowered into a single grave
a companion of the attacker fled in a van parked nearby, and police said they captured him in another part of the city. both men can be held without charge for seven days. police provided no details on the second man
mainstream protestant organizations disavowed the attack. the rev. ian paisley, leader of the protestant democratic unionist party, said all ``right-thinking protestants'' would condemn the attack ``without any ambivalence whatsoever.''
the british broadcasting corp. in belfast said an anonymous caller claimed responsibility wednesday night on behalf of the protestant action force, but gave no recognized codeword to establish authenticity of the claim
the little-known extremist group has claimed responsibility for numerous sectarian assassinations
catholic youths ignored government and church appeals after the attack and rioted through the evening. they burned hijacked buses and other vehicles and blocked streets with flaming barricades
palls of smoke hung over the catholic ghettos of west belfast
police said they fired plastic bullets at rioters who fired a shot and threw stones at a police patrol in the ardoyne district of west belfast. in londonderry, the province's second city, one car was hijacked and set ablaze in the catholic bogside district
police identified the three people killed wednesday as thomas charles mcerlean, 20; john murray, 26; and kevin brady, 30. all came from catholic areas of belfast
one of those wounded at the cemetery was in critical condition and four were in seriously wounded, said a spokesman for royal victoria hospital. most victims were shot or hit by shrapnel while scrambling for cover during the melee, which lasted about five minutes
sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army, blamed protestant paramilitary groups and accused britain of collusion
in london, aides of prime minister margaret thatcher said she was ``shocked and appalled.''
her government denounced the attack as ``insane and depraved.'' it appealed for calm, as did sinn fein, church leaders and the irish republic government in dublin
police, the british government and the ulster defense association, an umbrella organization of protestant vigilante groups, and the outlawed ulster freedom fighters denied involvement
the largely catholic ira is waging a guerrilla war to drive the british from protestant-dominated northern ireland, and protestant paramilitary groups have grown up to fight it
martin mcguinness, vice president of sinn fein, said: ``it's obvious it was an attack by loyalist (protestant) movements.''
sinn fein president gerry adams said: ``there was collusion between elements with the british crown forces, probably the royal ulster constabulary (provincial police).''
police said they deliberately kept away from the funeral because of assurances that the ira would not turn it into a paramilitary display
commandos in civilian clothes killed the guerrillas, mairead farrell, 31; sean savage, 24, and daniel mccann, 30, on march 6. british officials said the three were on a mission to bomb a military ceremony at the colony
mourners were lowering miss farrell's flag-draped coffin into the grave when a bearded man opened fire 15 yards away from behind a gravestone
young men yelled ``there he is! there he is!'' and the thickset gunman bolted
his cap fell off as he reloaded his pistol, and still dodging and weaving, he fired at the youths and hurled two grenades while taunting the pursuers to keep coming, witnesses said
i saw a young man throwing things from the back of the mourners,'' said the rev. alec reid, who was saying prayers beside the open grave. ``i thought they were stones, but it looks as if they were grenades. he was also firing shots into the crowd. there was absolute chaos.''
adams said the two men involved in the attack entered the cemetery carrying bags and cameras and were mistaken for journalists
the attack occurred after moderate andy tyrie was ousted as leader of the ulster defense association. hardliners accused him of weakening the armed fight against the ira
more than 2,600 people have been killed in northern ireland's sectarian violence since august 1969
a 9-foot-tall stained glass window that was headed for the trash heap after being found in a church garage here was made by louis tiffany, an expert says
there's no question in my mind whatsoever that it's tiffany,'' said dan oppenheimer, who owns a stained glass studio in memphis and is the author of numerous published articles about the craft. ``it's a glorious find.''
the window depicts the figure of jesus and features examples of drapery glass, a technique unique to tiffany about 1905 when the piece was made, oppenheimer said
he said the window's intricate leading and the plating of glass in multiple layers caused him to suspect right away it was by tiffany, who lived from 1848 to 1933 and was america's most famous stained glass artisan
the window, which measures 4{-by-9 feet, was found last week in a packing crate in a garage at grace st. luke's episcopal church, oppenheimer said
the maintenance people were going to throw it out. they thought it was a crate of broken glass,'' he said
oppenheimer said the value of the window has not been determined, but another tiffany window at the church was appraised 10 years ago at $132,000
in 1977, oppenheimer identified three of the church's windows as tiffany's and his findings were confirmed by sotheby parke bernet, the art auction house
oppenheimer said the crate with the newly discovered window apparently was stored in the church basement in the 1960s but was moved recently to the garage
he said the window is probably one of seven commissioned by the grace episcopal church, which merged with st. luke's church in 1944
tiffany co. records document at least three installations at grace church and sotheby's vouches for three others. all six windows are at grace st. luke's
oppenheimer said the newly discovered window is apparently the seventh work commissioned from tiffany
there are certain earmarks you look for, including the glass itself,'' he said. ``when you find all of them in one panel and it comes from a church that has a history of commissioning stained glass from tiffany, you just have to take a leap of faith and pronounce it tiffany.''
oklahoma officials say a vacation in their state is more than ok, and they hope a road campaign in south texas will persuade ``snowbirds'' to stop by on their way back north this spring
state and private tourism supporters opened up a two-day travel show in this lower rio grande valley city tuesday, hoping to reach the thousands of retired midwesterners and canadians who spend winter in the area
you have to try pretty hard coming to south texas not to go through oklahoma,'' oklahoma lt. gov. robert s. kerr iii, who traveled to mcallen
a tourism survey, however, showed that ``oklahoma doesn't have much of an image,'' kerr said
the state has launched a $1.2 million tourism promotion campaign, said eugene dilbeck, director of the oklahoma tourism and recreation department
state officials project they will get a five-fold return on their promotional investment
unlike miss americas of recent years, kaye lani rae rafko is not looking for movie contracts or modeling jobs after her reign ends
instead, she is anxious to return to her job as a registered nurse at a hospital in toledo, ohio, working with terminally ill cancer and aids patients
after another six months of this, i'll be ready to hang up the heels and the tiara and head back to work,'' she told nurses tuesday while visiting hospitals here
the 24-year-old former miss michigan is using her reign to maximize the image of her career, however, promoting the nursing profession rather than snipping ribbons to open new shopping malls or shaking hands at state fairs
the first months of miss rafko's reign, which began in september, were booked with appearances for the pageant's six sponsors, said pageant executive director leonard horn
but once people saw that kaye lani was a nurse, we cleared her schedule to make room for more public service appearances,'' said horn, in his first year as head of the pageant
this is what i want miss america to do more of anyway _ less commercial appearances and more living up to the role model that she really is.''
miss rafko has visited numerous hospitals and hospices and spoken to many nursing associations and medical groups. she has done a public service announcement for the nursing profession and appeared on the cover of a nursing trade journal
horn said that miss rafko's career fits in perfectly with public service appearances, acknowledging that future miss americas who sing or dance for a living might not have as much expertise in dealing with service-oriented groups
but we're going to emphasize the fact that any miss america has a beneficial interest when she speaks to any number of groups, whether it's the future farmers of america or the american cancer society,'' he said. ``you don't have to be a nurse to speak to those groups and make an impression. miss america can make a difference simply by promoting education.''
but this year, miss rafko is intent on hyping her career
a main focus of today's american people is health, and fortunately i know a lot about that,'' she said
at least one other miss america was inundated with special requests for speaking engagements. miss america 1984 vanessa williams, the first black miss america, addressed many black organizations until she relinquished her crown in a scandal over nude photographs
but most recent miss americas have followed a fairly routine round of promotional appearances
in the past few years, many miss americas have concentrated on entertainment careers. there's nothing wrong with that,'' miss rafko said. ``everybody has their own dreams and goals and that's what the miss america pageant is all about.''
saying a special investigation uncovered ``a massive network'' of corruption in city prisons, prosecutors tuesday announced charges against seven guards and two inmates and said there would be more
district attorney ronald castille said during a press conference outside the philadelphia detention center that arrests could reach into the hundreds before the 18-month investigation known as ``operation ferret'' is completed. officials said the investigation was prompted by widespread reports of corruption and complaints within the system
the investigation will potentially yield the largest number of arrests related to official misconduct by correctional officers in this country's history,'' castille said. he declined to give specifics
the city has five correctional institutions with between 8,500 and 9,000 inmates. the institutions are run by 1,700 employes, 1,400 of them are guards
the first charges stemmed from two incidents, an escape from laurel hall minimum security pre-release unit and an aggravated assault against a prisoner at a downtown ywca, another pre-release facility
those named in a grand jury presentment were charged with crimes ranging from aggravated assault to escape
in the laurel hill case, guard dennis tiest, prison cook stanley suder, and inmate kenneth lynch were charged with helping inmate john longendorfer escape last july. longendorfer was serving time for terroristic threats and indecent assault
in the other incident, which occurred feb. 16, six correctional officers were charged with an unprovoked assault on inmate william kennedy. kennedy was hospitalized for four days after the attack, castille said
castille said the beating was allegedly in retaliation for kennedy reporting a guard asleep at his assigned post
those charged were officers edward ricks, sammie rogers, clemon davis, christ taylor, charles favano and sgt. peter jones
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of march 7-13. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 25.6 rating, 22.7 million homes
2. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 24.9, 22.1 million homes
3. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 23.9, 21.2 million homes
4. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 22.7, 20.1 million homes
5. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 21.4, 19.0 million homes
6. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 21.2, 18.8 million homes
7. (x) ``people's choice awards,'' cbs, 20.1, 17.8 million homes
8. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 20.0, 17.7 million homes
8. (5) ``growing pains,'' abc, 20.0, 17.7 million homes
10. (x) ``aaron's way special,'' nbc, 19.5, 17.3 million homes
11. (22) ``head of the class,'' abc, 19.4, 17.2 million homes
12. (18) ``laura lansing slept here'' _ ``nbc monday night movies,'' 18.9, 16.7 million homes
13. (11) ``alf,'' nbc, 18.5, 16.4 million homes
14. (31) ``pale rider'' _ ``abc sunday night movie,'' 18.4, 16.3 million hhomes
15. (14) ``amen,'' nbc, 18.2, 16.1 million homes
16. (7) ``who's the boss?'', abc, 17.8, 15.8 million homes
17. (14) ``matlock,'' nbc, 17.6, 15.6 million homes
18. (26) ``hunter,'' nbc, 17.4, 15.4 million homes
19. (29) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 17.2, 15.2 million homes
20. (19) ``valerie's family,'' nbc, 16.6, 14.7 million homes
21. (24) ``newhart,'' cbs, 16.3
22. (13) ``family ties,'' nbc, 15.9
23. (12) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 15.7
24. (19) ``dallas,'' cbs, 15.3
25. (x) ``shattered innocence'' _ ``cbs special movie presentation,'' 15.2
26. (24) ``227,'' nbc, 14.4
26. (27) ``day by day,'' nbc, 14.4
28. (34) ``probe'' _ ``abc monday night movie,'' 14.2
29. (41) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 13.6
30. (36) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 13.5
31. (33) ``hooperman,'' abc, 13.2
31. (31) ``designing women,'' cbs, 13.2
33. (49) ``macgyver,'' abc, 13.0
34. (73) ``48 hours: runaway children,'' cbs, 12.9
35. (35) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 12.7
36. (28) ``perfect strangers,'' abc, 12.6
37. (51) ``20-20,'' abc, 12.5
38. (x) ``magic-david copperfield,'' cbs, 12.4
38. (68) ``full house,'' abc, 12.4
40. (40) ``dynasty,'' abc, 12.3
41. (38) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 12.1
41. (41) ``supercarrier,'' abc, 12.1
43. (54) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 11.9
43. (23) ``the terminator'' _ ``nbc sunday night movie,'' 11.9
45. (60) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 11.7
45. (55) ``highwayman,'' nbc, 11.7
47. (46) ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs, 11.6
48. (49) ``the slap maxwell story,'' abc, 10.7
49. (63) ``our house,'' nbc, 10.3
49. (51) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 10.3
51. (46) ``dolly!'' abc, 9.8
51. (61) ``mr. belvedere,'' abc, 9.8
53. (57) ``a year in the life,'' nbc, 9.5
54. (46) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 9.4
55. (65) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 9.0
56. (64) ``14 going on 30,'' part 2, _ ``disney sunday movie,'' abc, 8.8
57. (65) ``spenser: for hire,'' abc, 8.7
58. (x) ``decision `88: super tuesday,'' nbc, 8.5
59. (67) ``buck james,'' abc, 8.2
59. (82) ``probe,'' abc, 8.2
61. (79) ``ohara,'' abc, 8.1
62. (84) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 7.9
63. (76) ``hotel,'' abc, 7.5
64. (x) `` `88 vote: super tuesday,'' abc, 7.2
64. (x) ``barry manilow: swing street,'' cbs, 7.2
66. (79) ``thorns,'' abc, 6.6
67. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 6.0
68. (x) ``campaign `88: super tuesday,'' cbs, 5.7
68. (na) ``married...with children,'' fox, 5.7
70. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 4.5
71. (x) ``redeye express,'' cbs, 4.4
72. (na) ``garry shandling show,'' fox, 4.2
73. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 3.4
74. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 3.1
75. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 2.6
76. (na) ``the new adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 2.2
76. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 2.2
78. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.7
as he stripped and cleaned the ak-47 assault rifle on his desk, federal judge miguel angel izaguirre said he has good reason to try to stop latin american cocaine from reaching the streets of the united states
in 20 years, the youth that is taking all this cocaine will be running america and influencing latin america _ with the mentality of cokeheads,'' he said. ``north america's influence in this region is tremendous. so we latin americans have to try to ensure that american youth does not take cocaine.''
the 41-year-old izaguirre is the federal judge in this caribbean coastal town. he also is a weapons buff and student of military history
men, like arms, are proven on the field of battle,'' he said in an interview in his cramped and cluttered office that also contained an uzi submachine gun. ``and this is my field of battle.''
he has survived two attempts on his life, he said _ one with an incendiary bomb, the other a machine-gun attack on his home during which he returned fire with his soviet-made ak-47
i love the ak,'' he said. his arsenal of weapons, he explained, is ``to defend myself against the medellin cartel.''
the medellin cartel, named for the city in colombia where it is based, is believed responsible for more than 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the united states
they have tried to bribe me with money, women, airplanes and yachts,'' he said
leaning against the wall were five segments of hollowed out honduran redwood ostensibly intended for assembly into rustic doors. they are evidence from the biggest drug bust in u.s. history _ the confiscation in november of four tons of cocaine by u.s. federal agents in florida. the drug, shipped from the northern honduran coast, was hidden in the hollows
according to our information, the shipment was 8,000 kilos (almost 9 tons). so more than half of it got through,'' he said
u.s. authorities were greatly concerned when, over the past few years, honduras became an increasingly important transshipment point for colombian cocaine
izaguirre has been cited as a key man in joint u.s.-honduran efforts to reduce the flow
the judge said honduras, with its long and relatively unguarded coast and scores of clandestine air strips, provided the ideal midpoint for northbound shipments
when i came here in june 1987, i found a series of cases, all of which were being dismissed for lack of evidence. ... other judges had certain fears, some got sick, some left,'' he said. but within two months, he had handed down the first conviction and prison term for cocaine trafficking in honduran judicial history
he has convicted 10 others on drug charges, and has nearly three dozen suspected traffickers in jail awaiting judgment. two major traffickers based here, the colombian luis guerrero and the cuban-american rafael gonzalez, were extradited to the united states after being arraigned by izaguirre. they are both serving terms in u.s. prisons
izaguirre said he has given the maximum penalty under honduran law to all the drug traffickers he has convicted _ five years in prison and a 5,000 lempira ($2,500) fine. he complains, however, that the law is too lenient and would like to see penalties increased. he said the law provides the same penalties for cocaine trafficking as it does for marijuana trafficking
the judge _ divorced four times and the father of five children _ carries his weapons with him wherever he goes
if it befalls me to die in this post, then i'll die, without the slightest fear,'' he said
he keeps a .357 magnun revolver on his desk within easy reach
the judge insists he has no political ambitions, but maintains contact with a number of the country's political leaders
i tell them it is imperative that we verify the origin of the parties' funds. because if we don't, we're running the grave risk that the traffickers get their people elected to congress. then they reform the constitution in their favor, they gut the anti-narcotics law; they destroy us.''
though u.s. authorities have expressed concern that drug money has corrupted some officers in honduras' armed forces, izaguirre said the cooperation given him by the military has been ``total.''
he said his interest in the military began when he was 12 years old, with the reading of karl von clausewitz, the 19th century prussian general and writer of military strategy
i was two centimeters (about an inch) too short to get into the military academy,'' he said. ``but if i had, i'm sure i would have made general.''
the reporter rode on a bus with jewish settlers who were attacked by palestinians at night. the stone-throwing assault was one of the nightly incidents that are raising the level of tension in the occupied territories
rocks smashed through windows of bus no. 60, shattering the quiet murmur of hebrew as jewish settlers traveled home on a moonless night
israelis clutching frightened children in their arms ducked quickly into the aisle. several men leaped to their feet and fired shots through two broken windows. in the darkness, the voice of a young israeli boy rang out: ``get the arabs! get them!''
stop the bus!'' shouted another angry israeli woman
the driver, an israeli arab, hesitated and then pulled to a stop. three israelis ran from the front of the bus, firing shots, and two others went out the back door. but it was too late. the palestinian stone-throwers had disappeared into the night
in a 45-minute period monday night, arab attackers heaved stones through windows of three buses and five cars near this arab village on the outskirts of the settlement of kiryat arba, about 20 miles south of jerusalem. no arabs were caught
three israelis were treated for cuts at a nearby hospital, but there were no serious injuries
jewish settlers say, however, the assaults show this biblical land is increasingly becoming a battlefield and the arabs see them as the target
make no mistake. this is war,'' said one woman aboard bus no. 60, social worker rachel klein, 50
about 50 settlers, including a dozen children and three infants, were aboard when the bus was attacked about 9 p.m. most of the women wore headscarves and the men wore knitted yarmulkes, the head caps of observant jews
the red-and-white bus, marked with three hebrew letters denoting the eged civilian bus cooperative, was on a scheduled hour-long run from jerusalem to the west bank town of hebron. the trip on the winding narrow road took the settlers past several arab villages and refugee camps, including the city of bethlehem and the dheishe refugee camp, which is blocked by a 10-foot-high wire fence to prevent stone-throwing
settlers retaliated before dawn tuesday, setting fire to three arab-owned cars in halhoul and breaking the windows of several others, said yossi dayan, president of a newly formed kiryat arba security committee
dayan said a rising number of settlers who previously were inactive are being driven to fight back by the nearly nightly attacks, even if it means breaking israeli law
the latest leaflet signed by the palestine liberation organization and distributed in the west bank and gaza ordered arabs to step up their fight against ``the occupation (and) its settlers.''
arabs have not only thrown stones and firebombs at israeli vehicles, but also defiantly hang the outlawed palestinian banner from utility poles along roads used by settlers. the nationalist symbol acts like a red flag for many israelis
they don't have the same rights in this country as we do,'' said the london-born mrs. klein, who has lived 13 years in kiryat arba. ``how can we let them make us cower in fear on our own buses in our own country?
our government is diddling and afraid to take strong action,'' she said. ``but the arabs only understand a clear message. we should give them one.''
some settlers already have tried to send a message, damaging arab-owned cars, carrying out patrols along west bank roads and sometimes firing shots at palestinians
settlers are blamed for killing seven of the arabs who have died during the 14-week uprising
but, dayan warned: ``if the army doesn't move to stop acts of violence against us, we are going to take far more serious steps. we are discussing setting up some kind of _ i don't want to call them militias _ but some kind of patrols.''
the army maintains an around-the-clock presence in the west bank. but fewer soldiers are in evidence now than a month ago, and the settlers complain that even when troops are on the scene, they are prevented by defense ministry policy from adequately retaliating against the arabs
many people in kiryat arba prefer if the army doesn't come, because then they can respond in their own way,'' said baruch goldstein, a brooklyn, n.y.-born settler and also a member of the security committee
kiryat arba is breaking into two groups. one is of people who are frightened, tend to ride the buses less and will eventually leave,'' goldstein said. ``the other, larger group will stay and, sooner or later, take its own action to stop the violence.''
goldstein, a 31-year-old doctor who specializes in trauma cases, said about four times as many vehicles traveling between jerusalem and kiryat arba were stoned in the first three months of this year, compared with the first three months of 1987
on sunday, a 12-year-old girl from kiryat arba was struck on the face by a stone as she traveled on a bus to school. her nose was broken, her teeth chipped and her upper lip cut, said goldstein, who treated her
people know it is against the law for them to act against the arabs and they will be arrested if they do,'' he said. ``but as the violence against us increases, people are deciding they don't have too much to lose. they are realizing coexistence with the arabs is an impossibility.''
terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, today began his fourth year as a hostage in lebanon. here is a chronology of the 40-year-old american journalist's captivity:
march 16 _ anderson is abducted on beirut street. telephone caller says islamic jihad kidnapped him as part of ``continuing operations against america and its agents.''
may 16 _ first photo of anderson in captivity is released. islamic jihad warns of ``catastrophic consequences'' if kuwait does not free alleged terrorists
sept. 9 _ rev. benjamin weir is freed after 16 months in captivity. president reagan says he ``will not be satisified'' until remaining americans also are released
oct. 29 _ beirut television stations broadcast videotaped birthday message from relatives and friends to anderson, two days after he turned 38
nov. 8 _ in open letter, anderson and three other captive americans call on reagan to ``have mercy'' and negotiate with kidnappers
feb. 15 _ anderson's father, glenn r. anderson, dies of cancer at age 69
june 7 - anderson's 46-year-old brother, glenn richard jr., dies of cancer four days after making a videotape from his bed appealing to terry's captors
july 26 _ rev. lawrence martin jenco, freed after almost 19 months as hostage, says he was held with anderson and two other hostages for a year
oct. 3 _ in videotaped appeal, anderson and david jacobsen call on reagan administration to work as hard for their release as it did in winning release of journalist nicholas daniloff in moscow
oct. 31 _ beirut tv stations broadcast videotape showing anderson's 16-month-old daughter, whom he has never seen
nov. 2 _ jacobsen, freed after 17 months in captivity, says hostages ``are in hell.''
nov. 15 _ islamic jihad releases new picture of anderson
dec. 28 _ fourth picture of anderson is sent by captors to western news agency in beirut
jan. 16 _ islamic jihad distributes another picture of anderson
june 7 _ anderson's daughter is shown on lebanese tv on her second birthday saying, ``our hearts are broken. where is daddy?''
aug. 2 _ sixth photo of anderson is released by islamic jihad
oct. 21 _ islamic jihad releases another photo of anderson
oct. 27 _ as anderson turns 40, friends and family gather at jefferson memorial in washington and ap staff in beirut goes to his vacant office to mark day
nov. 26 _ jacobsen says he learned from sources in government and middle east that anderson being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day
dec. 10 _ anderson passes his 1,000th day as hostage in lebanon
dec. 14 _ london newspaper reports soviet intelligence officials told american officials at summit that foreign hostages were undergoing brutal treatment and drugging
dec. 24 _ anderson's captors release a videotape of anderson. appearing to read from a prepared text, anderson criticizes the reagan administration for failing to secure his and fellow prisoners' freedom and warns ``there's a limit to how long we can last.''
dec. 30 _ london newspaper reports cia analysis of videotape indicates anderson may be held in basta prison in west beirut, along with kidnapped anglican church envoy terry waite
march 10 _ anderson's sister peggy say and former hostage jenco accuse presidential candidates of avoiding question of american hostages in lebanon
march 16 _ anderson begins his fourth year as a hostage
here is a chronology of events in the panamanian crisis:

thursday, feb. 25 _ panama's president, eric arturo delvalle, announces he is dismissing gen. manuel antonio noriega, indicted on u.s. drug charges, as defense chief and replacing him with col. marcos justines, chief of staff. justines refuses job
friday, feb. 26 _ noriega-dominated national assembly votes to oust delvalle. education minister manuel solis palma named new head of state. noriega opponents call for general strike in protest. diplomats and economists say customers begin run on domestically owned banks
saturday, feb. 27 _ delvalle goes into hiding in panama, defying noriega's order that he leave country
sunday, feb. 28 _ organization of american states sidesteps panama issue by refusing to choose between two men claiming to be panama's ambassador
monday, feb. 29 _ general strike begins with mixed participation. panama's ambassador to united states, juan b. sosa, refuses to relinquish post to noriega designee
tuesday, march 1 _ general strike gains support in second day. locally owned banks close. international banks limit withdrawals. plainclothesmen wreck only remaining opposition radio station in panama city. security forces crack down on protests amid scattered violence. u.s. government officially denounces panama as deficient in fighting drug trade. delvalle outlines plans to freeze panamanian assets outside country. united states, still recognizing delvalle as president, supports action
wednesday, march 2 _ doctors join businesses in general strike. u.s. officials confirm they will ask u.s. banks to freeze panamanian government assets. more violence reported in panama city
thursday, march 3 _ organizers end general strike as support fades, saying money crunch will keep pressure on government. president reagan indicates he believes noriega must go. congressmen propose trade, air travel and currency embargo on noriega regime. u.s. federal courts temporarily block withdrawal of panama funds from u.s. banks
friday, march 4 _ national bank of panama says it cannot meet banks' cash demands because of freeze on bank deposits. international banks fearing a run on deposits close their doors. local banks remain closed
sunday, march 7 _ alliance of business and civic groups opposed to noriega calls for ``government of national reconciliation'' and ``authentic democracy.'' retired people unable to cash pension checks rally in streets
monday, march 8 _ riot police disperse demonstrators in panama with tear gas and birdshot
tuesday, march 9 _ government says banks can reopen but no one can cash checks or withdraw funds. few banks respond. two prominent panamanian diplomats break with noriega
wednesday, march 10 _ the u.s. house votes 367-2 for a non-binding resolution calling on reagan to ``consider seriously'' additional economic and political sanctions. libyan television reports noriega asked for libyan backing against ``american military aggression and economic threats.''
friday, march 11 _ reagan imposes economic sanctions, including eliminating trade preferences for panama and withholding panama canal fees from the noriega government by placing them in escrow. noriega government meets army payroll. miami federal judge grounds air panama, freezing its assets while he decides which panamanian officials should control the airline. spain tells ukkknited states it would accept noriega if he asked for asylum
saturday, march 12 _ panamanian cabinet meets in emergency session
sunday, march 13 _ solis palma calls cabinet into another emergency session
monday, march 14 _ public employees stage work stoppages and riot after government is unable to pay wages. riot police use tear gas and truncheons to disperse hundreds blocking traffic. reagan administration hints it may reassess demand for noriega's extradition in order to allow him to step down. u.s. sends 100 additional military personnel to beef up security around canal
tuesday, march 15 _ reagan says u.s. wants noriega ``out of there.'' at least a dozen are injured in demonstrations as civil servants take to streets to demand paychecks. panama orders u.s. embassy official to leave country, but u.s. rejects demand. government says it will make partial payments to public employees. employee union leaders reject plan and demand full salaries. bgng ``i am bumping...</note>
pat robertson met with the republican national chairman tuesday to discuss his faltering presidential bid and said later he is ``laying the foundation'' for 1992
robertson suffered another disappointing showing in illinois, collecting just 7 percent in tuesday's primary. though he insisted he will remain in the 1988 race, robertson appeared to be looking ahead
i am laying the foundation now and definitely talking to people about 1992. i will play a major role in the gop,'' he told reporters at his headquarters in chesapeake, va
robertson also talked with reporters after his meeting with republican national committee chairman frank fahrenkopf. he said he is approaching the $27 million limit that candidates are allowed to spend in the primary season. he said he is laying off staff and will be forced to discontinue the big spending that has characterized his campaign so far
i am bumping up against the limit. ... i have enough money to keep in the race through california and the convention. but i don't have enough to do telemarketing and television,'' he said. ``my own personal travel will continue but as far as a full-blown media campaign i can't afford that any more.''
election law restricts spending by presidential candidates who accept federal matching funds for their campaigns
the meeting with fahrenkopf took place at robertson's request, a party spokeswoman said
robertson said, ``we were discussing arrangements for the convention in august and also discussing ways where i could help republicans gain control of key state legislatures, for instance the legislature of california, so that we could achieve redistricting of a fair basis in the early 1990s and use that as a basis to gain control of the house of representatives and the united states senate for the republican party.''
rnc spokeswoman kathryn murray confirmed the meeting had focused on those two topics at the suggestion of robertson
she said robertson expressed a wish to campaign on behalf of republican candidates at all levels. fahrenkopf ``welcomes his support,'' she said
as long as he can continue to bring new voters into the republican party, that's a positive,'' murray said
robertson also met tuesday with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir who was in washington for talks with u.s. officials
robertson said he and shamir were ``old friends.'' the christian broadcasting network that robertson founded broadcasts in the middle east
robertson endorsed shamir's stance against giving up israeli occupied lands to the palestinian people until after ``a period of palestinian self rule.''
any surrender of territory in the near future would seriously imperil the ability of israel to defend itself,'' he said, adding that he supports negotiations among the israelis, jordan and palestinians
on politics, he was pressed to explain how he could continue campaigning without spending money. robertson said that in illinois he spent only $20,000
i have tens of thousands of volunteers who are working ceaselessly night and day because they care for a cause, they care for principle,'' he said. ``its a movement to bring about conservative principles in america.''
a viewer never knows exactly what to expect from the lar lubovitch dance company but it's almost certain to be interesting. tuesday's opening night of a two-week season presented two very different premieres and a masterpiece from 1986, ``concerto six twenty-two.''
the opening, which attracted a formal-dress audience to the city center, marks the 20th anniversary of lubovitch's founding his own modern dance company to dance his choreography
musette,'' the premiere ending the evening, is set to poulenc's ``concerto for two pianos.'' lubovitch has six couples follow the music's moods, which often change. he doesn't repeat himself
early in the dance, though in bare feet, the dancers assume the leg and foot positions of ballet. lubovitch has, as he usually does, a time for humor. one man's solo ends, to his apparent surprise, when two men pick him up and carry him off stage. at one time, half the dancers stand still, while the rest dance in and out among them like skiers going around poles
when the music becomes lyrical, the men lift and carry the women so their colorful tulle skirts look like big candy canes going by. there is a section that looks like court dancing and one that looks like trained dancers' variations of america's folk version of court dancing, the reel. a romantic section of music has two men picking up one woman between them and gracefully swinging her. ``musette'' ends most satisfactorily with a courtly bow
of my soul,'' to a bach ``cantata,'' was danced at avery fisher hall last summer at the mostly mozart festival. the company considers this the ``official'' premiere. lubovitch incorporated some american sign language into the arm movements. it's an arresting idea which doesn't come off brilliantly
some of the arm movements translate what four people are singing in the orchestra pit. lubovitch has made them flow in and out of expansive arm reaches. that works but the whole thing doesn't seem to arise from the music like the evening's other two dances
concerto six twenty-two,'' premiered at carnegie hall in 1986, is danced to mozart's ``concerto for clarinet and orchestra.'' the dancers, wearing white, in the first and third movements, looked inspired and fresh. the middle movement, danced by sylvain lafortune and rick michalek, remains one of dance's most moving and dignified duets. in such simple things as one man leaning back against the other's hand, it shows human support and trust
the solisti new york chamber orchestra, conducted by ransom wilson, did a beautiful job with the mozart and bach music. the poulenc music was a recording
michael j. fox's acrobatic quest for a soft drink to satisfy an attractive apartment neighbor won three awards in an international competition for television and radio commercials
the tv commercial for diet pepsi was named sweepstakes winner, world's best live action 60-second english-language commercial and best humorous commercial at tuesday's 28th international broadcasting awards dinner
a series of three commercials for wine world was the radio sweepstakes winner. it also won the series trophy
the annual competition sponsored by the hollywood radio and television society attracted more than 5,000 entries from 60 countries
radio personalities casey kasem and gary owens were masters of ceremonies at the black-tie presentations at the century plaza hotel attended by an estimated 1,500 advertising and broadcasting executives from around the world
the society also honored bea arthur, rue mcclanahan, betty white and estelle getty of nbc's ``the golden girls'' as international ``women of the year.''
actress lillian gish has donated $10,000 to bowling green state university to enhance the film theater that bears her family's name
the gift is designated for the dorothy and lillian gish film theater endowment fund, which supports activities in the building that commemorates the gish sisters' contributions to the performing arts
the theater, dedicated in 1976, showcases the art of film by offering regular showings of classic movies
the theater is undergoing a $250,000 renovation of its seating, projection facilities, and gallery. the renovation is scheduled to be completed in may 1989
ms. gish also donated $10,000 in 1986 to advance and support the study of film at bowling green
ms. gish, 91, was born in ohio and made her acting debut at the turn of the century in the village of rising sun, about 20 miles from bowling green
the tv personality who calls himself the amazing kreskin looked into the future of entertainment and predicted that dinner theaters next season will offer more than just musicals
future dinner theaters will resemble the supper clubs of the 1940s with plush decor, outstanding meals and a wider variety of entertainment, kreskin said tuesday in a speech to the annual convention of the national dinner theater association
because television is offering a wider choice of entertainment, ``to survive in the next decade, you must offer more than the same old buffet and musical,'' he said
he said concerts, discos and festivals also have changed theatergoers' tastes. ``they want to participate in the entertainment rather than just sitting and watching a production.''
while kreskin made it clear he was available for such engagements, richard aikins, theatrical producer and chairman of the convention, said he thought kreskin's view was valid
kreskin, a 53-year-old self-styled ``mentalist,'' has performed extrasensory feats on his own syndicated tv show and in dozens of talk-show appearances
musicians from 10 western countries including david bowie, jennifer rush and irish rockers u-2 have agreed to perform along with soviet musicians in benefit concerts next month to fight drug addiction
the official novosti press agency said other foreign performers scheduled are level 42, supertramp, foreigner, tangerine dream and bon jovi
participating soviet groups are aquarium, bravo, brigade s, black coffee and others whose music ranges from heavy metal to traditional rock 'n' roll, novosti said
the press agency did not give a date, but said the three six-hour concerts will be held in late april at the 30,000-seat olympic stadium in moscow
sources close to the organizers said the concerts were postponed from this month because of bureaucratic red tape
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said former beatles george harrison and paul mccartney, as well as julian lennon, son of the late beatle john lennon, had been invited. it was unclear whether they would participate
the press agency said revenue from tickets costing about $16 each will be donated to the united nations fund for the struggle against drug addiction and to the soviet toxicology research center
laryngitis caused nancy reagan to cancel a trip today to a nashville, tenn., school that a snowstorm had prevented her from visiting once before
she can't talk. it's a bad case of laryngitis,'' spokeswoman wendy weber toler said tuesday. ``she started losing her voice last night.''
mrs. toler said the white house physician, dr. john hutton, had advised the first lady not to travel
it was the second time the first lady had been forced to cancel the visit to warner elementary school and a drug and alcohol abuse prevention program; a snowstorm had prevented mrs. reagan from visiting the city the first time
jeb stuart magruder, a former white house aide who served seven months in prison for his role in the watergate coverup, says he's well prepared to head the mayor's commission on values and ethics
i talk about these issues to the kiwanises and the rotaries around here, as well as deal with these issues through the church, so i would hope that my background would be helpful,'' magruder said tuesday
after his release from prison in 1976, magruder entered a seminary and was ordained in 1981 as a presbyterian minister
mayor dana rinehart appointed the 15-member volunteer commission, on which he also will sit, as part of the city's response to an incident last year in which passersby made off with bags of money that fell from an armored truck on a freeway
magruder, president nixon's deputy director of communications at the time of the 1972 watergate break-in, pleaded guilty to perjury and conspiracy to obstruct justice
the national aeronautics and space administration says the ozone shield is in fact thinning measurably due to chlorofluorocarbon compounds
a nasa panel said the shield thinned out by about 2.3 percent over a 17-year period ending in 1986 in the temperate zones of the northern hemisphere. the panel said the shield thinned by 0.5 percent to 1.8 percent over nine years ending in 1987 in the tropics and part of the temperate zones of both hemispheres
this means increased skin cancer around the world, largely unknown effects on fish and wildlife and increased pressure from environmentalists to go beyond the treaty approved by the senate to cut emissions of ozone-destroying chemicals
chlorofluorocarbons are used as refrigeration fluids, cleaning solvents and plastic foam blowing agents
at this point there is no other culprit to blame,'' panel member sherwood rowland of the university of california at irvine said tuesday. ``we have taken out all the natural phenomena that are believed to affect ozone.''
a massive 17-month effort by more than 100 scientists convened by nasa went through practically every ozone observation made in recent years, trying to correct for instrument errors and drift and to remove the effects of the 11-year solar cycle and the biennial oscillation of high-altitude winds
since 1985, there have been several reports of ozone decline worldwide in addition to the well-established ozone ``hole'' over antarctica _ a 50 percent decline in springtime, followed by recovery
environmental protection agency administrator lee m. thomas said the report ``will certainly be a part of the 1990 assessment'' called for in the treaty. ``the crucial first step, however, is speedy international ratification,'' he said
but sen. robert t. stafford, r-vt., said, ``the nations of the world should immediately reconvene to consider amendments'' to the treaty, and the united states should resume its advocacy of a complete ban. ``we've got to make deeper cuts in cfc emissions,'' said sen. max baucus, d-mont
kevin fay, executive director of the alliance for a responsible cfc policy, a group of producers and users, said the 1990 schedule ``is the framework to be followed'' because unilateral reductions won't help
the senate voted 83-0 on monday to approve a 31-nation treaty calling for 50 percent cuts by 1998 in production of chlorofluorocarbons
noting that cfc compounds over antarctica now were released at ground level about 10 years ago and that the antarctic hole could last 100 years even if the treaty is followed, rowland said, ``there's plenty of reason to re-open the ... protocol.''
ozone at high altitudes makes life on earth possible by blocking the harmful ultraviolet rays. the epa estimates that each percent decrease in ozone means a 4.8 percent to 7.5 percent increase in non-melanoma skin cancer and a 0.8 percent to 1.5 percent increase in the more deadly melanoma form
considering the incidence and death rates of both forms, this would mean 280 to 455 deaths per year on top of the 10,000 from skin cancer in the united states, or 640 to 1,050 deaths if a 2.3 percent decline were uniform across the country
the 2.3 percent is not uniform. nasa presented its 1969-1986 northern hemisphere estimates from ground obserations as averages over each of three bands: 30 degrees latitude (about the latitude of houston, cairo and shanghai) to 40 degrees (philadelphia and madrid), down 1.7 percent; 40 degrees to 53 degrees (edmonton, alberta, and berlin), down 3.0 percent; and 53 degrees to 64 degrees (fairbanks, alaska, and reykjavik, iceland), down 2.3 percent
no single estimate was presented for all three bands, but rowland said the average, a 2.3 percent decline, would be close. all the estimates have substantial uncertainty about them. each of the three band estimates has a 68 percent chance of being plus or minus 1.0 percentage point, at most, away from the number given
corrected satellite data show an ozone decline of about 2.5 percent in the band running from 53 degrees north to 53 degrees south from 1978 through 1987. but 0.7 percent to 2.0 percent of this results from the solar cycle, the report said
officials in natchez say they'll reluctantly permit a white supremacist protest march against a 14-week-old black boycott of white-owned businesses in exchange for dismissal of a lawsuit against the city
u.s. district judge william h. barbour announced the settlement tuesday in dismissing a lawsuit filed by jackson attorney richard barrett on behalf of the nationalist movement. the judge also ordered natchez to pay barrett's attorneys' fees in the case
the law of the land will prevail in natchez, not the law of the jungle,'' barrett said after the announcement. ``this is a victory for the red-white-and-blue people _ meaning red-neck, white skin and blue collar.''
boycott leaders are seeking, among other things, a black school superintendent and more black teachers in the adams county-natchez school district
i'm opposed to richard barrett and his movement, but as mayor of the city, you have to abide the by the laws and the courts. we just hope nobody will show up for it,'' natchez mayor tony byrne said of the march
byrne said officials decided to settle after the county board of supervisors said the city couldn't ban the rally scheduled for the county courthouse grounds saturday afternoon, the day barrett was seeking permission for the parade through city streets
barrett had contended in his lawsuit that the city was infringing on the group's constitutional rights by retroactively applying a parade ordinance adopted march 8
we'll see to it that mr. barrett comes to town, has his parade and rally, and leaves town as expeditiously as possible,'' byrne said
two years ago the reagan administration proposed selling its overseas private investment corp. to private interests. now it's urging that the government agency be allowed to buy shares in private companies
craig a. nalen, opic's president for more than seven years, told the house foreign affairs subcommittee on economic policy on tuesday that the agency wants to begin a pilot project that would put $10 million over the next five years into black africa and the caribbean
the money would be spent to take up as much as 30 percent of the shares in new american companies there. government bodies in japan, west germany, britain and the netherlands already help their private investors in this way
opic's main job is to sell insurance to american investors overseas, against what are called political risks: war, rebellion, civil strife, confiscation and official freezing of assets. it is one of the few federal agencies that makes money: $300 million over the past three years, nalen said
opic's strong financial position makes the agency a good candidate for privatization,'' said the president's budget proposal for the year that ended last september
there was considerable opposition to the idea, both inside and outside the agency, on grounds the insurance was sought precisely because it had the power of the u.s. government behind it. after some study, the president's office of management and budget decided that opic had better stay part of the government
the privatization plan was quietly dropped
opic also makes loans to u.s. companies setting up business in other countries _ $202.8 million worth of loans and guarantees last year
nalen said tuesday that buying shares as well as making loans would help small projects get started
it would allow these heavily indebted countries to borrow less for industrial development, he said. many are unable to borrow because banks have cut back their lending he said
nalen also argued that direct investment by his agency would help u.s. investors
opic's major ... counterparts all have the ability to invest equity, thus providing their clients with a significant advantage over their u.s. competitors,'' he said in his prepared testimony
if your idea of a good tax form is one with short sentences and short words, take heart
a group of students, venturing where government has been less than successful, vows to come up with a series of tax forms that are understandable even to the high school dropout. and the students say they will finish the job within less than six months
i don't say it's a simple task, but we're going to try,'' professor nicholas j. creme, director of the center for taxation studies in the akron university school of law, said in an interview tuesday
he said he wants the students to work with the internal revenue service on the project, although the irs has not yet embraced the idea
the students' interest was piqued by what they learned while representing low-income taxpayers in audits, collections and other actions involving the irs. they learned that on the average, only 11 percent of taxpayers with less than a high school education have the reading skills to comprehend instructions for filling out forms 1040 or 1040ez
the students concluded that if taxpayers can't understand how to comply with the tax laws, they probably won't. or as creme, a tax lawyer for 20 years, put it, ``when people can't figure out the right answer, they will take the answer that gives them the best break.''
high school dropouts aren't the only people having trouble with this year's tax forms. even tax professionals shake their heads at some instructions prompted by the more complex provisions of the 1986 tax overhaul, which was initially billed as tax ``simplification.''
this sentence is part of the form 1040 instructions for determining how much interest is deductible:
if all of your mortgage debt on your principal home was borrowed before august 17, 1986, (and you have not borrowed any new amounts on that debt); or, at all times in 1987, the total of your mortgage debts was less than or equal to what you paid for the home plus improvements (such as adding a room), the mortgage interest you paid is fully deductible on line 9a or 9b, whichever applies.''
creme says that about 20 students training in law, business or education will develop a more-readable w-4 withholding form; w-2 yearend wages-earned statement; 1099 interest-earned form and the basic 1040, 1040a and 1040ez forms
we're not saying we could bring it down to a second-grade level, but we certainly can make it simpler,'' he said. ``if you simplify the forms, people will be a lot less hostile toward the irs. and you'll raise a lot more revenue.''
creme and some of the students volunteered for the project monday while testifying before a senate finance subcommittee about irs penalties. the chairman, sen. david pryor, d-ark., welcomed the idea
creme and professor james w. childs, director of the university's tax clinic, said it is not difficult to figure out why the tax forms and instructions are difficult. ``the average sentence length of these publications exceeds 25 words,'' they said in written testimony. ``one-third of the words in these publications are multisyllabled words.''
creme's solution: ``by reducing the number of syllables and the number of words in a sentence we can make the forms and instructions significantly more readable. and we want to change how the forms look _ change the spacing so things don't look so crammed in.''
irs forms are developed in consultation with lawyers, accountants and educators. in changing its forms last year to reflect the new tax law, the irs hired a consultant and even went to some shopping malls for instant reaction from random taxpayers
as for the students' project, irs spokesman steve pyrek says, ``one-syllable words are nice, but what do you do about `dependents'?''
the irs estimates nearly half of taxpayers will pay professionals to fill out their returns this year
senate approval of a bill requiring the white house to tell congress about all covert actions within 48 hours after the operations start marks a major step toward avoiding another iran-contra affair, say the measure's sponsors
this will help immeasurably toward preventing the kind of mistakes that were made'' in the iran-contra affair, sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the intelligence committee, said late tuesday after the senate voted 71-19 in favor of the bill
the measure now goes to the house, where ``overwhelming approval'' is likely, according to both boren and sen. william cohen, r-maine, vice chairman of the intelligence committee
the house intelligence committee is considering a similar bill, but no date has been set for a vote by the panel or for floor action
president reagan has threatened to veto the legislation as an unconstitutional restriction on his ability to conduct foreign policy
but boren said, ``that kind of threat has been heard before and it hasn't come true.''
cohen noted that the 71 votes are four more than the two-thirds which would be required to override any presidential veto. ``and that 71 total is without some of our supporters here,'' he said
the bill arises from the iran-contra affair, when u.s. weapons were secretly sold to iran and some of the profits were diverted to the contra guerrillas in nicaragua
reagan withheld notification about the arms sales from congress for 10 months
current laws require only that the white house give congess ``timely notice'' about covert actions, but they do not define the term. the intelligence committees had been operating on the assumption that the phrase meant only a brief delay in notification
this bill clarifies what we thought was the procedure all along,'' cohen said. ``we believed timely meant a couple of days and we were surprised to find out that the administration was working under a different definition.''
the measure doesn't give congress a veto over covert operations, cohen noted
there's no piece of legislation that can weave a web of security around good or bad judgment,'' said cohen. ``i can't say for sure this would have prevented iran-contra, but it would mean that we can give the president the benefit of our advice. the function we serve is to have a second opinion outside the administration.''
boren said if the bill eventually becomes law, ``it will help'' prevent future problems because ``it clears up so many ambiguities that are in the existing law. it makes the notification process so much more clear.''
but he warned that ``you can never prevent absolutely any future iran-contras, anymore than a law against bank robberies will prevent bank robberies.''
in the wake of the iran-contra affair, cohen noted, reagan has promised to tell capitol hill about all future covert actions and has moved administratively to make many of the changes proposed in the law. ``this only writes into law what the president has already said he would do,'' cohen said
the bill also requires written ``findings,'' which are the presidential orders authorizing covert operations. some actions in the iran-contra affair were done under an oral finding which was open to misinterpretation, boren said
before passing the bill, the senate rejected, 60-32, a proposal by sen. john chafee, r-r.i., to allow notification within 10 days, instead of two days
chafee said the time period was long enough to permit actions, such as the rescue of hostages, in which lives might be endangered by leaks of information, but short enough to discover situations such as the iranian arms sale
earlier, the chamber voted 73-18 to limit debate. that was 13 more votes than needed to invoke cloture and block an attempt by conservative republicans to pass the measure
one opponent, sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., said: ``this bill is badly drafted, badly conceived, and the worst of its conceptions is that somehow you can legislate intelligence ... it's hard for me to believe that one piece of legislation can obviate stupid activity.''
defense secretary frank c. carlucci testified last week that reagan believed the bill was an unconstitutional restriction on presidential authority and would veto it. carlucci took over as reagan's national security adviser in the wake of the iran-contra affair
here is the 71-19 roll call tuesday by which the senate passed a bill requiring the president to tell congress about all covert actions within 48 hours after they begin
there were 71 votes ``for'' and 19 votes ``against.''
adams, wash
baucus, mont
bentsen, texas;
bingaman, n.m
boren, okla
bradley, n.j
breaux, la
bumpers, ark
burdick, n.d
byrd, w.va
chiles, fla
conrad, n.d
cranston, calif
daschle, s.d
deconcini, ariz
dodd, conn
exon, neb
ford, ky
fowler, ga
glenn, ohio;
graham, fla
harkin, iowa;
hollings, s.c
inouye, hawaii;
johnston, la
kennedy, mass
kerry, mass
lautenberg, n.j
leahy, vt
levin, mich
melcher, mont
metzenbaum, ohio;
mikulski, md
mitchell, maine;
moynihan, n.y
pell, r.i
pryor, ark
reid, nev
riegle, mich
rockefeller, w. va
sanford, n.c
sarbanes, md
sasser, tenn
shelby, ala
wirth, colo
boschwitz, minn
chafee, r.i
cohen, maine;
d'amato, n.y
domenici, n.m
durenberger, minn
evans, wash;
grassley, iowa;
hatfield, ore
heinz, pa
karnes, neb
kassebaum, kan
lugar, ind
mcconnell, ky
murkowski, alaska;
packwood, ore
roth, del
rudman, n.h
specter, pa
stafford, vt
stevens, alaska
thurmond, s.c
trible, va
warner, va
weicker, conn
wilson, calif
dixon, ill
proxmire, wis
armstrong, colo
cochran, miss
danforth, mo
garn, utah;
gramm, texas;
hatch, utah;
hecht, nev
helms, n.c
kasten, wis
mccain, ariz
mcclure, idaho;
nickles, okla
pressler, s.d
quayle, ind
simpson, wyo
symms, idaho;
wallop, wyo;
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan easily fielded one complicated economic question after another from a congressional committee, but then one request stopped him cold
who was on the fed committee that charts national monetary policy when it held its most recent meeting last month?
that question, posed on tuesday by sen. john melcher, d-mont., a member of the house-senate joint economic committee, stumped greenspan and the six aides seated behind him, at least temporarily
at issue was a feb. 9-10 meeting of the 12-member federal open market committee, or fomc. it is made up of the seven members of the federal reserve board and five regional fed bank presidents
greenspan, shuffling papers and conferring with his aides, made a halting effort to name the five fed bank presidents on the panel in february _ and finally got four of the five right
you're a little bit fuzzy on just who voted in february,'' melcher said
i'm not fuzzy on who voted. i know who was on the committee. what i don't remember is which ones of them were on at that particular time,'' said greenspan, a former new york business consultant who took command of the fed last august
the committee meets every few months to chart the nation's monetary policy
melcher contends that the fed committee is unconstitutional because it holds vast power over u.s. economic policy even though five of its members are not appointed by the president nor do they undergo senate confirmation. so far, federal courts have not agreed with melcher's assertion
at that february meeting, the committee voted to widen the target range for the growth of the nation's money supply in 1988 _ an action that could bear on inflation and interest rates
greenspan told the committee he was confused because committee membership is rotated among the presidents of the 12 fed banks _ and ``we're in the process now of changing.''
joseph coyne, a spokesman for the fed, said the rotation of members onto the committee took place on march 1 _ after the last meeting
for the record, the five bank president members of the committee in february were gerald e. corrigan, president of the new york fed, a non-rotating position; edward g. boehne, philadelphia; robert h. boykin, dallas; silas keehn, chicago; and gary h. stern, minnesota
the one greenspan missed? stern. instead, he named st. louis fed chairman thomas c. melzer, not a voting member of the committee then or now. savings</head>
the reagan administration and democrats led by sen. edward m. kennedy agree that tax breaks must be provided to encourage parents to save early for college tuition costs that continue to skyrocket
rising costs threaten to put a college degree out of reach of average families'' as well as the poor, kennedy told the senate finance committee on tuesday. ``we must find a safe, convenient and simple way to help them meet tuition bills.''
the massachusetts democrat has drafted a plan that would encourage tuition savings by making interest on u.s. savings bonds tax free if the bonds are used for college tuition
families earning under $75,000 a year would receive the full benefit of the legislation. the tax break would be reduced for families earning more, decreasing until it is completely phased out at the $150,000 income level
there is an excellent chance that many families who are not saving now will do so, using this safe, convenient plan,'' kennedy said
assistant treasury secretary o. donaldson chapoton said the reagan administration's college savings bond proposal is similar to the kennedy bill, providing tax exemptions on interest for parents who save for college
but the eligibility is lower under the president's plan, which calls for a phasing out of the tax break for families earning between $60,000 and $80,000
the administration's proposal also would allow tax-free interest on savings bonds used to cover part of a student's living expenses in addition to tuition, books and other fees
chapoton said the administration version eventually would cost about $1 billion in lost revenues, but said the incentives are ``urgently needed'' as college tuition continues to skyrocket
we're coming perilously close to a time when only the wealthy can attend the university of their choice,'' said sen. robert t. stafford, r-vt., who is backing the kennedy bill
kennedy said his measure, also supported by sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., is expected to cost about $300 million five years into the program. but he said because the government saves $60 million for every $1 billion sold in savings bonds, the plan eventually could be self-financing
chapoton warned that by the year 2007, the total cost of attending a four-year private university will be $200,000. today, it is more than $50,000, nearly doubling since 1980, he said. federal grants and loans, meanwhile, have stayed about the same
if we're going to continue to compete, we have to have a competitive education,'' said finance chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, who is supporting the kennedy bill
chapoton said the administration opposes legislation that would restore the interest payment deduction on college loans
in a related matter, officials from michigan complained about a proposal by the internal revenue service to tax michigan's guaranteed college tuition trust
wyoming, maine, florida, indiana and tennessee have adopted guaranteed tuition programs similar to michigan's
the michigan trust allows payment into a state fund in return for guaranteed tuition
the irs ruled that people buying trust contracts on behalf of children would have no additional tax liability, but that the trust itself is subject to federal taxes, michigan gov. james blanchard said tuesday at a washington news conference
federal taxes could add up to 20 percent to the cost of a trust contract, if the trust were to invest fully in taxable bonds, michigan treasurer robert bowman said
irs spokeswoman johnell hunter declined to comment on its ruling, or even to acknowledge a ruling had been made
we do not feel that it should be taxed,'' said herbert conley, director of the florida treasury division. ``we are basically setting up a trust where these are going to be state dollars, and at no time will the purchaser of a contract have any control of the monies once they are paid.''
the faces stare at you in unrelenting succession, none with a smile. they are faces of adults without hope and children without childhood
there is photograph after photograph of families being evicted, mother and children sitting outdoors on their piled-up belongings. they are pictures that have the impact of war, of the great depression, of children orphaned and victimized by fighting not of their making
these are the scenes in a new exhibit called ``homeless in america,'' that opened tuesday at the corcoran gallery, a block from the white house. the exhibit of 64 pictures will tour 32 cities in the coming years to act as, in the words of its sponsors, ``a centerpiece for public education.''
it's a national disgrace that in this country of plenty there are people who don't have a place to live,,'' said susie elson, immediate past president of the national mental health association, which joined in producing the exhibit along with families for the homeless, a group that includes congressional, administration and media families
tipper gore, wife of the senator from tennessee, headed the project
in america we have become adjusted to the image of poverty,'' she said. ``the half-clothed child in a shack in appalachia is what many people still think of when they think about poor people in this country,'' she said before the exhibit opened. ``today's realities far outstrip this outdated image and that is why we felt it was important to have top photojournalists communicate through the power of their images.''
simultaneously with the opening of the exhibit, a book of the photographs was published. many of the photographers represented in the exhibit and book were commissioned by michael evans, formerly president reagan's personal photographer
the exhibit will endure as a lasting work of art and that, too, is important,'' said mrs. gore. ``but the key component, the key element is using the photographs to ... drive home that there are maybe three million homeless people in this country, that they are families, that they are children, the elderly, that they are veterans, that they are mentally ill, that they are the most vulnerable people in our society and that they are growing.''
evans said the project cost $450,000. its principal funding was provided by triangle industries, inc
the photographs, all black and white, depict such urban scenes as a pair of legs sticking from a box that obviously served as a night's accommodations; a child eating from a metal bowl in her home, under an underpass; a small girl weeping as a humane society worker removes her cat in a cage, prior to her own eviction; families with their belongings in plastic bags
they show two young men scavenging through a metal trash container; a man and woman asleep on a park bench, his knee serving as her pillow; a food line, with the splendor of the dallas skyline as a backdrop
the honorary patron of the project is barbara bush, wife of the vice president. the board of directors includes susan baker, wife of white house chief of staff howard baker
subsidized sales are expected to account for more than 60 percent of all u.s. wheat exports this year, according to projections by the agriculture department
total wheat exports are forecast at a six-year high of 1.55 billion bushels in the marketing year that runs through may 31, up 54 percent from 1986-87
sales of subsidized wheat under the export enhancement program, or eep, have climbed rapidly this year, particularly since last october, says the department's economic research service
big sales have been made to the soviet union and china, the two largest wheat importers, as well as to poland, algeria, egypt, morocco and iraq, the agency said in a new outlook report
the program was started three years ago in selected overseas markets to counter subsidized exports by u.s. competiors, notably the european economic community. under eep, exporters get free government-owned surplus commodities as bonuses, or subsidies, so they can sell wheat _ or other eligible products _ to designated foreign countries
since june 1, 1985, according to the report, the united states has announced ``initiatives'' or offers to sell wheat to 30 countries for a total of 43.1 million metric tons. through feb. 11, the actual sales totaled 31.4 million tons, most of it since last fall
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat. the projected export total this marketing year of 1.55 billion bushels would be about 42 million tons, of which more than 25 million tons is expected to be shipped under eep
the brisk sales have boosted u.s. wheat export prices, the report said. the average price at gulf ports loaded aboard ship for hard red winter wheat of ordinary protein rose to about $130 per ton in january from $116 in november and $110 in january 1987
rising prices also meant that the eep subsidies increased. those averaged about $34 per ton during the 1986-87 marketing year but rose in november and december before easing off in january, the report said. for example, the subsidy for the soviet union rose to more than $40 per ton but later dropped to less than $30
the total value of wheat bonuses awarded from the first wheat offer through january 1988 is approximately $1.1 billion,'' the report said. ``nearly 40 percent of the total has been awarded since oct. 1, 1987.''
meanwhile, the eep subsidies and the rise in u.s. wheat exports has had an impact on world trade, the report showed
in the current 1987-88 marketing year, the united states produced about 11 percent of the world output of wheat, the same as in 1986-87
but the boom in exports _ to 1.55 billion bushels from 1 billion bushels the previous year _ is giving the united states an estimated 41 percent of the world's wheat exports, compared with only 30 percent in 1986-87
according to agency records, that puts the u.s. export share at its highest level since 1982-83 when it was 42 percent
fat-conscious consumers soon may be able to buy leaner hot dogs, bologna and other cooked sausages
the agriculture department has approved a rule change that will let processors make make leaner products by substituting water for fat, so long as there is no loss of nutritional value
the leaner products can be labeled as ``lite,'' ``light,'' or ``lower fat'' if they contain at least a fourth less fat than similar cooked sausage products on the market, officials said. the labels must include a comparison that explains the term
for example, the label for lower-fat hotdogs might say: ``this product contains 20 percent fat, while usda allows 30 percent fat in meat hot dogs.''
lester m. crawford, administrator of the department's food safety and inspection service, said tuesday the change in regulations will be effective on april 14 and ``reflects our desire to facilitate the marketing of lower-fat products.''
current federal rules for cooked sausages limit fat to 30 percent and ``added'' water to 10 percent. the new rule will limit the combination of fat and added water to 40 percent of the product
the maximum fat content in the finished product will continue to be limited to 30 percent, but the water restriction will be removed so that processors can substitute some of the water for fat _ and wind up with a lower-fat product, crawford said
protein content, which is indirectly controlled by the limits on fat and added water, will remain unchanged and will be comparable to other cooked sausages, he said
the rule change is being made at the request of the american meat institute, a private trade association, which asked usda to develop a standard for light frankfurthers and similar cooked sausages. the proposed change was announced by the agency on nov. 25, 1986
an 11-ton satellite in orbit three years longer than planned will be rescued by a space shuttle crew next year, just months before it would fall back to earth in pieces
the national aeronautics and space administration on tuesday included the retrieval of the satellite _ the long duration exposure facility _ in a new schedule of flights and cargoes. the rescue was added to a mission beginning july 13
the orbit of the satellite, which gauged the effects of space's hostile environment on metal coatings and on 13 million seeds, is decaying and officials fear it will crash through the atmosphere and break up if it is not recaptured by mid-1990
the new schedule makes no change in the date of the much-delayed first post-challenger flight, now set for aug. 4. there have been no american manned missions in space since the challenger _ the 25th shuttle mission _ exploded on liftoff jan. 28, 1986 and killed its seven-member crew
the six-sided long duration exposure facility _ ldef in space jargon _ was tossed overboard by astronauts in april 1984 to be hit by meteors, pelted by cosmic rays and corroded by oxygen atoms
the bus-size frame held 57 experiments, including one that tested 120 varieties of vegetables, fruits and flowers to see whether cosmic radiation caused useful genetic changes. the ldef was to have been retrieved by another shuttle mission 10 months later and brought back in the cargo bay
but delays in the space program combined with grounding of all shuttles after the challenger disaster kept the 11-ton satellite in its lonely journey around earth. the $14 million package has no on-board propulsion systems or ability to transmit signals
it is orbiting 292 miles above earth, according to the north american defense command
the nasa schedule also calls for six small and medium-sized expendable rockets to be launched this year, four in 1989 and seven in 1990
the shuttle schedule reverses the order of one military and one civilian flight early next year. this enables nasa to orbit a pair of huge communications satellites earlier than planned. they will be needed in june 1989 when the $1 billion hubble space telescope is launched from a shuttle
nasa places such emphasis on the two communications satellites that they will be the principal cargoes on the first and third flights in the new series. together they will provide communications with the shuttle 95 percent of the time it is in orbit and be a spaceborne switchboard for many satellites
nasa was forced to change its priorities for shuttle payloads in order to be ready to launch the magellan probe to map venus at a time when the least amount of fuel will be needed to traverse the 90 million miles
the magellan flight is scheduled for april 27 and it will be the first u.s. planetary mission since a pioneer probe was launched to venus in 1978
nasa has scheduled the launch of the hubble space telescope for june 1, 1989, and another important planetary flight _ galileo _ for oct. 8, 1989. galileo is a cooperative project with germany to survey jupiter and its moons
the first shuttle flight will have a five-man crew commanded by navy capt. frederick hauck
the next mission, scheduled on the atlantis for oct. 27, will launch two military communications satellites. the next flight, discovery again, will be on jan. 19, 1989 and the fourth, using columbia, will be march 2 _ a defense department mission to launch an advanced reconnaissance satellite
a spacelab mission _ so-called because a complete laboratory is carried in the shuttle's cargo bay _ was delayed in the new schedule to push the tdrs satellite ahead
nasa said the mission to study the universe in the ultraviolet spectrum is being reconfigured to enhance study of the brightest exploding star seen by astronomers in more than 200 years. the discovery of supernova 1987a has drawn attention of astrophysicists around the world
the new schedule also adds two spacelab flights in 1990, using the shuttle columbia. also, the gamma ray observatory has been moved forward in the schedule to march 1990. the ulysses mission to study the sun and its environment remains in an october 1990 launch date
senate sponsors of a bill to change the nation's legal immigration system say they'll begin negotiations with key house members, and push for final passage this year
despite the senate's 88-4 vote tuesday for the legislation, there is no indication that the house is ready to tackle the bil 16 months after congress enacted a landmark law to curb illegal immigration
the current immigration control bill took six years to pass congress, as large numbers of special interest groups prevented a consensus until the fall of 1986
in contrast, the new legislation was guided through the senate with a minimum of debate by democrat edward m. kennedy of massachusetts and republican alan k. simpson of wyoming. they had smoothed the way by holding extensive discussions with their colleagues
the bill deals with those who apply through normal government channels to come here _ not with illegal immigrants
the senate measure would establish a cap on legal immigration to the united states. it would maintain the current priority for applicants with relatives in this country, but vastly expand immigration visas for those with needed labor and professional skills
the most influential house member on immigration matters, judiciary committee chairman peter w. rodino jr., has said he wants to move slowly until congress has a better idea of how the 1986 law is working
that means no immediate action, but does not rule out approval of the legislation later this year
kennedy and simpson said they plan to initiate discussions with rodino soon
simpson's spokeswoman, mary kay hill, said the senator thinks house leaders ``can see the need to reform the (legal immigation) system.''
others expected to be part of the consultations include rep. romano mazzoli, d-ky., chairman of the judiciary panel's immigration subcommittee; rep. patrick l. swindall of georgia, ranking republican on the subcommittee; and rep. charles e. schumer, d-n.y., who has introduced a measure similar to the senate bill
the senate measure is expected to allow more western europeans into the country by expanding the number of visas for those without family members here
sponsors say the family preference system has resulted in 85 percent of the immigrants to the united states coming from asia and latin america
ninety percent of the people immigrating to the united states arrive under the family system. the remaining 10 percent come in under other categories including job and professional skills
rodino has expressed worry that any new bill would interfere with family reunification. simpson said that would not happen, because the senate's cap is 100,000 above the currrent figures
the maximum number of visas under the senate bill would be 590,000 annually
under this umbrella, 470,000 visas in each of the first three years (440,000 thereafter) would be reserved for family immigration, and 120,000 (150,000 after three years) would be for the new ``independent'' category
currently, spouses and minor children of u.s. citizens can enter the country without limitation
schumer's bill would have a more generous cap of 750,000, including refugees fleeing from persecution. the senate cap does not include refugees, who now are admitted under a separte law that sets annual limits. the current refugee cap is 68,500
schumer has said there may be attempts in the house to link a legal immigration bill with proposals to extend an amnesty program for some of those who came here illegally. the 1986 law grants legalization to those who have lived in this country since before jan. 1, 1982, but the program ends may 4
simpson opposes an extension, and conservative senators would be expected to filibuster if an extension were added to a legal immigration bill, according to simpson and kennedy staffers
rodino has favored an extension, but has not said whether he desires linking the issues
voting against the bill in the senate were democrat dennis deconcini of arizona, and three republicans: jesse helms of north carolina, pete wilson of california and mark hatfield of oregon
federal prosecutors fear that statements by nuclear regulatory commission officials may have jeopardized their investigation of a 1986 radioactive spill at an ohio military base, according to agency documents
the democratic staff of the senate governmental affairs committee released documents tuesday that include a memo from an nrc official who said other nrc representatives believed regulations governing the incident were ambiguous and open to interpretation
the memo also said christopher barnes, assistant u.s. attorney for the southern district of ohio, believed those statements may have ``significantly impacted'' on the chances for a successful prosecution of officials involved in the spill
the case involves a sept. 18, 1986, spill of highly radioactive americium-241 at wright-patterson air force base near dayton, ohio. the spill occurred when workers opened an unlabeled drum at a base storage facility
air force officials have said almost no radiation escaped from the building despite a second spill oct. 6 while a cleanup was under way. the building eventually had to be torn down at a cost of $1 million
an inspection by the nrc's region iii office in chicago determined that the air force's failure to report the incident promptly violated an nrc regulation requiring disclosure within 24 hours of any incident that threatens to shut down operations of a facility for one day or more or causes over $2,000 in property damage
the documents released by the senate committee included a january memo from eugene t. pawlik, director of the nrc's region iii investigations field office in chicago. pawlik's memo refers to a december 1987 meeting between two nrc officials at the agency's region iv office in arlington, texas, and barnes
pawlik said barnes met with jerry everett, nuclear materials safety section chief for the nrc, and charles cain, radiation specialist
according to the nrc memo, everett said the nrc regulations governing disclosure were ambiguous and the nrc had not communicated to the air force a full interpretation of how the regulations were to be implemented
and cain stated that the first spill was open to interpretation and not reportable and that in his mind the air force was not negligible in waiting to file a report
i think it is a fair assessment to say that the two recent interviews of everett and cain have at this late date placed most, if not all, of the ... investigation in jeopardy,'' pawlik said in the memo
everett and cain declined comment on the documents tuesday through a spokesman
americium powder is not considered dangerous on the skin, but small amounts can cause cancer if inhaled or otherwise introduced into the body. saved</head>
a southern baptist minister says he was fired from his denomination's regional mission board because he believes jews can achieve salvation without converting to christianity
the rev. george sheridan of the first baptist church here was regional director of interfaith witness for the southern baptist convention's home mission board for 12 years. the region runs from north carolina to maine and west to michigan
as director of the interfaith witness, sheridan was the southern baptist liaison with other religious groups, including jews
a statement from the mission board's atlanta headquarters said sheridan ``was not fired or terminated'' but ``declined transfer'' from new jersey to a position as an editorial assistant at the headquarters
but sheridan, 45, said tuesday he was fired, and has hired an attorney to counter any claims by the mission board that he resigned
the minister believes he was fired because he opposed southern baptist plans to begin a program aimed at converting jews. the program was discussed at a private meeting in new york last year
sheridan said he was asked in june to submit to the board a written statement about his theological views about jews
in the absence of any biblical contradiction, i believe that the jews of today, as ever, receive salvation through their having been chosen by god in covenant with abraham, moses and the prophets,'' sheridan wrote in his statement
he said board members grilled him about his views when he was summoned to a special meeting in atlanta in november. the board informed him in a letter dated jan. 9 that he was being assigned, he said
sheridan said he has not been able to determine if the board considered his views heretical, and added that the board had not given him a specific reason for removing him from his post
in 1987, the national convention of the united church of christ accepted the view that jews can achieve salvation without believing in jesus. opposition to attempts to convert jews often is based on this view
lawmakers may make a massive new farm subsidy program part of sweeping trade legislation, while its chief backer argues that u.s. trade negotiators want it despite the threat of a presidential veto
the subsidy plan known as a ``triggered marketing loan'' was included in the senate version of the 1,000-page trade bill. house and senate negotiators are working on a compromise
final action on the loan program was postponed when house agriculture chairman e. ``kika'' de la garza, d-texas, said tuesday that senate agriculture chairman patrick j. leahy, d-vt., had the votes but wanted a few revisions
under marketing loan programs, some of which already are in effect, producers receive the u.s. price for their crops, which are then sold at world market prices. the taxpayers make up the difference
the plan under consideration would create such provisions for wheat, corn and soybeans but only if current negotiations failed to produce an agreement among the nation's trading partners to reduce agricultural subsidies by the 1990 wheat marketing year
leahy said he was convinced of the need for a triggered marketing loan on a trip to geneva last week to get a progress report on negotiations aimed at reaching a new general agreement on tariffs and trade
he said european negotiators have been ``arrogant'' in their rejection of u.s. demands for an end to export subsidies. he said americans at the table in geneva favor the triggered marketing loan as a ``club'' to hold over the europeans and prod them on the issue
if you were talking to some of the people we have to negotiate with, then you might think we need it, too,'' leahy said
in other action, the panel approved expanding the 1985 export enhancement program by more than $1 billion to $2.5 billion. it provides bonuses in the form of government-held commodities to exporters to ship american commodities that they acquired at u.s. prices
critics of the triggered marketing loan program said that the sum involved could strain the budget
this is potentially a huge sum of money we're talking about in agricultural programs,'' said rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., whose home-state growers are often wary of anything that could prompt restrictions abroad against orange and grapefruit exports
rep. charles stenholm, d-texas, said the use of such a measure as a bargaining chip would not be credible now because it would require reshuffling budget priorities
stenholm did say he favored the objective. he said the united states should tell the european community: ``if they have unlimited supplies of money, it's going to cost all of it and we're going to raise you five.''
gibbons presented a letter from agriculture secretary richard lyng, u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter and other administration officials suggesting that attaching the program could prompt a presidential veto for the trade bill. bgng ``jackson voted...</note>
jesse jackson set aside his disappointment in finishing second in his home state primary tuesday night and focused on his overall strength, saying ``i am where every candidate wishes he could be tonight.''
jackson had predicted he would finish first in illinois and defeat another favorite son, paul simon. but the results showed just the opposite
i finished second, it seems, in illinois,'' jackson said. ``(but) i'm a winner. i am the leading contender for the democratic nomination. i am where every candidate wishes he could be tonight.''
a noticeably tired jackson told supporters at a downtown chicago hotel that both he and simon had reason to celebrate. illinois voters, he said, ``paid their respects on a sitting senator who focused on one state.''
jesse jackson voted near his south side home earlier in the day, accompanied by sons jesse jr., 23, and jonathan, 22, at the bryn mawr community church
the democratic candidate said his message to ``stop drugs from coming into our country, save our jobs, secure our farmers and invest in our children'' has touched voters and given them something to fight for
i have run all the way, and we've been winning all the way, and we'll keep winning,'' jackson said. jackson had hoped to add illinois to a string of successes over the last week, beginning with super tuesday and continuing over the weekend in south carolina. he and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis top the delegate count
jackson voted shortly after 9 a.m. in a small church room jammed with reporters, photographers and a handful of bewildered-looking voters
afterward, donning a topcoat on a chilly day, jackson said he was touched by ``the joy i see in my children voting. when i was their age, i did not have the right to vote.''
it says a lot about the greatness of america, the fact that we have the right to grow to our potential,'' jackson said. ``hope is going to prevail.''
the south carolina native said he has been the most effective and best managed candidate, despite relatively weak financing
if my opponents had my budget, they could not compete,'' jackson said. ``if i had their budgets, they could not compete.''
jackson, whose delegate total was second only to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis' going into tuesday's primary, said he has broadened his base of support since waging his first presidential campaign four years ago
expectations are higher; the experience factor is greater and i've had a chance to serve more people,'' jackson said. ``people who feel that the process was not working for them find hope in the campaign. ... now they feel there is a way out. there is hope.''
students who skip professor gerald m. phillips' opening lecture in his course on group decision-making may find themselves searching the campus in vain for any trace of him the rest of the semester
that's because the penn state university professor communicates with his speech communications 350 class only through the school's computer system, by electronic mail or ``e-mail.''
the class does get weekly lectures, from two graduate students, and other graduate students sit in on group discussions as ``consultants.''
we've got a real industrial model,'' said phillips, who this semester has 212 students enrolled in the course. ``what we've got here is a simulation of top management, middle management and employees.''
phillips considers himself the chief executive officer. as such, he monitors computer messages between student groups and the graduate students, and answers questions sent to him
i can monitor everything. they know i'm monitoring. i'm the ceo. i can get all the information on my company,'' phillips said
phillips, 59, doesn't go to his office on campus often. he prefers to stay home, a mile away, working from his cramped study filled with computer equipment
graduate students who have been there have dubbed his study ``the bridge of the starship enterprise,'' after the spaceship on the television series ``star trek.''
phillips said he is giving students a taste of the real world, adding that he is more accessible than most professors
last spring, in a trial run of the course, phillips said he answered 3,169 questions from students
you find me a professor anywhere in north america that can handle 3,169 questions _ and they weren't stupid questions,'' phillips said
students who miss phillips' lecture on the first day of class can only guess at the appearance of the professor known by his computer address ``gmp.''
one says she's going to track me down to see what i look like and talk to me face to face. i said `catch me if you can,''' said phillips
one student who asked that her name not be used said the course puts too much emphasis on computer communication
it's like e-mail is god,'' she said. ``it really shouldn't be like that. there has to be some communication that is one-on-one.''
others disagree
i don't think we've suffered any because we haven't seen him face to face,'' said michael guerin, a senior operations management major from rochester, n.y. ``he's readily available on the computer.''
phillips has a contract to write a book on the course, which he said has generated widespread interest
we've been visited by educators from norway, australia and japan. a lot of people are looking over our shoulder in this process,'' he said
warner burke, a professor at teachers college of columbia university, said phillips' emphasis on mimicking a corporate hierarchy hinders the students' understanding of how they come to their decisions
here our goals are understanding the group process, not just decision making,'' said burke, director of teachers college's graduate program in organizational psychology. ``the most important aspect of group processes is non-verbal behavior.''
challenger wins primary, adds updated voting percentages, early returns on cubs ballpark vote. corrects courtesy title for pucinski to mrs. sted ms. picks up at dash.</note>
former mayor jane byrne's bid for a political comeback ended in defeat tuesday, but house minority leader bob michel, president reagan's point man in congress, easily overcame his first gop primary challenge in 32 years
michel's democratic arch-foe, attorney g. douglas stephens, won the democratic primary, setting the stage for a november rematch of the 1982 contest that almost cost michel his 18th district seat
with nearly three-quarters of the votes counted, michel defeated tazewell county board chairman james e. unsicker by 85 percent to 15 percent, while stephens beat an unemployed recent college graduate, justin z. west, 89 percent to 11 percent
the state board of elections said between 45 percent and 48 percent of the state's 5.9 million registered voters went to the polls
in chicago, mrs. byrne lost to aurelia pucinski in a race for the democratic nomination for clerk of the circuit court. with nearly three-quarters of the vote reported, mrs. puchinski had 53 percent of the democratic primary vote
it means that when the people spoke, they apparently shouted. ... i am very good at taking hints,'' mrs. byrne said. asked whether she would consider running for office again, she said, ``i'm not even thinking of it right now.''
ed vrdolyak, former democratic powerbroker who left the party, was unopposed on the republican side and will face mrs. pucinski in november
also back on illinois ballots were followers of political extremist lyndon larouche. at least 20 larouche supporters were candidates in races ranging from president to county register of deeds
in southern illinois, the retirement of veteran rep. melvin price, a democrat, set off a four-man scramble in the 21st district primary. vying for the party's nomination were st. clair county board chairman jerry f. costello, madison county auditor pete fields; former price administrative aide mike mansfield and perennial local candidate steve maragides
in the 22nd district, state sen. glenn poshard of carterville was unopposed in the democratic primary as he moved to succeed rep. kenneth gray, who is retiring after 12 terms. pete prineas of carbondale and patrick j. kelley of carbondale sought the gop nomination
chicago voters held a non-binding referendum on the training of illinois national guard troops in central america. with roughly three-quarters of the precincts reporting, those wanted to stop sending illinois troops to central america outnumbered those favoring the foreign-training program about 2-to-1
neighbors of chicago's wrigley field also opposed night games at the cubs' vintage ballpark, piling up 3-to-1 margin in early returns in a non-binding referendum. with four of 21 precincts counted, 692 voters opposed lighting wrigley for night baseball and 237 supported night games
chicago's city council in february approved lights at wrigley field, the only major-league ballpark without them, after years of controversy. the issue pitted neighborhood groups concerned about noise, litter and parking problems against the cubs' owners, tribune co., which argued the team was losing prime-time television revenues
the latest bid for office by mrs. byrne, who lost the mayor's office to harold washington in 1983 after one term, was made without the backing of the party, which supported her opponent, mrs. pucinski. vrdolyak became a republican after a failed third-party challenge to washington
michel defeated stephens six years ago with 51.6 percent of the vote after the toughest campaign fight of his career. his office attributed the tight race to redistricting
the larouche candidates were back two years after winning the democratic primary for lieutenant governor and secretary of state. illinois democrats tried without success this year to remove la rouche candidates from the party
in the 21st congressional district, the winner of the democratic fight will face republican robert h. ``bob'' gaffner, who was unopposed in the primary. in 1986, he came within 943 votes of upsetting price, who is leaving capitol hill after 44 years
gray held his 22nd district seat from 1955 to 1975, when he retired for health reasons, and in 1985 returned to congress for two additional terms
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis declared himself undaunted by a third-place finish in the illinois primary, saying ``the field is wide open'' in coming contests
now we move on to michigan where there are no favorite sons,'' a somewhat subdued dukakis said at a news conference tuesday night at a boston television station
two illinois home-state favorites _ sen. paul simon and civil rights leader jesse jackson, who has made chicago his home _ finished well ahead of the massachusetts governor. on the other hand, dukakis' showing was far better than that of sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who failed to demonstrate any appreciable strength outside his southern base
dukakis said his third-place showing in a state where he invested more than $350,000 was not a setback
i don't get disappointed. ... i was running against two citizens of illinois who had strong bases and a great deal of support from those who know them,'' dukakis said. ``we did what i can characterize was a respectable third.''
those around the massachusetts governor echoed his contention that his showing was good under the circumstances. leslie dach, a spokesman for the dukakis campaign, ``we did as well as we expected.'' campaign manager susan estrich added, ``we did beat all the non-favorite sons.''
during the illinois campaign, dukakis had said a vote for simon would increase the chances of a brokered democratic national convention, something he said would be a ``disaster.''
tuesday night, dukakis said, ``i've been making a number of calls around the country to key democrats and there is an overwhelming sentiment that we should get behind a nominee
i don't believe we have any front-runners; i don't think we're going to have a front-runner until the convention,'' dukakis said
the seven days between super tuesday and the illinois primary left dukakis too little time to attract strong support in illinois, he said
but he said effort and money expended in illinois will pay off later, if he is the democratic nominee
dukakis wasn't about to make any bold predictions on michigan's caucus march 26
i don't have to win any primary. i have to do as well as i possibly can. when you have a multi-candidate field, the vote tends to get split up,'' he said, adding that he hoped michigan would help winnow the field
dach said missouri rep. richard gephardt, the big democratic loser on super tuesday, would be competing fiercely with dukakis for labor votes in michigan
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,704.43 points, up 228.76 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on wednesday
investigators are trying to learn whether ferdinand marcos was behind a plot to ship weapons from the united states to forces loyal to him in the philippines, federal officials say
u.s. officials suspect the ousted philippines president may have been instrumental in abortive plans to supply automatic rifles and submachine guns for an 80-member force
marcos' chief american attorney, however, denies marcos was involved in any arms shipments. ``that's a dry well for you, my friend,'' richard a. hibey said friday in washington. ``there's no truth to that allegation.''
details of the planned arms sale surfaced here last fall during a federal trial of leon dicker, a disbarred hewlett, n.y., lawyer convicted of conspiring to export weapons illegally
at trial, the government said the arms were bound for thailand. but two federal officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said last week that authorities believe the weapons were for pro-marcos forces in the philippines
dicker, two men acquitted in the case and one who pleaded guilty and testified for the prosecution were arrested in a u.s. customs service ``sting.'' no arms were alleged to have changed hands
the officials said new york businessman robert l. steele is a focus of the continuing investigation. during the trial, the prosecutor said steele had worked with dicker on the arms deal, but steele was not charged
steele and dicker have been linked to orlando c. dulay, a marcos supporter and former provincial governor later linked by philippine military sources to an august 1987 coup attempt in the philippines
dulay, detained by authorities in august 1986 on the grounds of a marcos-owned estate near princeton university, said steel and dicker were his ``lawyers'' who had sent him to clean up the court-sealed property at marcos' request
a newspaper in manila reported last week that dulay was contacted by u.s. authorities who traveled there seeking his cooperation in the investigation of alleged arms shipments to pro-marcos groups
assistant u.s. attorney john peyton in honolulu on monday confirmed that he met with dulay last week, but said he could not comment further because of an ``ongoing criminal investigation.''
raul rabe, deputy chief of mission at the philippines embassy in washington, said dulay recently ``surfaced in honolulu and joined mr. marcos'' before being deported to the philippines, where he faces charges in the 1986 slayings of three campaign workers of president corazon aquino
marcos has been living in exile in honolulu since his 1986 ouster and the election of mrs. aquino as president. he has said he wishes to return to his homeland. marcos supporters failed in two 1987 coup attempts
last year, two u.s. businessmen testifying before a house subcommittee played secretly recorded conversations with marcos and said that marcos had sought to buy weapons for shipment to the philippines
the weapons discussed in the house testimony allegedly were to be used for a coup attempt in late june, four months after dicker's arrest. it could not be determined if the alleged june coup attempt, the dicker case and the honolulu investigation were related
a government source said u.s. authorities suspect a link between marcos and the new jersey arms case, but declined to provide specifics
abelardo morua, dicker's co-defendant who pleaded guilty, was questioned recently by federal authorities about a possible link between marcos and the weapons deal, said morua's attorney, chris franzblau. he said morua provided no information
several government officials with knowledge of the investigation, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that to discuss the case openly could jeopardize a prosecution
neither u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. nor richard mercier, head of the customs service's newark office, would comment on the case
our policy is never to confirm or deny any inquiry,'' said leonard s. walton, customs' director of illegal export investigations in washington
on monday, marcos issued a statement denying he was ``bent on taking control (of the philippines) through violent means.''
the news that authorities are pressing the investigation in this new direction surfaced last wednesday when u.s. district judge alfred j. lechner jr., in sentencing morua here, referred to a continuing probe
steele did not return repeated phone calls this week and last at his manhattan conglomerate, commonwealth group ltd., a private company
dicker, sentenced to four years, said he could not comment on the matter because he was appealing his conviction. about it</head>
an american, the first mountaineer to conquer north america's highest peak alone in winter, left a japanese flag atop mount mckinley to honor the man who tried _ and failed _ before him
vern tejas ended a monthlong ordeal of screaming winds and subzero temperatures on tuesday, picked up by plane on mckinley's flank and flown to anchorage, 130 miles to the south
during the climb tejas often thought about japanese climber naomi uemura, the only other person to reach the 20,320-foot summit in a solo winter climb but who disappeared during his descent in february 1984 and was never found
many times i was wondering, `is this where he slipped? is this where he lost it?' '' tejas said tuesday in anchorage
i think i figured out where he bought the farm up there. there was one area, on summit day, i was coming back down. it's very steep, very exposed, and you feel that if you make one mistake, you could die.''
tejas, a stocky 35-year-old with beard and shaved head, had climbed mckinley 12 times, usually as a guide during the may-june climbing season
even then, in relatively milder conditions, about a third of several hundred climbers who attempt the climb turn back short of the summit
snow-covered mckinley is infamous for hurricane-force winds that rage for days, temperatures that dip to minus 60, and whiteouts that make it hard to know up from down. tejas' planned two-week trek took a month
tejas, who lives in talkeetna, which is used as a staging area for mckinley climbers, was dropped off feb. 16 at the mountain's 7,200-foot level. on the second day, a storm came and kept him in his snow cave for three days. he eventually went onto half rations, then half rations every other day
i ended up working at my margin. it was around the edge of safety several times.'' twice, he found earlier climbers' food caches that helped him survive. on march 7, he waited out a storm and made a dash to the top during a whiteout
i couldn't see where i was going. after 12 times to the summit, i can feel my way up to it, but it wasn't as pretty or spectacular as i'd hoped for,'' he said
i took a few pictures, left a few mementos, turned around and headed down. i left a japanese flag in memory of naomi uemura, and i also left a can of spam. there was no meat in it. i ate it. i was very hungry.''
he made it back the same day to 17,000 feet and rested overnight. the next day, he contacted pilot lowell thomas jr. by two-way radio and started down. tejas appeared in good shape when he arrived tuesday in anchorage, but he said the mountain had pushed him to his mental, physical, and emotional limits
you go, `this is ridiculous. this is a hill, this is the middle of winter, i'm a lone guy out here. there are crevasses all around, there's danger. what am i doing here?' ''
safe on level ground, he answered his own question
to live in a very harsh environment, to do something very stressful and straining like that, is a challenge,'' he said. ``i was at the limits of my ability. it was a good test. i'd never spent a month by myself. i found out i really liked myself.''
republican pat robertson ran a distant third in the illinois primary but repeated his vow to continue his campaign to the national convention
i am in all the way to new orleans,'' robertson said tuesday night, insisting that he was ``not a bit in the world disappointed'' over the illinois results
robertson has spent nearly $25 million on a campaign that has gained 17 national convention delegates, according to the associated press tally. the federal spending limit for primary campaigns is $27 million
thus, robertson acknowledged, he must run a drastically scaled-back effort from here on
my own personal travel will continue but as far as a full-blown media campaign, i can't afford that any more,'' he said after meeting tuesday afternoon with republican national committee chairman frank fahrenkopf
but, he added: ``i have enough money to keep in the race through ...the convention.''
marc nuttle, robertson's campaign manager, said the exact amount that could be spent before hitting the limit would not be known before the next seven to 10 days
whether it's between $2 million and $3 million or less than $2 million it will be enough for the campaign,'' he said
richard pinsky, national field director for americans for robertson, characterized the new campaign as ``mean and lean. we have always been labor-intensive and have won on organization and grass-roots support from volunteers.''
robertson said he would campaign in california, which holds its primary june 7, to help local candidates with their races
we would like to see republican majorities enunciating major conservative causes by 1990 or 1992,'' he said
robertson said his meeting with fahrenkopf was mainly to plan the role of robertson delegates in the convention
we talked about housekeeping things,'' he said
nuttle said the talks were to ensure that the convention went smoothly, and that robertson's backers, many of whom have never attended a national convention, are included in the preparation for the event
our goal is to unify the party,'' robertson said. ``i am going to be the conservative champion.''
bob dole says his republican presidential campaign is still alive and ``we're just going to hang in there'' despite another crushing loss to george bush
but the kansas senator has been without a win for three weeks, and the primary calendar offers him little hope: the next gop contest is march 29 in connecticut, another one of the vice president's home states
dole returned home for a few days, flying into washington as the disappointing illinois results began unfolding. bush rolled up more than half of the popular vote, and more importantly, held a 3-1 ratio in distribution of the 82 gop delegates
despite the bleak news, dole told reporters, ``we're doing all right. we're just going to hang in there. there's a long way to go yet.''
pressed on whether he would continue his candidacy, he said, ``we're staying in, we're staying in.''
dole's campaign was stunned by bush's 16-state sweep on super tuesday, and he ordered massive staff layoffs and a halt to all advertising in illinois late last week. at the urging of some aides, dole considered giving up his white house hopes but decided to stay in
he campaigned in wisconsin and connecticut as illinois primary voters went to the polls, saying: ``i don't give up very easily.''
in hartford, he said, ``this is called a surprise state from time to time. we're ready for one. we could use it.''
dole hasn't had much to cheer about since feb. 23, when he won contests in south dakota and minnesota. a week before that, he was surprised by bush's come-from-behind win in new hampshire, the first signal of chaos in dole's campaign
little over a month ago, dole was the early leader with his impressive victory over bush in iowa. illinois win</head>
even as george bush rolled up a victory in the republican primary in illinois, exit polls indicated ``little chinks in his armor'' that could bedevil him in the general election, analysts say
bush on tuesday overwhelmed sen. bob dole in virtually all ideological and demographic groups of the republican electorate, cementing his huge lead in the gop race
it's a blowout,'' said abc news poll analyst doug muzzio
results were far less clear on the democratic side, where sen. paul simon cashed in on his favorite-son status and jesse jackson rode another huge wave of black support to finish first and second respectively in their home state
while bush swamped his republican opponents, his ratings on leadership and toughness were weaker than may be expected from a prohibitive front-runner, said nbc news poll analyst sheldon gawiser
additionally, bush failed to win the independents who voted in the gop primary
if bush is going to win the general election, he's got to start attracting independent voters,'' said cbs news poll chief warren mitofsky
the results did not foreshadow problems for bush within the gop; he even won among former television evangelist pat robertson's natural supporters, born-again christians and voters concerned about so-called ``morality issues.''
but among the 23 percent of republicans who said leadership was a key issue, dole and bush split the vote, abc found
a prohibitive front-runner should be showing some leadership, particularly given the fact that he holds the second-highest office in the land,'' muzzio said
in nbc's poll, 55 percent of gop voters said bush was tough enough to be a good president, but 24 percent said he was not and 21 percent were not sure. the 55 percent was ``a pretty small number,'' considering that it came among republican primary voters, said gawiser
thirty 30 percent of republicans told nbc that bush would be a very strong leader, 42 percent said he would be somewhat strong, 16 percent said not very strong, 6 percent said not at all strong and 6 percent didn't know. again, ``that's not a terrific standing among republican primary voters,'' gawiser said
in another measure, a plurality of republican voters, 41 percent, said bush had not fully disclosed his knowledge of the iran-contra affair, while 32 percent said he had and 21 percent were not sure, nbc found
while the issue has not been a significant one in the minds of republican voters, ``it's there,'' gawiser said. ``that's a tomorrow story,'' one that could gain significance in the general election
these bush results amounted to ``little chinks in his armor,'' not major campaign problems, gawiser noted. muzzio noted that the flaws spotted in the abc poll also were minor, with dole beating bush among the tiny number of republicans who rated ``honesty'' or ``getting things done'' as key
it doesn't tell us all that much about bush's electability,'' muzzio said. ``but it certainly indicates he's not a prohibitive favorite to beat a democrat.''
in the democratic race, weaknesses were demonstrated most strongly by sen. albert gore of tennessee, who failed to turn his super tuesday victories into a sizable showing, and rep. richard gephardt of missouri, who finished last
the g-boys just didn't show,'' said muzzio. ``they were squeezed by the hometown favorites.''
one favorite, simon, even drew voters who doubt he can succeed. abc said just 40 percent of simon's supporters gave him the best chance to win in november, and 35 percent named massachusetts gov. michael dukakis even though they voted for simon. nbc said only 35 percent of simon's voters thought he would win the nomination, while 39 percent picked dukakis to win it
jackson enjoyed his now-customary huge black support: he received 91 percent of the black vote, which was about a quarter of the democratic turnout, abc said. but he won only 8 percent of the white vote by abc's count, 7 percent by the cbs news-new york times poll
jackson still can't attract any white votes,'' said mitofsky. ``he got 7 percent. and that's not enough.''
though dukakis finished third, abc said a plurality of democrats, 35 percent, thought he had the best chance of winning the general election. jackson had 27 percent, simon, 18 percent
the margin of sampling error for the results was about 5 points for most subgroups
the house has given final congressional approval to legislation authorizing prime federal parkland in washington for a national monument to the 5,000 black patriots who served in the american revolution
the voice vote by the house on tuesday followed senate approval of the bill on feb. 26
the house is expected to approve similar, senate-backed legislation today that would authorize a choice washington site for a national memorial to americans who fought in the korean war
rep. james j. florio, d-n.j., said the korean war memorial, to be built on the mall that extends from the lincoln memorial to the capitol, will be ``a fitting and long-overdue monument to the 55,000 amricans who lost their lives in a forgotten war.''
private sponsors say they have raised $2.5 million toward a goal of $10 million for the korean war memorial. the black patriots monument, also expected to be built on the mall, will cost an estimated $4 million
both the black patriots and the korean war monuments previously were authorized by congress, and will be built with private donations. nixon</head>
a group of judges that makes policy for the federal courts is urging the house to consider impeaching u.s. district judge walter l. nixon of mississippi, who is scheduled to go to prison for perjury on march 23
the group, the judicial conference of the united states, on tuesday unanimously supported a resolution that says ``consideration of impeachment may be warranted.''
nixon, 59, was sentenced to five years in prison following his 1986 perjury conviction. he has remained a judge but has not been hearing cases since he was indicted in 1985 although he continues to be paid his annual salary of $89,500
nixon would forfeit his salary and his eligibility for a pension at age 65 if he is impeached by the house and removed from office by the senate
the recommendation that the house consider impeaching him was approved by a vote of 24-0 by the judges' group. three members abstained, including chief justice william h. rehnquist, who traditionally does not vote on such matters
nixon is the third federal judge ever to be indicted for crimes allegedly committed while in office
a federal panel has determined that the primary cause of a 1987 collision that killed 10 people in utah was an instructor's failure to keep his plane out of restricted airspace during a student training flight
the single-engine training plane collided with a skywest commuter plane near kearns, utah, on jan. 15, 1987, while making an approach to salt lake city international airport after a flight from pocatello, idaho
the national transportation safety board on tuesday absolved the air traffic controller handling the skywest plane. the other aircraft was flying under visual flight rules and was not under the direction of air traffic control
nevertheless, the ntsb said the accident might have been avoided if the private aircraft had equipment that would have provided the controller information on the plane's altitude. investigators said the single-engine mooney m-20c was on the radar screen, but without altitude information the controller would not have known the two planes were about to collide
the safety board put the primary blame for the accident on the instructor of the private aircraft's ``lack of navigational vigilance ... which led to the unauthorized intrusion'' into the restricted airspace that surrounds the salt lake city airport
a federal official is telling congress that states whose drivers ignore the 55 mph speed limit should not be penalized, but two senior lawmakers said they are writing bills that would do just the opposite
reps. james howard, d-n.j., chairman of the house public works and transportation committee, and glenn anderson, d-calif., who heads the public works surface transportation subcommittee, said they are working on measures that would extend the penalties to states that have adopted the 65 mph limit
states with 55 mph limits can lose up to 10 percent of their federal highway aid if monitors find that more than half their motorists are driving too fast. but when two laws were passed last year allowing 65 mph driving on many rural highways, the penalties were not extended to roads where states allow the faster speeds
the states are clearly in the best position to determine where speed enforcement is needed to enhance safety,'' diane k. steed, chief of the national highway traffic safety administration, said in a statement delivered tuesday to anderson's panel. ``they should be able to deploy enforcement personnel accordingly, without the threat of losing federal funds.''
lawmakers from the 11 states that have retained the 55 mph limit have complained that it is unfair for their states to face the loss of federal assistance while states that permit faster driving cannot be penalized for motorists speeding on 65 mph roads. status</head>
an independent study group says significant changes are needed in the way the veterans administration is being managed whether or not it is elevated to cabinet status
in its report to the senate governmental affairs committee, a panel of the national academy of public administration said it found ``little evidence'' in its study that cabinet-level status would materially improve the va's mission of providing for the present and future needs of veterans
the panel does not believe that such an elevation would significantly improve either access to the president, the adequacy of necessary resources, or the organization, management and delivery of high-quality services and benefits,'' the report said
the seven-member panel said it ``does recognize the potential political value of raising the public visibility of the needs of veterans and the programs designed to meet these needs by making va a department in the president's cabinet. however, given the broad political support which already exists for the va and its programs, the gain would be at the margin.''
the academy panel and the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, did not make recommendations on whether the va should become part of the president's cabinet. 3rd graf pvs bgng, volume in the ... deletes 6th graf pvs, in foreign exchange... to conform.</note>
the u.s. dollar rose slightly in tokyo trading wednesday, while stock prices rallied in heavy trading, ending the day sharply higher
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which climbed 42.16 points tuesday, closed the day at 25,704.43 points, up 228.76 points, or 0.90 percent, from tuesday's close
the u.s. currency closed at 127.49 yen, up 0.24 yen from tuesday's close, after opening wednesday at 127.38
volume in the first section was estimated at a heavy 1.1 billion shares, compared with 550 million shares traded tuesday morning
individual investors were active buyers of heavy industrials, helping to absorb some selling of those issues by institutional investors such as life insurance companies, traders said
the nikkei average's previous closing high since the oct. 19 market crash was 25,682.82 points on march 2
the yen is easing against the dollar...but everyone is waiting for the latest u.s. trade data,'' said an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the u.s. commerce department is scheduled thursday to release the nation's foreign trade figures for january
an american communications satellite that was launched last week has rocketed into geosynchronous orbit and should start operations early in april
the spacenet iii satellite owned by gte corp. was launched friday night by a french ariane rocket. on tuesday, the satellite fired its apogee kick motor, a small rocket engine, and moved into orbit 22,300 miles above the equator, gte officials said
since the satellite is moving at the same rate of speed as the earth, it will in effect hover over a point on the earth's surface
the 1,562-pound satellite provides a communications link between points in all 50 of the united states. clients include the associated press and the television groups of abc, cbs, cnn and gannett
the u.s. satellite and a french communications satellite were launched together friday from the european space agency launch site in kourou, french guiana
gte spacenet is the first american client of arianespace, the operating arm of the european space agency. moving on sports wires.</note>
susan butcher, bundled against biting winds and subzero temperatures, widened her lead and seemed assured of an unprecedented third straight victory in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race
butcher, who left this checkpoint just as her closest competitor arrived tuesday, was expected to cross the finish line in nome today
if butcher wins, it will be the fourth consecutive year that a woman has won the 16-year-old race. libby riddles of teller won in 1985, and butcher won in 1986 and 1987, setting a course record each year
butcher left elim, 123 miles from nome, at 5:11 p.m. tuesday, after stopping in the eskimo village for two hours to feed and rest her dog team. martin buser of big lake arrived two minutes before she left
butcher, a resident of manley, took the lead early tuesday and has not yielded it. she left elim with 10 of the 17 dogs she started with march 5 in anchorage; the others were dropped at checkpoints along the trail
buser was traveling with 12 of his original 20 dogs still in harness
subzero temperatures and biting winds continued to hinder the leaders, and weather forecasters said the wind chill factor could sink to minus 70 degrees along the trail's final miles
in each of her two previous victories, butcher proved the strength and endurance of her team in the final, windswept miles along the barren bering sea coast. her elapsed time last year was 11 days, 2 hours
her closest rival last year was four-time iditarod champion rick swenson of two rivers, who ran neck-and-neck with butcher until his dogs refused to continue just 22 miles from the finish
this year, swenson was about six hours behind butcher at last report, leaving koyuk at 2 p.m. tuesday in third place. running in fourth was joe garnie of teller
herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref was fifth. seventy-year-old joe redington of knik, who took an early lead and held it for more than 400 miles, was sixth
redington, known as the ``father of the iditarod'' for organizing the first race in 1973, has run all but two races and placed as high as fifth, but has yet to win
the first musher to nome collects $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers split the rest. five of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out

editors:

pls note the 13th ld, just moved as a0490, will probably stand for ams. the vote count is up to 90 percent, and continuing slowly, and we will update tables as warranted

the ap
until this week, almost no one had heard of kon yu-leung, reputed drug kingpin. he wasn't on any list of most wanted criminals and he'd never been the subject of a crime commission hearing or a newspaper story
today, kon is accused of leading a conspiracy to smuggle as much as 1,000 pounds of southeast asian heroin into the united states, far more than in such notorious cases as the ``pizza connection'' from sicily and the ``french connection'' through marseilles
authorities say they seized 570 pounds of the kon network's heroin. the head of the drug enforcement administration's new york bureau calls the amount ``almost mind-boggling'' compared with 200 pounds in the pizza connection and the 70 pounds in the french connection
considered equally mind-boggling is the fact that such a huge operator was not the agency's no. 1 target, as one prosecutor claimed, but just one of several large asian importers. they have, according to authorities, increased their share of the city's heroin business from 3 percent to 70 percent during the last five years, displacing the mafia
despite the enormity of the 44-year-old kon's alleged operation, his rivals are expected to have no trouble supplying new york's 225,000 heroin addicts _ half the national total
and there will be more drug lords
today's courier is tomorrow's king,'' robert strang, a dea spokesman, said tuesday. ``that makes it difficult for law enforcement. ... it's not like the traditional organized crime families, where there's an organization with an observable hierarchy.''
many people feel that because of this arrest we've solved the southeast asia heroin problem,'' he added. ``we haven't. he's only one of several major traffickers.''
kon, whom the police call johnny kon, was arrested sunday night outside the new york hilton. he was wearing a $25,000 diamond-studded piaget watch and a gold bracelet with a buddha charm, and carried $32 in a pocket of his dark business suit
kon told the judge at his arraignment he could not afford to hire a lawyer. he was held without bail in the federal jail in manhattan
kon admitted to the agents who arrested him he was a smuggler _ of gems and cigarettes, authorities said
investigators told a different story: that kon may have imported up to $1 billion in heroin into the united states between 1984 and 1987. he was described as a shadowy figure with a half-dozen counterfeit passports in as many different names, who may have bribed high officials in several nations
money, apparently, is not one of his problems. the new york post reported that on a recent night kon lost $1 million at a manila casino ``and walked out laughing.''
federal prosecutor catherine palmer described kon as ``a big spender. he enjoys big meals, good times and buying expensive things for people.''
kon came to the dea's attention in 1984, when a shipment of 250 pounds of heroin believed destined for the united states was seized in hong kong harbor. kon, a shanghai-area native living in the british colony, fled before he could be arrested, authorities said
prosecutors said he owns about $20 million in real estate in metropolitan new york and san francisco and controls companies that deal in furs, watches and tobacco
police also arrested john routollo, a former new york city policeman who is accused of helping kon distribute the drugs. strang said there was no evidence routollo was associated with any local crime groups
palmer said kon had been lured to the united states by a ``unique and highly creative'' ruse. but she would not elaborate and it remained unclear why a major asian trafficker would risk a u.s. trip
he has to be here as well as in southeast asia to run his business,'' strang said. ``major traffickers travel between hong kong and new york city all the time, on a regular basis. we're watching them.''
prime minister margaret thatcher's government has produced the most radical budget since it came to power nine years ago, driving home a capitalist revolution with big tax cuts for the wealthy
in parliament on tuesday, the rage of a frustrated opposition boiled over into an unprecedented uproar. one member was expelled and the session was twice suspended while chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson battled to deliver his budget speech
labor party outrage at the slashing of the top tax rate from 60 percent to 40 percent and conservative government delight at producing the first budget surplus for nearly 20 years underlined the chasm between britain's two major parties
it also signaled that mrs. thatcher, at her most confident since winning a third five-year term last summer, does not plan on yielding an inch to the opposition, or to more widespread pressure to increase spending on the ailing national health service
mrs. thatcher gave what opposition leader neil kinnock called ``handouts to the rich'' in a society that critics charged is increasingly polarized between the better off and the poor, between depressed north and booming south
for the conservatives, tuesday was a high point and a vindication of rigorous policies: the day britain shrugged off years of budget deficits and demonstrated it has combined the fastest growth in western europe with low inflation and a budget funded by the generation of wealth, not borrowing
the united states was able to achieve tax reform, but it lamentably failed to achieve a balanced budget,'' said a jubilant lawson, the top treasury official who presented the budget to the house of commons
what is a substantial achievement is to do both ... what i have been able to tell you is a story of success. a story of the transformation of britain's fortunes.''
the package contained what were widely regarded as the most sweeping tax reforms in modern british history
lawson replaced the previous six brackets of income tax rates with just two, a new base rate cut to 25 percent from 27 percent, and the top 40 percent rate, which is payable on income over $35,700. the corporation tax was unchanged at 35 percent
in a single swoop, the british top tax rate fell to among the lowest in industrialized nations, apart from the united states
lower taxes are a cornerstone of mrs. thatcher's free-enterprise policy, basic to encouraging business, keeping talent from fleeing to tax havens and generating wealth and competitiveness
the government goal, lawson said, is a 20 percent basic tax rate
when mrs. thatcher won power from a socialist administration in 1979 the basic tax rate was 33 percent and top rate 83 percent
apart from doubling taxes on company cars, tuesday's budget was almost all good news for the well-off
for the briton on average earnings of $23,125 a year, tuesday's tax cuts meant an extra $9.25 a week
for big earners, on $185,000 and up, savings began at $462.50 a week
across the tv news programs tuesday night flashed the faces of the even richer, such as retail chain store boss sir ralph halpern who'll be taking home nearly half a million dollars more a year after the tax changes come into force in april
amid jeers from the left and cheers from big business, there were signs the thatcher recipe will work again to allay resentment
we're in the money, folks'' britain's biggest selling daily, the 4-million circulation sun, declared today. the times of london carried a banner headline, ``lawson's tax triumph.''
the budget announcement came just a month before a new tightening up on welfare comes into force
among others things, about 6 million low-income households will lose all or part of rent subsidies because they have savings of more than $11,100
and welfare payments to the poor for household items such as kitchen stoves will be switched to loans
there never was a more obvious example of the rich getting richer and the poor getting demonstrably poorer,'' said labor's finance spokesman, john smith. ``it's an outrageous and disgusting budget.''
retorted tory legislator peter lilley, a treasury spokesman: ``you don't make the poor richer by making the rich poorer.''
maureen johnson has covered british politics since 1980
an asteroid collision with earth may have released enough gas to heat the planet 65 million years ago, causing gradual extinction of dinosaurs and other species by destroying their food, researchers say
the study drew guarded praise from a critic of the theory, because the findings attempt to explain why only certain creatures became extinct and why the extinctions were gradual, not sudden
the asteroid impact theory differs from ones in which scientists said such a collision caused mass extinction by kicking up enough dust to block sunlight, plunging the planet into a freezing darkness that killed plants, a source of food
california institute of technology planetary scientist john o'keefe and geophysicist thomas ahrens reached their conclusion by analyzing experiments in which ahrens and geophysicist manfred lange shot steel bullets into rocks at 4,500 mph
based on the amount of carbon dioxide released by the shattered rocks, the scientists calculated that a 6-mile-diameter asteroid hitting limestone or other carbon-rich rocks on earth would have released enough carbon dioxide to increase the amount of the gas in the atmosphere two to five times
such an increase in the gas, which traps solar heat like glass in a greenhouse, could have caused a ``greenhouse effect'' that warmed the planet by 9 to 36 degrees fahrenheit for 10,000 years after the asteroid struck, ahrens said tuesday
the leafy plants which dinosaurs ate were selectively destroyed'' by the heat while other plants survived, ahrens said. ``so there was probably (increased) competition for available food, and eventually food supplies declined to a point where different species, including the dinosaurs, became extinct in a less-than-sudden manner.''
fossils show dinosaurs and other creatures became extinct gradually, while many species survived. many biologists and paleontologists argue the mass extinction 65 million years ago was caused by gradual climate change, not an asteroid or other sudden catastrophe
william clemens, paleontology chairman at the university of california, berkeley, and a leading critic of asteroid theories, said he was skeptical of the o'keefe-ahrens theory because the dinosaurs started to die earlier than 65 million years ago
but he called their study ``clearly a positive step'' because it is consistent with gradual, selective extinction
o'keefe will present the study thursday in houston at the 19th lunar and planetary science conference
scientists debating the dinosaurs' extinction fall into two main camps: those who blame gradual climate change and those who blame catastrophe. catastrophe theorists disagree on whether an asteroid or gigantic volcanic eruption was to blame
geophysicist charles officer of dartmouth college said he believes the o'keefe-ahrens theory does not have merit because geologic evidence supports the theory that volcanoes spewed enough ash skyward to block sunlight and cause mass extinction
geochemist frank kyte, of the university of california, los angeles, disagreed, saying the theory that the asteroid triggered greenhouse warming of the atmosphere is probably sound
while other scientists previously suggested the greenhouse effect caused the extinctions, they said the carbon dioxide was generated by volcanoes, changes in ocean circulation, or acid rain that dissolved carbon-rich rocks
it is important to learn what killed the dinosaurs because ``it behooves us to find out if we're just sort of sitting here awaiting another (asteroid) impact to seal our doom, or if some of the things we're doing to the environment might ... lead to the extinction of many species,'' clemens said
scientists believe rising levels of carbon dixoide and other greenhouse gases will warm earth 3 to 5 degrees by the year 2050, possibly causing crop-threatening droughts and partly melting polar ice caps to raise sea levels and threaten coastal cities
ahrens said an asteroid impact not only may have triggered greenhouse heating, but possibly caused chemical reactions that formed intense acid rain, which either killed many creatures directly or wiped out their food plants. clemens, however, wondered how birds and other surviving species could have hidden from the corrosive downpour. corruption</head>
hundreds of prison guards here have engaged in corruption including drug sales and aiding escapes, the district attorney said in announcing the first nine arrests from a continuing investigation
authorities say seven guards, one prison cook and an inmate were charged as a result of ``operation ferret,'' an investigation begun 18 months ago
the investigation will potentially yield the largest number of arrests related to official misconduct by correctional officers in this country's history,'' district attorney ronald castille told a news conference tuesday
we are gathering the evidence to present to the special grand jury that will lead to the arrest or discipline of hundreds of guards over the coming months,'' castille said
the crimes include selling drugs to inmates, bringing money and other contraband into the city's five prisons and providing handcuff keys to aid escapes, castille said
the investigation will lead to the exposure and elimination of a massive network of corruption and criminal activity among self-serving philadelphia prison employees and prison inmates,'' castille said
prison superintendent edward lyons acknowledged that employees targeted in the investigation will continue to guard inmates until charged. he said the situation will pose no security problems
we have a sufficient number of employees to handle the system,'' lyons said. ``we have stepped up recruiting activities. and as soon as charges are filed by the grand jury, we will suspend and fire.''
the prison system houses up to 9,000 inmates and employs 1,400 guards and 350 other workers
the two instances cited in the grand jury's report involved one guard, the cook and an inmate in an escape and six guards in a beating that hospitalized an inmate who reported a guard sleeping at his post
castille declined to say how many escapes guards allowed
police commissioner kevin tucker said a federally financed organized crime law enforcement network aided the investigation, which according to castille relied on undercover officers, cooperating inmates and guards and electronic surveillance
guard dennis tiest, 42; prison cook stanley suder, 37; and inmate kenneth lynch, 39, were charged with helping inmate john longendorfer escape from the laurel hall minimum-security unit in 1987
longendorfer, who was serving time for terroristic threats and indecent assault, cooperated in the investigation, allowing authorities to videotape the escape, according to court documents
suder accepted a $1,000 bribe and a 1987 pontiac grand am, castille said
the six other guards were charged with an unprovoked physical assault on inmate william kennedy on feb. 16
those charged were officers edward ricks, 32; sammie rogers, 41; clemon davis, 35; christ taylor, 50; charles favano, 44; and sgt. peter jones, 50
castille said the investigation of the assault uncovered other reports of brutality
there is no question there is a serious problem within the walls of the prisons, and with these arrests, starting now, we hope to send out two messages,'' said lyons
one, to those employees engaged in criminal activities that we will find them and arrest them, and to those employees who discharge their services with pride, we say to them that we need you.''
other corruption cases in philadelphia have resulted in the conviction of 34 police officers since 1983 on federal bribery and conspiracy charges. they included a deputy commissioner for extorting money from vice figures. twelve judges were suspended last year for allegedly accepting cash from roofers' union members. three of the judges have been convicted of bribery in recent months.  
sal piro has seen the rocky horror picture show 1,100 times. diane witt has auburn hair 10 feet long when straight _ tresses even rapunzel would envy
they, and the world's fastest talker, were among the guests at tuesday's official reopening of the guinness book of records' spruced-up museum of ``amazing feats and astonishing facts'' in the empire state building
since 1977, 250,000 visitors a year have slaked their curiosity at the museum, forking over an admission price of $3.50 for adults and $2.50 for children, director ken volk said
at the reopening, boxer thomas hearns of detroit was inducted into guinness for earning world titles in four weight classes
i'm a very proud man at this moment,'' he said. ``this is something that my kids can look upon.''
around him, guinness alumni toasted the renovation amid replicas of the world's biggest produce (carrot, 15 pounds 7 ounces, i.g. scott, new zealand, 1978) and videotapes of human feeding frenzies (100 yards of spaghetti, 27.75 seconds), complete with sounds of swallowing and belching
calliope music wafted from the circus exhibit as marilyn vos savant _ whose iq of 228 made her the world's smartest person _ fielded reporters' highbrow questions about intellect, intuition and upbringing
i really do enjoy the guinness book,'' insisted savant, who attended on the arm of her husband, artificial heart inventor dr. robert jarvik. ``i like the idea of somebody out there being able to be an authority without having any kind of message.''
savant and the others stood aside as ms. witt of worcester, mass., unleashed 9 feet, 2 inches of auburn hair. she didn't get the 30 minutes she needed to comb out the waves to reach her record length of 10 feet
fran capo of queens, fast talker extraordinaire, showed her stuff with a rapid-fire biblical passage. ``i save money on long-distance bills,'' she noted
bruce block of cincinnati, a record-holder for balancing 135 cigar boxes on his chin, gave a 5-second demonstration; and albert lucas of las vegas tossed around four tennis rackets to show how he seized the most guinness records for juggling
tom harrington of peekskill, leader of the world domino spectacular team, staged a topple. but gary stewart of reading, ohio, on record for 130 pogo stick jumps, was there sans stick
manhattan's piro, who has seen the rocky horror picture show 1,100 times, said, ``i only go twice a week. some people go to the same bar night after night.''
in his spare time, piro, a writer, goes to other movies, plays chess and watches tv. he's seen the soap opera ``all my children'' every day for five years
an air force captain's wife who is dying from breast cancer that went undiagnosed by military doctors for almost two years has won more than $1 million in damages from the government
u.s. district judge joseph h. young awarded sandra m. edwards, 34, of camp springs, and her husband, bryan, $550,000 in compensatory damages, $415,000 for lost earnings and $100,000 for medical expenses she is expected to incur
neither consoling words nor monetary damages can be expected to fully compensate the truly grievous injury mrs. edwards sustained and will continue to endure,'' the judge said in his opinion, which was issued friday
mrs. edwards, whose doctors have given her anywhere from a few months to a year to live, said in court that she ``would like other women to be aware'' of what happened to her
she said women who find breast lumps ``shouldn't be humiliated by their doctors and shouldn't be embarrassed to get a second or third opinion'' if they are unsatisfied with their diagnoses
mrs. edwards, a former civilian navy employee and the mother of a 3-year-old son, testified last month that she sought medical help from military doctors in 1984 and 1985 after she felt a lump in her right breast and experienced bleeding from the nipple
both times, her male doctors gave her mammograms and blood tests, but told her the lump was nothing to worry about, she said
one physician told her he thought she needed psychological help because of her fears of the disease, she testified
a biopsy, ordered by a female military physician in late 1985 showed that the lump was malignant. she underwent a radical modified mastectomy and reconstructive surgery in january 1986, at the national cancer institute in bethesda
she quit her job to recuperate and joined her husband in west germany, but the cancer reappeared. last december, her doctors said cancer had spread to her brain, liver and one lung
assistant u.s. attorney barbara s. sale said in court that she was not authorized by the justice department to admit liability, but she did not defend against the malpractice charge
william o.p. snead 3rd, the edwards' lawyer, accused the military doctors of ``conduct far outside minimally acceptable standards.''
a hearing is set for today on whether the delegate slates of republican presidential candidates pat robertson and sen. bob dole should be on the primary ballot in all of new york's 34 congressional districts
supporters of the two gop contenders filed a civil rights action at federal court in manhattan monday, claiming that state election laws violate the voting rights act by making it unfairly difficult for their candidates to compete for delegates in the april 19 new york primary
u.s. district judge leonard b. sand scheduled the hearing on a request by dole and robertson supporters that he should order delegate slates for their candidates placed on the ballot in every congressional district, pending the outcome of the lawsuit
under state law, candidates had to get 1,250 signatures on petitions from registered republicans in each of the state's 34 congressional districts to get their delegate slates on the ballot. all the signatures had to be gathered between jan. 5 and feb. 11, 1988
only vice president george bush's campaign was able to accomplish that and as a result, bush slates are running unopposed in about half the districts, according to the lawsuit. caucuses</head>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis holds a strong lead over jesse jackson according to results released from last week's democratic presidential precinct caucuses by washington state party officials
with about 68 percent of the precincts reporting the results of last tuesday's balloting, dukakis had 45 percent, jackson 35 percent, and 14 percent were uncommitted
all the other candidates were well off the pace, with illinois sen. paul simon a weak fourth at 4 percent, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. at 2 percent and rep. richard gephardt of missouri with 1 percent
the democratic party made no effort to collect results statewide on caucus night, gathering precinct returns slowly by mail instead
republicans say it will be at least another week before county chairmen submit the names of gop delegates elected in last week's precinct caucuses
tennessee sen. albert gore jr.'s bid for the democratic presidential nomination has been endorsed by new york state assembly majority leader james tallon
in making his announcement tuesday, the binghamton democrat and former chairman of the assembly's health committee stressed gore's work on the federal organ transplant act and his grasp of new technologies
the legislature's no. 1 democrat, assembly speaker mel miller of brooklyn, has yet to endorse any of the democratic candidates although his wife is running in the state's april 19 presidential primary as a prospective gore delegate
i've been speaking to the gore people more frequently than anybody else, but i've not finally made a decision,'' said miller
also not taking sides yet is new york's top democrat, gov. mario cuomo. cuomo has said he doesn't know when, or even if, he will endorse any of the democratic candidates
cuomo has bridled at suggestions that he's holding off an endorsement because he's hoping a deadlocked national convention would turn to him as a candidate. while cuomo has said he won't seek the nomination, he's refused to rule out accepting a draft for the nomination if there's a deadlocked convention
a gubernatorial task force has proposed that new yorkers be allowed to register and vote on election day
issuing a 94-page report tuesday, the governor's task force on encouraging electoral participation noted that maine, minnesota and wisconsin had ``experienced a substantial increase in voter turnout'' after switching to such a system
the 17-member commission included officials from gov. marion cuomo's administration, the state legislature, the new york state and city boards of elections, college student representatives and private citizens
the task force conducted a poll of 3,500 new yorkers and talked to focus groups. cuomo said it had done all of that for ``less than $20,000.''
in the end, the task force came up with 30 recommendations to get more new yorkers to the polls by, among other things, allowing college students to register to vote in their college communities when they register for classes
the group also recommended that elementary and secondary schools be required to offer classes that stress the importance of voting, that public employees be allowed to assist new yorkers in filling out voter registration cards, and that the state create a permanent state primary day. the state primary day has varied from summer to fall during recent elections. it is scheduled for sept. 8 this year
apathy often is blamed for low voter turnouts, but the real reason people don't go to the polls may be found in examining voter registration laws, says a university of michigan researcher
many states have voter registration laws that discriminate against the electorate by making it difficult to register, contends political science professor steven j. rosenstone, who is coordinating a nationwide study of registration laws
rosenstone said preliminary research suggests that modified voter registration laws would increase overall voter turnout by about 9 percent, bringing about 16 million more people to the polls
blacks, hispanics and the poor would benefit the most from the changes,'' said rosenstone, who is coordinating the nationwide project funded by the ford foundation
in most states, voters have to register weeks before interest peaks on election day, leave work early or travel an inconvenient distance to the registration office, and finally, stand in a long line, rosenstone said
almost half the 180 million eligible u.s. voters, including more than half of the 20 million eligible black voters, aren't expected to go to the polls in november, rosenstone said
contrast this situation to canada, where registration officials go door to door to make sure every eligible voter is on the rolls. their election-day turnout averages about 68 percent _ about 15 percent higher than in the united states,'' he said
a jury awarded $1.45 million to a man left paralyzed from a 1985 wasp sting at an inn
the jury tuesday awarded the money to joseph febesh, 68, after finding the the fox hollow inn of woodbury liable for the sting that within an hour put him into a three-week coma
febesh, former manager of the golf program at the doral country club in miami beach, is unable to talk, feed himself or use his arms and legs in any way at all, according to his lawyer joseph napoli
febesh's wife, shirley, was awarded $250,000 for loss of her husband's companionship and services
the febeshes were at a 50th wedding anniversary party in the garden of the inn when they noticed yellow jackets around the garbage and the food. they told the head waiter, who shrugged off the situation, napoli said, and about an hour later febesh was stung in the hand
napoli said the wasp's venom attacked febesh's brain stem and part of his spinal cord, putting him in a coma. he said febesh, paralyzed since regaining consciousness, is undergoing physical therapy at a miami hospital
the jury, after a 10-day trial before state supreme court justice harold baer, awarded $3.4 million to the febeshes. the court reduced the verdict by half after the jury found the couple 50 percent negligent
lawyers for the inn argued that the febeshes should have left the area if they were worried about the yellow jackets
a cruise ship crew battled an engine fire early today in the gulf of mexico, and u.s. coast guard cutters and planes were steaming to the vessel, officials said
the scandinavian star was about 35 miles off isla mujeres, a mexican island north of the tourist resort cancun in the yucatan peninsula, coast guard lt. jim mazzonna said from the agency's miami office
the cruiseliner's skipper was unsure at 4:20 a.m. est if his crew had been able to douse the flames, said mazzonna, who wasn't sure how many passengers were aboard the ship or if any injuries had occurred
we're waiting for details,'' he said
besides coast guard cutters, the canada star cruiseliner was en route to evacuate scandinavian star passengers if needed, mazzonna said
a siamese twin born here died and her sister was listed in critical condition, a hospital official said today
the twins, conjoined in the hip area, were born tuesday slightly premature, said dr. norman virnig, head of st. paul-ramsey medical center's newborn intensive care unit
early today, nursing supervisor chris strand said one had died and the other was in critical condition
on tuesday, virnig said the twin girls had their own hearts and lungs, and that doctors planned a surgical separation
the mother was transferred from wisconsin to st. paul-ramsey for the delivery after ultrasound pictures of the fetuses showed an abnormality, the doctor said
hospital officials refused to release any other details
former south korean president chun doo-hwan will visit the united states for three weeks as a guest of president reagan, chun's aides said today
chun is scheduled to meet reagan next wednesday to discuss regional and world affairs. he will remain in the united states for talks with former presidents richard nixon and gerald ford, former secretary of state henry kissinger and defense department and cia officials, the aides said
chun, who left office feb. 26, heads the advisory council of elder statesmen, a presidential advisory group
last month's transfer of power was the first peaceful one in modern south korean history. chun was replaced by his chosen successor, roh tae-woo, who won last december's presidential elections against a divided opposition
gov. buddy roemer, elected on the promise of ending waste in government and changing louisiana's image of cronyism, dove headfirst into the state's financial problems by ordering budget cuts and calling the legislature into special session
during his first full day in office tuesday, roemer also huddled with legislative leaders, visited with foreign dignitaries and took time out to pose for his official portrait
roemer went to work on measures to solve the fiscal crisis immediately after his oct. 24 election victory over gov. edwin edwards and said tuesday included ``more of the same.''
i really feel like i've been doing this for 100 days,'' he said at a news conference. ``i feel the same. i'm still feel excited about it after 24 hours. i feel good getting into the substance of it.''
just hours after he was inaugurated monday, roemer turned down a stay of execution for wayne felde, convicted of killing a shreveport police officer in 1978. felde died in the electric chair shortly after midnight
while roemer settled into his new job, former officials of the edwards administration jammed the three main elevators in louisiana's skyscraper capitol, moving out boxes of personal belongings
roemer ordered $7.9 million in immediate spending cuts and summoned the legislature into a 10-day special session next monday to consider government reorganization and giving him emergency power to cut spending through the rest of the fiscal year without lawmakers' approval
the largest of the new cuts include $2.6 million from the department of health and human resources, $2.2 million from the department of public safety, and about $1.1 million from the vocational education system
louisiana faces an accumulated four-year budget deficit and cash shortfall of $1.2 billion
the governor can cut up to 20 percent from any budget unit without legislative approval. roemer said one idea under consideration was asking for the power to cut up to 20 percent from an entire agency and eliminate entire state programs
the governor also said he was developing other executive orders to save the state 10s millions of dollars, primarily through budget cuts that edwards refused to impose at roemer's request
we are in a position in this fiscal year where the numbers drive the policy and not the policy driving the numbers,'' roemer said. ``when this state is busted, broke, when the deficit is approaching a number too large to comprehend, the numbers are driving this now.''
to alleviate a cash-flow deficit that threatens to shut down state government, about $156 million in additional cuts from the state's $5.3 billion budget will have to be found, roemer said
edwards approved about $36 million in reductions before leaving office and roemer's budget team plans to delay state payments to retirement systems, hold up income tax refund checks and push one state payday into the next fiscal year to conserve cash
roemer has said new taxes probably will be needed to overcome the budget deficit. however, he said that topic would not be considered during the special session
roemer met tuesday with representatives of the government of taiwan about the possibility of building an industrial plant in louisiana. after monday's inauguration, the governor met with business representatives from japan and nigeria
military authorities today announced the arrests of nine suspected communist guerrillas, two of them regional party officials, in the latest blow to the crippled insurgency
the arrests were made march 9-14 in three northeastern provinces, said maj. praphan suvannamajo, an internal security operations command spokesman
the impoverished northeast was once the stronghold of the communists, who fielded about 12,000 fighters at the peak of power in the late 1970s
a government amnesty offer and military raids have crippled the insurgency, and the army says just a few hundred guerrillas remain
the financially troubled de laurentiis entertainment group inc. has agreed to sell the foreign tv, video and non-theatrical rights to virtually its entire 320-movie library for $69 million
the foreign rights are being acquired by a newly formed united kingdom company controlled by financier michael w. stevens, the de laurentiis company said tuesday
the sale will pay off $57 million in bank debt and provide capital for the company, which posted a $36.2 million loss in the first nine months of the last fiscal year
the company's founder, italian filmmaker dino de laurentiis, 68, stepped down as chairman and chief executive last month. the company still seeks a buyer for remaining library rights and its vast wilmington, n.c., studio
the cat's out of the bag. fustuce ringgenberg, better known as fred, proud recipient of a letter offering him a mastercard from an ohio bank with a $5,000 limit, hasn't worked a lick in his 2{ years
janet ringgenberg said she was flabbergasted that her cat got a pre-approved invitation. ms. ringgenberg said she has been trying unsuccessfully to get a credit card since she was divorced three years ago
where's he going to go with it?'' she asked. ``he doesn't even leave home, let alone leave home without it,'' she said with a smirk. ``it's hilarious. i think it's just a big joke.''
fustuce mostly lies on the rug or nestles in the easy chair, she said. his biggest worry is whether he'll get canned tuna
the story probably began a year ago, when ringgenberg's 18-year-old daughter, barbara, filled out a questionnaire on toothpaste and breakfast cereal and mailed it in with fustuce's name on it
i thought they'd send us some free coupons or something,'' ms. ringgenberg said. instead, fustuce's name apparently ended up on a mailing list bought by credit card service bureau of springfield, va., to solicit customers
betty rothgeb, administrative assistant to the company's chairman, said household pets get on the list of prospective customers ``from time to time.''
there's no danger he (fustuce) is going to be given a credit card,'' ms. rothgeb said. ``obviously, since the cat has no credit, it would be denied.''
creditors in vermont cannot take a person's two-horse wagon, pew in church, lettered gravestone or year's worth of yarn in personal bankruptcy proceedings
cars, refrigerators and other items considered modern necessities, however, are not protected by law from creditors. a bill under consideration in the state senate would add those modern inventions and eliminate antiquated items from the list of protected property
the bill received preliminary approval tuesday
there was a judicial case that said sorry, a car is not an ox cart,'' said kirby scarborough, chairman of the vermont bar association's bankruptcy committee, which unanimously endorsed the revision. ``let me ask you something, who has an ox cart these days?''
state archivist gregory sanford said the legislature responded to changing state economies, adding an exemption for sheep in 1811 and for bees and honey in 1850, but the list went unchanged for most of this century
indian soldiers shot and killed at least 24 tamil rebels during search operations in two northeastern districts, a sri lankan military official said today
the official, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said the operations in the mullaitivu and kilinochchi districts began early tuesday and lasted the entire day. he said eight of those killed were women and that at least four rebels were injured
more than 300 indian soldiers backed by helicopter gunships and tanks were involved in the operation, the official said
the search operations follow the killing of members of the majority sinhalese community, allegedly by the rebels, in neighbouring trincomalee district and retaliatory killings of tamils by an outlawed sinhalese group. at least 98 people have died in trincomalee in the past two weeks
the official said the indians also had searched unsuccessfully for members of the people's liberation group, an ultra-nationalist sinhalese organization
at least 50,000 indian soldiers are in sri lanka to disarm tamil rebels, who have been waging a separatist guerilla war since 1983. the indians were deployed under a peace accord which granted limited autonomy to the minority tamils in exchange for an arms surrender
but the tamils renounced the july 29 accord last fall and since then they have been battling the indian soldiers
the people's liberation front also opposes the peace accord, saying it grants too many concessions to the tamils
india says more than 400 soldiers and at least 1,100 rebels have died in the fighting, but the militants claim that most of the tamils killed were civilians
tamils form 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people while the sinhalese comprise 75 percent. tamils say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese, who control the army and the government in sri lanka. control, no evacuations appear necessary, coast guard now says 707 aboard, sted about 1,000; picks up last graf.</note>
an engine fire broke out early today on a cruise ship carrying more than 700 people in the gulf of mexico, but the blaze appeared to have been brought under control, according to officials and a nearby ship's captain
no injuries were reported, said petty officer brian lincoln, of the u.s. coast guard's miami office
the scandinavian star was about 35 miles off isla mujeres, a mexican island north of the tourist resort cancun in the yucatan peninsula, said coast guard lt. jim mazzonna in miami
all we know is that the ship's captain ... is completely out of fire-fighting equipment and has requested additional fire-fighting equipment such as foam, water and co2,'' said lincoln, referring to carbon dioxide
coast guard cutters, the canada star cruise ship and the vessel vera cruz stood by to assist in evacuating passengers, lincoln said
the canada star's captain, jens thorn, said later that the fire appeared to have been brought under control, and there was no reason to evacuate
coast guard petty officer richard esterline said 707 people, including crew, were aboard the ship
the scandinavian star, owned by seaescape ltd., offers daily ``cruises to nowhere'' out of its port in st. petersburg, records show. extraneous second reference to anderson's age. pickup 14th graf pvs, ``to my...</note>
two lebanese newspapers today published letters addressed to kidnapped american journalist terry anderson and his pro-iranian captors on the third anniversary of his abduction in moslem west beirut
the independent an-nahar and the sunni moslem al-liwa also published a picture of anderson's 2-year-old daughter sulome, who was born after his march 16, 1985, abduction by islamic jihad
here is sulome, our daughter, wishing you a safe return home, daddy,'' said a letter to anderson from madeleine, sulome's mother
she often asks about you. wondering which of all the planes she is seeing will be the one bringing daddy home...,'' the letter said
anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held of 22 foreign hostages in lebanon. there has been no word of him for three months
in a letter to the shiite moslem kidnappers, the u.s.-based journalists' committee to free terry anderson pleaded with islamic jihad to ``release him in the name of humanity.''
for what crime is he paying this terrible price?'' the letter asked. ``terry has committed no crime.''
the letters were also broadcast by a state-run television station based in christian east beirut, as well as the christian voice of lebanon and the sunni voice of nation radios
anderson was seized before kidnappings became epidemic in moslem west beirut, when many foreigners lived there. gunmen believed to be shiite moslem zealots abducted him as he was returning home from a game of tennis
police say they have no information on anderson or any of the other missing foreigners, who include eight other americans. most are held by shiite moslems loyal to ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, the revolutionary patriarch of iran
lebanese government authorities have little sway in their own country after 13 years of civil war that pits moslems against christians and rival factions within each camp against each other
anderson's captors call themselves islamic jihad, which means islamic holy war. since his abduction, they have released nine photographs and two videotapes of him
he is known to have been allowed to write to his family once, in november 1985. in his last videotaped message, delivered to a news agency in beirut on christmas eve, anderson addressed the reagan administration and his family
to my government, i don't know what to say,'' he declared. ``to my family, i love you and miss you very much. ... i am in good health but tired and very lonely
mr. president, i say again this cannot continue. there is a limit for how long we can last and some of us are approaching their limit. ... surely by now you know what must be done and how you can do it
this is difficult, but you can do it. there have been enough careful consideration, cold discussion and enough secret maneuvering.''
services were planned in washington today to commemorate anderson's three years in captivity. participants at the holy trinity church were to include three former hostages _ revs. lawrence jenco and benjamin weir and abc news correspondent charles glass
prayers for anderson and the other hostages were to be offered by christian and islamic clergy. participants were to read passages from the bible and the koran before 1,000 olive branches are given to the attendees
in washington, rep. louise slaughter, d-n.y., asked her colleagues in the house of representatives and all americans to take a moment ``to think about the continuing plight of terry anderson and the other hostages in lebanon.''
as terry begins his fourth year of deprivation and inhumane isolation ..., let us reflect on the toll three years of separation from our wives, children, parents and brothers and sisters would take on each of us,'' said ms. slaughter, who represents anderson's sister, peggy say, in congress
islamic jihad has demanded the release of 17 comrades imprisoned in kuwait for bombing the u.s. and french embassies in december 1983 as ransom for anderson and thomas sutherland, 56, another american they hold
kuwait has refused and the united states has rejected demands from the kidnappers that it bring pressure to bear on the sheikdom
sutherland, acting dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, was kidnapped june 9, 1985
two other americans kidnapped by islamic jihad kidnapped the same year were freed in 1986 _ jenco, 50, a roman catholic priest, and david jacobsen, 54, director of the american university hospital. they were held with anderson and sutherland
there have been no publicized efforts to free missing americans since the disappearance jan. 20, 1987, of anglican church envoy terry waite, who left his west beirut hotel that day for a meeting with anderson's captors
waite has been missing since, but no group has claimed to have kidnapped him. he had made several trips to beirut seeking release of the americans. the final one was his first after disclosure that the united states secretly shipped arms to iran in an effort to free the captives
a storm from nevada to kansas today left up to 6 inches of snow, while freezing temperatures shattered record lows and threatened crops in the deep south
nearly clear skies with light winds helped temperatures drop throughout the south. by midnight, frost was scattered across georgia, alabama and mississippi into northern florida
more than 40 cities tied or broke records for low temperatures on tuesday. today, apalachicola, fla., had a record low of 39 degrees, one degree colder than the mark set on the same date in 1954. at midnight tuesday, tallahassee hit 28 degrees
georgia peach growers were worried about the freezing weather's effect on the state's crop of an estimated 140 million pounds. temperatures of 28 degrees or below can damage peaches in their early stages
we don't need cold now,'' said stephen myers, a horticulturist with the university of georgia extension service in athens
in florida, a forecaster said citrus trees could withstand the cold, but vegetables that are just weeks away from harvesting are vulnerable to frost damage
definitely, we're in a critical period,'' larry pfeiffer, a specialist with the national weather service in ruskin, said, referring to central and south florida vegetables
in the west, up to 6 inches of snow fell on fillmore, utah, and heavy snow also was reported over spanish fork canyon and the brianhead ski area in southern utah
snow continued this morning across wyoming, northern nevada, northwestern montana, northern minnesota, michigan, the ohio valley, new york state and northern new england
snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 a.m. est included 6 inches at lander, wyo., 3 inches at mount washington, n.h., and 1 inch at charleston, w.va
high wind warnings were posted over southeast kern county in southern california
today's forecast called for snow extending from eastern nevada and northern arizona across the rockies into central kansas. snow should be scattered over the great lakes, the upper ohio valley and new england. highs should be in the 20s and 30s from the northern and central rockies to new england. temperatures should warm into the 50s across much of the south-central and southeastern portion of the nation. highs are expected in the 60s in southern and central texas, much of louisiana and the florida peninsula. temperatures also should warm into the 50s and 60s across the west coast, the southern plateau and the southern half of new mexico. highs in the 70s were expected in the desert southwest
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 4 degrees at bismarck, n.d., and rapid city, s.d., to 66 at phoenix, ariz
other reports:
_east: atlanta 30 fair; boston 31 partly cloudy; buffalo 29 snow; charleston, s.c. 30 fair; cincinnati 22 partly cloudy; cleveland 28 snow; miami 46 fair; new york 32 partly cloudy; philadelphia 29 fair; pittsburgh 23 snow; portland, maine 29 fair; washington 28 fair
_central: bismarck 5 fair; chicago 28 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 47 fair; denver 25 windy; des moines 28 cloudy; indianapolis 26 cloudy; kansas city 21 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 28 cloudy; nashville 24 fair; new orleans 45 fair; st. louis 24 fair
_west: albuquerque 36 fair; anchorage 27 cloudy; las vegas 49 windy; los angeles 55 partly cloudy; phoenix 61 fair; salt lake city 35 cloudy; san diego 57 cloudy; san francisco 58 fair; seattle 44 fair
_canada: montreal 30 cloudy; toronto 30 cloudy
confusion and fear generated by aids has created an unlimited audience for quacks who are expected to take in $1 billion this year, speakers at the national health fraud conference said
many persons who have aids will try anything to defeat it; many who don't have aids will try anything to avoid it,'' said dr. john h. renner, director of the national health information center in kansas city. ``that makes it easy for quacks to convert every trick in their repertoire into an aids treatment or preventative.''
dr. robert e. windom, assistant secretary for health of the u.s. department of health and human services, called tuesday for health professionals to join in an anti-fraud effort
renner said he's seen fraudulent aids remedies that include processed pond scum, hydrogen peroxide injections, the food preservative bht, pills derived from aids-infected mice and ``herbal'' capsules containing poisonous metals
we've even discovered a phony doctor who, for a $100 fee, was injecting his patients with a processed byproduct of their own urine,'' he said
about 400 people attended the two-day conference on health fraud, including representatives of law enforcement agencies, consumer groups, medicine, insurance companies and business
michael r. botwin, a california deputy attorney general, said it was understandable that people faced with aids would try any treatment, and that it some cases quack treatments provided a psychological boost
however, many so-called aids treatments are sold with scare tactics, pose health hazards, or carry the risk of substantial financial loss,'' he said. gun</head>
tape recordings indicate president corazon aquino's husband was killed with a gun other than that which officials claim was the murder weapon, a japanese sound expert testified today
based on the tapes of voices, footsteps and gunfire, matsumi suzuki also identified four soldiers as the ones who shouted the tagalog words ``this is it,'' ``let me do it'' and ``shoot'' seconds before former sen. benigno aquino jr. was shot and killed on aug. 21, 1983
suzuki, president of the japan acoustics institute of tokyo, made the statements at the trial of 34 soldiers and three civilians accused of murdering aquino and rolando galman, an alleged communist agent initially tagged as the assassin
aquino was killed as he walked down the stairway from a china airlines plane to the tarmac at manila airport under military escort. he was returning to the philippines from three years' exile in the united states. galman was shot and killed by soldiers immediately after aquino fell
suzuki, speaking in japanese through an interpreter, said he reached his conclusions after analyzing sounds picked up by journalists' tape recorders during the assassination and the test firing of various types of guns in studios in japan and the united states
chief prosecutor raul gonzales told reporters that suzuki's testimony supports the prosecution's claim that aquino was shot on the stairway, where only soldiers were in a position to shoot him in the back of the head
the military under deposed president ferdinand marcos claimed aquino was shot by galman on the tarmac with a .357-caliber magnum revolver
in his testimony, suzuki said an analysis of the tape recordings show that the first shot, which has been established as the one that killed aquino, could have come only from a .45-caliber pistol
the sound of the gunshot was close to the sound of a .45-caliber automatic pistol,'' suzuki said. ``the sound was quite different to a great degree from the sound coming from a .357 magnum.''
suzuki said the sound of the footsteps of aquino and his four soldier escorts were clearly picked up by two boom microphones extended over the top of the stairway, as the party began descending
we can clearly analyze the sound of the first step to the eleventh step,'' suzuki said referring to the stairway, which had 21 rungs. ``after the eleventh step ... the sound of gunfire was heard.''
suzuki said he could not pinpoint the step where aquino was shot but calculated it was between the 11th and 15th rungs
the tapes also picked up the words ``eto na'' (this is it), followed by ``ako na. ako na'' (let me do it. let me do it) and ``pusila. pusila.'' (shoot. shoot
suzuki said the words ``eto na'' were uttered by lt. jesus de castro, chief of the security detail assigned to aquino, who remained at the top of the stairs while aquino was led down
the words ``let me do it'' were said by sgts. claro lat and arnulfo de mesa one after the other, suzuki said
he said the fatal gunshot came after both castro and constable 1st class mario lazaga shouted ``shoot!'' one after the other
suzuki said he identified the voices by comparing voice prints on the tapes with tape-recorded statements made by soldiers during a formal investigation shortly after the murder. a five-member board had required all the soldiers who escorted aquino to say those words
a texas businessman and prominent democratic party fund-raiser with ties to house speaker jim wright has been indicted by a federal grand jury in an alleged land fraud
thomas merrill gaubert of desoto, texas, was accused tuesday of pocketing $5.6 million of $8 million he persuaded the capitol federal savings and loan association into investing in a condominium project he was developing in texas
the mount pleasant, iowa, savings and loan was closed in may, when federal regulators said its texas investment and other poorly secured loans had left the company with a negative net worth of $65 million
gaubert, 48, former owner of the independent american savings association in irving, texas, contributed $7,000 to two wright political committees in 1985
in the fall of 1986, wright, d-texas, then house majority leader, arranged a 2{-hour meeting between federal home loan bank board chairman edwin gray and gaubert to air gaubert's complaints about his s&amp;l's treatment by the board
wright said he was simply encouraging gray to ensure that his agency was being fair to one of wright's constituents
gaubert is accused of using the s&amp;l to finance a ``land flip'' in a dallas county, texas, condominium project he was developing in 1982 and 1983
gaubert bought about 44 acres of land about 11 miles south of downtown dallas at less than 50 cents per square foot, then sold it the same day through a middleman to 22 buyers at $5.25 per square foot, the indictment alleged
he is accused of not telling capitol federal officials that he owned the land and planned to sell it to investors at inflated prices
the indictment charges gaubert with three counts of wire fraud and one count of making false statements to a federally insured financial institution
i am confident that i will be vindicated,'' gaubert said tuesday. ``the transaction in the indictment occurred five years ago and all of the funds initially borrowed from capitol savings were repaid in 1985.''
no arraignment date has been set for gaubert
the s&amp;l industry in texas, which leads the nation in losses and failures, is the focus of a huge federal criminal investigation that has led to a number of indictments of prominent businessmen
the maximum penalty for wire fraud is a $1,000 fine and five years in prison. making false statements to a federally insured financial institution carries a maximum $5,000 fine and two years in prison
voters in the illinois primary stopped a political comeback by former chicago mayor jane byrne and set up a congressional rematch between house minority leader bob michel and his 1982 challenger
mrs. byrne lost her race tuesday for the democratic nomination for clerk of the circuit court in cook county to aurelia pucinski, who was endorsed by the county party organization. with 92 percent of the vote in, mrs. byrne trailed mrs. pucinski 53 percent to 38 percent
it means that when the people spoke, they apparently shouted. ... i am very good at taking hints,'' said mrs. byrne, loser of two previous bids to regain the mayor's office she lost in 1983 to harold washington
asked whether she would consider running for office again, she said, ``i'm not even thinking of it right now.''
edward vrdolyak, a former democratic power broker who left the party, was unopposed on the republican side and will face mrs. pucinski in november
the highlight of illinois' 22 congressional district races tuesday was in peoria where house minority leader bob michel crushed his first primary opponent in 32 years to set up a november rematch with attorney g. douglas stephens, the democrat who almost unseated him in a bitter 1982 race
southern illinois democrats chose a nominee who never finished college and doesn't hold a law degree for an illinois supreme court vacancy. appellate justice horace calvo of glen carbon, who attended college and law school but never earned a degree, won the nomination with 34 percent of the 49,817 votes cast
chicago voters in precincts around wrigley field, the only major league stadium without night baseball, voted three-to-one in a non-binding referendum against the city council's decision to add lights to the historic home of the cubs
in a citywide non-binding referendum, voters advised against sending illinois national guard troops to train in central america
michel, president reagan's point man in congress, easily defeated tazewell county board chairman james e. unsicker. with 96 percent of the votes counted, michel had 86 percent to unsicker's 14 percent
stephens coasted through the democratic primary, receiving 88 percent of the vote to justin zachary west's 12 percent
in the 21st congressional district, where retiring democratic rep. melvin price has served for 44 years, st. clair county board chairman jerry f. costello won a four-man race for the democratic nomination. he'll face republican robert h. ``bob'' gaffner in november
in the 22nd district, state sen. glenn poshard of carterville will carry the democratic standard in november against republican patrick j. kelley of carbondale. the two are vying to succeed retiring rep. kenneth gray, who served 12 terms in two capitol hill stints since 1955
tuesday's primary also saw the return of followers of political extremist lyndon larouche on the ballot for a range of positions from president to county register of deeds. unlike two years ago when two larouche candidates were nominated for lieutenant governor and secretary of state, none of the candidates succeeded
here is sulome, our daughter, wishing you a safe return home, daddy. she often asks about you. wondering which of all the planes she is seeing will be the one bringing daddy home....'' _ madeleine anderson, whose letter to her husband, terry anderson, was printed in two lebanese newspapers on the third anniversary of his abduction in moslem west beirut
it means that when the people spoke, they apparently shouted. ... i am very good at taking hints.'' _ former chicago mayor jane byrne, whose bid for a political comeback ended in defeat
many times i was wondering, `is this where he slipped? is this where he lost it?''' _ vern tejas, who became the first mountaineer to conquer mount mckinley alone in winter, referring to naomi uemura, the only other person to successfully reach the 20,320-foot summit solo in winter but who disappeared during his descent
voters soundly defeated a proposal to change the town's name to sleepy hollow, a historic moniker made famous by the washington irving story of the headless horseman
the vote tuesday was 1,322 against the name change and 794 in favor, said alison fine, a village trustee
sleepy hollow was the 17th century dutch description of the hudson river area north of new york city
advocates of the name change said the village of 8,000 was too often confused with neighboring tarrytown and needed a new image to attract business and tourist money. opponents said changing the name would cause more confusion and might cost more than $50,000
stacy kelly, a member of the sleepy hollow committee, said she was disappointed, but added, ``we raised the consciousness of people here that we need a long-term vision for the village.''
a university of texas astronomer has observed the first ghostly light ``echoes'' from supernova 1987a, an exploding star that lighted the southern skies in february 1987, the university announced
arlin crotts made the observations at the carnegie institution of washington's las campanas observatory in chile, the university announced tuesday
theories predict that when a supernova explodes, some light from the flash would light up or reflect off dusty clouds of gas and show up as faint arcs of light long after the peak brightness of the supernova
until now, however, no supernova has been close enough and bright enough to test this prediction, ut spokesman danny ewald said
crotts found two arcs of light corresponding to echoes from supernova 1987a. the echoed light should be that which was emitted when the supernova was at its brightest, some 80 days after the explosion was detected
crotts said the discovery of the light echo from supernova 1987a was confirmation of a basic prediction on how a supernova should behave
the echo is useful for mapping the clouds of gas and dust that surround the supernova, much as terrain-mapping radar gives information on and contours, ut said in a statement announcing the discovery
according to scientists, previously observed supernovae have been so far distant from earth that light echoes were undistinguishable from the source, and the later-arriving light was misinterpreted as slower decay of the supernova. rally</head>
authorities today announced the release of eight opposition leaders jailed while 10,000 anti-government demonstrators marched through budapest in hungary's largest street protest since the 1956 uprising
the state news agency mti said writer miklos haraszti and the other seven were detained for ``intenting to disturb'' tuesday's ceremonies commemorating the 140th anniversary of hungary's rebellion against austrian rule
after a communist party-organized demonstration on tuesday, the protesters marched down the capital's main boulevards shouting ``democracy'' and chanting slogans demanding a free press and free elections
police turned out in force but did not disturb the march
speakers at a rally after the march criticized the soviet system
the time is over for self-appointed governments,'' leading dissident gabor miklos tamas told the crowd, referring to the nation's communist authorities. ``a modern democracy has to be created with a new constitution and free elections.''
haraszti, reached by telephone from vienna today, said he and the other dissident intellectuals were taken to the gyuejtoefoeghaz prison outside budapest, where imre nagy, premier during the 1956 revolution, was executed
i was picked up by police at 5 a.m. and set free around midnight,'' haraszti said. ``we were all held in separate cells.''
haraszti said that, in days preceding tuesday's anniversary, authorities launched a campaign to try to discourage young people from taking part
in an attempt to keep the number of demonstrators low, he said, police searched houses, seized underground literature and visited high schools, apparently to intimidate students
he said he did not think any of the dissidents detained tuesday had been fined or charged
the others are sociologist ottilia solt, publisher gabor demszky, artist tamas molnar, gyoergy gado, jenoe nagy and two lesser known dissidents, sandor racz and robert palinkas
on tuesday, the crowd marched to monuments to national heroes, paying particular tribute to firebrand poet sandor petoefi, whose name is symbolic of resistance to foreign domination of hungary
a 1948 rebellion in hungary was put down a year later with the help of russian troops. in 1956, soviet troops again helped suppress a nationalist uprising
hungarian dissidents have staged unofficial demonstrations on march 15 every year since 1973. police generally have shown restraint, although dozens of officers clashed violently with protesters in 1986
roza demszky, wife of the detained publisher, read her husband's speech to the crowd. the soviet system has led hungary into a crisis ``and does not show any way out,'' she said
hungary recently has imposed an austerity program to try to reverse economic stagnation
a former auto-parts salesman whose collection of orchids was among the world's largest has died, leaving his $5 million estate and its nearly 12,000 orchids to the american orchid society
lewis vaughn died monday at age 92
it's just kind of special to see a man's life turned into such beauty and love,'' said pat pepper schwab, the city's vice mayor
he was our best friend, there's no doubt about it,'' said lee cooke, executive director of the society. ``he's going to be very sadly missed.''
vaughn and his late wife, varina, bought their first orchid about 50 years ago. he became a leading amateur grower _ one of the first to develop the yellow phalaenopsis _ and his private collection is among the world's largest
somebody said, `try an orchid,' and i bought one in a pot, and the blame thing bloomed. that was a cattleya, c. bowringiana. and i still have a cutting from it on the mango tree by the office,'' vaughn said in a 1987 interview
on tuesday, about 9,000 of vaughn's orchids were blooming
it's a little bit of heaven here,'' cooke said
vaughn, who was childless, is survived by six nieces and nephews. funeral services were scheduled for friday afternoon here
olive carey, veteran actress of hollywood's golden age and wife and mother to a pair of famous harry careys, has died. she was 92
born olive golden on jan. 31, 1896, she came from a performing family headed by her father, famed vaudeville entertainer george fuller golden
mrs. carey died of natural causes at her home sunday
the actress destined to wed actor harry carey appeared on screen with him in the 1914 silent movie, ``the sorrowful shore.'' she later worked with director d.w. griffith
while the careys worked under contract for universal studios, she introduced her husband to a 21-year-old prop man, john ford. she persuaded carey to allow the unknown ford to direct his first two-reel western, ``the soul herder.''
ford went on to rank among the top directors in film history
they became lifelong friends along with another budding young western actor, john wayne
mrs. carey made several films with ford, wayne, her husband and their son, harry carey jr
when carey died in 1947, mrs. carey came out of retirement to act in such films as ``the searchers,'' ``the alamo'' and ``two rode together.''
she has appeared with other hollywood greats such as jimmy stewart, richard widmark, vera miles and natalie wood
mrs. carey is survived by a sister, mignonne, her son, harry carey jr., a daughter, cappy carey, six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren
she was to be memorialized today in a private ceremony at her home about 75 miles northwest of downtown los angeles
ranchers whose rangeland was devastated by a wildfire that killed about 200 head of cattle are receiving gifts of about 350,000 pounds of hay daily to keep their operations going, officials say
many cities around the state are conducting hay drives for ranchers affected by the fire, said alan heirman of the federal soil conservation service
we have received a tremendous response to the hay program,'' heirman said tuesday. ``today, we received about 100 different donations of hay, with promises of close to 15,000 square bales and 500 to 1,000 round bales.''
the wildfire charred an estimated 350,000 acres of rangeland before it was declared under control monday afternoon. weary firefighters who had fought the blaze since last thursday were sent home tuesday
a frost helped cool the ground and extinguish the blaze, said mahlon hammetter, a spokesman for the texas forest service. but rain is needed to help rejuvenate the scorched ground, he said
we are saving a lot of cattle,'' said heirman. ``if we can get some rain, we may see them continue to live. everybody's praying for rain right now.''
about 200 cattle died on 53 ranches in shackelford county, he said, and about 500 head were injured
on monday, lt. gov. bill hobby issued a disaster proclamation for the region, said don couch of the governor's emergency management division in austin. gov. bill clements was out of the state, said the governor's press secretary, reggie bashur
the fire probably started when flames from burning trash went out of control near abilene last thursday, authorities said
the fire burned in an area 56 miles long and 24 miles wide in shackelford, jones, haskell, throckmorton and callahan counties. reference to tin can in 7th graf: `in the occupied...' pick up 8th graf pvs: `most of...'</note> ^by sergei shargorodsky</byline>
some israelis are protesting that domestic and foreign journalists covering riots in the occupied lands are producing reports that are pro-palestinian and damaging to israel's image
israel television has received dozens of threatening letters for its reporting of the more than three months of violent protests in the west bank and gaza strip _ coverage most foreign journalists consider mild
even new york mayor edward koch has joined in the criticism. koch wrote in the jersualem post today that television cameras should be barred from the occupied territories
many other nations throughout the world are experiencing troubles similar to those now taking place in israel. should israel be the only nation to allow full television coverage of these troubles?'' koch wrote
an american television network says threats have forced it to hire private guards to protect its offices and an israeli cameraman
there's an escalation in statements against us,'' eli fassman, head of the union of television crews, told israel radio this week. ``these criticisms border on incitement to murder.''
there is also growing physical danger in covering the rioting, the managing director of israel's state-run television, chaim yavin, said in an interview
he said israel television cameramen have been given a special first aid and self-protection course. they were taught to defend themselves against a mob, make speedy exits and use the camera as a weapon, the daily hadashot reported
in the occupied west bank's al amari camp, cameramen were seen tuesday wearing large tin containers over their heads to protect themselves from stones
most of the mail that arrives at israel television is critical
we are accused of being leftists, plo supporters. there are threatening letters, too,'' said yavin
an israel television spokeswoman, sari timmerman, said at least five or six such letters arrive each day at her office while others go directly to yavin
the number of letters has not increased since the anti-occupation rioting began dec. 8, but most are now devoted to patriotic criticism of israel television's performance in the west bank and gaza strip
many ask why we permit hostile elements to use state-run media for expressing their views,'' ms. timmerman said
there are also telephoned complaints
if the action gets tough, we get up to 100 calls a night, most from people who say they don't want to see this or want us to be more favorable to the government,'' said yair stern, the head of the news department
the tv's arab-language department faces another kind of threat
israeli media reports said its workers have received palestine liberation organization-inspired calls to stop cooperating with israeli authorities and resign. department head yosef barel denied the reports
people in the territories want coverage, and they know no arab tv is covering them apart from us,'' he said
foreign networks are sometimes accused of inflaming violence and unwittingly aiding anti-israeli rioters
the press _ and i'm speaking primarily about the foreign tv networks _ has explicitly been a side involved in the events,'' president chaim herzog has said. he said foreign television crews are ``the main weapon'' of the arabs
he was the latest in a series of israeli officials to criticize foreign media. prime minister yitzhak shamir, defense minister yitzhak rabin and army spokesman brig. gen. ephraim lapid also have spoken out
certain israeli officials, by their public statements, have created a lynch atmosphere against reporters,'' said bill seamans, abc news bureau chief
the cbs news bureau chief, terry plantinga, said his network hired guards to protect its tel aviv offices and cameraman moshe alpert after receiving telephoned threats
last month, alpert filmed four israeli soldiers brutally beating two bound palestinian youths with rocks in the west bank city of nablus. the broadcast sparked international criticism and the army put the soldiers on trial. 4 grafs after 4th graf pvs, ``frankly i</note>
a jubilant sen. paul simon savored a primary victory in his home state of illinois, saying, ``i have been judged by those who know me best'' and talking optimistically today of his chances at a brokered democratic national convention
he promptly turned his sights on the next tests _ michigan, which holds caucuses on march 26, and wisconsin, which holds its primary april 5. simon was campaigning in wisconsin today
he said he hopes to make a respectable showing in michigan's march 26 caucuses, but said he does not expect to win
frankly, i hope we pick up a good chunk of delegates and do respectably, but i don't anticipate winning in michigan,'' said simon. ``in wisconsin, we're going to have to have some paid media ... and i expect to do well.''
he had predicted repeatedly during his illinois campaign that none of the democratic candidates would have the nomination wrapped up by the time the party's national convention begins in july, and he said today his victory was evidence to support that prediction
the reality is we're going to have to go, we're going to have a wide open convention,'' he said on abc-tv. ``i don't know who out there will emerge, but i think paul simon has as good a shot as anyone.''
party chairman paul kirk said this week that if there is no obvious winner by the end of the primary season party leaders and the candidates should meet and settle on a nominee before the convention. but simon said he didn't think much of that idea
i would be happy to participate,'' he said. but he added, ``i am doubtful that you're going to emerge with a winner from that kind of operation. ... i'm not saying no to a summit meeting; i'll participate, but i'm not optimistic that it will provide answers.''
in the illinois contest, simon beat out fellow favorite son jesse jackson, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis finishing well behind the two leaders
earlier, simon had made it clear that illinois was a ``must-win'' state for him, saying he would drop out if he did not win both the popular and the delegate vote
he did both
this is a new beginning for the paul simon candidacy,'' he told a packed chicago hotel ballroom of cheering supporters tuesday night. he was interrupted frequently with shouts of ``we want paul.''
even with his victory, simon's national delegate total lagged far behind those of dukakis, sen. albert gore jr. and jackson
the associated press delegate survey showed dukakis with 464.5 and jackson with 460.55 delegates. gore had 354.8, and simon 171.5 delegates. only rep. richard gephardt, who was fighting for survival after a poor super tuesday showing, trailed simon with 145
simon says his victory in his home state showed there is no clear-cut winner in the democratic presidential race _ and that means he still has a chance
it's not over yet,'' he declared
dukakis, jackson and gore carved up the victories and the votes among them last week on super tuesday. simon sat out the contests
the senator seemed in good spirits as he cast his ballot at the makanda township fire station along with his wife, jeanne, telling reporters: ``i had no trouble deciding who to vote for.''
simon, who was strapped for cash, spent no money on television ads in the illinois primary campaign, hoping instead to draw support on the basis of his record. by contrast, rivals gore and dukakis spent heavily _ $200,000 for gore, $250,000 for dukakis
simon openly worried that he could take second place to jackson if dukakis siphoned off enough votes. visit cuba</note>
cardinal john j. o'connor has accepted an invitation to visit cuba, a spokesman for the new york archdiocese said
no date for the visit has been set, but we're trying to do it within the next couple of weeks,'' said joseph zwilling
zwilling said o'connor was invited to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of felix varela, a cuban priest who served in new york city from 1823 to 1853
o'connor was invited about two months ago by a group of catholic bishops in cuba and is scheduled to give the homily at several services during his visit
argentine cardinal eduardo pironio visited cuba in 1986 as the papal representative to a major assembly of cuban catholics
a robbery suspect holding a gun to a restaurant manager's head was shot to death at point blank range by police when he refused to release the man, according to officials
police surrounded the kentucky fried chicken outlet tuesday night when one of four people in the establishment was able to trip a silent alarm, said officer dennis norris
the unidentified gunman died early today at mission emergency hospital. restaurant manager waylon gee was grazed on the head from the gunfire
officers had a clear shot and fired numerous times,'' norris said. the gunman did not get off a shot, he said
the man stayed until closing time and then held up the place,'' norris said
he ordered those in the restaurant to get on the floor while he searched for money
police arrived as the man was leaving and it was then that he put the gun to gee's head
a 34-year-old man has been charged with murdering a friend by dousing him with gasoline and setting him afire after an evening of drink and drugs
william wesley swain was charged tuesday with murdering henry l. brown, 37, also of asbury park, during the evening of march 9
brown's body was found march 10 by firefighters who responded to a call at 3 a.m. at his apartment, according to monmouth county prosecutor john kaye
the body was found in the kitchen, kaye said. firefighters apparently removed the body, and it was not until the medical examiner's office detected gasoline on the clothes that an investigation began, leading to swain's arrest tuesday
kaye said the two men had been drinking and taking drugs during the day and evening before brown argued with swain and threw him out of brown's car
swain returned to brown's apartment, found a can of gasoline brown kept for a motorcycle, doused brown and ignited him, kaye said
swain was sent to the monmouth county correctional institution on $150,000 bail. from afghan and kremlin leaders on delays. no pickup</note>
the afghanistan peace talks resumed today with no new target date for their completion and growing impatience in moscow, which renewed charges that the united states and pakistan were blocking the pact's progress
afghan foreign minister abdul wakil, speaking at a news conference, also said that pakistan was delaying progress on a settlement but said afghanistan sees no reason to suspend the talks, now in their sixth year
in moscow, soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze told u.s. ambassador jack matlock that the kremlin wants the united states and pakistan to stop ``artificially procrastinating'' on an agreement, the tass news agency said
the soviets offered fresh assurances, however, that it would still remove its estimated 115,000 troops two months after a settlement is signed. soviet troops intervened in afghanistan in 1979 and are helping the marxist government fight u.s.-backed moslem guerrillas
at issue were pakistan's demand for a broad-based transitional government to replace the current, soviet-backed adminsitration in kabul, and for a simultaneous end to military assistance to the warring sides
pakistan argues that only a government replacing the present administration of president najib could guarantee that a peace settlement would be put in place and ensure the safe return of more than 5 million refugees
pakistan, where most of the afghan refugees live, has been representing the guerrilla movement during the u.n.-sponsored talks
the importance of a simultaneous cut-off of superpower military aid has been particularly stressed by washington. it would mean that soviet aid to its allies in kabul would have to end at the same time as aid to the guerrillas who get the bulk of their supplies from the united states
an official soviet statement issued tuesday in moscow condemned attempts ``to dictate to the u.s.s.r and afghanistan how they should build their bilateral relations.''
the soviet statement confirmed, however, that the decision to pull out the troops still stands and that the withdrawal would begin two months after the signing of a geneva settlement
in moscow, tass said the discussion between shevardnadze and matlock dealt mostly with the afghanistan issue
u.s. embassy spokesman richard gilbert confirmed that matlock had a meeting with shevardnadze that included a discussion on afghanistan, but said it is embassy policy not to disclose details of diplomatic exchanges
the ambassador's attention was drawn to the soviet government's statement of march 15, which contains a principled assessment of the unsatisfactory situation at the afghan-pakistani talks in geneva, and also contains a clear-cut qualification of the actions of pakistan and the united states which are artifically procrastinating the signing of actually agreed-upon accords,'' tass said
in geneva, wakil told reporters that pakistan's stand amounted to a ``unilateral suspension'' and would get the talks nowhere
wakil spoke shortly before a new session with u.n. undersecretary general diego cordovez, the intermediary in the talks. it was the first meeting since the talks failed to meet the target of march 15 set by soviet leader mikhail gorbachev for their conclusion
he charged that pakistan had organized the war which had already led also to ``tragic events'' on pakistan's side. he warned that allowing the conflict to continue would pose a threat to the entire region. graf pvs, ``i'm running ...''</note>
jesse jackson's best week in the 1988 campaign brought seven victories in seven days, but his streak ended with a disappointing second-place finish in illinois that highlighted the obstacles he faces in the big-state primaries to come
jackson drew less than 10 percent of the white vote in tuesday's primary
nevertheless, jackson said today that he has broader support than any other candidate. ``when you get second place in idaho and in florida, and minnesota, vermont, maine, you're getting white vote,'' he said on nbc's ``today'' show
when it's all said and done, it's just democratic votes. i have the most democratic votes. i expect to have the most democratic delegates.''
jackson is locked in a tight race with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis for the lead in the delegate count
i'm running no. 1 in popular votes and in delegate votes,'' jackson said after the illinois results were known tuesday, overstating the delegate situation a bit. ``illinois has been good to two favorite sons today. it has also given me the lead for the party.''
sen. paul simon of illinois easily won the primary
if i have the most democratic votes and i have the most delegates, i will be the nominee. that is my preoccupation,'' jackson declared
taking a third of the popular vote in illinois, jackson was close to amassing 3 million votes in the first 20 primaries of 1988
before the home-state primary, he had trailed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis slightly in total primary votes, 2.61 million to 2.57 million. dukakis was winning less than 20 percent of the vote in illinois, boosting his total to just over 2.8 million votes
in delegates before the illinois returns, dukakis held the lead over jackson, but his margin was almost wiped out by the illinois returns. dukakis was being shut out in the direct election of delegates in illinois
jackson has proven that he can win votes. and on super tuesday he proved he can win state primaries, taking the top spot in alabama, georgia, louisiana, mississippi and virginia. later in the week he won the caucuses in south carolina and, surprisingly alaska
the calendar now forces him to prove again that he can win primary victories, this time in states not nearly as friendly to his hopes as those in the past week
jackson's showing in his home state of illinois on tuesday illustrates his problem
he swept the black vote in chicago and added less than 10 percent of the white vote to put together a second-place finish to fellow favorite son simon
jackson decried any emphasis on the racial division of the vote, saying ``there is a preoccupation with the ethnic breakdown'' of the balloting
but to win in the states to come, jackson must do better among the white voters while holding the great bulk of a high-turnout black vote
in the major states holding primaries in the next six weeks _ michigan, connecticut, wisconsin, new york and pennsylvania _ there are substantial black populations to give jackson a core of support. but the relative size of the potential black voting bloc is smaller in each of the coming states than it was in the south, where jackson won his primary victories
and, in the industrial states to come, those black voters are heavily concentrated in a few congressional districts
jackson will do quite well in the delegate contests there _ as he did in three districts in illinois _ but without substantial white backing in other districts, his delegate count will not add up as fast as his opponents'
the jackson campaign didn't win any victories in the early going of the presidential season, but he did have some surprisingly powerful showings in states outside his traditional strongholds
he was fourth in iowa and new hampshire. but then he came in a surprising second in the minnesota caucuses on feb. 23. he was second as well in the maine caucuses on feb. 28 and in the vermont primary on march 1
the victory march for jackson began in the region that was his birthplace, the south. jackson won five states across the region on march 8, super tuesday. on saturday, he returned to the state of his birth _ south carolina _ for a big victory in that state's caucuses. he then took first place in the alaska caucuses
looking to the upcoming events, jackson faces the illinois problem again
in michigan, with its caucuses march 26, about 12 percent of the population is black. but only four congressional districts out of 18 had more than 10 percent black population in the 1980 census
in connecticut, only about 7 percent of the population is black, although three of the six congressional districts have substantial minority populations in the march 29 primary
in the wisconsin primary on april 5, the black population is centered in milwaukee, adding up to only about 4 percent statewide
in the big new york contest on april 19, about 14 percent of the population is black. and some 13 of the 34 congressional districts have more than 10 percent minority residents
in pennsylvania _ with an april 26 primary _ the black population is about 9 percent, heavily concentrated in four of the state's 23 congressional districts. and move up reference to yugoslav-moscow break. edits throughout. no pickup.</note>
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev today said the kremlin will find democratic solutions to the recent ethnic unrest in his country, but he stressed there could be no secession from the soviet union
gorbachev, who has been critical of some of his predecessors, indirectly attacked former kremlin leader josef stalin when he referred to yugoslav leader josip broz tito's break with moscow in 1948
the soviet leader also said the superpowers should reduce their naval forces in the mediterranean, and he accused nato of slowing the pace of nuclear disarmament
in his address to the yugoslav parliament, gorbachev said ethnic relations are ``one of the most important and delicate issues'' in the soviet union and that it would be unnatural to think they were `once and for all resolved.'''
yugoslavia itself is an ethnically diverse nation of six republics and two autonomous regions _ kosovo and vojvodina _ and is plagued by rising ethnic tensions as the economic situation worsens
there are both ``certain difficulties inherited from the past'' and other ``problems created by the passage of time and the changes in the economic life of society,'' gorbachev said
he made no mention of riots that killed at least 32 people in the azerbaijani city of sumgait in february, nor of recent mass protests by armenians demanding the return of a largely armenian region put under the administration of azerbaijan in 1923
but he said that on ethnic problems, ``we are determined to reach democratic solutions which would correspond to the interest of each and every nation ... and our entire socialist society.''
gorbachev indicated, however, there could be no question of secession, saying that each region within soviet borders has ``indissoluble links'' with the rest of the country. the soviet union is comprised of 15 republics
in the baltic states of the north, some activists want independence from moscow
gorbachev's itinerary does not include kosovo, yugoslavia's most ethnically troubled area, but he will travel to slovenia, the most developed republic
in a wide-ranging 40-minute speech, gorbachev said the 1948 rupture in soviet-yugoslav relations ``inflicted grave damage on yugoslav-soviet relations and ... on socialism as a whole.''
ties between moscow and yugoslavia were mended after stalin's death in 1953, when nikita s. khrushchev and tito agreed on bilateral relations in 1955 and 1956
now, gorbachev said, ``both sides are eager to raise our interstate and interparty relations to a new level, to give them a new quality'' and expand ties
a new declaration on yugoslav-soviet relations adopted tuesday is to be published friday, when gorbachev returns home
gorbachev also outlined new proposals for mediterranean security. he enlarged on previous suggestions for reducing the superpowers' naval presence in the waterway by proposing the united states and the soviet union freeze the number of warships they have there on july 1
washington and moscow should then agree on the number of warships they maintain in the mediterranean, with the eventual aim being a withdrawal of soviet ships if the united states follows suit, gorbachev said
in addition, he said, the superpowers should give each other advance notice of all ship movements and naval maneuvers in the mediterranean
gorbachev stressed that for the soviets, the mediterranean ``is no remote area'' because it is the passage to and from the black sea ports of the southern soviet union
naturally, we are interested in routes of peace and not those of war passing here,'' he said
gorbachev also attacked what he said were efforts by unidentified politicians in the nato alliance to block total nuclear disarmament and to respond to the removal of medium-range nuclear missiles from europe by building up conventional weapons
these contradictions, not to say absurdities, have quite definite political convictions behind them,'' gorbachev said
such politicians want to paint moscow in a bad light at any price, he said
they keep harping on the lie of the soviet union's and warsaw pact's war image'' when moscow is working on ``weeding out for good the cold war sprouts'' in east-west relations, gorbachev said
a 10-year-old girl, frustrated in efforts to get information for a class report on mississippi, flew there for a five-day visit there as a guest of the southern state
melissa montgomery, a fifth grade student at john swett elementary school in martinez, was greeted by classmates when she returned tuesday night to oakland international airport
she said the strangest part of the trip was when people laughed at her accent
i said `you guys,' they said `you all,''' she said
her mother, kathryn montgomery, said all expenses except plane fare were paid by an anonymous person
the mother said she called the mississippi secretary of state's office and was told the office was out of reference works. she was half-seriously told to send the girl to mississippi
i said, `great, i will,''' she said. the next morning she got a call from a mississippi mother who was wiling to take care of melissa
the girl even met ray mabus, the mississippi governor
he was nice,'' she said
melissa said she toured museums, battlefields, mansions and rode a pony
there are a lot of museums,'' she said, adding that the favorite part of the trip was a visit to the impressionist gallery
it had neat stuff in it,'' she said
the 5-to-10 page class report is due march 23
a 128-year-old exclusive private club has admitted its first two black male members but continues to ban women
the two men broke the color barrier at the olympic club, where membership costs $12,500 plus monthly dues and greens fees
i've played golf for years with olympic members,'' said roy clay, president of a company that makes electronics testing equipment. he said he applied and was interviewed last fall and was accepted last week
i'm not a golfer,'' said jessie knight, vice president of marketing for the san francisco newspaper agency. ``i joined strictly because of the athletic facilities. the club is close by, and it's good place to work out.''
a city ordinance that went into effect in december bars private clubs with more than 400 members from discriminating against minorities and women
however, club spokesman jim myers said the ban on women members will remain pending the outcome of a court battle with the city and an appeal to the federal courts on constitutional grounds of freedom of association
three vietnamese freighters were burning today after chinese warships attacked them, and chinese were blocking efforts to rescue the crew, an official vietnamese broadcast said
china said today that some chinese were wounded in the exchange of gunfire in the south china sea
the voice of vietnam radio said the freighters have been on fire since they were attacked monday near disputed islands claimed by vietnam, china, the philippines and taiwan
vietnam calls the islands the truong sa archipelago. they are known in china as the nansha islands. they also are called the spratly islands
the broadcast said nguyen phuong vu, head of the china department of vietnam's foreign ministry, made the accusations in a meeting today with li shuchin, beijing's ambassador to hanoi
the vietnamese side sent lifeboats flying red cross flags to rescue those freighters, but they were obstructed by chinese warships,'' said the broadcast, monitored in bangkok
it added: ``the vietnamese side urged the chinese side to order its warships to move away from this area and not to prevent the vietnamese ships from coming to the rescue of the crews on these freighters. the vietnamese side wishes a favorable and early reply from the chinese side.''
the broadcast repeated earlier claims that the clash began when the chinese warships without provocation opened fire on two vietnamese freighters. it said that warships nos. 502, 506 and 531 then fired on other vietnamese freighters that had come to the rescue
vietnam's foreign ministry on tuesday delivered an official protest to china's ambassador to hanoi, li shuchin, the official radio hanoi reported earlier
the note called the alleged chinese attack a military provocation and attempt to grab vietnamese territory. it said vietnam will ``resolutely apply all necessary measures to protect (its) independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.''
in beijing, the foreign ministry disclosed today that china had suffered casualties in the skirmish
ministry spokeswoman li jihua gave china's version of the clash, saying vietnamese naval ships fired on chinese vessels conducting a scientific survey on a reef in the chain of 500 uninhabited islands and reefs
the chinese side was forced to make a limited counter-attack in self defense,'' ms. li said
ms. li refused to disclose how many chinese were wounded, whether they were civilians or military personnel, or other details of the clash
large oil deposits are believed to be in the vicinity of the archipelago, which is more than 310 miles south of hainan island
vietnam has stationed troops on a few of the islands since the early 1970s, while china has troops on a few islands of a second disputed group, the nearby xisha or paracels
the clash monday was the first reported exchange of gunfire between vietnam and china over the islands, although the two governments periodically have verbal skirmishes
china was an ally of vietnam's communist party during the vietnam war but relations cooled after the communist vietnamese victory as vietnam drifted closer into the soviet orbit
china and vietnam fought a brief border war in 1979. states since iowa</note>
it seems there are people out there who actually want george bush to become president of the united states. that novel notion may explain why the primary election count is now bush 20, sen. bob dole 1
that simplest of explanations is about the only one that has not been advanced by the political sages during the remarkable month-long string of victories that leaves bush the all-but-certain gop nominee
more popular explanations for bush's lopsided success run this way:
as vice president, he has the benefits of president reagan's popularity. his organization is strong, dole's is weak. he has the biggest campaign bankroll by far. he has had the support of governors in key states: new hampshire, south carolina, illinois
each of those factors certainly helped. in addition, the trappings and status of the vice presidency have so far served bush well, overcoming the disadvantage no. 2 men always have had in running for the top job _ they can't argue with the boss and they must defend what's already in place
but all those elements combined could not produce the kind of landslides bush has been gaining unless the vice president had a constituency to call his own, and was strengthening it
just a month ago today, bush won his first significant victory in new hampshire. on tuesday, he trounced dole, the most credible rival still standing, in the illinois primary
since opening day in iowa, dole has won just one primary _ in south dakota _ and caucuses in minnesota and his home state of kansas
the total popular vote in the 21 gop primaries held so far this year is bush 3.3 million, dole 1.6 million
bush already has 772 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the gop nomination in new orleans next aug. 17. dole has 180
all of that has wiped away the memory of embarrassment in iowa, where bush ran third to dole and the rapidly vanishing pat robertson, and of the week he then spent on the political critical list
since then he has been winning big, with only minor setbacks
dole complains that the primaries are ending up as a referendum on reagan, not a contest with bush. ``if i hit him directly, i get ronald reagan first and then they say, oh, oh, he's out there attacking ronald reagan,'' the kansas senator said. ``it's pretty hard to reach bush except by phone.''
he found plenty to hit bush with earlier in the contest, and he still taunts the vice president as a man who got where he is ``without ever doing much.''
he also calls him a loser. ``sooner or later, the voters in one of these states are going to say `hold it, we're about to nominate a candidate who can't win,''' dole said after losing 16 primaries to bush on super tuesday
but recent polls conducted for usa today, time and newsweek show bush leading potential democratic nominees. besides, at this point no one can say who's a likely winner in the fall. the tickets aren't known, the issues aren't set, and the odds are subject to wide swings. in fact, the pollsters said bush trailed several of the potential democratic nominees just before his super tuesday sweep
the dole camp has not managed to zero in on a state likely to reverse the trend; in contests over the next month the polls point to bush
accepting defeat in illinois, which he had said would be his comeback state, dole said he would keep campaigning
we're just going to hang in there,'' dole said. in washington, the pundits thought dole was waiting to see if any of the upcoming iran-contra indictments might reflect badly on the vice president
but against a runaway delegate leader, dole doesn't have much else to hang in for, nor does he have a limitless bankroll with which to do it
dole argues that it is too early for the competition to end, and says that he has been encouraged by other republicans, including former president richard m. nixon, to stick with the race
that was not one of his themes after iowa, when there were suggestions that a new hampshire defeat would doom bush and trigger a dole runaway. nor did nixon value competition for its own sake 20 years ago, when he drove george romney out of the running even before new hampshire, and sailed through the primaries without real opposition
for all that, the script isn't completed, and the convention is five months away. there could still be damaging disclosures about iran-contra, or about cia links with panamanian boss manuel noriega when bush headed the agency, a question dole has been posing lately
bush has shown himself capable of saying the wrong thing and hurting his own cause. to guard against that, he's avoided saying much of anything lately
veteran political writer walter r. mears is executive editor of the associated press
the uss john hancock's disbursement office was robbed of $120,000 in cash and the battered body of the ship's paymaster was found stuffed in a locker aboard the destroyer, navy officials said
the body of paymaster lt. ratish prasad, 24, of park forest, ill., was found tuesday, said chief petty officer art riccio
he'd been bludgeoned,'' said the spokesman. ``he was beaten up pretty bad.''
the destroyer's disbursement office safe was found open and $120,000 in cash plus an undetermined number of blank checks were missing, riccio said
an audit of the ship's funds is pending and alternate arrangements have been made to pay the crew,'' said riccio
tuesday was payday for navy personnel, who are paid the 1st and 15th of each month, said riccio, adding that navy and jacksonville sheriff's investigators were working on the case
access to the hancock, which was tied up at its home port here, is strictly controlled, said riccio. people trying to board the ship must pass checkpoints at the base entrance, the pier area and the ship itself, he said
only family members and friends of the crew who have been previously cleared are allowed aboard the ship in port, he said. even naval personnel who do not have business on the ships cannot board them, he said. picks up 7th graf pvs: `the almost...'</note>
five explosions erupted today as the coffins of three irish republican army guerrillas killed by british troops were being lowered into graves
thousands of mourners clustered in the roman catholic milltown cemetery in west belfast flung themselves on the ground as organizers appealed for calm. there were no immediate reports of injuries and it was not clear what caused the explosions
several mourners grabbed a man evidently suspected of setting the explosions. hundreds of others rushed from the graveside toward where the explosions took place
the explosions erupted after more than 4,000 mourners had followed the flag-draped coffins of mairead farrell, 31, sean savage, 24, and daniel mccann, 30, to the cemetery
several mourners shouted out they believed the explosions were set by protestant paramilitary groups
police and troops, in an evidently deliberate policy, had kept out of sight during the funerals, which began with a requiem mass in a packed parish church, st. agnes
the mourners had followed the coffins, draped in the irish tricolor, through somber streets, with shops shut, to the cemetery
at the mass in st. agnes, mourners listened silently as the priest charged that the unarmed trio, ambushed on a bombing mission, were murdered
shortly before the funeral began, a bomb exploded on a street more than a mile from the church, slightly injuring a british soldier on foot patrol, police reported
earlier, about 150 mourners watched, with no sign or police or troops, as relatives and members of sinn fein, the ira's legal political wing, carried the coffin of mccann from his parents' two-story row house to be driven to the church
the almost exclusively catholic irish republican army is fighting to push the british out of protestant-dominated northern ireland, join it with the republic of ireland and set up an all-ireland socialist state
in his funeral oration at st. agnes, the rev. tom toner called the march 6 shootings in gibraltar ``murder'' and accused british authorities of ``gloating'' over them
more than 1,000 mourners listened in silence broken only by a the crying of a baby
we have a mounting, accumulated anger at the treatment of irish people by britain over the past weeks and months,'' he said
britain says the guerrillas were shot by commandos while preparing a car bomb attack on the changing of the guard outside the governor's residence in the colony on the southern tip of spain
the three were unarmed, but britain said they made movements that led the soldiers to believe their lives were in danger. the irish government has complained that the soldiers should have tried to arrest the trio, who the ira said were on ``active service.''
outside the chapel, a crowd of about 3,000 gathered to accompany the coffins to milltown, the burial ground for many other guerrillas killed in nearly 20 years of sectarian strife which has claimed more than 2,600 lives
in the tense buildup to the funerals, protestants stoned hearses that brought the ira bodies home tuesday on a 100-mile route from dublin. the coffins had been flown from gibraltar on a plane chartered by sinn fein
hooded ira gunmen fired a three-shot volley, the ira's traditional salute to guerrillas killed in its bomb and bullet campaign against british rule, to coincide with the arrival of the coffins on irish soil
two catholics, including ira member kevin mccracken, 33, shot by british troops near savage's home on monday, were fatally wounded in belfast over the past two days
another catholic, charles mcgrillan, died when unidentified gunmen opened fire as he arrived for work tuesday. police said they suspected a sectarian attack by protestant militants
fallen television evangelist jim bakker has sued a new york attorney who formerly represented the ptl ministry, charging that the attorney tricked him into resigning and turning the ministry over to the rev. jerry falwell
in the suit, which seeks more than $10,000 in damages and was filed this week in york county, bakker and his wife, tammy faye, say they did not know that roy grutman also represented falwell when he advised the bakkers to step down
what the bakkers are really saying in the lawsuit is that mr. grutman tricked the bakkers into resigning from office to open the way for mr. falwell to take over the leadership of the ministry,'' said jim toms, one of the bakkers' attorneys
grutman said tuesday the allegations were ``utterly meritless,'' adding that he was never bakker's attorney
i didn't tell him to resign. he made that decision,'' grutman said
bakker left the fort mill-based ministry last march amid a sex scandal involving a church secretary, jessica hahn. falwell took over the ministry for several months. ptl now is undergoing reorganization in bankruptcy court
grutman told the bakkers, according to the suit, that television evangelist jimmy swaggart, now beset by a sex scandal himself, was heading a conspiracy to take over ptl
the bakkers claim that grutman and falwell advised them to ``turn the leadership of the ministry over to mr. falwell, who, it was said, would lead the ministry as a caretaker until such time as the (bakkers) could return to the ministry,'' the suit said
the suit also charged that ``grutman either knew or should have known that the alleged conspiracy to seize control of ptl by mr. swaggart, either was not truthfully reported or was impractical of attainment.''
bakker resigned as ptl president on march 19; a month later, falwell took the bakkers off the ptl payroll
the suit said the bakkers left ptl ``severely damaged financially and diminished as a christian ministry'' and accused grutman of giving the bakkers incorrect advice to resign, resulting in damage to the bakkers' reputations
the sister of the longest-held american hostage in lebanon said today that the reagan administration, once obsessed with securing freedom for the captives, no longer cares about their fate
i think it's rather interesting to look back and see the concern expressed by the administration, by president reagan, vice president bush, and their rationale for the iran-contra scandal that they were so obsessed with the fate of the hostages that they made this move,'' peggy say, sister of hostage terry anderson, said of the arms-for-hostages deal
and for the past year, silence. that obsession seems to have been overcome and the fate of the hostages no longer seems to be of great concern to anybody in this administration,'' she said on nbc-tv's ``today'' show
anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held of 22 foreign hostages in lebanon. he was kidnapped on march 16, 1985, in beirut as he was returning from a tennis game
services to mark the third anniversary of his abduction were scheduled in anderson's hometown of batavia, n.y., as well as buffalo and rochester, and in california and florida, mrs. say said
in washington, democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson was taking part at an afternoon service at holy trinity roman catholic church where prayers for anderson and the other hostages were to be offered by christian and islamic clergy
participants, including three former hostages _ the rev. lawrence jenco, the rev. benjamin weir and abc news correspondent charles glass _ were to read passages from the bible and the koran
marilyn langston, daughter of american hostage frank herbert reed, said today she hopes the service ``puts an awareness in everyone's mind that this hostage situation is going on continually and until they're all out we can't forget it.''
ms. langston said, however, that she feared the captives have been forgotten by the u.s. government
i feel they've been put on the backburner, that the concern for the hostages _ i don't know if there is any any more,'' ms. langston said on the nbc program
reed, director of the lebanon international school in beirut, was kidnapped sept. 9, 1986. he is among the nine americans held captive in lebanon, including thomas sutherland, joseph james cicippio, edward austin tracy, jesse turner, robert polhill, alaan steen, and marine lt. col. william r. higgins
the federal aviation administration is investigating continental airlines' pilot testing procedures following comments made last week at a hearing into a november crash that killed 28 people, officials said
daniel beaudette, manager of the faa's air transportation division in washington, said tuesday that the investigation was set off by one pilot's report that he made deliberate mistakes in wing settings to test pilots
i can't see how they could safely do that in passenger-carrying operations,'' beaudette said. federal regulations prohibit pilot training on flights that carry passengers
the inquiry follows testimony by continental capt. kenneth watson last week before a national transportation safety board hearing into the nov. 15 crash of a continental dc-9 that killed 28 and injured 54 as it was taking off from denver's airport
on a flight last october, watson said he made incorrect adjustments to an aircraft before takeoff in order to test pilot frank zvonek, who died in the november crash
as is my common practice, i advised frank that i would intentionally make several mistakes,'' watson told the hearing
i intentionally misset flaps, (stabilizer) trim and weight cards for takeoff. he caught and corrected me on them,'' he said
if a violation is found, continental could be issued an administrative warning, fined, or watson's license could be suspended, beaudette said
continental spokesman bruce hicks said the procedure watson reported using is not a company policy
but hicks said he didn't know whether the technique has been used by other continental pilots and said the airline has not yet decided whether to permit that kind of pilot testing in the future. with report iran cut ties to security council. pick up 6th graf pvs: ``iraq on...''</note>
iran said it fired five missiles into baghdad today, and iraq said it shot seven into tehran. the iranians said 52 civilians were killed in tehran and in iraqi warplane raids on other cities
iran also said its warplanes bombed other iraqi cities today, and its troops pushed into northeastern iraq overnight and seized the border town of khurmal, iran's islamic republic news agency said. irna said 1,150 iraqi troops were killed or wounded, but iraq had no comment on the reported offensive
also today, foreign ministers of the gulf cooperation council met in saudi arabia to discuss the 7-year-old iran-iraq war and its implications for the oil-rich region
on tuesday, iran accused the u.n. security council of wasting time on an arms embargo instead of ending the missile duel, in which scores of civilians have been killed or wounded
in switzerland, the prestigious newspaper neue zuercher zeitung today quoted senior iranian charge d'affaires mohammed hussein malaek as saying his country had cut all ties to the security council
malaek also was quoted as saying only a military solution could end the persian gulf war, and that iran no longer felt obligated to respect international conventions, presumably including the geneva convention on the conduct of nations at war
iraq on tuesday reiterated the claim that iran broke a two-day truce in the ``war of the cities'' and said it would continue to attack tehran until iran stopped shelling border cities
the iraqi news agency said warplanes tuesday night bombed iranian towns and attacked a ship in the persian gulf. maritime sources had earlier reported an iraqi attack at around the same time on the 249,223-ton trade fortitude
the iranian agency said revolutionary guards fired five missiles into baghdad in retaliation for an air raid tuesday that killed 25 students and teachers at a high school in al-eshtar in western iran
the iraqi agency confirmed three of the hits on baghdad and said ``many'' civilians were killed. iraq said it fired seven missiles into tehran
iran said an unspecified number of missiles hit the capital of tehran today and said iraqi warplanes also bombed bakhtaran and other cities in western iran. the iranian agency said a total of 52 civilians were killed
iraq says it has fired 22 missiles into tehran since the tenuous truce broke down late sunday. iran has reported launching seven into baghdad
neither side has given an overall casualty count
iran's news agency said iranian jet fighters bombed the northern iraqi oil city of kirkuk and other cities today, ``inflicting heavy casualties and losses on the enemy.'' it said the jet fighters also shot 16 air-to-ground missiles into kirkuk
it said nine short-range missiles were fired into the southern basra province, the area surrounding iraq's second-largest city
it said revolutionary guards pushed farther into sulaymaniyah province in northeastern iraq, inflicting ``heavy losses.'' earlier in the week iran said its fighters seized villages and hills in the region, 160 miles north of baghdad
iranian forces took the town of khurmal a few miles from the border after a ``pitched battle,'' the agency reported today
it said residents of ``liberated villages'' in the area ``warmly welcomed the attacking iranian combatants,'' and iranian forces seized 95 square miles of iraqi soil, including 21 villages
announcing today's iraqi missile strike on iran, an iraqi military spokesman was quoted by the official iraqi news agency as saying:
we will continue our destructive hits into the nest of vice and ugliness.''
it also said revolutionary guards pushed farther into sulaymaniyah province in northeastern iraq, inflicting ``heavy losses'' and that khurmal had fallen
earlier in the week, iran said its fighters seized villages and hills in the region 160 miles north of baghdad
the iraqi and iranian reports were monitored in cyprus
the attack tuesday on the trade fortitude raised the possibility of revived attacks on shipping in the gulf, where the u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tanker gas prince was heading north in the 17th u.s.-escorted convoy this year
since feb. 15, there have been two confirmed iraqi attacks on tankers in iranian shipping lanes
police investigating the death of a man who was crushed between a truck and his porch ended up arresting two people after they found out the truck was loaded with stolen chickens, authorities said
officers said joshua horton, 50, was pronounced dead at mississippi baptist medical center after he was crushed between the truck and a porch at his home about 11:35 p.m
investigators said patricia tucker, 33, of jackson, the victim's step-daughter, was attempting to back the truck into horton's driveway to unload the frozen chickens when the brakes failed
the truck contained 20 boxes of chickens allegedly taken from a jackson firm where tucker's husband, edgar tucker, 36, was employed, officers said
a police spokesman said tucker, who was at work when the accident occurred, was arrested on an embezzlement charge while his wife was charged with accessory to embezzlment
syria will become an oil exporter for the first time because of new discoveries, officials said today
james audu, a spokesman for the vienna-based organization of petroleum exporting countries, said that syria produced 240,000 barrels per day during the fourth quarter of last year
with local demand estimated at about 220,000 barrels a day, the country would become a net exporter on an annual basis for the first time this year, helping it to cope with a foreign debt of at least $3 billion
the small amount of oil to be sold abroad will not qualify syria for membership in the oil cartel, audu told the associated press in vienna. but it is expected to make that arab nation a net exporter in 1988, he said
syria, with 10 million people, is not expected to become a big exporter. but the modest 1.8 billion barrels of estimated oil reserves should help alleviate the economic burden
president hafez assad announced in a speech to the nation last week that there have been new oil discoveries but he did not elaborate
the damascus government currently gets millions of tons of cut-price oil from iran each year
syria is persian iran's main ally in the 7-year-old persian gulf war against arab iraq. but damascus has come under growing pressure from other arab countries to stop supporting iran against a fellow arab nation. sub 4th graf to correct `our' rights sted `are'</note>
like an electronic sneeze, a rogue computer program known as a ``virus'' has spread to a major software company's commercial programs, a frightening ``infection'' that the experts once thought was impossible
on march 2, a ``message of peace'' created by the publisher of a canadian computer magazine appeared on as many as 350,000 macintosh computer screens in north america and europe, apparently spread like an epidemic through the network of electronic bulletin boards' free or low-cost software
the message became the first known contamination of an off-the-shelf program when it cropped up in freehand, aldus corp.'s latest software, forcing the company to recall or rework about 5,000 copies of the program
it ``was a very benign incident,'' but aldus officials ``are talking with our attorneys to understand what our legal rights are in this instance,'' said laury bryant, a spokeswoman for the seattle-based software company
viruses are small, secret programs created by programmers as jokes or acts of vandalism, then secretly inserted into other programs. viruses can spread from computer to computer by operators sharing ``contaminated'' software
at their most benign, viruses will cause only a message to pop up on a computer screen, as apparently happened here. at their worst, as ``tapeworms'' or ``logic bombs,'' they can destroy information stored in computer memories
richard brandow of the montreal-based computer magazine macmag told the associated press in a telephone interview tuesday that he wrote the virus, but intended only to show the dangers of software piracy, or unauthorized copying
the full message, said brandow, read: ``richard brandow, the publisher of macmag, and its entire staff would like to take this opportunity to convey their universal message of peace to all macintosh users around the world.'' beneath that was a graphic of the globe
ms. bryant said fewer than 5,000 copies of freehand were contaminated by a an infected disk that was copied for three days by a disk duplicating machine, and only half the infected disks were distributed to retailers
until now, personal computer viruses were thought to reside only in noncommercial ``freeware'' or ``shareware'' legally distributed on computerized bulletin boards or on software disks shared by computer users
experts had thought viruses could be avoided if users didn't freely distribute software, but only used off-the-shelf programs
the incident rocked the computer industry because the nation's three largest software companies _ microsoft corp., ashton-tate, and lotus development corp. _ are clients of macromind inc. of chicago, the company that inadvertently gave the virus to aldus
ashton-tate declined comment, but officials at microsoft, apple and lotus said none of their software was infected
macromind president marc canter said in a telephone interview tuesday that to the best of his knowledge, none of his other customers received the virus and that the program has erased itself
ms. bryant and brandow said the virus died out after march 2, the anniversary of the introduction of apple's macintosh se and macintosh ii models
canter said the peace message apparently was in software he obtained from brandow during a visit to montreal. the packet included a game program called mr. potato head, a computerized version of the popular toy
unaware of the ``infection,'' canter ran the game program once and then used the same computer to work on a disk to teach macintosh users how to use freehand
that original disk became infected, and then contaminated other freehand teaching disks when it was copied by aldus, he said
canter, upset with brandow, also said he was considering legal action. brandow said he met canter, but denied giving him the software
brandow said the idea for the message program was written and tested for a year, then left for two days in december on a macintosh at macmag's offices, a frequent gathering place for macintosh devotees
the publisher said he expected pirated programs from the machine would spread the peace message in the montreal area and a few other areas of canada and the united states
instead, he said, he was shocked to find that, by his estimate, 350,000 people in north america and europe had the message pop up on their macintoshes on march 2
whoever said one vote doesn't count isn't following sand lake politics, such as they are
in a somewhat less than spirited election for a vacant village trustee's seat, bob vandenberg, ralph boerman and earl thomas finished in a three-way tie _ each receiving precisely one write-in vote
a winner will be chosen at 9 a.m. march 21 under kent county's official tie-breaking method, a drawing at the county clerk's office in grand rapids. two slips of paper marked ``not elected'' and one marked ``elected'' will be put in a box and drawn by the candidates or their representatives
the village council in this community of about 400 people will appoint a trustee if the winner declines the job, something that appeared to be more than a remote possibility
thomas, 40, served 14 years as village clerk but didn't run this year, saying his night job prevented him from attending council meetings. ``i was a clerk for 14 years, so i did my time,'' he said
vandenberg, 51, chose not to run for re-election as village president this year after six years in local politics. ``i figured it was time for the young ones to take over,'' he said
boerman, at 22 a political neophyte, could be considered one of vandenberg's ``young ones.'' but boerman said he didn't know he was in the running until a reporter telephoned him with news of the three-way tie
i haven't ever thought about it,'' boerman said. ``no one has approached me or asked me or anything.''
thomas said he'd like to know who wrote in his name
i'll kill `em, whoever it was,'' he joked
a couple collecting aluminum cans found the remains of the sixth body discovered in the desert since last fall, and police said they needed an autopsy to determine the victim's age, sex and cause of death
however, police chief john scagno said tuesday the discovery of the exposed, bleached bones on the outskirts of el paso wasn't cause for panic
the sixth body was found monday afternoon northeast of el paso, a few hundred yards from where the bodies of five young women were unearthed
no one has been charged in the desert deaths, which police have said could be the work of a serial killer. however, police have identified a suspect who has been jailed on unrelated sexual assault charges since oct. 14
police took two days to unearth the latest skeletal remains, sifting buckets of excavated dirt
scagno would not comment on whether clothing or a weapon was found at the scene
the only detail we're going to tell you is ... the body had (dental) braces,'' scagno said. ``the body itself is just skeletal remains.''
skeletons were all that remained of the first five victims
scagno said he didn't know when the autopsy results would be released
the search for the desert killer began in september, when a utility company employee found the first body while digging a hole near several highways
although police concluded their search of the area in january, scagno said they now plan to start looking again
the remains of maria rosa casio, 24, and karen baker, 20, were found buried close together sept. 4. the bodies of desiree wheatley, 15, and dawn smith, 14, were found oct. 20, about 200 yards from the first two bodies. the body of angelica frausto, 17, was found nov. 3, between the first two pairs of graves
ms. casio, from a dallas suburb, had been here visiting a relative when she disappeared. the other victims were from el paso
the sixth victim's grave was found a few hundred yards away from the other five graves, deputy chief gus massey said
after tearfully telling his lawyer ``there was still some good in him,'' a rape defendant pleaded guilty so he could spare his 16-year-old victim the trauma of testifying
terry lee buckholtz was charged with raping the teen in november 1986 when he was in a prison work-release program, and then trying to kill her and her brother with a meat cleaver
the brother and sister survived their wounds, and were to take the witness stand tuesday in court here
he called me this morning totally out of the blue,'' defense attorney john voigt said tuesday. ``he was in tears. he said that even though nobody thought so, there was still some good in him
the only good thing left for him to do was not make (the victims) testify,'' voight said
circuit judge stanton s. kaplan asked buckholtz to explain
i didn't want to put them through any more,'' replied buckholtz, 20
under a deal with the prosecutor, buckholtz was sentenced to 40 years in prison followed by 15 years of probation. in return for the guilty plea, prosecutor kate kearney agreed to drop charges of armed kidnapping and aggravated battery
kearny said buckholtz had rejected that plea-bargain offer a week ago
it's been an exceptionally traumatic experience for the family,'' she said. ``the state offered this to avoid having the victims exposed to mr. buckholtz.''
an organized crime informant who rejected an offer to enter the federal witness protection program has been found murdered in a california parking lot, authorities said
the body of george peter yudzevich, 46, was found near a business-industrial center in irvine, calif. he had been shot at least three times in the head, police said
irvine police said they did not know the motive for his murder, which was discovered saturday
yudzevich turned down an offer for federal protection before testifying last fall at the racketeering trial of joseph n. gallo, 76, the reputed former consigliere of the gambino crime family; joseph armone, 70, the reputed gambino underboss, and two other gambino associates, according to edward mcdonald, head of the brooklyn-based organized crime strike force
his testimony against armone and the two associates was ``critical'' in the trial, which ended in december with the conviction of all the defendants, mcdonald said tuesday
we sponsored him for the program and even went so far as to prepare necessary paperwork, but for his own reasons he chose not to enter the program,'' mcdonald said
yudzevich admitted to being an fbi informant from 1980 to 1985, mcdonald said. he refused to speculate about the motive behind the slaying
yudzevich also testified in california last fall against alleged organized crime figure robert (fat bobby) paduano of newport beach, calif., who was arrested in february and charged with 73 felony counts of robbery, burglary, assault and extortion, said orange county deputy district attorney wallace wade
paduano's lawyer, alan may, said his client denied any knowledge of or involvement in yudzevich's murder
yudzevich also had been awaiting a judge's decision on whether he should be tried for allegedly bilking orange county investors out of about $350,000 in a money laundering case, authorities said. newspaper says</head>
undocumented aliens seeking amnesty despite misdemeanor criminal records may be eligible if the convictions are more than a year old, a newspaper reported today
but amnesty rights activists said the proposed change in immigration-law standards comes too late
immigration has been very lax in coming forward to publicize this major change,'' said susan alva, director of a legalization appeals project for the legal aid foundation
under the existing u.s. immigration and naturalization service policy, immigrants who have been convicted of three or more misdemeanors, or any felony, are not eligible for amnesty
the proposed change would allow immigrants to expunge misdemeanors from their records and be eligible for amnesty, according to a report published today in the los angeles herald examner
alva estimated that thousands of people, many of whom have been told by officials that they weren't eligible for legalization, would be affected by the reported policy shift
but duke austin, an ins spokesman, disagreed
i don't think this would dramatically affect the numbers of people in the program,'' he said
in a letter dated jan. 18, joe thomas, director of the ins western region processing facility for amnesty applications, explained to an immigrants' rights attorney that ``an expungement will not remove ineligibility for criminal convictions.''
however, attorneys from the immigration committee of the national lawyers' guild and the los angeles county public defender's office said the ins is now accepting expungements, though too late to be of use to many immigrants
the amnesty deadline is may 5, and ray santana, a deputy los angeles county public defender, said it takes a month or longer to get an expungement
city health officials say 25 people became ill and two had to be hospitalized following a corned beef and cabbage dinner sponsored by the ancient order of hibernians
richard wilberg, chief inspector for the city department of public health, said tuesday that the meat served at the saturday dinner was apparently contaminated during preparation with staphyloccus, which produced a toxin creating food poisoning
he said that 160 people had attended the pre-st. patrick's day dinner at the city's irish club and the two people hospitalized have been released
among those hospitalized was edward f. o'connell, president of the local chapter of the hibernians
it's a tough situation,'' o'connell said. ``we rented the caterer and they brought everything in cooked.''
an arab-american who advocates non-violent resistance to israel's occupation was detained today for allegedly taking part in an illegal gathering, police said
mubarak awad, 44, was being held at a city police station and his case was under investigation, police spokesman rafi levy told the associated press
levy said the illegal gathering took place on the main road between jerusalem and the west bank city of nablus, but he had no further details
we do understand that mr. awad has been taken into custody, but our understanding was that he was stopped for a traffic violation,'' said a u.s. consulate official who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``we have consular officers seeking access to him at this time.''
last year, israeli officials confiscated awad's israeli identity card and ordered him out of the country in november, when his three-month tourist visa expired
on monday, israel's supreme court ordered the interior ministry to show within 60 days why awad had not been expelled
awad, a palestinian who also has homes both in jerusalem and wapakoneta, ohio, came under fire after the publication in hebrew of his book entitled ``non-violent resistance: a strategy for the occupied territories.''
the book urged the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip to refuse to pay taxes, lay down in front of bulldozers to prevent land confiscation and boycott isreli products. victory</head> subbing grafs 27-28 pvs, with nearly ... no delegates</note>
the democrats are searching anew for a presidential front-runner after the home-state revival of sen. paul simon, who declared today he has ``as good a shot as anybody'' after his victory over jesse jackson in the illinois primary. george bush won easily in the republican contest, although he still had to contend with a battered but dogged bob dole
the candidates went on spring break today after a grueling month that featured 20-odd primaries and caucuses in both parties
this is the state, it will be remembered, which locked it up for george bush,'' gov. james thompson said after illinois shattered dole's comeback bid and brought bush two-thirds of the way to a gop nominating majority
the democrats had no luxury to talk of locking up anything. the race for a nominating majority of delegates was a dead heat between jackson and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with kansas and michigan next up on the calendar
however, dukakis was expecting to pick up about 100 uncounted delegates from caucuses already held in minnesota, texas and washington state
now we move on to michigan,'' said dukakis, ``where there are no favorite sons. the field is wide open.''
jackson, in an interview on nbc-tv today, congratulated simon on his victory but in almost the same breath seemed to dismiss it as illinois voters paying ``respects to a sitting senator'' who had focused on his home state while jackson was competing in the super tuesday states
simon, on the other hand, said on abc-tv that his illinois win showed he is in the thick of a battle that will go all the way to the democratic national convention this summer
i don't know who out there will emerge, but i think paul simon has as good a shot as anyone,'' he said
simon said in several interviews that his relative lack of campaign money wasn't a big problem, though he concluded his appearance on cbs-tv by saying with a smile, ``any of your viewers who want to send in a contribution, i'll be happy to accept it.''
i don't believe we have any front-runners,'' dukakis said after finishing what he described as ``a respectable third'' in illinois. he said in his discussions with democratic party leaders around the country ``there is an overwhelming sentiment that we should get behind a nominee.''
jackson finished second in the duel of favorite sons, and said, ``jesse jackson, in popular vote and delegates, is on top of the race.''
in fact, the associated press delegate survey showed dukakis with 464.5 and jackson with 460.55. sen. albert gore jr. had 354.8; rep. richard gephardt 145, and simon 171.5 delegates
the big losers in illinois were republicans dole and pat robertson and democrats gore and gephardt
we're staying in,'' said dole after absorbing another beating at the hands of the vice president
illinois has spoken loud and clear and strong,'' said bush, who now has won 18 straight primaries _ 16 of them one week ago on super tuesday
there was relatively little campaign activity today, after five frantic weeks in which nearly half the delegates to the democratic and republican conventions were chosen
gephardt was campaigning in michigan and gore was in kansas. dukakis had an appearance scheduled in new york, but the rest of the candidates were off the campaign trail
kansas democrats hold caucuses this weekend and both parties have primaries scheduled saturday in puerto rico
next tuesday, the only event in the presidential struggle is a primary to select the seven delegates allocated to democrats abroad
the next major battleground for the democrats was michigan, which holds party caucuses on march 26
gephardt made little effort in illinois, pinning his hopes on michigan with its strong union vote
but gore spent about $200,000 on advertising in illinois and ended up with only 5 percent of the vote. yet, he insisted, there would be better days ahead. ``this race has a long way to run yet,'' said the tennessee senator
for the republicans, the next big test was connecticut, with a primary on march 29. that should produce another big win for bush, who grew up in the state, which his father represented in the u.s. senate
there were two presidential votes in illinois _ a non-binding popularity contest and the election of convention delegates
bush and simon were the big winners in both
with nearly all the votes counted, bush was getting about 54 percent of the popular vote and winning 66 delegates. dole was receiving 36 percent of the vote, and winning 16 delegates. robertson was getting 7 percent of the vote and no delegates
simon, running stronger than expected, was getting 43 percent of the popular vote and picking up 136 delegates. jackson was receiving 31 percent of the vote and 37 delegates, while dukakis was getting 17 percent of the vote, but no delegates. gore and gephardt trailed with 5 percent and 2 percent of the vote respectively, and no delegates
good news for dukakis came from far-away washington state, where democratic officials released results from 65 percent of their march 8 caucuses. dukakis led with 45 percent of the vote, to 35 percent for jackson and 14 percent uncommitted. simon had 4 percent. overall, washington will send 65 delegates to the national convention
robertson said he'd have to reassess his candidacy _ the political euphemism for preparing to drop out _ if he got less than 5 percent of the vote in illinois. he got 7 percent, but has stopped talking about being the 1988 gop nominee
simon declared, ``this is a new beginning for the paul simon candidacy.''
lawyers for the ``sharpeville six'' today filed an appeal with the supreme court for a stay of execution for the six blacks, whose scheduled hangings have prompted worldwide cries for clemency
attorney prakash diar filed the request on the basis of new evidence relating to allegations that police assaulted and pressured a state witness into giving false evidence against two of the defendants
the hearing was scheduled for thursday morning. the executions are scheduled at dawn friday at pretoria central prison
a finding of new evidence is the only grounds available to stop the hangings, since president p.w. botha said tuesday he had turned down the last appeal to save the five men and one woman
the six were convicted of murder in connection with the sept. 3, 1984 mob killing of black township councilor jacob dlamini in sharpeville, about 40 miles south of johannesburg
the attorneys submitted documents stating that joseph manete, a black trial witness, was forced by police to say in a sworn affidavit that he had seen two of the defendants at the scene, when he really did not
manete testified in the non-jury trial under protection of anonymity. the attorneys tried to question him during the trial about his allegations, which were made to his attorney. the court refuthe sharpeville riots were provoked by the local council's decision to raise rents
george bush, with another republican primary victory under his belt, celebrated his ``great and convincing'' win in illinois, while backers proclaimed he has the gop presidential nomination sewed up
this is the state, it will be remembered, which locked it up for george bush,'' said james thompson, illinois' four-term republican governor. thompson served as bush's state chairman and campaigned with him all over illinois
who says nice guys finish last?'' a buoyant bush asked supporters at a victory celebration in this northwest chicago suburb
thank you, illinois,'' he said
the vice president was returning to washington today for a campaign hiatus
bush resoundingly beat his nearest rival, kansas sen. bob dole. former television evangelist pat robertson ran a distant third with 7 percent
illinois has spoken loud and clear and strong, and so now we go on, right down to the wire in november, and with your help we'll win illinois in november,'' he told supporters who waved red, white and blue balloons and chanted ``bush '88.''
with a victory in the first big industrial-state primary on top of his super tuesday sweep, bush said his campaign themes had won nationwide approval
wherever there's a primary, i am going to be there taking the illinois message,'' he said. ``ours is a national message for a national campaign.''
backers said bush was virtually assured of winning the nomination
i think the race is going to be wrapped up when bob dole decides to drop out, but the numbers certainly would indicate that it's all over,'' said ed murnane, deputy director of the bush campaign in illinois
a prominent soviet adviser warned the kremlin less than a month after soviet troops entered afghanistan that the action would derail efforts to curb the arms race, he said in a letter published today
economist oleg t. bogomolov said he sent a report in 1979 to the communist party's ruling politburo that outlined the potential dangers to soviet foreign policy and public opinion
in a situation report delivered to the appropriate levels on jan. 20, 1980, the hopeless and detrimental aspects of that action were stated,'' bogomolov wrote in a letter published in the weekly literary gazette
bogomolov has been head of the institute of economics of the world socialist system for nearly 20 years and is a respected adviser on development in kremlin-allied nations
soviet troops entered afghanistan in december 1979 to replace one pro-moscow leadership with another and to back it against an anti-communist moslem insurgency. an estimated 115,000 soviet soldiers remain in afghanistan to support the kabul government now headed by president najib
the soviets have said they will withdraw their troops if pakistan, which represents the afghan rebels, agrees to a peace proposal with kabul. the two sides have been meeting for u.n.-sponsored peace talks in geneva
for the first time since world war ii emerged the possibility of a military conflict in which, unlike in korea or vietnam, we would have to fight with our own troops,'' bogomolov quoted his report as saying
the report stated that as a result of that action detente was blocked and political efforts to limit the arms race were liquidated,'' bogomolov wrote. ``there occurred a considerable consolidation of the anti-soviet front in governments surrounding the ussr from the west to the east.''
the intervention in afghanistan damaged kremlin relations with developing countries, especially in moslem nations, the economic theorist said he warned in the report
the letter gave no indication what, if any, response bogomolov received from the kremlin leadership
a church of england theologian committed suicide after writing a controversial article accusing the archbishop of canterbury of weakness and indecision, a coroner ruled today
the rev. gareth bennett, a traditionalist figure in the church, wrote the traditionally unsigned preface to ``crockford's clerical directory 1987-88,'' the church's own reference book listing anglican clergy
the article, published dec. 2, started a furor in the state church because it was widely interpreted as the opening shot in a campaign to pressure archbishop robert runcie, 66, into retiring early and to block the appointment of a liberal to replace him
runcie is spiritual head of the church and the world's 70 million anglicans
bennett, 58, wrote in a diary four days before his dec. 7 death that ``i should be lucky to weather this business through without disaster.''
he was found dead in his fume-filled car at his home in oxford, western england. bennett had purchased a hose pipe on dec. 5 that was used to siphon fumes into his car from the exhaust, the inquest heard
oxfordshire coroner nicholas gardiner said the tenor of bennett's diary entries ``changes dramatically in the last few days of his life'' and there was ample evidence to suggest bennett was under extreme pressure
he decided that he had only one course of action open to him and took that course of action fully aware of what the results would be,'' gardiner said. ``accordingly, my verdict must be that he took his own life.''
negligence and dereliction of duty have caused the deaths of 11,700 people over the past three years, a top chinese official was quoted today as saying
the official china daily quoted an official of the supreme people's procuratorate, the nation's top prosecutor's office. he was not identified by name
the official said accidents resulting from ``rampant bureaucratic bunglings'' and negligence cost the state $378 million in direct economic losses over the same period
he said there had been an unexpected rise in the number of serious cases of negligence involving criminal liability over the past two years
he gave no reason for the increase. previous reports have linked china's serious problem with industrial accidents to both inept bureaucracy and economic reforms which have decentralized industry and encouraged the establishment of hundreds of thousands of small, often poorly regulated factories
the official said most criminal cases are in the fields of construction, mining and transport, forcing the resignation of several senior government leaders
the head of the forestry ministry was forced from office last year because of his poor handling of a disastrous forest fire and the railways minister stepped down earlier this month to take the blame for three fatal train accidents in january
the official said the procuratorate will impose stricter punishment for people who have committed crimes of derelection or have caused major accidents due to negligence of duty
organizations caught trying to cover up such crimes or which delay reporting them will also face severe criminal punishment, he said. comments. picks up 11th graf pvs, `inside, the ...</note>
u.s. defense secretary frank c. carlucci and soviet defense minister dmitri yazov today held the first such high-level military talks in an atmosphere characterized as friendly and non-pressured
the tone has been very positive and cooperative throughout,'' said pentagon spokesman dan howard. ``we are pleased with the way things are going.''
the two discussed the strategic arms limitation talks, implementation of the treaty to eliminate medium-range superpower nuclear missiles, and the size of the respective armed forces, said howard
they also discussed u.s. allegations that the soviets violated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty by building a phased-array radar far from the soviet border in siberia, said howard. the pact requires such radars to be along the border
howard declined to give full details of the talks, saying that carlucci and yazov reserved that right for news conferences both plan at the end of the talks thursday
opening the morning session at the u.s. embassy, said howard, yazov ``commented that the room ... was a very small room, and said there is a saying in russian that although we have close quarters, we shouldn't quarrel.''
everyone got a laugh out of that,'' said howard
the main point that mr. yazov made in the beginning was that he wanted to have useful discussions without having the pressure of negotiations ... to arrive at some sort of agreement,'' howard said
carlucci welcomed yazov to the opening round
inside, the two men, flanked by about 10 aides apiece, faced each other across a long table at the end of which stood a relief map of europe, the area defended by the opposing forces of the north atlantic treaty alliance and warsaw pact
the two men exchanged greetings, but made no public remarks. it was the first ever business meeting between u.s. and soviet defense secretaries
reporters and photographers were ushered out of the room as the first, three-hour session began
carlucci and yazov ate lunch at the residence of u.s. ambassador faith ryan whittlesey before the afternoon session at the soviet embassy
on thursday, carlucci and yazov were to eat breakfast at the residence of soviet ambassador zoya novozhilova before their third and concluding session. carlucci told reporters earlier that he hoped yazov could give him concrete evidence of a highly publicized new soviet military doctrine
despite extensive soviet press commentary on the kremlin doctrine of reasonable or defensive sufficiency, he said he had seen seen ``absolutely no practical change.''
if anything, their military continues to grow. they continue to modernize,'' carlucci said tuesday
yazov said before he left moscow that he hoped for ``frank, constructive discussion'' on arms control issues including strategic arms, nuclear testing, chemical and conventional weapons
carlucci emphasized that he did not want the meeting to open a ``parallel channel'' to on-going superpower arms negotiations in geneva
soviet journalists covering the session said they had been told it was likely to produce no dramatic announcements, but to serve as an ``impulse'' to other negotiations
here are excerpts from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's speech wednesday to the yugoslav parliament:
we will have to thoroughly examine the question of improving inter-nationality relations, one of the most important and delicate issues in a multinational country such as ours. basic positions here are firm
recently, when the 70th anniversary of the great october revolution was formally celebrated in moscow, we spoke with a justified sense of gratification of the results of the leninist nationalities policy of how much had been done in the country to upgrade the economy and culture of the many peoples inhabiting our land, so that they might live in friendship and accord
whatever constituent or autonomous republic or region we take, it is now bound by thousands of threads to all other parts of the sountry, and it has indisoluble links within the integrated economic and political complex ... it would be a mistake, however, to regard the life of nations and relations of nations as something settled once and for all
there are certain difficulties inherited from the past. there are problems that emerged in the course of time prompted by changes in economic life and social relationships and in the consciousness of people
we are determined to secure democratic solutions to these problems which would correspond to the interests of each and every nation and in the family of soviet nations and our entire socialist society
i should like to stress that the changes in our society are closely linked with the activity of the communist party. the communist party of the soviet union is the initiator of perestroika (change). in the current crucial stage, its role as the soviet people's political vanguard is particularly great. and we are convinced that the party can carry out the current responsible tasks it is confronted with, not by methods of command and administration, but by putting itself at the head of the mass movement for a revolutionary renewal of society, and by consolidating two-way connections with the working class, the farmers, the intelligentsia and all social strata.''
we are implementing our perestroika in keeping with the conditions and needs of our own country, and we have no intention whatsoever to palm it off as a universal model or recipe that would be good for all
today, the mediterranean is one of the most explosive regions of the world, an intricate knot of conflicting interests abounding in huge military arsenals which are continuing to grow. there is no other enclosed sea with the same concentration of naval forces
for us, the mediterranean base is no remote, out-of-the-way area. it is close to our southern borders, and it is crossed by the only sea route linking our southern ports with the world's oceans
naturally, we are interested in routes of peace, rather than those of war, passing here. in this connection, i would like to declare that we fully support the program of security measures advanced by the mediterranean nonaligned states at their (brunei) meeting. it is a sound basis for broad and fruitful dialogue on the problems of the region
along with the earlier soviet proposals to reduce military potential in the mediterranean area, we would like to advance additional proposals for consideration to the international community
reaffirming our readiness to withdraw the soviet naval forces along with those of the united states, from the mediterranean. we suggest that this should not be put off indefinitely ... and that as a first step, the number of ships in the two countries' naval potential here should be frozen as from july 1 this year. thereafter, ceilings would be set for them
second, even before general confidence-building measures are agreed upon in the spirit of the stockholm accords, the soviet union and the united states could give each other and all the other mediterranean countries advance notice of any redistribution of warships and of naval exercises. they could also invite observers to them
third, our country will fully support the elaboration by mediterranean and other interested countries of principles and methods assuring the security of intensive shipping, especially in international straits.'' 22-24 pvs, the results ... state there. ^by david espo</note>
the five democratic presidential contenders all made it out of illinois alive, with jesse jackson declaring today that ``illinois voters were quite generous to both favorite sons'' and paul simon claiming momentum for the primaries still to come
simon's victory over jackson has rendered talk of a nationwide democratic front-runner meaningless and given new boost to discussion of a brokered national convention next summer
both simon and jackson said today that they would participate if democratic chairman paul kirk called a summit to close ranks behind a probable nominee if no one emerged from the primaries with enough delegates to win
but simon said on abc, ``i am not optimistic that it will provide answers.''
he said that after his victory in illinois, ``i think i'm going to do well'' in the contests yet to come
jackson, appearing on nbc, acknowledged that simon was ``back in the race.''
the field is wide open,'' said massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the national leader in delegates but a third-place finisher in illinois
we're about halfway home. all sorts of things can happen,'' new york gov. mario cuomo, a non-candidate, said tuesday night in an interview on abc's ``nightline.''
illinois marked a turning point in the nominating calendar, out of the south and into the northern and midwestern states. after michigan's caucuses on saturday (138 delegates), connecticut, wisconsin (81), new york (255) and pennsylvania (178) all cast their votes in primaries over a six-week period
winners and losers alike hailed the results of tuesday's primary that gave simon the gift of political life and elevated fellow-favorite son jackson to within a few votes of wresting the national delegate lead from dukakis
dukakis, however, is expecting to reap some 100 delegates from uncounted caucuses already held in minnesota, texas and washington state
this is a new beginning for the paul simon candidacy,'' said the senator as he celebrated his triumph. ``i intend to do well in succeeding states.''
i think i will do respectably well in michigan, then in wisconsin and new york i think i will do very well.''
in a dig at dukakis, he said the massachusetts governor ``spent more than $500,000 and didn't wind up with a single delegate.'' simon has his own vulnerability of course; he couldn't win next-door iowa and bypassed the entire south and more on super tuesday
jackson said, ``i finished second, it seems in illinois.'' but he took a look at the overall popular vote for the states to hold primaries and caucuses thus far and said, ``i'm a winner. i am the leading contender for the democratic nomination. i am where every candidate wishes he could be tonight.''
jackson is hoping to maneuver around detroit mayor coleman young _ one of the few prominent black officials to endorse dukakis or any other non-jackson democrat _ to build his michigan support
dukakis, the leader in delegates nationwide, finished a distant third in illinois. he failed in a $250,000 advertising campaign designed to siphon off enough of simon's white support to drop the illinois senator into second place and force his withdrawal from the campaign
i don't get disappointed,'' dukakis said. ``we did what i characterize as a respectable third.'' he added, ``now we move on to michigan where there are no favorite sons.''
the massachusetts governor has several dozen staff aides in michigan, and is counting on the friendship of gov. james blanchard, mayor coleman young and former united auto workers union president douglas fraser to aid his cause
albert gore jr. finished fourth in illinois, and aides said despite his strong super tuesday showing a week ago, he has yet to decide where to concentrate his efforts in the north and midwest. ``the outcome means that this race is even more wide open than ever before,'' said the tennessee senator
rep. richard gephardt of missouri was last in illinois and went to bed without talking to reporters. but he was first on the air with television commercials in michigan in what aides said was a make-or-break contest for him. gephardt hopes his appeal for tougher trade policies will appeal to the state's large unionized automobile labor force and is counting on picking up agricultural support as well
i feel we did as well as we could in illinois. i just didn't feel it was worth the effort to go in and put in a lot of resources to get votes in their favorite-son situation,'' gephardt said today in kalamazoo
the race is wide open. it has been right along. i think if i can get a good result in michigan, which i think i can, i'm going to be back in the middle of this thing and have a great chance to be the nominee,'' he said
said gore: ``the outcome means this race is even more wide open than ever before ... the results ... make it more likely we will go to a second ballot'' before picking a winner at the convention
but dukakis, the best-financed and best-organized contender, shuddered at the talk. ``i've been making a number of calls around the country to key democrats and there is an overwhelming sentiment that we should get behind a nominee.''
relatives and close friends attended memorial services today for 17 soldiers killed last week in the collision of two helicopters during a night training exercise
soldiers and dignitaries, including gov. wallace wilkinson, filled the 450-seat main post chapel. an opened bible rested on a simple altar
i have flown personally with each of these men. i can tell you without reservation that they truly loved what they were doing,'' said lt. col. joseph a. fucci, commander of the 101st aviation regiment's 5th brigade
we all share in the loss of these men. and though all the grief that we feel does not begin to compare with the sorrow being felt by their wives and their families, our hearts and our prayers go out to you.''
seven aviation flight helmets mounted atop sabers and m-16 assault rifles standing next to seven pair of boots to represent those victims from the fort's aviation brigade
over the last week we have expressed our sympathies to families, friends and fellow soldiers with our heads down, unable to find the right words, if any at all, and an emptiness felt within,'' said maj. paul j. pozorski, sr, acting commander of the aviation regiment's 1st battalion
one service was held for members of the 101st aviation brigade, a second for members of the 502nd infantry regiment. both units lost members in the crash
thirteen infantrymen and helicopter crew members died when their craft, returning to campbell army airfield from a night training exercise in a formation with two other helicopters, was struck broadside by a second copter on a separate mission, army spokesmen said
all four soldiers on the second craft also died, in what the army said was its worst aviation accident since 248 fort campbell servicemen were killed in a jet crash in canada in 1985. the two other helicopters flying in formation were not damaged and landed safely
an investigation by the army safety center at fort rucker, ala., was to finish its work at the crash scene six miles from the airfield by friday and reconvene at fort rucker, officials said
the safety center's report on the accident is expected within three months
one crash investigator has said initial findings indicated that ``human and environmental factors'' _ and not mechanical failure _ were suspected as responsible for the collision
the body buried in the police chief's front yard turned out to be that of his wife's former husband, and now authorities are trying to find out how the man died and how the body ended up where it did
state pathologist dr. roger fossum was to continue an autopsy today, according to gregory swope, senior assistant attorney general
dental records identified the remains as those of russell bean, swope said tuesday. bean disappeared 10 years ago; his wife, sylvia, married the police chief, robert chambers, a year after bean's disappearance
sources close to the investigation told the associated press that police began digging in chambers' front yard following revelations by his father, clifton chambers, who died last wednesday
police discovered the bones on monday after three days of digging
the keene sentinel reported that police investigators learned the elder chambers confessed to his daughter that bean died accidentally in a fist fight after hitting his head on a rock. clifton chambers also told his daughter that he helped bury bean's body, the newspaper said
the attorney general's office, which has handled all news releases in the case, has declined to comment on the source of its information
swope said only that the dig ``was undertaken when allegations arose that a corpse was buried at that location approximately 10 years ago.''
no charges have been filed in the case
chambers, 36, and his wife, sylvia, about 35, have been secluded at a friend's home and have not spoken with reporters
chambers, who has lived in the town of 600 most of his life, three years ago took over as part-time chief. he also is part-time chief of nearby gilsum. he took an indefinite leave of absence from the marlow job on saturday
sylvia chambers is the town welfare director and has worked with the girl scouts and the cancer society
the couple lives in a five-room, 1{-story cabin with their four teen-age children by previous marriages
this is the second time in five years that marlow has been shocked by a criminal investigation
in 1983, audrey hilley, who became known as the ``black widow,'' was arrested in marlow. she had been convicted in alabama of poisoning her husband in 1975 and later trying to poison her daughter
while a fugitive, she married a man in florida, moved with him to marlow, left on a trip to texas, faked her death and returned to him posing as her twin sister. she died last year of exposure after failing to return from a furlough from a women's prison in alabama
a panel of theologians has ruled the unexplained healing of a youth's hearing impairment was a miracle attributed to mother katharine drexel, advancing efforts to have the heiress-turned-nun declared a roman catholic saint
the panel's decision will be reviewed by the 19 cardinals of the congregation for the causes of saints, which will take up the case after easter and recommend any further action to pope john paul ii
a group of doctors said in december they could find no medical explanation for the healing in 1974 of robert j. gutherman, now 28, of bensalem, after an infection had destroyed the hearing in his right ear
he regained hearing after his family and members of the order miss drexel founded, the sisters of the blessed sacrament for indians and colored people, prayed for her intervention
miss drexel, who died in 1955 at the age of 96, was declared ``venerable'' on jan. 26, 1987. if the theologians' decision is upheld by the cardinals and the pope concurs, she would be declared ``blessed,'' the final step before sainthood
before she could be declared a saint, a second miracle would have to be credited to her
miss drexel founded the sisters of the blessed sacrament in 1891 and gave $20 million toward helping blacks and american indians
i am elated,'' said sister faith okerson, executive secretary of the cornwell heights-based order. ``it's a real gift to us and our nation.''
but sister patricia lynch, a spokeswoman for the order, said miss drexel would have been happier to learn about the appointment tuesday of eugene a. marino as archbishop of atlanta
marino, who will be the first black american archbishop, attended an elementary school founded by the sisters of the blessed sacrament in biloxi, miss
she was not one for a lot of fuss about herself,'' sister lynch said. throughout. no pickup.</note>
israeli police today detained an arab-american peace activist and a palestinian was killed in clashes with troops in the occupied territories, where israel banned travel and long-distance phone calls
defense minister yitzhak rabin defended israel's move tuesday to cut telephone links between foreign countries and the west bank and gaza strip, and to ban travel by palestinians in the occupied territories
the restrictions were aimed at hampering palestine liberation organization activists, whom israel blames for keeping alive unrest that has claimed 97 arab lives since dec. 8
the army said one palestinian died and six were wounded in protests near tulkarm, 40 miles northwest of jerusalem. the army said the circumstances of the death were under investigation and that no other details were available
the arab-owned palestine press service identified the victim as 60-year-old salim al yehyeh and said he died after soldiers threw tear gas into his home in a refugee camp on the outskirts of tulkarm
hospital officials said israeli soldiers shot and wounded eight palestinians, six of them in the gaza strip and two in the west bank
arab-american mubarak awad, 44, was being held at a city police station after he was arrested for attending an illegal gathering, police spokesman rafi levy said. levy said the illegal gathering took place on the main road between jerusalem and the west bank city of nablus, but he had no further details
last year, israeli officials confiscated awad's israeli identity card and ordered him out of the country in november, when his three-month tourist visa expired. on monday, israel's supreme court ordered the interior ministry to show within 60 days why awad had not been expelled
awad, a palestinian who also has homes both in jerusalem and wapakoneta, ohio, came under fire after the publication in hebrew of his book entitled ``non-violent resistance: a strategy for the occupied territories.''
the book urged the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip to refuse to pay taxes, lay down in front of bulldozers to prevent land confiscation and boycott isreli products
in other developments, a plo-ordered general strike entered its second day today, keeping most arab workers from their jobs in israel
rabin told high school students that nightly curfews in gaza were necessary to ``reduce their (the arab activists') capability to move by night, to prepare explosives ... to obstruct roads that carry workers to israel.''
according to army estimates, about 2,600 palestinians have been arrested on riot-related charges, most for throwing stones
the telephone and travel restrictions have a two-fold purpose: to demonstrate israel's determination to regain control of the streets and to keep palestinian activists from receiving telephone instructions from abroad or from moving freely between the west bank and gaza strip. israel seized the territories in the 1967 middle east war
the ban on direct-dial overseas telephone calls was not likely to be completely effective, however, since it excluded arab neighborhoods in east jerusalem, where 130,000 palestinians live
the army-run territorial government will lift restrictions when authorities feel a change and the situation calms, informed sources said
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, also held out the possibility other steps would be taken, including the closing of west bank bridges to jordan. the bridges are an avenue for trade and travel, and israeli officials estimate more than 1 million people cross annually
the daily hadashot newspaper today said authorities were considering cutting off electricity to some areas, banning export of some products and closing markets
in recent days, the focus of the plo campaign has shifted from street confrontations to civil disobedience, such as the resignations of arab police and tax collectors
israeli authorities each day this week have imposed new restrictions on palestinians
three children died today when a van ran off a coastal road and plunged into the chilly waters of weeks bay, where it remained submerged for three hours, state troopers said
a woman driving the van escaped and was taken by helicopter to the university of south alabama medical center, where she was being questioned byb authorities
the driver was identified as 29-year-old aimee dees of chatom. the children were not immediately identified
state troopers said the van apparently ran off a county road between 1 a.m. and 1:30 a.m.the road dead-ends into the secluded bay, about seven miles south of point clear
a group of people on the beach near the county road were huddled around a campfire when they saw the van run into the water. they pulled mrs. dees out, but didn't know the children were still in the vehicle
mrs. dees was dazed and in shock and unable to immediately describe what happened, authorities said
rescue workers searched in 30-degree weather for three hours before locating the vehicle
burt lancaster was the fast-talking tough guy, james stewart his drawling partner with homespun common sense as they rode into town to fight for a principle _ only this time it was real life, not a movie
the two hollywood legends began a two-day whirl of lobbying in congress and on television talk shows tuesday to plead for the preservation of their film classics against modern moguls out to ``make a buck.''
lancaster shook his finger at a packed room of reporters, arguing passionately for a halt to the controversial coloring of black and white films
media entrepreneur ted turner has led the colorization field, releasing computer-colored versions of such classics as ``casablanca'' and stewart's ``it's a wonderful life.''
all of this is done for them to make a buck,'' said lancaster. ``let them go out and make an honest buck.''
stewart told reporters in his halting cadence that he agreed with lancaster, ``but for me to say the same thing would take so very much longer, i better not say it.''
the two were joined in their rounds by directors peter bogdanovich, fred zinnemann and several other top american filmmakers. the hollywood push for legislation included testimony before a congressional committee two weeks ago by directors steven spielberg and george lucas
stewart said he came to washington because he was appalled by the colorization of frank capra's ``it's a wonderful life,'' after turner bought the rights to the movie
as frank's health deteriorated, he found to his horror that `it's a wonderful life' was one of the first films that was colorized. it broke his heart,'' an emotional stewart said
i am determined to do whatever i can to make things right for frank capra,'' he said
the directors and actors want congress to expand the nation's copyright laws to give directors and writers perpetual ``moral rights'' over what can be done to their works
under a plan supported by the directors guild of america, those who hold exhibition rights to completed movies would not be allowed to make changes _ such as adding color _ without the filmmakers' permission
i see myself today in movies where the story has been distorted and the movie chopped up,'' said lancaster. ``yet, my name is on it. i think, `what are they doing to me?'
they don't own me. they're using my name as a kind of draw. that's felonious, really.''
although he was passionate before the news cameras, drawing memories of his roles as a tough guy dating back to the 1940s, lancaster said he toned down his private performance before members of congress
we're dealing with politicians _ we have to be a little political too,'' he said. affect network ratings. picks up 3rd graf, `with only ...'</note>
nbc's ``aaron's way'' made it into the top 10 in the a.c. nielsen co. ratings as the television season winds down and the networks begin giving spring tryouts to potential series
last week's ratings were skewed by pre-emptions for college basketball and the rev. billy graham's televised fund-raising, but nbc still won, taking the top five places
network analysts estimate that about a quarter of the country's network affiliates pre-empted network shows for the graham crusade on friday night, lowering the networks' ratings. graham's show is syndicated, so its ratings aren't included in the weekly nielsens
with only five weeks left, abc is holding onto second place in the season-long ratings race, thanks to high ratings for its winter olympics coverage
nbc won the week that ended sunday with an average, prime-time rating of 15.9. cbs had a 12.7 and abc 11.8. the season-to-date averages are nbc 16.3, abc 14.0 and cbs 13.6
to make up the 0.4 point it lags behind abc, cbs would have to beat abc by two points each of the remaining five weeks of the season, an unlikely prospect
cbs, however, has rebounded in news ratings. for the week that ended friday, the ``cbs evening news'' had an average rating of 11.1, its second-straight victory. abc's ``world news tonight'' had a 10.2 and ``nbc nightly news'' had a 9.4
the rating is the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions
after a lengthy reign at the top of the news ratings last summer, nbc is now struggling in third, although the close rankings make the news race virtually a three-way tie
nbc analyst gerald jaffe said results of the november sweeps showed nbc with a disadvantage in local news lead-in. nbc affiliates had an average rating of 11.5, which ``nightly news'' improved on, to 11.9
cbs had the best advantage. its affiliates had an average rating of 12.9, and the network newscast improved that to 13.1. abc affiliates averaged a 12.0 rating and the network broadcast was a 12.3
network news is an island in a sea of local news,'' said jaffe. ``if the local news is going down, there's not much you can do to keep the network news from going down, too.''
nbc continued to dominate prime time. ``the cosby show'' was no. 1 even though the episode was a repeat. next was nbc's ``cheers,'' ``a different world,'' ``night court'' and ``golden girls.'' the rest of the top 10: ``murder, she wrote'' cbs, ``the people's choice awards'' cbs, ``60 minutes'' cbs, ``growing pains'' abc. ``aaron's way,'' a new nbc series starring merlin olsen as the patron of an amish family trying to cope in california, made its debut at no. 10, the best showing of the crop of new series getting spring tryouts
the premiere movie of abc's new series ``probe'' did well, landing in 28th place, but its regular time period on thursday didn't make a dent in the ratings and was ranked 60th of 68
abc seems to have successfully transplanted ``growing pains'' from tuesday to wednesday, where it was strong enough to pull ``head of the class'' into 11th place
katharine hepburn proved she is still a ratings draw. her nbc movie ``laura lansing slept here'' was 12th
cbs did make headway against nbc's thursday's lineup with the debut of ``48 hours'' in its new time period opposite ``cosby.'' last week's documentary on runaways ranked 34th with a rating of 22.9
the lowest-rated shows of the week were: ``buck james,'' ``probe,'' ``ohara,'' ``west 57th,'' ``hotel,'' ``barry manilow, swing street,'' abc's super tuesday coverage, ``the thorns,'' cbs' super tuesday coverage and ``the redeye express.'' rioting; edits to tighten. no pickup</note>
attackers fired pistols and hurled hand grenades at a graveside service for three slain irish republican army guerrillas today, killing three people and injuring 34, police reported. one man was arrested
thousands of mourners threw themselves to the ground as the explosions ripped across the milltown roman catholic cemetery, while hundreds of others raced across the graves pursuing a suspected attacker
one attacker, weaving and dodging between gravestones, flung a hand grenade at the pursuing mourners
organizers of the funeral for the guerrillas, who were shot by british troops in gibraltar, immediately blamed protestant paramilitaries for the attack
police moved in to surround the cemetery and a dozen ambulances ferried the 34 injured, including several young children hit by gunfire, to the nearby royal victoria hospital
the three dead, all men, were not immediately identified. a hospital spokeswoman said one of the injured, a woman, was in serious condition and three men also were gravely wounded
it's obvious it was an attack by loyalist (protestant) movements,'' martin mcguinness, vice president of sinn fein, the outlawed ira's legal political front, told reporters in the cemetery
the violence erupted about 15 yards away as the flag-draped coffins of mairead farrell, 31, sean savage, 24, and daniel mccann, 30, were being lowered into a single grave. the unarmed trio were shot march 6 by british troops in gibraltar, and british authorities alleged the three were on a bombing mission
within hours of the cemetery attack, youths hijacked and set fire to a bus in the ardoyne area in nearby catholic west belfast, despite sinn fein appeals for calm. it roused fears of renewed rioting in the west belfast, already tense because of the funerals
at the cemetery, mourners screamed as at least five explosions rang out. mcguinness said that witnesses had spotted four men getting out of white van and slip into the cemetery just before the attack
amid scenes of chaos in the cemetery, several hundred youths gave chase to one attacker who fled, still firing and throwing a grenades, witnesses said
i saw maybe 300 youths chasing this one gunman who turned every 15-20 yards, threw a hand grenade and loosed off a shot before running again,'' said cab driver aidan o'reilly
the mourners were gaining, but bunched up and he threw another grenade into the middle of them, then got out on to the motorway. ... he was egging them on to come and get him when he threw the grenade.''
at the cemetery, sinn fein organizers completed the funeral while priests comforted the wounded
the rev. alec reid, who was saying prayers next to the graveside as the last of the coffins draped in the irish tricolor was being lowered, said he saw a young man throwing something from the back of the crowd
i thought they were stones, but it looks as if they were grenades. he was also firing shots into the crowd.''
in london, british officials said prime minister margaret thatcher was immediately informed
the mourners had followed the coffins through somber streets to the cemetery
at a mass earlier in st. agnes, mourners listened silently as the priest charged that the three ira men were murdered
shortly before the funeral began, a bomb exploded on a street more than a mile from the church, slightly injuring a british soldier on foot patrol, police reported
the almost exclusively catholic irish republican army is fighting to push the british out of protestant-dominated northern ireland, join it with the republic of ireland and set up an all-ireland socialist state
britain says the slain guerrillas were shot by commandos while preparing a car bomb attack on the changing of the guard outside the governor's residence in the colony on the southern tip of spain
the three were unarmed, but britain said they made movements that led the soldiers to believe their lives were in danger. the irish government has complained that the soldiers should have tried to arrest the trio
in the tense buildup to the funerals, protestants stoned hearses that brought the ira bodies home tuesday
soldiers today battled more than 100 communist rebels who burned a town hall and kidnapped three policemen. at least four rebels and three soldiers were killed, the military said
before dawn, about 120 rebels entered san juan, and most took over the municipal building while others searched homes, maj. wilmur panabang told repoters. san juan is 210 miles north of manila
panabang, the philippine constabulary assistant provincial commander, said troops arrived at daybreak in trucks and an armored personnel carrier from the provincial capital of bangued, about 20 miles away, and attacked the rebel positions
the troops were backed by three helicopter gunships, but panabang denied they fired rockets at the rebels in the town hall
we wanted to do that but we were afraid to miss and hit houses instead because the town hall is in the middlle of town,'' he said
provincial governor vicente valera ordered the evacuation of residents from san juan and nearby villages during the fighting and military pursuit operations to prevent civilians from getting hit in the crossfire
at least four rebels and three soldiers were killed before the guerrillas broke off the engagement about five hours later, set fire to the building and retreated to the nearby mountains, panabang said
only seven bodies were recovered following the fighting, including those of two soldiers whose remains were charred in the fire. but panabang quoted witnesses as saying the rebels loaded nine bodies on a commandeered jeep as they departed
he said the rebels ``may very well have suffered up to 13 dead'' in the raid
one trooper also was wounded in the fighting, panabang said
the retreating guerrillas took three police hostages with them, including san juan police chief alejandro arcanghel, he said
more than 100 troops backed by the three helicopter gunships and the armored personnel carrier pursued the rebel force into the hills around san juan until midday, panabang said. he said the military planned to resume pursuit of the rebels shortly
the attack was the bloodiest in northern luzon this year and was the second in abra province
two crane operators at a plutonium production plant were contaminated with a low level of radiation, and one of the men carried the radiation into his home, a plant spokesman said
investigators found radiation in the cab of a crane at the plant but the source of the contamination has not been determined, said bill whiting of westinghouse hanford, which operates the plutonium-uranium extraction plant at the hanford nuclear reservation under government contract
contamination was found on one of the men when he reported to work monday and a check of his home determined he had spread the contamination there, whiting said
radiation was found on the other employee's hands and clothes monday as he prepared to leave for the day, whiting said
the level of radiation was extremely low and posed no health threat, he said
both operators were decontaminated and given clearance to return to work
a radiation team checked the homes of the two crane operators and two other employees monday night, whiting said. they removed a wash cloth, electric razor, towel and undershirt from the home of the employee who registered contamination when he arrived at work, he said
the maximum contamination level in the crane operator's home was 3,500 counts per minute, or less than half the radiation present in the glowing part of a lighted gas lantern, whiting said
you can buy higher levels of radiation at the store,'' he said
it wasn't known how radiation on the operator who contaminated his home had been missed in daily checks of employees leaving the plant
the contamination was isolated at the plant in the area surrounding the crane, he said
investigators' preliminary report will be issued within 10 working days, whiting said
an explosion in a chemistry lab injured a teacher and a student today and forced officials to close newton county high school
both the 34-year-old teacher and the 16-year-old student were reported in stable condition, but a georgia baptist medical center spokeswoman said the teacher was expected to undergo plastic surgery
the teacher was taken by helicopter to the atlanta hospital with burns, bruises, hand injuries and minor facial injuries, said spokeswoman colleen nowak
the student suffered cuts on her arms and was expected to be kept overnight at newton county general hospital, said a spokeswoman there, kathy klauss
the explosion occurred during a chemistry experiment about 8:45 a.m., said herb burnsed, assistant superintendent of the newton county school system
fumes spread into hallways and prompted officials to dismiss classes for the day, he said
the victims were not identified pending notification of relatives
a small group of people dedicated to terry anderson's release from captivity in lebanon today hoisted an american flag and tied a yellow ribbon to the flag pole at city hall
the ceremony marked the third anniversary of the capture of anderson, who was born in lorain and spent the first seven years of his life in this northern ohio city
anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, was abducted march 16, 1985. he is the longest-held of 22 foreign hostages in lebanon. there has been no word of him for three months
a dozen people, including some of anderson's relatives, attended the ceremony in cold, dry weather
jack lavriha, chairman of the town's free terry anderson committee, spoke briefly and accused the reagan administration of dragging its feet and doing little on behalf of anderson and oher hostages in lebanon
gwen jones, anderson's aunt, said after the ceremony that the family is ``finding it very hard and frustrating.''
anderson's sister, peggy say, will be speaking at the lorain veterans council's 42nd annual banquet on saturday. mrs. say, of batavia, n.y., was in washington today for a ceremony for anderson and other hostages
in beirut, two lebanese newspapers today published letters addressed to anderson and his pro-iranian captors, along with pictures of his 2-year-old daughter
mrs. jones said she hadn't thought her nephew would be held this long. she said that if she could talk to him, she would ``tell him to keep praying. i'm sure the lord is going to answer those prayers.''
swarms of desert locusts have been sighted on the tunisia-libya border, and a government committee has been set up to battle the agricultural pests
government sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said authorities have begun spraying in the areas of bir-pasteur, north of bourje el-khadra near the frontier
a committee comprised of governors from the affected regions, primarily in eastern and southern tunisia, is working with the tunisian army in fighting the infestation
locusts also have been reported in northern mauritania, southern morocco and algeria. morocco has mobilized 35 airplanes and land vehicles to fight the infestations, according to the official map news agency
in late february, the u.n. food and agriculture organization said northern africa and the sahel region were threatened by swarms of locusts
the taiwan government will allow foreign films shot on the china mainland to be shown here, an official said wednesday
government spokesman shaw yu-ming told reporters the government decided to lift the ban on the films because taiwan citizens have been allowed since last year to visit the chinese mainland for family reunions
officials of the government information office's motion pictures department said applications to import the movies will be accepted effective wednesday
shaw said, however, that the new policy won't apply to mandarin-language films shot in china by companies in the british colony of hong kong, which, together with domestic films, are governed by a more restrictive law. this restriction will be reviewed in may
shaw said taiwan film companies still will be banned from going to china to shoot movies
the public repeatedly has urged the government to ease the restrictions on foreign films, especially since ``the last emperor,'' a movie shot in beijing, won nine oscar nominations last month
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
march 9
westerly (r.i.) sun on nuclear reactor safety:
the cumulative effect of frequent censure of the nuclear regulatory commission for lax enforcement of safety standards is to bolster a where-there's-smoke-there's-fire conclusion
this time ... the nrc's apparent (desire) to ok relicensing of reactors closed for safety flaws in 1985 by the tennessee valley authority brought testy comments at a house committee hearing
the projected restarts are planned although the justice department has not completed its investigation of charges that the tva's nuclear power manager, steven a. white, made ... false assertions as to the reactors' compliance with safety rules
rep. sam gejdenson of connecticut ... zeroed in on the conclusion of the commission ... that white ``intentionally lied to the nrc.''
he spoke for many ... when he said: ``the thing i am concerned about is that the justice department could decide that mr. white is guilty of lying ... and the nrc would have ordered a restart of that reactor.''
a fair question: what's the big hurry?
march 15
baltimore evening sun on the execution of willie darden:
as florida authorities prepared for the ritual of taking willie jasper darden's life ..., they maintained that his conviction for a 1973 murder was based on ``irrefutable evidence.''
in fact the evidence is refutable _ refutable by at least two witnesses who were not called at darden's trial more than a decade ago. but what is irrefutable is that darden, a black man, was tried before an elected white judge in an inflamed predominantly white community in rural florida, prosecuted by a white district attorney, ... convicted by an all-white jury drawn from friends and neighbors of the murder victim, and sent to the electric chair by a white governor. ..
is there anyone of any color, creed, ethnic background or religious or ideological persuasion who truly believes he could get a fair trial for his life under such circumstances?
march 15
the kansas city (mo.) times on aid to the contras:
if congress has behaved schizophrenically over contra aid, part of the reason may be that deception by the administration has made it hard to tell reality from phantasm in nicaragua
the administration has put lawmakers in the unfortunate position of having to question the leadership of their democratic government while simultaneously trying to fend off communist leadership in another
that helps explain why lawmakers have over time voted for and against contra aid, and why it is difficult now for military aid to be approved
march 11
riverside (calif.) press-enterprise on budget deficit projections:
there is a white house budgeting ritual. call it fiscal chicken. ..
the white house budget office issues its spending plan. the spending is all geared to impossibly high economic growth predictions. in six or eight months, it becomes apparent that there just isn't that much steam in the economy
shame might compel most people to concede, but this is where this budget office gets tough. ..
only when evidence of this impossible optimism becomes just mountainous do the president's men back off a bit in their predictions. and as it retreats, the office of management and budget is required to observe that there's a new economic boom coming, just around the corner
recently president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget was issued. ... a deficit of $130 billion is foreseen
to make all these figures come out so serendipitously, the white house budget office underlaid them with a forecast of 2.4 percent economic growth in calendar 1988 and 3.5 percent growth in calendar 1989
the congressional budget office has now come out with its own economic forecast. it envisions growth of 0.6 percent less in '88 and 0.9 percent less in '89. run the white house budget numbers off that base and it produces a fiscal 1989 deficit of $165 billion
under the usual rules, the white house wouldn't admit its optimism before about september. but this being the year of transitional election, it may never admit it
it is ronald reagan's last chance to set a new record for rosy optimism. he'll probably want to have a run at it
march 8
the commercial appeal, memphis, tenn., on state-federal relationships:
state and local governments have long had a love-hate relationship with washington. they gladly accept federal subsidies, but resent conditions on how to spend the money
now they are getting the worst of both worlds: burdensome mandates without the funds to pay for them
the national governrs' association has voted to make this issue its highest priority for 1988
the governors _ along with mayors, city councils and school boards _ believe they deserve far more credit for honesty, good will and competence than the federal rulemakers are willing to give them. they are right
in many areas, such as education and welfare reform, these officials have shown themselves to be more innovative and effective than washington. ..
the governors have 163 specific proposals to lighten the regulatory load. congress should pay close attention
march 15
albuquerque (n.m.) journal on drug testing of transportation employees:
the discovery of cocaine in the system of the pilot of a commuter airplane that crashed near durango, colo., in january highlights a troubling dimension of the debate over who, if anybody, among american workers should be subjected to mandatory random drug testing
it was in january that the national transportation safety board disclosed a conrail engineer had used marijuana prior to a january 1987 collision between an amtrak passenger train and a conrail freight train, in which 16 passengers were killed
the personal rights of individuals employed in the transportation industry may have to give way to the right to safety of those who depend upon them to give alert, drug-free service in preparing and crewing commercial airliners and trains
if there is a group in our society in which mandatory, random testing would have potential for saving lives, the public transportation industry is it
march 14
san antonio (texas) express-news on trading with the soviet union:
of all the cabinet departments, the department of commerce is probably the least conspicuous to the average american, but beware
commerce secretary c. william verity wants to increase trade with the soviet union. selling levis, fords and coca-colas to 250 million soviets is tempting, but caution should be exercised
the soviets won't allow their market to be bought for a pittance. they want high-tech products more than blue jeans and cola
the pentagon opposes any trade in sensitive military gear. it should
getting a corner on soviet markets is enticing, but these are the same people who trample the civil rights of their citizens, who use slave labor to manufacture some of their goods, and who, in parts of the world, look down rifle barrels at u.s. troops
in summary, it's ok to boost trade in some areas, but don't give away the store
march 9
the news tribune, woodbridge, n.j., on masters and johnson's aids research:
in their new book ... so-called sex experts drs. william masters and virginia johnson have suggested that one in 20 men who have had at least six sexual partners for five years are infected with the aids virus
they say the rate is slightly higher among women
previous studies have shown the undeniable link between intravenous drug use and aids, and homosexual behavior and aids
what masters and johnson have done is suggest the link between casual heterosexual sex and aids may be greater than previously thought
time will tell who is right. we want to believe masters and johnson's scary scenario is wrong. but who knows?
aids is such a mystery that it is difficult to offer reliable statistics. the debate really isn't how, but how much
we could dismiss masters and johnson's methodology as wrong. what would be worse would be to dismiss the risk, and be dead wrong
march 9
medford (ore.) mail tribune on jesse jackson:
jesse jackson says he plans to be the democratic party's presidential nominee. ... with all due respect, we beg to differ. ..
jackson cannot survive a close examination. his record includes too many radical stands, too many blanket condemnations of the united states and too many associations with foreign leaders of questionable character. ..
in practical terms, jackson's best hope is that his delegate strength will force the party's leaders to make sure that the presidential platform features issues of concern to the people who have supported him
expecting much of anything beyond that is wishful thinking
march 10
brainerd (minn.) daily dispatch on postal rate increases:
dear postmaster general:
we're writing to you now, before postage rates rise next month
so you want to raise the price of the common, first-class stamp to 25 cents? that's only a jump of 14 percent, or three cents
trouble is, that's just part of the problem
you also want to raise the rates for second-class mail by 18 percent and for third-class mail by 25 percent
and guess who is going to help offset the increase. yep, the consumer
affected businesses will be forced to charge higher prices. magazines and newspapers will be forced to charge higher rates for advertising and subscriptions
we're afraid that higher postage rates will impose hardships on postal patrons whose only consolation will be a probable decline in the amount of junk mail
march 11
the hutchinson (kan.) news on college admissions standards:
mediocrity may be just so-so in most places, but in the kansas house of representatives, medocrity is excellent
with a vote so lopsided that it could never be described as average, the house spurned the idea of setting some (rather low) admissions standards for entrance to the state's top universities. ..
kansas students would have responded well to the modest challenge outlined in the educational admissions bill
no conscientious student would have been prevented from getting a college degree, and a series of higher educational standards would have led to more valuable degrees. ..
mediocrity is not nearly the superlative value that politicians think it to be
march 11
the milwaukee (wis.) journal on anti-drug legislation:
barely two weeks before the current state legislative session is to end, the omnibus drug bill promoted by gov. thompson and several lawmakers appears ready for action
the massive bill, which sets out an $11.6 million drug-fighting program, is the state's broadest attack on drug abuse in years and deserves bipartisan support
apparently, the only danger the bill faces is the possibility of getting hung up over one of its more controversial features _ the so-called ``len bias'' provision
named for a university of maryland basketball player who died in 1986 after taking cocaine, this provision would allow prosecution of drug suppliers on charges of second-degree murder if a client died of drug use
while that provision likely would have a deterrent effect on drug dealers and should be retained in the bill's final version, it is by no means the heart of the legislation
debate over its inclusion should not be permitted to hold up legislative approval of the omnibus bill
more important are the bill's (1) stiffer criminal penalties for the sale and use of a broad class of drugs and (2) needed funds for drug and alcohol treatment programs. ..
the bill strongly deserves approval before the legislature adjourns. sentence</head>
a woman charged with keeping an 8-year-old boy in a coffin-like box for two years said she confined the boy to protect her possessions and pleaded guilty to unlawful imprisonment
i restrained (the boy) during my sleeping hours in order to keep him from destroying property. my judgment may not have been proper, but my judgment as to the amount of restraint seemed proper to me under the circumstances,'' said retha skyles in a handwritten statement
ms. skyles, 54, entered her plea tuesday in pierce county superior court before judge thomas swayze jr., who set sentencing for april 26
in exchange for the plea, the prosecution agreed that ms. skyles be sentenced under provisions for first-time offenders, said deputy prosecutor barbara corey-boulet
that means a judge could sentence the woman to up to 90 days in jail plus two years' probation and counseling
ms. skyles was charged with keeping the son of her step-granddaughter in a playhouse-sized box from may 1, 1985, to may 1, 1987. the box often was locked and contained a jar in which the boy was expected to urinate, the charges said. the boy was not allowed to attend school
an anonymous referral tipped off state child potective services workers on april 29, 1987, and they took the boy and his 11-year-old sister into custody. the siblings have lived with foster parents and are doing well, ms. corey-boulet said
one of ms. skyles' adult sons said the confinement was a temporary way to handle the tantrum-prone boy
he said the family believed he was brain-damaged because of his mother, who the son said abused drugs and wouldn't take proper care of the boy. the natural mother denied she was a drug abuser
when sidney moncrief graduated from the university of arkansas, he left behind a sterling record as a basketball player and $8.31
the milwaukee bucks' star is one of the 2,494 arkansans who have money in accounts that have been inactive for seven years. state auditor julia jones is trying to track them down through a publicity campaign beginning this month
the booty is more than $750,000 in wages, bank accounts, insurance payments, utility deposits and other monies
nancy l. thornton, who heads the auditor's unclaimed property division, said that in some instances, the owners simply had not touched their accounts for seven years and the money is not actually unclaimed
moncrief's $8.31? seems he forgot about a electric utility deposit from his school days
most of spain's 270,000 public school teachers on wednesday began a second two-day strike for higher pay, forcing cancellation of classes for more than 5 million students, union and education ministry officials said
the ministry said it won't negotiate while the threat of strikes continues
the nation's two largest unions, the socialist-led general workers union and the communist-oriented workers commissions, called the strike
the unions said 92 percent of teachers backed their march 9-10 strike. the education ministry estimated teacher participation at 60 percent
negotiations broke off last month over public elementary and secondary school teachers' demands that they receive pay equal to that of similarly qualified civil servants
a union spokesman said primary school teachers earn an average of about $929 a month and want it raised to about $1,170, while secondary and technical school teachers want about $1,380 a month
education ministry undersecretary joaquin arango said teachers last year received the biggest raises _ 13 percent _ among civil servants. the rest of the civil servants received raises of 5 percent. spain's 1987 inflation rate was 4.6 percent
a seed company has developed a poppy with a reduced content of opium, a spokesman said wednesday
the white poppy is popular in denmark for its seed, traditionally used in bread. the plant's juice contains opium, which can be refined into morphine and heroin
we are doing this so that drug addicts will not feel tempted to pick or cut the poppies to get the drug, and so that farmers will continue to be allowed to grow poppies,'' said christian petersen of daehnfeldt, the biggest seed producer in europe
drug addicts have been known to plunder poppy fields in denmark. in other countries, including the united states, great britain and west germany, poppy cultivation has been banned
we ... have been able to reduce the opium content by half. in a couple of years, we expect to have more or less eliminated it completely,'' petersen said
a west virginia physician has filed consumer fraud complaints in all 50 states charging four major publishers with selling achievement tests that give a misleadingly rosy picture of student progress
the complaints were filed by john jacob cannell, who gained prominence last november as a test gadfly with a 26-page report accusing publishers of the iowa test, the metropolitan achievement test and similar tests of giving ``children, parents, school systems, legislatures, and the press misleading reports on achievement levels.''
the november report led officials of the u.s. department of education to summon 40 test experts and publishers to a closed-door meeting last month to discuss possible actions
cannell, who is from daniels, w.va., filed his complaints wednesday with the 50 state attorneys general, and distributed them to reporters. but he said he had not provided copies to the publishers named in the complaints
three of the four publishers said they had no comment because they hadn't seen the complaint. but a spokesman for ctb@mcgraw hill, publisher of the california achievement test and comprehensive test of basic skills, said cannell's work was ``full of fallacious statements.''
cannell's complaint claimed ``that 90 percent of school districts and 70 percent of children in america's public elementary schools are presently testing above average in elementary grades on one of the six commercial tests used in the u.s.a.''
thirty-eight of the complaints named ctb@mcgraw hill; 36 named the psychological corporation, which publishes the stanford achievement test and the metropolitan achievement test; 31 cited riverside publishing co., which publishes the iowa test of basic skills, and 26 listed science research associates, publisher of the sra exam
the complaints ask that publishers be required to identify school districts using their tests, provide free annual updates of the norms that determine how students score, and provide new test questions for free each year to ensure that schools cannot ``teach to the test.''
cannell, founder and head of the 700-member west virginia education watchdog group friends for education inc., also called upon each state to analyze standardized tests to determine if they have gotten easier over time
he also demanded that test publishers supply new, more accurate tests at no charge to ``compensate consumers for any misrepresentations received from previously deceptive tests.''
in september, cannell filed similar consumer complaints in his home state and in kentucky. he withdrew them last month after mcgraw hill announced it would provide annually updated norms
paul williams, director of research and management of ctb@mcgraw hill, said cannell condemned standardized tests generally for giving too rosy a picture of student progress, but ``he only looks at half the pie'' because cannell omits the fact that test scores for high school students have declined
responding to some of cannell's specific complaints, williams said publishers would probably resist demands to identify school districts using their tests. ``we have a responsibility to protect the confidentiality of our customers,'' he said
williams said his company already updates test norms annually, but he rejected cannell's demand that that service be provided free
he said it would be possible for testmakers to provide states with new questions each year, ``but it's also expensive. if our customers want it, we would respond.''
he added that the technical manuals that publishers routinely provide school districts using their tests already provide much of the information cannell demanded, such as how difficult the tests are
hopes for an end to the war in afghanistan have focused attention on talks in geneva this week, but more is at stake than the soviet union's military withdrawal from the 9-year-old conflict
the kremlin's apparent willingness to extract its estimated 115,000 troops may signal a broader policy change in the superpower's role in foreign revolutions
should an acceptable retreat be found from afghanistan and the conflict between pro- and anti-communist forces be left to the afghans, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev would heal one of his nation's most visible foreign policy sores. he also could improve relations with the united states, china, the indian subcontinent and the moslem world
perhaps most importantly, some observers suggest, the kremlin might be rethinking its role in promoting socialist revolution in nations such as nicaragua and angola, where soviet aid bolsters government forces against tenacious opposition
the afghan revolution is the only struggle in which the soviet union acknowledges its troops are fighting
since the kremlin announced last year that it had taken the ``political decision'' to withdraw its troops from afghanistan, the state-run media and officials have hinted that policies that led to the dec. 27, 1979, intervention are under close scrutiny
oleg t. bogomolov, a leading economist who heads the institute of economics of the world socialist system, said in a letter published wednesday that he warned the kremlin less than a month after the intervention that sending soviet soldiers to afghanistan damaged relations with the united states, china and moslem nations
while marxist doctrine forecasts the spread of socialist revolution worldwide, gorbachev has made it clear that his first priority is getting his own nation's economy on its feet
the government has indicated it will fulfill its contractual agreements, even in afghanistan
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov told reporters tuesday that military aid to afghanistan was not subject to negotiation in geneva because it was part of longstanding cooperation with kabul
however, some american sovietologists and veteran foreign policy experts see in the military withdrawal the possible emergence of a policy of improving relations with other nations and directing resources to domestic needs
i see them moving toward a different approach to regional conflict,'' former u.s. defense secretary robert mcnamara said in an interview. ``i get the distinct impression they are changing substantially their view of the projection of power, in part on the basis of their experience in afghanistan, as in the united states we were affected by our experience in vietnam.''
mcnamara, in moscow this week for a conference on soviet reforms, served as defense secretary in the 1960s during the height of the vietnam war under presidents john f. kennedy and lyndon b. johnson
if gorbachev's stated sentiment for focusing time and money on improving the soviet lifestyle is genuine, mcnamara suggested, he will find it expedient to reduce soviet involvement in struggles between pro- and anti-communist forces
he pointed to civil warfare in nicaragua and angola as examples where gorbachev may be willing to step out if the united states did
robert legvold, director of columbia university's harriman institute for advanced study of the soviet union, accompanied a u.s. senate delegation to a three-hour meeting with gorbachev last week
he said he is convinced gorbachev and his advisers have made a commitment to ``cut their losses'' in afghanistan and have already begun a serious analysis of how the mistake of intervening was made
there is a feeling it was a lousy decision in all contexts _ in u.s.-soviet relations, in relations with arab countries, in sino-soviet relations,'' legvold said
the key move in working toward an afghan peace accord was an end to soviet insistence that the postwar government retain its current socialist character, said legvold
stephen cohen, a princeton university professor and author of several books on the soviet union, said the war in afghanistan could teach the kremlin ``the constraints of power'' and that losing a conventional war in the nuclear age does not necessarily threaten their security
carol j. williams has reported on soviet foreign policy and other issues from moscow since 1984. she visited afghanistan in october 1986
parents say they would be willing to pay higher taxes to give their children more education in the arts, according to pollster louis harris
seventy percent of respondents said they would pay an extra $10 in taxes for that purpose, and 56 percent would pay an extra $25, harris said
the american people are nothing less than outraged at the cuts that have been made in the arts in the curricula of public schools,'' harris said tuesday
he said nine of 10 people polled said, ``it's highly important for children of school age to be exposed to theater, music and dance, exhibitions of paintings and sculpture and similar cultural events.''
fifty-eight of those polled believe their children are being deprived of that experience, harris said
two of three give the arts as important billing as math, science, english, languages and social studies,'' harris said. ``this is a powerful mandate _ one that's gone too long unheeded by the school establishment in this country.''
however, despite support for arts in the schools, people are going to performances less
harris said decreases of 12 percent in attendance and 3 percent in participation were the first declines sustained since 1973, when he began regularly sampling national attitudes about the arts
although 33 percent of those polled said lack of time was the reason they didn't go to more arts performances, 32 percent said not enough performances were offered where they live and 29 percent said ticket prices are too high
no doubt price is an important element,'' harris said, but he called time more important
until the current poll, the amount of time devoted to the arts had grown _ despite a decline in leisure time from a median of 26.2 hours a week in 1973 to 18.1 hours in 1984
in the poll, a telephone survey of 1,501 adults conducted for philip morris companies inc. in march and april 1987, leisure time slipped to 16.6 hours a week overall, with women, blacks and hispanics below the median. the survey group, harris said, represented a national cross-section
the survey showed that hispanics have 13 hours a week of leisure time, and blacks, although gaining nearly three hours a week since 1984, still have only 15
women, increasingly combining jobs and homemaking, report having 14 hours a week for leisure time, while men have 19 hours, harris said
when people have lost leisure time, they have turned to vcrs,'' said harris. he said that ``44 percent of owners of vcrs report that they are increasingly watching a movie or some other performance on videotape instead of watching regularly scheduled programs on television.''
people want to be able to pick and choose precisely what they'll be doing with their precious but limited leisure time,'' he said. ``if they have an hour and 10 minutes _ and people are measuring it that way _ they're highly likely to pick out a videocassette that appeals to them and make a date with themselves to enjoy it.''
the air force academy grounds will be opened to limited deer hunting this fall for the first time in 18 years because of a burgeoning deer population and dwindling forage
without the hunting season, some of the estimated 1,500 to 2,000 deer could starve to death
the oct. 15-nov. 13 season for antlerless deer will be limited to 80 hunters _ 40 from the public and 40 academy personnel, said tom seamans, regional state wildlife manager
only rifles may be used
many of the deer who roam the academy appear to have little fear of people, but while they have been shielded from hunters for nearly two decades, their lives have not been risk-free
mike babler, academy resources officer, said about 100 deer are killed by motorists each year on academy reservation roads and adjoining interstate 25. in 1986, there were 186 collisions between cars and deer on or near the academy, he said
a man convicted of buying lsd with $20,000 he received from a state fund for crime victims has been sentenced to four years in prison and fined $14,000, federal court officials said wednesday
james b. miller, 29, of south charleston, pleaded guilty in january to two counts of distributing the hallucinogenic drug, admitting he sold 3,300 ``hits'' of lsd to police agents in 1986
he appeared tuesday before u.s. district judge john t. copenhaver jr
compensation fund records show miller was awarded the maximum personal-injury payment of $20,000 in 1985 after he was shot in 1983. miller apparently had just arrived at a beach party when he was shot in the right arm by someone using a .30-caliber rifle, police records show
miller lost his arm and incurred about $38,000 in medical bills, according to state officials
state officials said the crime victims' fund now can pay claims directly to hospitals. fakes</head>
a paris art gallery filed federal lawsuits accusing a dealer of operating a $32.5 million nationwide forgery network specializing in the works of surrealist painter salvador dali
t.r. rogers, whose beverly hills gallery was raided in august when forgery allegations surfaced, was named with four others in the $145 million package of suits filed last week in los angeles and new york on behalf of galerie furstenberg of paris
also named were wholesalers philip coffaro, thomas wallace and carol convertine and art authenticator julien aime, all of new york
the new york suit accuses all five of running an ongoing criminal enterprise in violation of federal racketeering laws
rogers' attorney, david steiner, called the lawsuits ``preposterous,'' and arnold ross, a new york lawyer representing coffaro, said, ``there doesn't appear to be any basis to it at all.''
i'm sure there will be substantial cross-complaints filed against them for the outrageous claims they're making,'' steiner said
beverly hills detectives began an investigation into rogers' gallery last summer after jean argillet, owner of galerie furstenberg, told police the originals of some of the works in rogers' gallery represented as dalis were actually in his own gallery in france
the case has since been turned over to the major frauds section of the los angeles county district attorney's office
the international dali market has long been the subject of an authenticity controversy because the artist made numerous copies during his youth and now refuses to come out of seclusion in spain to authenticate disputed canvasses
ms. convertine pleaded guilty to felony fraud and grand larceny charges in new york last year
a grand jury is now contemplating criminal charges against a honolulu gallery. another criminal case was begun in new mexico, and the federal trade commission is taking civil action against a gallery in arizona
according to the galerie furstenberg lawsuits, the defendants reproduced photos of dali originals, and through photomechanical means engraved the images on copper plates and ran off multiple copies
a motorist used his car telephone to alert the california highway patrol that a truck driver was weaving back and forth on highway 99 and seemed to be drunk
so, officers stopped the truck driver tuesday night but found that he hadn't been drinking, patrolman jim taylor said
then, they checked the motorist who stopped behind the truck when the patrol pulled it over
it turned out that it was the tipster who was tipsy. the motorist failed a sobriety test and was arrested for investigation of drunken driving, taylor said
the truck was probably going straight, and he was the one weaving,'' taylor added
multiple births increased slightly in the united states from 1984 to 1985, according to insurance company figures issued wednesday
multiple births were up 6 percent during the period _ although they still accounted for only 2.1 percent of the 3.7 million recorded live births, according to the statistical bulletin, a quarterly publication produced by the metropolitan life insurance co
most of the multiple births were twins. however, fertility drugs have slightly increased the odds for triplets, the report said. in 1985, 2.5 percent of multiple births involved three or more babies _ up from 2.1 percent in 1983
when the allegan county sheriff's department submitted a $930 bill for 5,000 pencils bearing the sheriff's name, county officials drew the line
sheriff's department officials said the pencils were to be distributed to students to promote the department's new youth services bureau, and that's why the bill was submitted to the county finance committee as a school safety expense
it's a good thing it doesn't say re-elect (sheriff) robert schra ... but it came through to us as saying political pencils,'' county commissioner flora moore, co-chair of the finance committee, said tuesday. ``nine hundred dollars worth of advertising pencils is quite a lot for us to put our john henry on.''
schra said his name appears on most items distributed by the department, and he is confident the bill will be approved once an explanation is provided to the committee
moore said she might reconsider the funding if the message is changed
`observe the safety rules always' would be fine,'' she said
billionaire businessman h. ross perot says he just wants to make dallas a better place to live
that, he says, is why he has tried to help a police effort to abolish a civilian review board and get the city to hire more officers
i'm about to decide that the perception around here is that if you're not an elected official, i ought to just sit out in the office and make money,'' perot told dallas times herald editors tuesday. ``fine. create jobs, make money, that's your slot in life, perot. fine.''
the newspaper editors invited perot to lunch after he complained that the media had failed to communicate adequately his motives for championing the police efforts
i see these people working together without regard to races and sex. by god, they're an example for the rest of us,'' he said
opponents say the review panel, which has limited subpoena powers, is unnecessary. they contend police already are subject to grand jury scrutiny and internal affairs investigations. perot has joined opponents in efforts to repeal the measure through a charter amendment election
city council approved the review board following controversy over accusations police are trigger-happy with minority suspects and a congressional hearing
it bothers me a lot to have spent 20 years of my life and tens of millions of dollars trying to help the minorities in this state and get the kind of reaction i'm getting right now,'' perot said. ``i never expect anybody to thank me, and nobody ever did. but i sure ... didn't expect to get my teeth kicked in (and be called) a racist.''
judge joseph wapner works to protect justice on the ``people's court,'' but he also inadvertently saved two women from injury
trossa fowler, 73, and another woman, who was not identified, were taking their teacups to the kitchen in mrs. fowler's home monday when they stopped to hear the judge
we weren't really watching it,'' mrs. fowler said. ``but when we passed by, judge wapner said something interesting.''
good timing. it was then that a truck crashed into the kitchen, mrs. fowler said
mrs. fowler said her stove was bent, and the damages totaled $6,000
the 64-year-old driver suffered minor injuries and was arrested on a charge of driving while intoxicated
painter ralph fasanella wandered among the cavernous red-brick buildings more than a half-century after violence erupted between angry immigrant mill workers and police
he saw ghosts of the 1912 bread and roses strike everywhere
i didn't have to witness the strike to know the images,'' said fasanella
fasanella and his painting soon will return to lawrence, where workers battled mill owners and the national guard in a clash considered pivotal in the early labor struggle
the painting is going home,'' fasanella, 73, said tuesday from his ardsley, n.y., home, where the painting is now
the may 1 dedication of fasanella's ``lawrence 1912: the bread and roses strike,'' will culminate months of planning and fund-raising, said city hall spokesman james ball
half the $100,000 price of the painting was donated by the state; private donations and more than $10,000 from unions around the nation were raised, said ball
yasuhiro nakasone, former prime minister of japan, took a break in a speaking tour to share lunch with an old friend, a man who befriended his daughter 27 years ago
almost without trying, mort and agatha winski made nakasone and his wife, tsutako, comfortable tuesday. japanese labels are on appliances around their home. a small japanese koi pond caught nakasone's eye
omoshiroi'' _ interesting _ nakasone said
the couples ate at a nearby resort hotel, which recently was purchased by a japanese corporation
winski, 72, formerly of michigan city, ind., met 11-year-old mieko nakasone through a summer exchange program for students in 1961. four years later, the winskis volunteered to be hosts to mieko for a year while she attended a u.s. high school
the nakasones returned the favor, taking in the winskis' eldest daughter, susan
we just kept exchanging daughters,'' nakasone, 69, said. ``and i hope it continues.''
when the time comes, kaye lani rae rafko says, she'll be ready to ``hang up the heels and the tiara and head back to work.''
but meantime, miss america is promoting her profession, nursing
the 24-year-old former miss michigan, a registered nurse, plans to return to a toledo, ohio, hospital to work with terminally ill cancer and aids patients
the first months of miss rafko's reign, which began in september, were booked with appearances for the pageant's six sponsors, said pageant executive director leonard horn
now, she visits hospitals and hospices and has spoken to many nursing associations and medical groups. she has done a public service announcement for the nursing profession and appeared on the cover of a nursing trade journal
a main focus of today's american people is health, and fortunately i know a lot about that,'' she said tuesday while visting hospitals here
prince charles is ``bearing up well'' after watching his friend and skiing companion, maj. hugh lindsay, die in a swiss avalanche, his wife, princess diana, said wednesday
charles, 39-year-old heir to the british throne, escaped injury at the klosters ski resort a week ago
lindsay, a 34-year-old career army officer and former aide to queen elizabeth ii, was probably killed by a block of ice before being buried in the snow, an inquest heard tuesday
diana's first public appearance since the tragedy was at the holywell leisure center in north wales where where a member of the waiting crowd asked how charles was coping
he is bearing up well, thank you,'' she said
diana and her pregnant sister-in-law, the duchess of york, were in their chalet when the accident occurred. another member of the ski party, patti palmer-tomkinson, suffered two broken legs and a lung injury. board, pvs fire on sister ship</note>
an engine fire broke out today on the scandinavian star, leaving the cruise ship adrift for hours in the gulf of mexico with more than 700 people on board, authorities said
the fire is out and the ship is being towed by the mexican navy to cancun,'' said chief petty officer luis diaz of the u.s. coast guard in miami. the navy cutter vigilance was escorting the ship as a precaution, he said
no fire injuries were reported, but an unidentified 71-year-old male passenger suffered a heart attack. a helicopter was dispatched from homestead air force base south of miami to the man up
the scandinavian star was about 35 miles off isla mujeres, a mexican island north of the tourist resort cancun in the yucatan peninsula, the coast guard said
coast guard spokesmen said that even though the fire was under control, the engine room had been sealed off and carbon dioxide had been pumped in, and the ship was dead in the water
the cruise ship canada star and another vessel, the vera cruz i, were standing by to assist
the canada star's captain, jens thorn, said that the fire appeared to have been brought under control, and there was no reason to evacuate the ship
in the event that the fire breaks out again, and that passengers have to evacuate the vessel, we will be there to assist and take the passengers,'' thorn said
our report is that it's under control, they have engine compartment sealed and they've pumped co2 in there to smother the flames,'' said petty officer dan vogeley said
petty officer brian lincoln said the ship's captain had requested additional fire-fighting equipment, such as foam and co2
among the 449 passengers and 266 crew members were a group of 16 high school seniors from trenton, texas, who were accompanied by other family members
the seniors had raised money for their trip with chili suppers and car washes. the coast guard said nobody in the party was injured, according to schools superintendent eddie derr
the ship should arrive in cancun late wednesday or thursday, said diaz
jill dechello, a spokeswoman for miami-based seaescape ltd., the ship's owner, said the passengers would then be flown to st. petersburg
the ship was returning to st. petersburg after a three-day, four-night cruise to cozumel when the fire broke out, she said
dye and ms. dechello said officials weren't sure what sparked the fire, which began shortly after 1 a.m
it will take a week before we know the cause and the extent of the damage,'' said ms. dechello
a sister ship to the star, the scandanavian sun, caught fire in the port of miami in august 1984, leaving a woman passenger and a crew member dead
ms. dechello said there was no connection between the two incidents
the reagan administration has notified congress it plans to sell jet fighter planes to israel, pakistan and bahrain and to equip egypt's six soviet-built submarines with u.s. torpedoes and radar
egypt also would purchase an unspecified number of m-60 tanks, while pakistan would buy p-3 orion aircraft to hunt submarines, as well as either awacs or hawkeye radar planes
the classified report covering projected arms sales for 1988 was sent feb. 25 to the senate foreign relations committee and the house foreign affairs committee. it was made available wednesday to the associated press
some items may be deleted and others added. after congress is notified officially of a projected sale it has 30 days to block it by majority votes of both the house and senate
the 75 f-16 jet fighters ticketed for israel are intended to compensate for the lavi, the warplane israel was building with u.s. financial support. under u.s. pressure, the project was canceled last august after $1.3 billion had been spent on it
pakistan, another close u.s. ally, would purchase an unspecified number of f-16s, and bahrain, a small oil state in the persian gulf, would obtain four of the jet fighters, plus helicopters
saudi arabia is due to get equipment for its u.s.-built awacs radar planes and also $500 million worth of bradley armored personnel carriers. about 400 bradleys could be purchased with $500 million
egypt, which has the largest fleet of submarines in the arab world, will be able to modernize the six supplied by the soviet union. two others were sold to egypt by china
the reagan administration also informed the congressional committees it would build a $2 billion factory in egypt to provide m-1 tanks for the egyptian armed forces and separately sell egypt $60 million worth of m-60 tanks and hawkeye radar planes
stingers, the shoulder-fired missile that afghan guerrillas have used effectively against soviet airplanes and helicopters, would be sold to several countries, including austria, denmark, france, greece, japan, south korea and pakistan
no u.s. weapons sales are planned for jordan, which the administration is trying to persuade to negotiate peace terms with israel. congress has banned new arms for the arab kingdom until it agrees to work out a middle east settlement
u.s. customs agents seized the passport of a man they accused of smuggling 10 to 12 pounds of cocaine just hours after a new get-tough policy went into effect, agency spokesmen said
a lot of people come in with contraband and go right back out of the country without going to court. it's become a joke,'' vann capps, director of operations for the customs service at miami international airport, said of the passport seizure policy
this is another tool we can use that is vital to our defense against drugs,'' he said
the new rule will apply to anyone attempting to bring illegal drugs into the country, regardless of how small the amount, capps said. customs officers routinely make six to 10 drug seizures daily at the miami airport; the new program could result in the confiscation of hundreds of passports weekly, he said
some legal experts have criticized the new policy. they question the constitutionality of restricting a person's freedom to travel before the person has been convicted of a crime
on tuesday morning, dwight aristotle borelli, 21, of miami, brought home two suitcases with false sides on a flight that originated in la paz, bolivia, and stopped in panama city, panama, said customs spokesman michael sheehan
within the false sides of the suitcases, inspectors found approximately 10 to 12 pounds of cocaine,'' sheehan said
borelli's u.s. passport was seized and he was arrested about 5 a.m., five hours after the policy took effect, sheehan said. borelli, charged with unlawful importation of cocaine and possession of a controlled substance, was turned over to the vice president's drug task force, which prosecutes federal cases
customs inspectors turned borelli's passport over to federal prosecutors, who can use it as evidence, sheehan said. once the case is resolved, borelli will have to apply to the state department to get the passport back
citibank said it will abandon a policy that denied credit cards to some liberal arts majors after students at the university of california-berkeley demanded the bank's representatives be barred from campus
bill mcguire, a spokesman for citibank in new york, said on wednesday the bank was retreating from the policy and that it would be discontinued by the end of june. he admitted the company had received complaints from several universities around the country, but he would not name them
although mcguire said in a telephone interview ``using the major was a good indicator of future earning potential and of students' ability to pay debt,'' he would not describe how the policy was applied
mcguire said other factors would be used to judge students' credit worthiness, but he would not specify what they are
a spokesman for the united states comptroller of the currency in kansas city, mo., said tuesday that the equal credit opportunity act does not prohibit using a student's academic major in a credit application system
spokeswoman for american express and the bank of america said they were surprised by the citibank policy, since their organizations had found that students were good credit risks
american express and bank of america, along with citibank the largest credit card issuers, said they do not use academic majors as part of their credit scoring system for students
the uc students complained they were denied credit cards because of their studies in such areas as english, rhetoric, art history and italian. they said the bank's representatives would be barred from campus unless there was a change in the policy
this was obvious, senseless discrimination, that in effect said students in business or engineering majors are the ones who will be making all the money and that only they could be trusted,'' said molly sorkin, 22
sorkin, a major in art history major last fall at uc-berkeley, said citibank rejected her application for a visa card last fall because of her ``field of study.''
what i study says nothing about my responsibility or whether or not i can pay my bills,'' said sorkin, who graduated in december and now works in retail sales
it seems like they're trying to promote engineering and business majors. we cannot condone such discrimination in our society,'' said kennedy yip, turned down by citibank on feb. 13 because of his rhetoric major
yip, 22, received a visa last year while attending a different college as a mathematics major
the citibank policy, apparently part of a credit scoring system, was uncovered last week when a reporter for the independent campus newspaper, the daily californian, asked a campus bank-card canvasser how to apply. citibank representatives set up tables around the student union to accept credit applications
the canvasser, reporter irene chang said, advised her to fill in the credit application by listing business administration or electrical engineering as her major, instead of english
michele lee, a senator in uc-berkeley's student government, said she was investigating complaints against citibank as well as against a local department store that reportedly also has denied credit to students because of their majors. she didn't identify the store chain
the acting director and chief curator of the dallas museum of art has resigned to take a position in san francisco, museum officials said
steven nash, 43, will become associate director-chief curator and curator of european art at the fine arts museums of san francisco
he will join his former boss, harry parker iii, who resigned as dma director last april to become director of the san francisco institution, which includes the m.h. de young memorial museum and the california palace of the legion of honor
since coming to dallas in 1980 as the dma's deputy director and chief curator, nash has been responsible for major exhibitions and acquisitions to the museum's permanent collection. most recently, nash was responsible for the museum's acquisition of its first paintings by picasso
his resignation is effective aug. 1
two newspapers have published accounts of homelessness in the capital, saying vagrants are living in underground passages, garbage dumps and staircases
the reports, in the national democratic party daily kurier polski and in the warsaw evening daily express wieczorny, offered an unusually vivid discussion of the topic of homelessness, which officially does not exist in poland's communist system
the articles, published monday, also reflect the current liveliness of the official press in poland, in which censorship of news on domestic topics has been markedly relaxed
statistics don't say how many homeless people there are in poland. but from unofficial sources we know there are about 15,000 of them in warsaw alone,'' said express wieczorny. warsaw's population is 1.5 million
the kurier polski article talked about a colony of 20-50 homeless people recently discovered living in underground passages for the city's central water heating system
until not long ago nobody knew that the dark, unending corridors ... were pulsating with life. along with all kinds of worms, the capital's tramps are living there,'' the paper said
asked about the reports at his weekly news conference tuesday, government spokesman jerzy urban said he had not seen the articles, but, ``i stand by my statement that there is no such social problem as homelessness in poland.''
although there is a severe housing shortage in poland, there is no evident homelessness in the streets. beggars are rarely seen and vagrancy is a crime
according to the articles, the homeless include alcoholics, ex-convicts, mentally ill people and people who are estranged from their relatives
most of them resigned from normal family life by their own will. one day they simply left their homes and went away,'' said the kurier polski article
they live in railway stations, in staircases, in garbage dumps and even in (underground) canals,'' said the express wieczorny article. ``they are dirty, often have head louses and are exhausted because of malnutrition.'' it said their number is growing
the paper said a church social organization, the adam chmielowski aid society, is active in warsaw and five other cities helping to arrange shelter and jobs for the homeless. the society gets support from the roman catholic church and the ministry of health and social care, it said
kurier polski, the official paper of the polish democratic party, which is allied with the ruling polish united workers (communist) party, said the homeless people redeem bottles or rummage through trash and sell salvageable clothing at the city's markets
every earned zloty goes for the purchase of vodka,'' it said
it said the colony living in the underground corridors near the zeran heat and power plant was discovered two weeks ago when one of the inhabitants died from alcohol poisoning
after a few days, some of the vagrants reported the death to nuns, who summoned police, the newspaper said
the superpowers use sweden as a center for espionage, and the kgb has nearly 100 agents here, while the cia has 10 or 11, according to a book published this week
sweden's proximity to poland and the (soviet) baltic states makes stockholm a natural junction for the cia's network of agents on the other side of the baltic sea,'' said the book, ``espionage in sweden,''
it also said that three out of five soviet diplomats in stockholm are spies, ``a proportion usually reserved for soviet embassies in cities like washington, mexico city and brussels.''
the book, sponsored by the current affairs magazine tempus, brought up to date a series of articles that ran in the respected magazine in 1984. it often quoted local and foreign newspapers and books in addition to its own sources
a spokesman for sweden's security police said only the director was authorized to comment on the book and that he was unavailable. defense ministry spokesman thomas guer said the book, which was mailed to news agencies, had not reached the ministry and he also could not comment
the kgb personnel working in denmark and norway ... regularly meet their superiors in stockholm ... highly placed intelligence officers from both moscow and east berlin are often seen in stockholm,'' the book said
when boris pankin, known as a soviet literary critic and editor, was proposed as ambassador in 1982, the swedish security police cleared him as a ``harmless intellectual.'' the swedes later learned he was a kgb disinformation specialist, it said
in 1973, pankin was named president of the copyright organization that handled sales of soviet music and books abroad and of foreign works to the soviet union. the book claimed the office was a front for a kgb section responsible for disinformation and soviet propaganda abroad
pankin, as head of special services a, must be one of the top 30 commanders within the kgb in moscow, probably with the rank of a major general,'' the book said
it said kgb agents here were engaged in political espionage, counterespionage against east bloc refugees, industrial and scientific intelligence, and planning sabotage operations in case of war
it is impossible to prevent kgb men from coming here. if that were the case, there would not be many people left at the soviet embassy,'' the book quoted one veteran officer of sweden's security police as saying
besides, it can be safer to know that the kgb personnel is at the embassy. then you know where you have them,'' the unidentified officer said
sweden commands a view of the baltic sea that is strategic for both sides. the narrow straits between sweden and denmark, a nato country, are the only passage for the soviet baltic fleet to the north sea and the atlantic
the book said agents from warsaw pact countries monitor nato activity in that area, while the cia collects intelligence on east bloc shipping
from stockholm, the cia is trying to track czech and other east european arms shipments to nicaragua, southern africa and cuba,'' the book said
sweden's large community of refugees also has attracted agents from countries like iran, iraq, yugoslavia, chile, and libya to watch exiled dissidents and opposition groups, it said
iraq had made sweden ``something of a european center of the iraqi security apparatus'' and had the third largest intelligence operation here, it said
how fares the shamrock this st. patrick's day?
just fine, says botanist charles nelson, whose desk is cluttered with samples from all over the country
the sprigs of green have been arriving in response to an appeal by nelson, who is conducting the first survey of the state of ireland's national plant in nearly a century
his timing is perfect, since thursday is st. patrick's day, when irish minds turn to the ``chosen leaf of bard and chief, old erin's native shamrock'' and men, women and children adorn their lapels with a sprig picked from garden, roadside or local supermarket
but the shamrock's life is as fleeting as a ray of sunshine in the irish rain, and by the end of thursday's st. patrick's day parade through dublin the streets will be littered with wilted shamrock
myths galore surround the three-leafed weed
st. patrick is supposed to have used the three leaves to explain the holy trinity to a gaelic chieftain. in the 18th century the irish establishment accepted it as a national symbol, like the welsh leek, scottish thistle and english rose
it was later adopted as a symbol of defiance in the fight for ireland's independence from britain
viva la, the rose shall fade, and the shamrock shine for ever new!'' sang thomas davis, the 19th-century rebel bard
today the shamrock emblem adorns everything from the national airline to bags of peat moss fertilizer
but what exactly is the shamrock?
in 1893, dublin legal clerk nathaniel colgan set out to catalogue all the species, and concluded there were four main kinds
nelson concludes the shamrock is merely a humble clover too often dressed up in ``colorful legend and sentimental nonsense.'' the word shamrock derives from seamrog, irish for ``little clover,'' he said
nelson held up two plastic bags of shamrock. one, sent to him from county down in northern ireland, had large-leafed shamrocks. the other, from county wicklow in the south, had much smaller, darker leaves
this one is shamrock because the person who collected it believed it to be shamrock, and i accept that. and the same goes for the other one too,'' he said in an interview
it's a matter of a rose by any other name smelling just as sweet. a shamrock is what a person believes is shamrock,'' he said, adding:
botanically the plants used as shamrock are in fact clover. but if you tell an irishman that he's wearing clover, not shamrock, he will feel insulted.''
tom coleman, who markets shamrock souvenirs, has his own definition: ``you know it when you see it.''
coleman's factory 100 miles south of dublin, turns out 300,000 souvenirs a year, from key rings to ornamental plates, all decorated with real shamrock preserved by a secret formula
we have a shamrock here that's 17 years old and still green,'' he said
nelson said there was no basis for the story about st. patrick and the shamrock, saying that only in 1650, more than 1,000 years after the patron saint of ireland lived, was the shamrock first recorded as being something more than an weed
in an off-the-cuff comment wednesday that he immediately regretted, president reagan said that he sometimes has not told congress all that it wants to know
the incident occurred when reporters asked reagan about his contention that he knew of no laws being broken in the iran-contra affair. if that were so, he was asked, why did robert mcfarlane, his former national security adviser, plead guilty last week to four misdemeanor counts of withholding information from congress?
he just pleaded guilty to not telling congress everything it wanted to know. i've done that myself,'' reagan said
when reporters pursued his comment, reagan quickly said, ``now don't distort that. no. i just mean ... i just think congress would like to be asking questions about almost anything, anytime.''
trying to cut off the conversation, reagan said, ``this is in the courts. let's wait and determine whether they say the law has been broken.''
as reporters were escorted from the room, reagan turned to his guest, israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, and said in a whisper:
oh boy. just for that careless remark ... they'll go wild about reagan wants to lie to congress or something.''
the remark was picked up by a microphone
states may be able to avoid paying federal taxes on college tuition prepayment plans simply by rewriting laws governing such programs, a tax law expert said wednesday
if you can drag it kicking and screaming into the normal function of a state governent,'' then a legal case could be made that earnings on a guaranteed college tuition trust's investments should be free of federal taxes, said lawrence a. jegen, an indiana university law professor who also heads indiana's tuition-guarantee program, best
the internal revenue service has ruled that the michigan education trust would be required to pay federal taxes on its earnings, although individual investors in the trust would have no additional tax liability, michigan gov. james blanchard said tuesday
five states, including indiana, have adopted tuition-guarantee programs modeled after michigan's
under the programs, parents who make advance payments into the trust fund are guaranteed that when their child is ready to enter a state college or university they can do so without additional cost. the payments typically can be made either all at once or periodically
the states invest the money, so the amount parents must pay depends upon not only the child's age when the payment is made and the estimated cost of tuition when the child reaches 18 but also on estimates of the trust's return on its investment
michigan treasurer robert bowman estimated the irs ruling could add 20 percent to the cost of investing in the michigan trust, if the trust was fully invested in taxable bonds
jegen said that because the irs said parents would not have to pay taxes on their investments, state legislatures would have an opening for rewriting their laws
if they (irs) have concluded that the investors are not subject to taxation, they have to have done that on some basis, that once you put your money away, the funds are no longer yours, that you are not an annual beneficiary of that fund,'' jegen said. ``once you separate the investors from the tax consequences and maybe conclude that the fund is subject to taxation, ... it would be a fairly small step to have that fund be a part of the state operations, so much so that it would not be subject to taxation.''
constitutionally, the federal government cannot tax the state in the performance of the functions a state is expected to perform, jegen said
the further away you get from a governmental function, the more likely it is to be taxable,'' he said
for example, a license plate for a car is not subject to federal taxes because providing license plates is a normal state function, he said. proceeds from the sales of textbooks at a campus bookstore are taxable, because a state is not expected to be in the business of selling books
jegen said he had not seen the ruling, and his final analysis would depend in part on the irs' precise argument
the irs, citing privacy considerations, would not explain the ruling, nor would it confirm a ruling had been made
besides indiana, wyoming, maine, florida and tennessee have adopted guaranteed tuition programs similar to michigan's. confirmation, no know threats; picks up 8th graf pvs, ``thompson became xxx; subs last graf with 7 grafs, friend's comment and more background; version moved on sports wire</note>
auto speed king mickey thompson and his wife were shot to death this morning in the driveway of their exclusive hillside home in what authorities said was ``an assassination'' by two gunmen who fled on bicycles
thompson, 59, and his wife, trudy, were found dead at dawn by los angeles county sheriff's deputies responding to reports of gunfire, said deputy doug gatlin
it was a double homicide, an assassination,'' said deputy richard dinsmoor
neighbors said they heard 6 or 8 shots before the bodies were found about 6 a.m. on the driveway in front of the couple's spanish-style home on woodlyn road in a high-security, gated community 20 miles northeast of downtown los angeles
they were shot to death, but the type of weapon wasn't disclosed, dinsmoor said. the thompsons were walking out to their van when they were ambushed
we don't know a motive,'' said deputy dan cox
doug stokes, spokesman for thompson entertainment group in anaheim, said the thompson's were apparently leaving the house for work when the shooting occurred. he said he didn't know of any threats against the thompsons
thompson became famous as the ``speed king'' in the 1950s when he set the first of his nearly 500 auto speed and endurance records
in 1960 he became the first to travel over 400 mph on land when he drove a four-engine streamlined car to a speed of 406.6 mph at the bonneville salt flats in utah
he later turned to drag racing, indianapolis car racing, won a national economy championship and was a top competitor in road racing and off-road championships in the united states and mexico
he was a drag racing innovator, building and driving the sport's first ``slingshot'' dragster. he worked in the 1950s to take the sport off the streets onto sanctioned drag racing strips, and he was honored by the california senate for his contributions to the youth of the state as well as the automotive industry
he was also well known as a promoter and his other sports activities included stunt flying and management of prizefighters
in pursuit of his land speed and indy-car projects, thompson often teamed with one of the auto industry's leading figures, semon ``bunkie'' knudsen
knudsen was a top executive with general motors corp. when he backed the thompson effort to break 400 mph. later, when knudsen moved from gm to become president of ford motor co., thompson got company help with his own design of a ford-powered dune buggy racer
as a racer, thompson often failed to finish events because of mechanical breakdowns. he failed to finish in the first 27 powerboat races that he entered. he brought custom machines to indianapolis racing in the early 1960s, but again the cars he designed were fast but not durable
longtime friend carroll shelby described him as ``one of the greatest hot-rodders we've ever had'' and ``the dominant figure in off-road racing.''
he certainly had a colorful career,'' shelby said. ``we're all going to miss him.''
when he was 12, thompson ended his first race at lakeland park in nearby el monte by crashing his four-cylinder ford model b hot rod against a wall during the first lap
he wasn't hurt because he was wearing a football helmet and was strapped inside with clothesline rope since he couldn't afford a real crash helmet or seat belts
racing put him in the hospital 27 times, including a seven-month stay when he was paralyzed from the waist down after a boat racing accident. it was two years before he walked again
thompson had a variety of other careers. he swept floors at the los angeles times and later wrote sports articles there (``just to see if i could.''), sold 10-cent hamburgers at a drive-in, produced and directed racing movies, owned 29 different businesses (``every one of them has made money'') and was mayor of rolling hills
danny thompson, the couple's 37-year-old son who is also an off-road racer, wasn't immediately available for comment, said his publicist carolyn williams
a bill to protect families from the financial threat of catastrophic illness is being threatened by a competing push for new subsidies for home health care, the chairman of the house ways and means committee said wednesday
rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., told reporters he believes the house and senate, which passed different version of the catastrophic health care bill, can agree on a version president reagan could sign
a senate plan to phase in prescription drug benefits, as opposed to a house provision putting them in place immediately, could keep down costs, rostenkowski said. that would make the bill more acceptable to the president, who first proposed the catastrophic coverage in his state of the union address last year, he said
the catastrophic bill was being threatened, however, by rep. claude pepper's push for legislation to expand medicare to include home health care subsidies for the disabled and chronically ill, he said
pepper, d-fla., chairman of the house rules committee and at 87 the oldest member of congress, got the chamber's leadership to schedule a vote on his five-year, $25 billion plan although it had not gone through the normal committee channels. rostenkowski's tax-writing committee did not examine the proposal, which would be financed by raising medicare taxes
rostenkowski said some health advocates were telling lawmakers to support the home care bill instead of the less-costly catastrophic insurance measure on the ground it is a more pressing need
he said there is a lot of political allure to having the government help people with those home health costs, especially in an election year
i don't know whether any candidate, looking toward november, can say no to that,'' rostenkowski said
he said supporters were trying to push the bill through without the study needed to make it work
i doubt very much that i will support ... the pepper bill,'' rostenkowski said. ``you're raising big bucks, and you're changing the whole direction of the health care system.''
there was no reason congress could not eventually move forward on both measures, but trying to do both this year would likely result in neither getting done, rostenkowski said
i'm trying to get one bill passed, and that's catastrophic health,'' he said. practice</head>
sen. william proxmire gave his ``golden fleece'' award wednesday to two government agencies for a $107,000 study that found the sexual performance of japanese quail improved with practice
this project gives new meaning to bird watching,'' proxmire said of the study, ``learning and reproductive behavior.'' the research concluded that a peeping tom quail was much more interested in watching a female quail _ dead or alive _ than in looking at another male or even a female duck
proxmire, a wisconsin democrat, presents the ``fleece'' each month to recognize what he considers a waste of taxpayer money
proxmire said that since songwriter cole porter made clear years ago that ``birds do it ...'' what need is there for research into ``stimuli and responses ... involved in various components of their sexual behavior?''
there's plenty of need, said jack renirie, a spokesman for the national science foundation, which is sharing funds for the study with the national institute of mental health
this was a study of learning _ not of the quail,'' renirie said in a telephone interview. ``the quail was chosen because it is an easily available laboratory animal that readily engages in the behavior that he (the researcher) wants to study
one reason he's studying learning in connection with reproduction is that reproduction happens to be one of the real strong motivating factors in animals,'' he said
renirie recalled similar criticism several years ago when another government agency was researching the sex life of the screwworm fly. that research, he said, enabled scientists to halt destruction of herds of cattle by the fly
according to a summary by the foundation, the quail research could even provide answers to the spread of aids
the ``research will ... tell us about an aspect of sexual behavior that has received little systematic attention to date,'' the foundation said. ``given the life-threatening nature of certain forms of sexual behavior with the spread of aids, knowledge of how sexual habits are acquired is very important.''
the foundation selected japanese quail for the study because of its uninhibited mating habits. ``when a sexually mature male is placed with a female, copulation occurs rapidly, often in less than five minutes,'' the foundation said
researchers were interested in three ``sexual learning phenomena: sexual looking, classical conditioning of sexual arousal and improvement in copulatory performance with practice.''
proxmire said the study ``found that practice improved sexual performance. even the most inhibited males `eventually acquired as vigorous performance as all other subjects.'''
it also found that the male quail spent a considerable amount of time staring at the female through a small window in a cage
the `sexual looking' phenomenon was so strong that these amorous males didn't seem to care whether or not the female recipient of their longing glances was alive or dead,'' proxmire told colleagues. ``however, these male quail showed a distinct viewing preference for female quail over male quail or female ducks.''
although the research ``may be well designed and carefully executed, the question remains whether, with massive federal deficits and limited funds for scientific research, spending for this project is the best use of taxpayers' monies,'' proxmire said
the national science foundation funded the early parts of the quail research, through march 1987; the national institute of mental health has been backing the study since. proxmire said another $100,000-plus is expected to be spent by nimh _ for a total of more than $200,000 _ over the next two years
a 94-year-old man's offer of $10,000 to anyone who can end his 65 years of hiccuping has drawn some exotic nostrums _ dill seed, magnesium phosphate, holy water, indian hemp, among them _ but the man hiccups on
unbelievable,'' lucretia peterson of rural aitkin said as she sifted through some of the more than 5,000 letters, cassettes, and parcels that have poured into her home from europe and north america since her father, charlie osborne, offered the reward in january
people really care. even though the $10,000 is a big deal to some of them, a lot say keep the money and spend it in good health. it's unbelievable for that many people to write in this day and age,'' she said
suggested remedies have ranged from homespun concoctions involving sugar and vinegar to scientific nerve-treatment regimens complete with detailed diagrams. others endorse the healing powers of the mind
a santa monica, calif., massage therapist explained how she cured a 75-year-old woman of a life-long burping problem and offered to work similar magic on osborne
a man from italy sent a brown dust, explaining it is ``vegetable powder'' that will cure hiccups if inserted in the nostrils. a german suggests pressing the right thumb against the little finger, while a canadian swears that finger pressure applied to the bottom of the nose just right will expel the demon
many of the would-be healers have the utmost confidence in their cures
one writer from germany advised osborne that a money order was the preferred means of payment, while a minnesota man pleaded: ``please don't tell anyone who cured you. i don't want to go on tv and i don't want the irs taking a big cut of a gift between friends.''
osborne, who recently returned to his longtime home of anthon, iowa, after spending six months in aitkin, 100 miles northwest of minneapolis, has seen only a few hundred of the letters, and his family won't permit him to try the various elixirs
the messages that have been forwarded to osborne have lifted his spirits, though not his hopes for a cure, said another daughter, melissa smith, who lives in anthon and takes care of him. osborne suffers from a gall bladder condition and other ailments, ms. peterson has said
the letter that meant the most to him, said mrs. smith, came from a 17-year-old boy who describes his recent conversion to christianity and suggests faith might be osborne's best hope for relief
he thought it was just a real touching letter,'' mrs. smith said
the outpouring began after osborne told ken hanson, a reporter for the brainerd daily dispatch, that he would pay a $10,000 reward for a cure. an associated press report on the offer appeared in newspapers throughout europe and north america
osborne, who has yet to get a phone connected in his new home, could not be reached for comment
the international interest ``is exciting to him,'' mrs. smith said. ``he doesn't know what to think of it sometimes. he gets all this stuff in the mail, but i won't let him have any (of the potions) because you never know.''
a cure would still be most welcome, his family said. a case that has stumped scores of doctors, osborne's hiccups are constant, painful and disruptive. they make eating solid food impossible and cause frequent vomiting, his family said
osborne himself theorizes that his malady is the result of nerve damage suffered 66 years ago when he over-exerted himself lifting a hog on his farm. he said he has hiccuped ever since
the guinness book of world records estimates he has hiccuped 430,000,000 times, calling it the longest-ever recorded attack of the hiccups
after all the years of failed advice from doctors, quacks, philanthropists and opportunists, osborne is pretty much resigned to hiccuping the rest of his life, said ms. peterson
he's tried so many thousands of things,'' she said
editors: letters to charlie osborne should be sent in care of milo peterson, rural rte. 1, aitkin, minn. 56431
the government announced federal grand jury indictments today against seven people, including current and former cook county judges, bringing to 87 the number of people charged in the operation greylord corruption probe
the newest charges in the probe of the nation's largest local court system target judge john j. mcdonnell, 52, and retired judge francis j. maher sr., 73
they are accused of accepting cash bribes from lawyers to fix misdemeanor cases, according to u.s. attorney anton valukas
others indicted include a cook county deputy sheriff, a court clerk, a police officer and two attorneys, valukas said at a morning news conference
they were charged with a variety of crimes ranging from extortion, lying to a grand jury and income tax fraud
the new accusations bring to 15 the number of judges charged since the greylord investigation began producing indictments in december 1983, valukas said. twelve judges have been convicted and one was acquitted, he said
valukas said the investigation would continue
mcdonnell was charged with racketeering, extortion, obstruction of justice and tax evasion. he faces a maximum sentence of 74 years in prison and a $255,000 fine if convicted, valukas said
maher was charged with racketeering and racketeering conspiracy and faces a maximum penalty of 40 years in prison and a $50,000 fine if convicted, valukas said. attempt, details from demonstrations, u.s. military restricting movement of servicemen. no pickup</note>
thousands of demonstrators poured into the streets of the capital today after rebellious soldiers failed to seize the headquarters of the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
it was the largest outpouring of opposition to the military-dominated government since civilian opponents began trying to force noriega's departure as head of the panama defense forces last summer
protesters erected flaming barricades across hundreds of streets throughout panama city. in the capital's financial and tourist district, as well as the poorer sections of the downtown business center, people chanted: ``noriega must go. ... noreiga, tyrant, your end is near.''
starting at about 8:15 a.m., nearby residents heard the sharp clatter of light arms fire inside the walled headquarters of the panama defense forces. it continued for at least half an hour
they were kisses,'' noreiga said in response to reporters' questions about the gunshots about an hour after the firing ended
noriega appeared at the top of a stairway on one side of the headquarters building dressed in civilian clothes and accompanied by members of his high command. to reporters' shouted questions, the general responded: ``what happened is that you are visiting us here.''
boris moreno, a civilian spokesman for the government, said a small group of lower-ranking officers had attempted a coup and that several were detained
a revolt in the military would be a serious blow to noriega, who heads the nation's 15,000-member defense forces and is considered to be the real power behind panama's civilian government
washington has been exerting pressure to drive him from power. president reagan said tuesday the united states wants him ``out of there.'' the economy has been crippled by u.s. sanctions
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater declined comment on the trouble in panama. ``i don't have any information to confirm the report. we are aware there is turmoil in the city.''
in washington, the pentagon announced the u.s. southern command had ordered u.s. servicemen and their dependents ``not to go into public areas except for essential business.''
officials of the panama canal commission in washington confirmed that a coup was attempted and said roads leading to the canal had been blocked. the defense forces had closed off the entrance to a u.s. air base near the canal administrative headquarters in balboa, on the pacific side, they said
the canal area is pretty well isolated,'' william r. gianelli, chairman of the commission's board of directors, told the house transportation appropriations subcommittee. ``but it is hard to tell from here exactly what that means.''
dennis p. mcauliffe, administrator of the commission, said he ``would not regard (the blockade) as a hostile act at this moment.''
earlier, two associated press reporters and a photographer were stopped by soldiers as they approached the headquarters, forced from their car and marched into the compound at gunpoint
as they were being held inside, they saw at least one officer with his hands behind his head being taken into a barracks behind the headquarters building. but a captain told them the apparent prisoner was simply taking part ``in a simulated exercise.''
the captain, who declined to identify himself and wore no name tag, said units at the headquarters periodically conduct training exercises aimed at halting coup attempts
everything is normal,'' he said
hundreds of soldiers in battle gear surrounded the headquarters, in one of the older sections of panama city. residents were kept at least a block away from the compound
reports said the coup attempt was led by the 3rd infantry company of the 5th battallon from chiriqui province, bordering panama's frontier with costa rican. the light infantry company is known as the ``diablos rojos,'' or red devils
in venezuela, panamanian roberto diaz herrera said today noreiga was ``very angry'' following the reported coup attempt, but was still in control of the situation. diaz herrera, a former colonel who has been in exile since december, said he spoke with noriega by telephone at about 10 a.m
he sounded either drunk or drugged and he was very angry,'' diaz herrera told the associated press shortly after the conversation. ``it seems (noriega's supporters) still have control of the situation.''
diaz was second in command to noriega before accusing the general of having ordered political assassinations and being involved in drug trafficking
noriega was indicted by two federal grand juries in florida last month on narcotics trafficking charges that link him with the notorious medellin drug cartel of colombia. he has denied the accusations
on feb. 25, president eric arturo delvalle announced he was dismissing noriega as defense chief and replacing him with col. marcos justines, chief of staff. justines refused the job
the noriega-dominate national assembly quickly ousted delvalle and named education minister manuel solis palma the new head of state
widespread protests and general strikes followed. no comment from thiokol</note>
morton thiokol inc. has been fined $31,700 for six violations of state health and safety rules following an investigation of a fire that destroyed an mx missile production building and killed five workers, officials said today
utah state office of safety and health said it found three violations it characterized as willful and serious for deviations from uosh rules. two other alleged violations were classified as serious and one was classified as ``other than serious.''
the state agency, which released its findings today, said the cause of the dec. 29 fire was not determined by its investigators
deference is given to the air force investigation as to the most likely causes of the fire,'' wrote douglas j. mcvey, uosh administrator
morton thiokol has 30 calendar days in which to appeal the citations and civil assessments to the independent utah occupational safety and health review commission
morton thiokol planned to respond to the state charges thursday, company spokesman rocky raab said
authorities believe the fire in building m-592 at the company's plant 25 miles west of brigham city broke out as workers were removing casting forms from the first stage of an mx missile motor
morton thiokol makes the mx missile's four stages, and also makes the space shuttle's solid-fuel rocket boosters, which failed when the challenger blew up in january 1986
the three alleged willful and serious violations, each carrying a $10,000 penalty, related to omissions in following company safety procedures adopted in conformance with state rules
deviations did not have written management approval; appropriate personnel protection was not provided, nor was remote control used, and equipment was not used to assure ground continuity,'' mcvey wrote
the two serious violations, carrying $1,700 in penalties between them, related to a lack of safety requirements in management's written operating rules and practices
mcvey pointed out that the uosh rules governing employee safety in explosive materials manufacturing ``requires strict employer accountability as to compliance.''
he said morton thiokol officials had fully participated in development and adoption of the rules in 1982. he added they are unique to utah and have no federal equivalent
the last alleged violation, characterized as ``other than serious,'' related to the presence of an unauthorized crowbar in a restricted area. to update with testimony by state police official; picks up 25th graf, `the house impeached...'</note>
gov. evan mecham's former appointments secretary testified at his impeachment trial today that campaign contributions were a criterion, but not a major one, in making appointments to state boards and commissions
sam udall also testified that he did not immediately realize that two proposed appointees to the housing finance review board were recommended by barry wolfson, who provided a $350,000 campaign loan to mecham. one of the three impeachment counts accuses the governor of concealing the loan
the state senate also voted today to lengthen daily sessions in an effort to speed it up
the trial began feb. 29, and senators have complained that the trial is moving too slowly and there might not be time to reach a verdict before mecham's may 17 recall election
they voted 21-6 to add two hours of testimony a day, subject to change if the new eight-hour schedule proves too heavy
the first-term republican governor was likely to testify this afternoon as the last defense witness on the first impeachment count, said his attorney, fred craft
on tuesday, a woman who claims to be the former lover of arizona's top police officer testified that he is a liar who had ambitions to be governor
christina johnston testified tuesday that her relationship with department of public safety director ralph milstead was ``intimate and personal.''
milstead has accused mecham of obstructing justice by ordering him not to cooperate with an investigation of an alleged death threat against a former mecham aide who was to testify before a grand jury about the $350,000 campaign loan
mrs. johnston, asked tuesday about her opinion of milstead's overall truthfulness, said, ``he's a liar. he's corrupt, he's an egomaniac and he's power-hungry. i'm sorry, but that's the truth.''
mrs. johnston said milstead told her in 1982 he wanted to be governor because it was ``an easy job.''
it seems like everything that he does is for his own pleasure and he wants people to see that he's tarzan,'' she said
milstead was in israel attending an anti-terrorism conference, and dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt declined to comment on mrs. johnston's statements. when the dps director testified before the senate, he said he knew her as an informant but he was not asked about any alleged sexual relationship
prosecutor william french asked mrs. johnston only one question: ``i get the impression you don't like colonel milstead, is that correct?''
at this time i'm very disgusted with him,'' she replied
in an affidavit to senators, mrs. johnston claimed to have had an affair with milstead. the trial's presiding judge, frank x. gordon jr., disallowed testimony about the matter
gordon, the state supreme court's chief justice, renewed that ruling tuesday after a lengthy exchange in which prosecutor paul eckstein repeatedly objected to defense lawyer fred craft's questioning of mrs. johnston
maybe i just don't understand the rules,'' craft protested
that may be a good statement,'' gordon replied
at one point, mrs. johnston contended that milstead believed ``if you don't have money or a title, you're a loser.''
republican sen. peter kay commented, ``what you've just described is someone who's proud of his own achievements in life.''
attorney a. melvin mcdonald, who represents mecham aide ray russell, testified tuesday that he believed milstead had a good professional reputation
mcdonald said he was not surprised by the allegation that then-state official lee watkins had threatened the life of former mecham aide donna carlson. at the time of the alleged nov. 12 threat, ms. carlson was about to testify before a state grand jury regarding mecham's failure to report the campaign loan
to me it was just lee watkins shooting his mouth off again,'' mcdonald said. watkins has denied making a threat
mecham has acknowledged that he may have told milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general, but the governor has insisted he was not informed there was a serious threat that involved possible witness tampering
lt. col. gary phelps, deputy director of the department of public safety, testified today that the handling of the alleged threat was ``very bizarre.''
in my perception i had one grand jury witness, lee watkins, threaten a second grand jury witness, donna carlson; we reported it to a third grand jury witness, the governor, who then asked a fourth grand jury witness, max hawkins, to look at it,'' phelps said
he also said he did not advise mecham on how to handle the situation because the governor has his own advisers, including a new chief of staff who was a former u.s. attorney
the house impeached mecham, 63, on feb. 5, and accused him of attempting to block the death threat probe, concealing the $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
he faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of hiding the $350,000 loan, and a may 17 recall election
mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in nearly six decades. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict him. ^for release at 6 p.m. est</head>
a woman's 36-year bout of the hiccups stopped after she was given a drug to treat her newly diagnosed parkinson's disease, a team of israeli doctors said
until then, the 75-year-old woman's ``hiccup bouts were almost continuous, with rare remissions lasting a maximum of six to eight weeks,'' the doctors wrote in a letter in thursday's new england journal of medicine
even during the periods of remission, sporadic hiccups were observed. she had been hospitalized several times and had undergone a great many tests.''
the hiccups immediately stopped when she got the drug amantadine for parkinson's disease. the doctors theorized that the disease was somehow responsible for the hiccups
the treatment was reported by dr. j.j.m. askenasy of tel aviv university and colleagues from hasharon hospital
in a separate letter, drs. izidore s. lossos and raphael breuer of hadassah university hospital in jerusalem described another odd case of hiccuping, this one involving a 19-year-old woman
she complained of a two-hour bout of hiccups along with an unpleasant itching sensation in her left ear. the doctors found that both problems were caused by an ant that had crawled into her ear
a grand jury investigating the iran-contra affair on wednesday considered a prosecutor's request for an indictment charging criminal violations by key participants in the worst scandal of the reagan administration
the special federal grand jury that has been investigating the case nearly 14 months began deliberations after independent counsel lawrence e. walsh made a personal appearance with several of his top assistants
charges long have been expected against former national security adviser john m. poindexter, his one-time aide lt. col. oliver l. north and two arms dealers, retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim
north, who was fired from his job as a national security council aide in late 1986, meanwhile, went to confer with his defense attorney, brendan v. sullivan jr
after making his appearance, walsh retired to a small office set aside for him in the u.s. courthouse to be ready in case the grand jurors had questions about the contents of the indictment they were being asked to approve
as he left the grand jury room, walsh declined to comment except to say: ``these things can take a long time'' _ an apparent reference to the panel's discussion of the proposed indictment
other prosecutors on walsh's staff continued to make a presentation but left the grand jury room, apparently to allow the grand jury to study the proposed indictment. they were summoned briefly to the grand jury room before the panel took a one-hour lunch break
for several weeks, walsh has signaled that he is prepared to bring criminal charges stemming from his investigation into the arms-for-hostages deals with iran and the diversion of profits from the weapons sales to the nicraguan rebels
the diversion of nearly $4 million in profits from the arms sales occurred at a time when congress had banned direct u.s. military aid to the contras
for the last two weeks, teams of prosecutors from walsh's office have been meeting with the grand jury, presumably to make presentation of the evidence submitted to the panel during its investigation
marshaling of the evidence in a grand jury investigation is a common practice of prosecutors, particularly in a lengthy inquiry such as the one walsh has been conducting since the panel was convened in late january 1987
last week, former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor charges that he withheld information from congress in 1985 and in 1986 by denying that members of his staff, particularly north, were helping raise private money to arm the contras during the congressionally imposed ban on u.s. military aid
walsh also recently hired herbert stern, a former federal judge, to contest what he called legal challenges to possible prosecutions from prospective defendants who received congressional immunity for their testimony at hearings last summer
north and poindexter both testified before the joint house-senate iran-contra committee hearings under grants of limited immunity from prosecution. the immunity prohibits walsh from using any information gleaned from their testimony as evidence against them
both are expected to claim that walsh made improper use of their testimony in obtaining the indictments. to counter that claim, walsh has carefully placed evidence he has gathered under court seal to prove that he obtained it independently of the congressional hearings
last spring, two conservative fund-raisers, carl r. ``spitz'' channell and richard miller, pleaded guilty to felony charges that they conspired with north to illegally use a tax-exempt foundation for the purpose of raising money for the contras. both are cooperating with walsh's investigation
the 1985-1986 sales to iran were part of an effort to trade arms for u.s. hostages being held in lebanon by pro-iranian terrorist organizations
congressional investigators determined that of the $16 million in profits from the arms sales, $3.8 million went to the contras when the congressional ban on direct u.s. military aid to the nicaraguan rebels was in effect
the administration also raised $34 million in donations to the contras from foreign countries and another $2.7 million from private sources, according to the report of the congressional investigation
munusamy gunasekaran sleeps on the job, but his boss doesn't mind
gunasekaran is one of 34 volunteers hired by the health department to act as ``human bait'' to attract and catch mosquitoes as part of a program that helps keep this city of 1 million people free of malaria
the volunteers are paid between $120 and $160 a month to sleep in small huts on a bed surrounded by mosquito netting
the mosquitoes are attacted by the scent of the men inside the hut and the light from small hurricane lamps hanging by the doors, said muthuthamby balakrishnan, a senior assistant in the city's public health department
the man who is acting as the human bait gets up from the bed, comes out of the net and catches the mosquitoes,'' balakrishnan said
he shines a powerful torch (flashlight) on the mosquito and for a few moments it does not fly away. the light has this effect on it. he places a test tube over it and traps it,'' he said
in addition, eight ``bare-leg catchers'' are paid to sit outdoors in various districts of kuala lumpur. they roll up their trousers and allow mosquitoes to settle on their legs, where the insects are trapped
the specimens are sent to the institute of medical research, which determines if any are anopheles maculaeus mosquitoes, the malaria carriers
if so, health department officials check the vicinity for any mosquito breeding areas and spray them with insecticide, said balakrishnan, who has been supervising the mosquito control effort for 25 years
in addition to the men who serve as bait, the city also has mosquito traps scattered around the city. last year, 34 anopheles maculaeus mosquitoes were found in eight areas of kuala lumpur, he said
there are no special requirements for being a mosquito catcher, although they have to be in good health for the all-night occupation
gunasekaran, 30, says people may joke that he's being paid to sleep on the job, but actually he's able to nod off only intermittently because ``every couple of hours we have to get up, catch the mosquitoes and then lie down.''
gunasekaran, who is married with two children and works a day job as a gardener, said he traps about 20 to 30 mosquitoes a night, but rarely are any of them the malaria-bearing variety
he has worked at the job for five years. some of his colleagues have been at it for more than 25 years
catchers work two shifts a night, seven days a week and on holidays. the shifts are from 6 p.m. to midnight, and midnight to 6 a.m
none of the men has caught malaria, although their blood is tested every six months as a precaution, said appalasamy gangaraj, another public health official
dr. james soosaipillai, director of the health department, said malaria is virtually non-existent in kuala lumpur. only one resident was diagnosed with it last year and probably caught it while traveling outside kuala lumpur, he said
soosaipillai said the ``human bait'' project for controlling malaria-bearing mosquitoes was set up by the british colonial government long before malaysian independence in 1957
throughout malaysia, cases of malaria are diminishing but the disease still poses a threat
deputy health minister kunjambu pathmanabhan said 77 percent of malaysia is free of malaria
dr. chun chee tsun, director of the government's vector-borne diseases control, said there were 36,175 cases of malaria and 75 deaths reported last year, compared with 44,145 cases and 62 deaths in 1986, and 49,526 cases and 106 deaths in 1985
the majority of the deaths were on borneo island and involved illegal immigrants who were reluctant to seek medical attention, chong said
job prospects for both production and service workers are the brightest they have been in three years but are declining slightly for technical, professional and office workers, according to a private survey released wednesday
twenty-one percent of the 398 corporations and organizations surveyed said they anticipate expanding their production and service work forces from april through june. a year ago just 15 percent of the surveyed employers expected an increase in hiring
but only 19 percent of the companies surveyed by the bureau of national affairs, a private publisher of business research, said they plan to increase their technical and professional staffs, down from 21 percent for the first quarter of this year
and just 13 percent, down from 16 percent for the first quarter, said they expect their office and clerical pools to grow this spring
the greatest hiring boom for production and service workers is expected in the upper midwest, the last region to recover from the 1981-82 recession. twenty-four percent of employers there, up from 15 percent a year, said they will expand their payrolls this spring
an equal expansion in hiring of technical and professional workers is anticipated in the south. but it is offset by a decrease, from 17 percent this quarter to 13 percent in the spring, of companies in the west that plan to hire more people in those occupations
fewer companies also anticipated layoffs this spring, except for office and clerical workers, according to the survey
vice president george bush may have a virtual lock on the republican presidential nomination, but his prospects for winning the general election are far less assured, poll analysts said wednesday
indeed, some polls indicate that sen. bob dole, bush's all-but-vanquished republican opponent, could be as strong or stronger as the gop nominee in the fall. dole has argued that he would be more likely than bush to win the presidency if nominated
bush ``has certain weaknesses vis-a-vis dole,'' said doug muzzio, an abc news poll analyst. while the flaws are not decisive, ``it certainly indicates he's not a prohibitive favorite to beat a democrat,'' muzzio said
one potential problem is bush's failure thus far to win strong backing of independents. while bush swept the republicans in illinois on tuesday, dole won 46 percent of the independents voting in the gop primary, to 42 percent for bush, abc's exit poll said
because republicans are a minority of the nation's electorate, ``if bush is going to win the general election he's got to start attracting independent voters,'' said warren mitofsky, chief of polling at cbs news
dole also has shown more potential appeal to democrats. an nbc news-wall street journal poll late last month said 24 percent of democrats might consider supporting dole for president, to just 9 percent for bush
both bush and dole have been roughly in dead heats with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in hypothetical contests, in surveys by louis harris and associates on feb. 18-23, time magazine march 10, and newsweek march 10-11. a usa today poll march 9 also put bush in a tie with dukakis; a dole-dukakis race was not proposed
bush did better in hypothetical contests against other potential democratic nominees, and analysts said he is likely to be perceived as stronger as his primary victories mount
at the same time, bush at the moment has the advantage of being better known than the democrats, and that, too, is likely to change. and he may lose the bulk of undecided voters, who typically turn against an incumbent, said david clemm of the gordon s. black corp. polling firm
exit polls on bush's support in illinois revealed ``little chinks in his armor,'' said sheldon gawiser, a poll analyst for nbc news. while 55 percent of republican voters said bush was tough enough to be a good president, 24 percent said he was not and 21 percent were not sure, gawiser noted
also, while 30 percent said bush would be a very strong leader, 42 percent said somewhat strong, 16 percent said not very strong, 6 percent said not at all strong and 6 percent didn't know. neither result showed the confidence that may be expected in such a strong front-runner's own party, gawiser said
similarly, among the 23 percent of republicans who said leadership was a key issue, abc news found that dole and bush split the vote. said muzzio: ``a prohibitive front-runner should be showing some leadership, particularly given the fact that he holds the second-highest office in the land.''
in another measure, 41 percent of republican voters said bush had not fully disclosed his knowledge of the iran-contra affair; 32 percent said he had and 21 percent were not sure, nbc found. the issue, while not key to most republicans, could gain significance in the general election, gawiser said
humphrey taylor, president of louis harris and associates, suggested that one source of bush's popularity among republicans, his closeness to president reagan, could prove a liability with many democratic voters in november
right now to guess whether it will be a close election or not is premature,'' taylor said. ``it is perfectly possible that bush could really firm up his support and be a very strong candidate. it's equally possible the ground will move under his feet, and he'll look very vulnerable.''
a confederate flag that sparked protests by a black legislator has been pulled down from the entrance to the state capitol
the confederacy's standard had flown over 14 flags plaza along with the flags of great britain, france, mexico, the choctaw indian nation and other states which once controlled what is now oklahoma. but now only one pole bearing the u.s. and oklahoma flags stands there
helen arnold, head of the office of public affairs, said tuesday she ordered the flags removed as part of reconstruction work on the plaza which began last fall. it wasn't clear when the flags came down as many workers at the capitol only noticed their absence tuesday
arnold said there were no plans to put the flags back until the legislature and various commissions decided what to do with the area to celebrate next year's centennial of the land run of 1889. but she said, ``i think it's probable the flags will not go up again.''
the confederate flag prompted a vigorous protest last year by rep. don ross, who asked gov. henry bellmon to order it removed and sought to have the state attorney general rule it illegal but was denied both times
ms. arnold would not say whether ross' protest led to the removal of the flags
ross said he had not been informed that the flags were not to go back up, but he said he was ``delighted'' by their removal and did not plan any further action
with her good looks and stylish clothes, raisa gorbachev has given a new glamour to the image of soviet women as she accompanies her husband on his visits to the west
in belgrade, she has shown other sides of her character _ a skill that matches her husband's in handling photographers, an eye for detail and neatness
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and mrs. gorbachev arrived in yugoslavia for an official visit monday
when she joined her husband at a tree-planting ceremony tuesday, both gorbachevs indicated they are meticulous housekeepers _ mikhail, the farmer's son, scraping every last bit of earth off the white marble surrounding the tree, and raisa carefully watering each side of the small plot where the larch was planted
on wednesday, mrs. gorbachev displayed the same attention to detail when touring a ritzy furniture store more like a western shop than those she knows from home
at one point, mrs. gorbachev appeared to think the store might be a special closed shop, like those for the soviet communist elite
why are there no shoppers here?'' she asked her guides
mrs. gorbachev was assured that the store was open to the general public and closed only for her visit
through detailed questioning, however, she learned that the number of customers is dropping because yugoslavia's triple-digit inflation leaves most belgraders little money to buy the luxury furniture and household goods the store sells
mrs. gorbachev admitted to some trouble in getting used to yugoslavia's six- and seven-digit prices for everyday goods
these millions, they kill me,'' she joked as she paraded around the store, closely examining the china, textiles, glassware, beds and sofas she was shown
she seemed equally interested in a short fashion show and, ever gracious with photographers, gladly consented to put her good looks alongside those of the models and pose with them in a hail of flashing camera lights
her past as a lecturer in marxism-leninism showed through, however, in clipped, schoolmarmish questioning of the store employees who accompanied her
her questions, delivered in a high, crisp voice, yielded a font of information about everything from credit terms to manufacturing sources
at one point, mrs. gorbachev took a determined bet with a store employee that the carpet he was showing her was not all wool
she lost, exclaiming ``100 percent wool! i didn't think there was such a thing today.''
picking up china, poking in refrigerators, checking mattresses and other furniture, mrs. gorbachev seemed to drink in details
such trips doubtless help her husband to fill in his picture of the countries and cities he visits, yielding accounts of daily life he cannot see while engrossed in political negotiations
mrs. gorbachev's costly clothes and prominence at her husband's side have raised criticism at home. critics note that no ordinary soviet has the money or clout to look like her and mutter about a woman meddling in what is seen as the men's business of politics
a soviet official, speaking privately, admitted in may before the gorbachevs arrived in the romanian capital of bucharest that ``not everybody in our country agrees that she should be along.''
but, he said, gorbachev ``says it helps him to have her there. apparently, it helped a lot that she was in reykjavik'' at the soviet leader's 1986 summit with president reagan
in public, the gorbachevs show their affection for each other by exchanging glances and small asides
the couple, married in 1954 when both were students in moscow, held hands as they walked together up a long stairway leading to a monument to the unknown soldier on a hill outside belgrade monday
and at a formal dinner tuesday night, they twice leaned across yugoslav president lazar mojsov, seated between them, to chink glasses and smile warmly at each other during formal toasts. says</head>
it was ``an act of god'' that brought two love-struck bulls together with the cows next door, says a man accused of negligence for failing to keep them apart
the bulls were unexpectedly freed from their pen when a tree limb felled by a storm crushed the fence enclosing them. they headed for maggie and blackbird, two pure-bred cows awaiting artificial insemination by a $770,000, prize-winning angus bull named broadway
since the bulls, aged 9 and 13 months, may have beaten broadway's time with the cows, the cows' owners were advised to wait 60 to 90 days before artificial insemination, to make sure broadway was the father
though this was done, the owners are suing kirk hardin, caretaker of the bulls and cows, for $39,000, accusing him of negligence in not keeping the guys and gals apart
lonnie pembrook, owner of pembrook cattle co. near fairview, and tom young, a new jersey businessman, each owned a half-interest in blackbird. pembrook owns maggie
hardin, a specialist in artificial insemination and embryo transfer techniques, contends the fence mishap, in the fall of 1986, was an ``act of god'' that could not have been prevented or foreseen
the trial began monday before a payne county jury, and testimony ended tuesday. closing arguments are scheduled friday
after the artificial insemination took place, the embryos were frozen, according to testimony. pembrook picked up the frozen embryos in october, but there was no testimony on whether the embryos had since been placed in host cows
being dead for 2,500 years deserves a lot of respect. just ask ed rodley
rodley, staff assistant at the boston museum of science, organized the move tuesday of an egyptian mummy from its permanent residence at the massachusetts general hospital to the museum for its ramses the great exhibit next month
it's probably the most worrisome thing i've moved,'' said rodley. ``it's a mummy. it was a person. if you drop a vase, that's one thing. if you drop a dead egyptian and his head falls off, that's another.''
that head was blackened from embalming fluids. but the man's white teeth shone in a resolute grimace
the 2,500-year-old body of padihershef had been refurbished only three years ago. centuries of dust came off, the teeth were cleaned and steamed, the bandages rewrapped, his body-length lacework of blue porcelain beads cleaned and restrung and his head, which had become dislodged, was glued on straight
rodley said the most precarious part of the hour-long move was the six-minute, 1,500-yard journey over city streets by moving van. but it was accomplished without mishap, the stonecutter's body resting silently in yellow plastic bubble stretcher designed for moving victims of nuclear accidents
just try to get around evansville using the state department of highways map, published as inset to the official 1988 state road map
it includes a marker for evansville college. that became the university of evansville 21 years ago
the school fared better than the university of southern indiana and lockyear college, though. both those were left off the map, as was the lloyd expressway
altogether, local officials found about a dozen errors
and the department of highways has apologized for including the outdated map
it will be revised this year, i guarantee you that,'' said karen cecil, public information director for the department
an emerging new soviet military doctrine appears to signal kremlin realization that it cannot compete in a full-blown arms race and still carry out much needed economic reforms
as the soviets debate possible force reductions, their diplomats are trying to persuade the west to scale back through arms control agreements
defense secretary frank c. carlucci, meeting in bern with his soviet counterpart dmitri yazov, says he wants yazov to explain whether the new ``reasonable sufficiency'' doctrine will mean fewer tanks, artillery and missiles facing the north atlantic treaty organization
yazov and other soviet generals are billing the new doctrine as defensive, but carlucci says their formulation appears to require continued high levels of offensive capabilities
u.s. analysts say soviet force reductions may not occur until the united states and soviet union reach an agreement on cuts in conventional forces
kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev, in a speech in budapest in 1986, proposed major conventional cuts, and the two sides are negotiating, but no agreement has been reached
nato leaders last month urged the kremlin-led warsaw pact to cut its tank and infantry forces to the same level as nato. western analysts say the soviet bloc has a 2-1 edge
many u.s. analysts, however, doubt the kremlin intends to reduce its forces, and carlucci told reporters tuesday, ``if anything, their military continues to grow. they continue to modernize.''
harriet fast scott, the author of books and articles on the soviet armed forces, said of the new doctrine, ``reasonable sufficiency is whatever you want it to mean. it satisfies both the hawks and the doves, at home and abroad.''
another u.s. scholar, james m. mcconnell of the center for naval analysis near washingon, says ``the important part of reasonable sufficiency is the arms control part.''
mcconnell, in a paper on the doctrine, said kremlin leaders are ``saying, in effect: to secure growth and greater national security in the long haul, the u.s.s.r. must renounce some of its current military ambitions.''
the kremlin must be thinking that ``unilateral steps along this road, however, will only put the soviet union at the mercy of the west. `we must bargain now while the u.s.s.r. is still ahead, and see to it that nato disarmament proceeds pari passu (in pace) with out own,' '' wrote mcconnell
part of the western confusion over the doctrine stems from differing views offered by soviet academics
gen.-col. m.a. gareyev, deputy chief of the soviet general staff, said last year that ``the soviet union is in favor of restricting military potentials within the bounds of reasonable sufficiency, so that the armed forces will be able structurally to conduct only defensive operations.''
another red army officer, col. lev semeiko, who comments frequently in the press, called the soviet formulation ``truly revolutionary, since for the first time it proposed the mutual rejection by the two sides of such a type of military action as the offense, traditionally considered basic.''
as recently as 1986, mcconnell wrote, the desk military encyclopedia of the soviet union dismissed such a defensive posture as only ``expedient when confronted with a superior military opponent, or when it was necessary to economize forces ... to accumulate a preponderance of forces for an offensive.''
another soviet military officer who writes frequently on doctrine, col. v. larionov, said last year that ``defense is the more economical method of action,'' signaling that economic, rather than purely propagandistic, motives are driving the doctrine of ``reasonable sufficiency.''
u.s. officials argue that cutting nuclear weapons saves little money, and that sharp reductions in conventional armies are needed to free up money for the civilian economy
carlucci reinforced that point at a dinner with yazov on tuesday night, telling him that nuclear arms control ``doesn't save money. it costs money. we are spending $198 million'' for on-site inspections to verify elimination of medium-range nuclear missiles. island's...</note>
the ballots give little indication who is running and what is at stake in sunday's democratic and republican presidential primaries in this u.s. commonwealth
democratic ballots show the familiar, smiling faces of ex-gov. carlos romero barcelo and senate president miguel hernandez agosto. candidates themselves are represented by symbols _ a hockey puck for paul simon, an egg for richard gephardt
bob dole is pictured on republican ballots along with george bush and a blank space for voters who want to write in the name of pat robertson. only bush's picture matters. robertson never was a factor and dole's delegates quit two weeks ago and tried to call off the primary
no one else but george bush has a chance,'' party chairman luis ferre says
puerto ricans care who sits in the white house, and understand that their 14 gop and 51 democratic national convention votes, if cast for the winner, may result in more high-level appointments and favorable treatment on food stamps, low-income housing and other issues important to the island
but what really is at stake sunday is control of the local democratic party, currently split between the popular democratic party and the out-of-power new progressive party
the primary also is a sort of referendum on the island's political status, and a test of strength between gov. rafael hernandez colon and romero barcelo, a two-time ex governor who would like to return to the fortaleza, puerto rico's white house
the npp wants puerto rico to become the 51st u.s. state. the pdp favors a continuation of the status quo, whereby puerto ricans are u.s. citizens with most every right and obligation except they cannot vote for president and pay no federal taxes
thus, votes for romero barcelo indicate a preference for statehood, and strengthen his hand against rivals within the npp, including san juan mayor baltasar corrada del rio, also a gubernatorial candidate. votes for hernandez agosto endorse some form of political autonomy, and pdp gov. hernandez colon
everyone here knows _ and anyone in the united states that knows puerto rico politics knows _ that what's cooking ... is a confrontation between the pdp and the npp, and not a primary of the democratic parties,'' jose dapena thompson, the npp mayor of ponce, said
the contests have been heavily publicized, with both sides organizing rallies and long car calvacades, horns tooting and loudspeakers blaring, in urban housing projects and mountain villages across this lush island
romero barcelo and hernandez agosto are regular guests on tv and radio talk shows, and san juan's four newspapers prominently feature stories like npp allegations of faulty voter lists and pdp fears about double-voting
one million puerto ricans are expected to vote sunday. the democratic national committee is sending a commission to monitor its primary, citing past ``instances of puerto rican voters casting votes in both party's primaries.''
bush won the 1980 primary. the republican party has stated in its platform for more than a decade that it supports statehood for this u.s. territory of 3.5 million located 1,000 miles southeast of florida
the island's 51 democratic pledged delegates will be uncommitted to any presidential candidate. there is a separate ``beauty contest'' balloting that has drawn several of the democrats to the territory in search of, literally, a symbolic win _ the candidates were assigned symbols by lot to distinguish them on the ballot. jesse jackson, a square, and sen. albert gore jr., a triangle, are scheduled to visit friday
the soviet union on wednesday named a former moscow communist party chief and ambassador to denmark to replace the envoy in afghanistan, who a western diplomat said had suffered a heart attack
the government newspaper izvestia said nikolai g. yegorychev had been chosen ambassador to kabul to replace pavel p. mozhayev, who had held the job since august 1986
the news agency tass said yegorychev, who was born in 1920, has been a party worker since 1950, and from 1962-67 was head of the moscow party organization. since then he served in several agricultural ministries, as ambassador to denmark for 14 years and an official of the soviet chamber of commerce and industry
yegorychev was replaced as moscow party chief by viktor grishin, who served until he was ousted by gorbachev in december 1985
grishin, who some thought wasthe main alternative to gorbachev when the soviet leader was chosen in march 1985, has been accused of permitting widespread corruption in the moscow party organization
izvestia said mozhayev, 57, had been transferred to other, unspecified work
the western diplomat said mozhayev had suffered a heart attack about a month ago, and that his replacement was not unexpected nor necessarily politically significant
administrators at a private christian college say they will bring the curtain down on a student's play unless he cuts a nude scene from the final act
joel moffett, 21, learned tuesday that administrators at chapman college have banned performances of the ``the coloring box,'' which he wrote and directed, unless he removes a that calls for a man and woman to walk on stage naked and wash each other's feet
officials at the 2,000-student college, affiliated with the disciples of christ church, said they were concerned that the scene, which had been approved by the school's communications department, would give the school a bad image
we recognize diversity of opinion and we support freedom of speech and creative expression, but on occasion the nature of certain performances on campus must be reviewed,'' said school spokesman jerry derloshon
moffett, supported by a student arts group, said he plans a demonstration monday to lobby administrators into a change of heart
it goes beyond the nude scene,'' the senior theater arts major said in a recent interview.``what the college is doing is placing their morals above constitution-protected rights. it's hypocritical to allow nudity in student art classes but not in theater arts.''
the 75-minute play, moffett said, centers on four people who reject social pressure and begin living their lives for themselves. the nude scene was written to symbolize their rebirth, he said
greg hobson, one of several faculty members who approved the nude scene earlier, said the decision sends students the wrong message
now the nudity has become the issue rather than the writer's development,'' hobson continued. ``that's what really bothers me, this idea that it's a dirty play. it's such a narrow viewpoint.''
galveston's beaches will soon change color _ from brown to white _ with the help of sand imported from florida
for years, people have complained about galveston's murky water and brown, narrow beaches, said ralph mcpheeters, administrator of a development called palm beach at moody gardens
what do most people think of when they think of beaches?'' he asked tuesday. ``white sands.''
we can't do anything about the water but we sure can do something about the sand,'' he said
within two weeks, he said, two ocean barges full of white sand are expected from orlando, fla., he said. the sand, purchased from orlando sand mines, was selected because it has the right consistency and color for building sand castles, he added
mayor jan coggeshell said the white beach would be a welcome addition
the development is the latest part of a multimillion-dollar project on the shores of offatts bayou. it will accommodate 3,000 people and include a 1,000-foot waterfront boardwalk and two huge freshwater lagoons complete with a 12-foot waterfall and white sand bottom
gov. mario cuomo signed legislation wednesday to switch the date of the new york state primary to keep it from falling on the jewish holiday of rosh hashana
the primary, not to be confused with new york's april 19 presidential primary, will be held thursday, sept. 15. it was originally scheduled two days earlier
three other states had switched their primaries already to prevent the conflict. connecticut and rhode island will hold their primaries sept. 14, while massachusetts will join new york with a primary sept. 15
six states _ arizona, minnesota, new hampshire, utah, vermont and wisconsin _ will hold primaries on rosh hashana, sept. 13
in new york, jews usually represent 20 percent or more of the vote in democratic primary contests
the state primaries determine nominations for governor, state legislative seats, congress and local offices
four arabs were reported killed wednesday, bringing the total to 100 since battles with israeli soldiers began in the occupied lands dec. 8, and palestinians shut their cities and towns in a general strike
the strike was a message to u.s. and israeli leaders that the palestine liberation organization must have a role in peace talks. the plo had ordered it in a leaflet, saying the purpose was to show there is ``no alternative to an independent state led by the plo, our sole representative.''
president reagan said after meeting in washington with prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel that he would not revise or abandon the u.s. plan for middle east peace talks
shamir expressed ``strong reservations'' about some aspects of the plan. it does not envision plo participation
defense minister yitzhak rabin defended sanctions on arabs in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. he said cutting telephone lines, banning travel and imposing curfews prevent activists from preparing attacks on israelis
guerrillas in lebanon fired several rockets into northern israel, causing slight damage in one community, the army said
the settlement's name was withheld for security reasons but its secretary, zvi zmora, said on israel radio some residents were alarmed by ``a feeling of gradual escalation'' in attacks from lebanon
police detained an arab-american advocate of non-violent resistance and israeli officials said he might be expelled. they said mubarak awad, 44, was accused of attending an illegal gathering
riots swept the west bank city of tulkarm and two nearby refugee camps 40 miles northwest of jerusalem, the army and the arab-run palestine press service said
hundreds of palestinians built roadblocks, set tires ablaze and hurled stones at soldiers, who responded with tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition
the army reported seven palestinians wounded and two dead near tulkarm but the press agency said there were three dead. it identified them as salim al yehyeh, 60, who died after soldiers threw tear gas into his home, and ashraf mahmoud ibrahim, 15, and hisham daoud alush, 23, both killed by gunfire
army spokesmen confirmed the deaths of yehyeh and alush and said the circumstances were being investigated. they said the report of a third death was being checked
soldiers shot 25-year-old omar yassin hamarshi dead in yabad, a west bank village 50 miles north of jerusalem, hospital officials in nearby jenin reported. the army confirmed the death and said it was investigating
fourteen other palestinians were wounded in the west bank and gaza, hospital officials told the associated press
according to u.n. figures, at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of ``the uprising,'' as the arabs now call the violence, nearly all of them by israeli bullets or beatings
the general strike paralyzed the occupied territories for the second day. stores were closed, public transport stopped and most of the 110,000 arabs who work in israel stayed home. palestinian flags, which israel has declared illegal, fiew from utility poles
israel closed the hebron bus co., which serves about 100,000 palestinians, until next week. army officials said it violated a contract with israel's military government that forbids striking
rabin told a high school audience in jerusalem the nightly 10 p.m.-3 a.m. curfews in the gaza strip were needed to ``reduce their (arab activists') capability to move by night, to prepare explosives ... to obstruct roads that carry workers to israel.''
the israelis have cut telephone lines connecting the occupied territories to foreign countries, forbidden travel and kept gasoline supplies from reaching the west bank
we will use fuller and more sweeping measures to create an atmosphere encouraging the silent majority to restrain the extremists,'' he said
awad, a palestinian with homes in jerusalem and ohio, is accused of attending an illegal gathering on the main road between jerusalem and nablus in the west bank, police spokesman rafi levy said. he had no further details
jonathan kuttab, awad's lawyer, said his client was questioned about taking two foreign television crews to a women's sit-in in isawiya, an arab village incorporated into jerusalem after the 1967 war. shamir</head> with quotes from a u.s. official; subs 11th graf pvs bgng, `it began,' with 1 graf to update with another shultz-shamir meeting scheduled for thursday; picks up 12th graf pvs bgng, `his spokesman'</note>
president reagan vowed today not to revise or abandon the u.s. plan for mideast peace talks in the face of opposition from israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
as they parted after a two-hour white house session, a deadlock was apparent. shamir registered his ``strong reservations'' to an international conference demanded by king hussein of jordan with u.s. support
the israeli leader urged reagan to modify the u.s. plan. shamir said he was willing to hold direct negotiations with jordan under u.s. and soviet auspices. or, shamir said, ``i shall be ready to consider a similar proposal.''
but reagan, speaking first in the east room, said ``the united states will not slice this initiative apart and not abandon it.'' he advised shamir that there was ``a sense of urgency'' behind the u.s. intiative to hold the peace conference next month
reagan said those parties who do not agree to hold negotiations ``need to answer to themselves and their people.'' at the same time, he said shamir had not directly rejected the u.s. proposal, which also calls for negotiations on an overall settlement by december
there was essentially no slamming of the door on the israeli side,'' a senior u.s. official told reporters afterward
as shamir's talks here wind down _ he leaves thursday _ the official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity, said, ``we are where we expected to be.''
but he also threw cold water on shamir's offer to negotiate with jordan under u.s. and soviet auspices. the proposal was made by secretary of state george p. shultz last october on a trip to the middle east and subsequently rejected by king hussein
standing on its own, there would not be much point point in presenting that again,'' the official said
despite their disagreement, reagan again offered assurances to israel, and a warning to its enemies, that ``no wedge will ever be driven between us.''
earlier, reagan and shamir posed for pictures in the oval office, sitting in wingback chairs in front of the fireplace. asked whether he was giving up on a peace plan in view of israeli resistance, reagan replied, ``we have not yet had our meetings; we're just beginning. we're going to, i think, have a discussion on all these things.''
on the eve of shamir's visit, reagan underscored the u.s. view that arab-israeli negotiations would help both sides and are urgently needed
when it comes to israel, the united states is not a bargainer or a broker,'' reagan said in a speech tuesday to a united jewish appeal group. ``the united states is a friend and an ally.''
the white house meeting came on the third day of shamir's four-day visit, marked so far by his opposition to the u.s. plan for negotiations
it began with another call on shultz at the state department by the israeli prime minister. they will meet again on thursday
his spokesman, avi pazner, summing up three hours of talks shamir held tuesday with shultz, said ``he did not give an answer. he did not say yes, he did not say no.''
but pazner said shultz's proposal to hold an international peace conference next month was ``a sticking point that has to be resolved if we are going to go ahead.''
the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip have been plagued by protests in which 96 palestinians have been killed in clashes with israeli forces in a little more than three months
the peace conference would set the stage for negotiations starting may 1 between israel and a mixed delegation of jordanians and palestinians to set up palestinian self-rule in the territories for three years
in the second stage of shultz's plan, negotiations on an overall settlement of the 40-year arab-israeli conflict would begin by december. there the united states would call on israel to relinquish at least some of the territories in exchange for arab recognition
shultz acknowledged tuesday he was unable to bridge differences with shamir. but he said ``we feel encouraged to continue our efforts to work with israel and others in the middle east.''
shamir said that in israel's view, the middle east peace conference could not play ``any positive role.''
pazner, the israeli spokesman, claimed that king hussein of jordan wants the conference to let israel's enemies ``put pressure on israel, to try to bring israel to agree to solutions it would not agree to in free negotiations.''
shamir offered last october to hold israeli-jordanian negotiations in washington with u.s. and soviet ``blessing.'' pazner said shamir stands by the offer even though it was rejected by the king
reagan told the jewish group ``we will not leave israel alone to stand alone.''
nor,'' the president said, ``will we acquiesce in any effort to gang up on israel. peace will not be imposed by us or by anyone else. it will and must come from the genuine give-and-take of negotiations. that's what we're working to set in motion now.''
shultz had set this week as a ``deadline'' for a reply from israel and jordan. in amman, a senior jordanian official told the associated press that jordan is still consulting with its arab neighbors on the proposal
on capitol hill, assistant secretary of state richard w. murphy sought to reassure supporters of israel that an international conference would not dictate solutions to any side
pressed by several congressmen on why shultz had softened his opposition to soviet participation, murphy said no arab state would enter peace talks without a soviet presence. ``they're (the soviets) in the region, and we have to find a way to deal with them,'' he said
meanwhile, nine republican senators made public the text of a letter to shultz urging him not to subject shamir to u.s. criticism or pressure
it said american support should not be used ``as a lever to force israel's leaders to adopt a policy which they see as dangerous to the national security of their country _ especially when such policy entails injecting the soviet union into the peace process.''
the letter was signed by sens. chic hecht, r-nev.; jesse helms, r-n.c.; steven symms, r-idaho; david karnes, r-neb.; william l. armstrong, r-colo.; gordon j. humphrey, r-n.h.; phil gramm, r-texas; larry pressler, r-s.d.; and chris bond, r-mo
bss
pakistan's chief negotiator said wednesday that next week's visit to washington by soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze may help clear the roadblocks in the afghanistan peace talks
zain noorani said the superpowers may ``at least find it easier to settle among themselves'' the issue of a simultaneous cutoff of military aid to both warring sides
shevardnadze is scheduled to be in washington march 20-23 to continue preparations for a superpower summit
the united states and pakistan, which represents the afghan guerrillas in the peace talks, both are demanding that moscow's aid to its kabul allies cease at the same time as the assistance _ mainly from washington _ to the insurgents fighting the soviet-backed government
moscow and afghanistan have rejected this as interference in their domestic affairs and said the soviet aid to afghanistan cannot be compared to foreign aid to insurgents
noorani told reporters the aid cutoff was one of pakistan's two main concerns that should be resolved before the signing of a peace settlement
pakistan's other main concern is the establishment of a new afghan government to oversee implementation of a settlement and ensure the safe return of more than 5 million afghan refugees
for the first time, noorani spelled out in detail pakistan's idea for resolving the issue, saying pakistan agreed with the soviet union and ``everyone else'' that the future government was a matter to be settled by the afghans
but he said the afghans should be given a ``helping hand'' in forming it
noorani said pakistan envisaged a conference of all afghan parties, ``including representatives of the present regime ... in geneva or vienna or anywhere else,'' at an unspecified date
he said the conference could best be coordinated by u.n. undersecretary general diego cordovez, the intermediary between afghanistan and pakistan in the nearly 6-year-old peace talks
noorani said pakistan was prepared to stay in geneva ``as long as it takes to conclude the accords making up the peace settlement.''
earlier, the head of the afghan delegation, foreign minister abdul wakil, gave a similar pledge. he said afghanistan ``sees no reason for a suspension of the talks.''
new sessions were scheduled thursday, the second day after a soviet-set target date for the conclusion of talks
the soviets have offered fresh assurances, however, that they will still remove an estimated 115,000 troops two months after a settlement is signed. soviet troops intervened in afghanistan in 1979
the two chief delegates resumed trading charges through the media that the other side was stalling the negotiations. wakil said islamabad is creating ``artificial obstacles'' and warned that failure to reach a settlement might cause the war to spread to pakistan
noorani said wakil was paying ``mere lip service to peace and harmony in afghanistan.''
in moscow, u.s. ambassador jack matlock met wednesday with shevardnadze and was warned that the kremlin wants the united states and pakistan to stop ``artificially procrastinating'' on an end to the war, the tass news agency said
the news agency said the discussion between shevardnadze and matlock dealt mostly with the afghanistan issue
u.s. embassy spokesman richard gilbert confirmed that matlock had a meeting with shevardnadze that included a discussion on afghanistan, but said it is embassy policy not to disclose details of diplomatic exchanges. court</head>
horace calvo doesn't have a law degree or even a bachelor's, but he does have the democratic nod for a seat on the illinois supreme court and the example set by another illinoisan _ abraham lincoln
as a matter of fact, i believe (lincoln) studied law by the firelight,'' calvo said wednesday, a day after he won a four-way democratic primary race. ``the test, to me, seems to be what you have done after school and passed the (bar) exam.''
and calvo says there's another counterpart who went far without the kind of academic credentials now usually expected of anyone presiding over a courtroom
robert jackson didn't have a law degree and he was a justice on the u.s. supreme court in the '40s and 50s,'' calvo said
calvo said that like lincoln, becoming a lawyer was not easy for him
he attended st. louis university and lincoln college of law in springfield, taking 1,200 hours of classes, but left both schools without a diploma
i did it at night law school for four years, and i worked 40 hours a week and i had my family to support,'' calvo recalled
the 61-year-old glen carbon jurist began practicing law in 1956 after passing the bar exam on his third try
since 1967, state supreme court rules have required that candidates for the bar have a law-school degree before taking the test
calvo has been a madison county circuit judge since 1975 and last fall was temporarily assigned by the supreme court to hear cases on the fifth district appellate court
two of his rivals, circuit judge robert hill of benton and east st. louis attorney charles kolker, made an issue of calvo's academic background
getting less than a law degree is an indication of lack of qualifications,'' hill said
but calvo dismissed the importance of his credentials for representing the 37-county district from southern illinois
i think, perhaps, the people may have found out the lack of a law degree was somewhat of a false issue,'' calvo said
lincoln himself, who never graduated from law school, once said of a legal education: ``it is but a small matter whether you read with anybody. get the books and read and study them ... that is the main thing.'' reading the law with an established attorney, a sort of apprenticeship, was an accepted form of legal training until recent decades
with all the vote in, calvo had 49,894 votes, or 33 percent; circuit judge carl becker had 42,245, or 28 percent; hill had 39,582, or 27 percent and east st. louis attorney charles kolker trailed with 17,428, or 12 percent
calvo, who has the advantage of an overwhelmingly democratic district, will face republican thomas welch, 48, of the appellate court in mount vernon, in the november general election
welch said he did not expect the academic credentials issue to come up in the race for the $93,000-a-year job
the winner will succeed retired justice joseph goldenhersh, who resigned last september at age 73 due to poor health
the high court appointed circuit judge joseph cunningham, 63, of fairview heights, as an interim justice to serve through december. he did not seek a full 10-year term
a van ran off a dead-end road wednesday and plunged into a secluded bay in a wildlife refuge, drowning three young sisters, state troopers said
the girls' mother, who was driving the van, crawled through mudflats but was in shock and unable to tell rescuers about the children. the woman, 29-year-old aimee dees, was reported in guarded condition at university of south alabama medical center
baldwin county coroner huey mack said the dead were kristen mallory dees, 2; morgan cameron maxwell, 6; and kari malissa maxwell, 8
authorities speculated that mrs. dees may have visited nearby gulf shores, a popular resort area, and may have been returning to her home north of mobile
a group of people on the beach near the road were huddled around a campfire shortly after midnight when they saw the van run into weeks bay. they pulled mrs. dees from the muddy water, but didn't know the children were still in the vehicle
rescue workers worked in record 30-degree weather for three hours before locating the vehicle in 32 feet of water. the temperature was the lowest for march 16 since 1937, the national weather service said
about 35 activists for the homeless were evicted wednesday from an abandoned house, while supporters ran up side streets knocking over garbage cans and setting trash fires, police said
one woman was arrested and several protesters scuffled with police during the vandalism spree, which began at 6 a.m. as police removed squatters occupying a house owned by the university of california, officers said
the activists took over the house five blocks south of campus about a week ago, breaking in through boarded windows, said university spokesman tom debley. the university ordered the eviction after the city fire marshal inspected the three-story house tuesday and declared it a fire hazard, he said
there were a few minor scuffles with police but the eviction itself was peaceful,'' said debley
the eviction was carried out by university police, with berkeley officers standing by. within hours, bulldozers moved in to demolish the building, which was to be torn down to make way for student housing, debley said
the university runs an 80-bed shelter for the homeless on campus property, debley said
homeless activist al winslow, who lives in another building as a squatter, said the group would take over another house. he estimated 2,000 people live on the streets of berkeley
the squatters, a mixture of homeless people and activists, include some members of the 10th street housing collective, which staged a two-year occupation of an abandoned house owned by a bank, said nikki rexroat, of mayor loni hancock's office. the group was evicted from that house two days before taking over the university building, rexroat said
the woman arrested was being held in the city jail for malicious mischief, disturbing the police and interfering with a police officer, police said
the white house said wednesday it is weighing all options ``short of invasion'' by u.s. military forces in response to a reported new nicaraguan incursion against contra rebel bases in honduras
president reagan's chief spokesman, marlin fitzwater, said president jose azcona of honduras had requested u.s. assistance to deal with the invasion. asked whether this included a plea for military help, he replied, ``i can't say.''
fitzwater said secretary of state george shultz, national security adviser colin powell and white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr., were dispatched to capitol hill to brief congressional leaders. he said they would ``review a menu of options and will probably make decisions after that.''
reagan, meantime, said ``obviously we're concerned'' about the incursion reports _ confirmed by the honduran ambassador to the united states but neither confirmed nor denied by nicaragua. but he also sidestepped questions about possible use of u.s. military forces
fitzwater said both u.s. military and diplomatic moves were being considered in response to the reports, which surfaced as the administration made fresh appeals to congress for continued aid to the contras in their battle against nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
asked whether consideration was being given to using u.s. troops in central america, reagan said, ``i can't comment on anything.'' he said only that officials had been ``in consultation'' with the honduran government
fitzwater at first told reporters ``nothing is being ruled out at this point.'' but he quickly revised that, saying: ``at this moment everything is being considered, short of invasion.''
during a picture-taking session in the oval office with visiting israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, reagan said ``the information we have is that nicaragua has crossed the border into honduras.''
the president, who had held a series of strategy sessions with key advisers, invited several congressional leaders to the white house to discuss the situation, said sources who declined to be identified
fitzwater later told reporters that reagan made ``some tentative decisions about what the options are and what seems to be the most reasonable course.''
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said, meantime, said he could not immediately evaluate the incursion reports
if true, that would be a very serious matter and would introduce an element of gravity that could profoundly alter the situation,'' including the willingness of congress to vote for further aid of some kind for the rebels, wright told reporters
but he said he still does not believe support exists in congress for any kind of renewed military aid for the rebels, and repeated that congressional democrats remain willing to talk about a further package of purely ``humanitarian'' aid
the honduran ambassador, roberto martinez, said there had been a ``penetration into honduran territory of a number, ... definitely in the thousands, of sandinista troops. at this moment, we are trying the utmost to obtain a clearing of the area, ... a total withdrawal, immediate withdrawal, of the sandinista troops from our territory.''
but he said his government hoped to avoid military action
in managua, the defense ministry declined to confirm or deny that its troops entered honduran territory but acknowledged that a major offensive was under way
we're looking into the reports,'' said an officer in the ministry's public relations office who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``it's serious and that's why i can't say yes or no.''
another ministry source had denied the incursion reports tuesday night
some 12,500 american military personnel are stationed in central america, including roughly 10,000 are located in panama. total u.s. military manpower in honduras varies from week to week, depending upon the exercises being conducted
a headquarters unit in honduras coordinates the exercises has about 1,100 personnel assigned to it. beyond that, there are about 950 national guard and army reserve engineers working on training exercises inside honduras, far from the border area
state department spokesman charles e. redman said he could not be more precise about the number of nicaraguan troops in honduras beyond ``on the order of thousands.''
i hate to see unusual attention drawn to the fact of whether the exact number is 4,000, 4,200, 4,700 or 5,300,'' he said. ``the fact of the matter is, that we have a major sandinista offensive under way
it's been described as such by the nicaraguan government on a number of occasions now. just yesterday, president (daniel) ortega was talking about two major offensives.''
redman said that inside nicaragua, the sandinista forces are using ``much superior firepower,'' including soviet-supplied an-26 aircraft, close support from artillery and rockets and mi-25 attack helicopters
besides the operation in the bocay valley there is a ``multi-batallion operation under way in the vicinity of bonanza'' in nicaragua, he said
redman said the united states is committed to help honduras ``preserve territorial sovereignty and national integrity. we're in very close consultation with the government of honduras.''
fitzwater did not spell out what options were being considered, but he said ``the organization of american states will be asked to consider the issue, and the presidents of guatemala, costa rica and el salvador will present their views.''
the united states is looking into a published report that the nicaraguan government failed to deposit $11 million it owed to the interamerican development bank after saying it had done so
the bank accepted nicaragua's word, reinstated the central american nation as a borrower in good standing and disbursed $11 million to nicaragua from old loans that had been withheld, according to the report in the washington times
the very next day the idb received the bulk of the 11 million which nicaragua had supposedly deposited in idb accounts six days before,'' rep. jim bunning told a congressional hearing wednesday
david c. mulford, assistant secretary of the treasury for international affairs, said his department had asked the bank for a copy of its report on the incident, which allegedly occurred last nov. 11. the times article appeared jan. 5
i wasn't aware of that situation, which we refer to as `round-tripping,' and it is something that is being looked into,'' mulford told the house banking subcommittee on international development institutions
i would point out, however, that since that incident occurred, nicaragua again immediately fell into arrears and therefore is not eligible to receive further disbursements,'' mulford said
later he added: ``the incident you mentioned ... does not appear to be isolated just to nicaragua. ... we understand that this type of `round-tripping' is something that's been done by the bank from time to time, and you can lay it down in a way to inadequate, not tight enough management.''
mulford said the u.s. government is still refusing to make a new contribution to the bank, which is owned by 44 governments, until they agree to a new voting system that would enable the united states and canada to block loans they consider undesirable
under the present system, borrowing countries control the votes. the u.s. government also wants changes in management
the bank now plans to lend about $2.5 billion a year
sen. bill bradley, d-n.j., told state democratic party leaders wednesday they should not pursue an uncommitted slate of new jersey delegates for the june 7 presidential primary
bradley said he will endorse a presidential candidate before the primary. while party officials said bradley gave them the impression he would endorse massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the senator told reporters he has not yet made a decision
emerging from a closed-door meeting with about 30 party leaders, bradley said he hopes the announcement of his choice for the nomination would end speculation that he wants to be the party's 1988 nominee
it's like i've said from the beginning,'' bradley said. ``this is not the time for me. this should close the door on a bradley presidential bid.''
bradley previously had urged state party officials not to endorse any candidate until after the super tuesday march 8 balloting around the country. some democrats tried to put together an uncommitted slate in hopes they could throw their support to bradley at a brokered convention
state committee chairman raymond durkin said he thought bradley was leaning toward dukakis
he (dukakis) has a leg up here and the money that will last until he gets to new jersey,'' durkin said. ``dukakis has a pretty good presence in new jersey.''
mayor henry cisneros has turned down an offer to speak at the democratic national convention but hispanic leaders want him to change his mind, an aide to cisneros said wednesday
cisneros rejected the offer by the congresional hispanic caucus. but rep. albert g. bustamante, d-texas, the caucus chairman, said ``we're still trying to get him to change his mind. cisneros would just be a natural'' to address the convention in atlanta in july
shirl thomas, cisneros' administrative assistant, said the caucus was not taking ``no'' for an answer. ``he thought about it for a long time and we talked about it frequently,'' ms. thomas said. ``it is a very flattering thing to be asked to do and he did not take it lightly at all.''
she said cisneros cited a busy schedule and family considerations in his decision to reject the offer to speak at the convention
indiana's may 3 primary could give vice president george bush the delegates he needs to clinch the republican presidential nomination, gov. robert d. orr said wednesday
orr commented at a news conference where he was joined by indianapolis mayor william h. hudnut and other prominent republicans who support bush
bush is now on a roll, and indiana is very likely the state that will provide a majority of delegates for george bush,'' said orr. ``we're trying to get the word out that george bush is going to be the republican nominee.''
indiana will have 51 delegates at the gop convention, with 30 of them at stake in the primary
among those joining orr in expressing support for bush were state republican chairman gordon k. durnil and marion county prosecutor stephen goldsmith. durnil previously had been neutral in the presidential race
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on actual delegate's public statements or binding state laws or party rules. the first column shows the total number of delegates for each candidate; subsequent columns show the delegates gained or lost during the last 30 days
              total  changes
                  wednesda    7days   30days dukakis      464.5       0       +8       +429  gephardt     145         0        0       +112  gore         354.8       0       +8       +344  jackson      460.55      0       +65      +451  simon        171.5       0       +136     +142  uncommitted  272.65      0       +14      -1    others         0         0        0       -4
needed to nominate 2,082
total delegate votes 4,162
chosen thus far 1,869
yet to be chosen 2,293
              total  changes
                  wednesda    7days   30days bush            774      0       +72      +724  dole            178      0       +13      +143  robertson        17      0        0       +9    uncommitted      72      0       +36      +64   others            0      0        0        0
needed to nominate 1,139
total delegate votes 2,277
chosen thus far 1,041
yet to be chosen 1,236
a former surgeon who faked a suicide last year after being charged with trying to strangle his estranged wife is being held without bond after surrendering to authorities, officials said wednesday
david johe, of charleston, w.va., surrendered to district justice barbara boser on tuesday, authorities said. ``it came as quite a surprise,'' she said
a preliminary hearing is scheduled april 19 for johe, who practiced at bradford hospital
johe, 35, was arrested in june 1987 on attempted murder, aggravated assault and trespassing charges after he allegedly entered the home of his estranged wife, blair plott johe, in bradford and tried to strangle her
johe was released on $25,000 bond, then disappeared after leaving two suicide notes _ one at his home in ellicottville, n.y., and the other in his van near niagara falls
the one found in the van last july said: ``goodbye. i hope the water is not too cold. i guess i'll never know. david.''
his body was never found, however, and some authorities said they never believed he died
a bradford judge in december dismissed a motion that would have declared johe dead after mrs. johe reported receiving unsigned christmas cards and presents for her three children that she believed were from her husband
last week, johe's father, charleston architect howard johe, confirmed that his son was alive and had called him recently
i believe he just got tired of running and decided to turn himself in,'' said bradford police officer bradley mason
the air force said tuesday one of two amraam air-to-air missiles fired during a test last month missed its target
the service, in a brief statement, said the test was conducted feb. 22 when an f-15 eagle jet fighter fired two of the missiles against two target drones flying over the white sands missile range in new mexico
one scored a direct hit against its assigned target drone,'' the air force said. ``the other missile did not intercept its target and analysis is continuing to determine the cause of the miss.''
the test brought to 45 the number of successful trials out of 54 missile firings conducted to date
the amraam _ advanced medium range air-to-air missile _ is a so-called ``smart'' missile that has been under development since 1981. it is designed to use its own small radar to home in on enemy planes without having to be guided by a pilot
the white house offered encouragement tuesday for spain's offer of asylum for panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega and left open the possibility of not seeking his extradition on drug-trafficking charges
president reagan said ``we do want noriega out of there and a return to a civilian democratic government.'' noriega has been indicted on drug charges in the united states, and the administration has imposed economic sanctions against panama to force his ouster
spain has said it would be willing to receive noriega provided he asks for asylum and the united states does not seek his extradition
at the white house, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``we have looked with favor upon efforts by spain and other countries to help solve this problem, but that's as far as we're willing to go.''
he acknowledged that u.s. officials have held talks with their counterparts in spain, but he refused to talk about the question of extradition. ``we simply aren't prepared to comment on those specific points at this time,'' fitzwater said
we'll pursue the legal course. there are always a lot of options that can be taken under those circumstances,'' fitzwater said. a white house official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said one option was a political decision not to seek extradition
some officials see the waiving of extradition as a key to encouraging a quick departure by noriega
reagan was asked about noriega during a picture-taking session in the oval office with congressional leaders
he said ``i'm not in a position to answer'' whether the united states would allow noriega to go to a third country without facing extradition to the united states
however, reagan said emphatically, ``we do want noriega out of there and a return to a civilian democratic government.'' update with nicaragua denying troops entered honduras. pick up 10th pvs, `fitzwater said...'</note>
government radio today urged nicaraguans to be on alert for a u.s. invasion after the united states said it was considering action against nicaragua for allegedly attacking contra positions in honduras
the director of state-run voice of nicaragua, caros jose guadamuz, put out a nationwide alert calling on the people to ``maintain in a state of alert in defense of the neighborhoods, cooperatives, businesses, industries because we can't discount the possibility that president reagan will invade nicaragua in defense of his mercenaries.''
he said there was ``a direct threat from the white house that we have to take seriously.''
the radio also said unidentified airplanes were flying over the atlantic coastal city of puerto cabezas. it said the people were ``scared and expected a bomb.''
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said today the reagan administration was considering ``everything ... short of invasion'' after national security officials met to discuss what it said was a nicaraguan attack on contra rebel positions in honduras
on tuesday, about 6,000 nicaraguan soldiers used helicopters and heavy artillery in a major offensive against contra rebel forces
but the defense ministry today strongly denied its soldiers penetrated honduran territory
we have never invaded honduras and we have never invaded any neighboring country,'' said a ministry spokeswoman, maj. rosa pasos. ``so we totally deny those declarations made this morning by the white house.''
fitzwater said the nicaraguan moves amounted to a ``very serious breach of regional borders.'' he said 1,500 nicaraguan troops were already inside hondruas and that 4,500 more appeared to be in a staging area to cross the border
heavy fighting was reported throughout nicaragua's 5th military region, which includes boaco, chontales, rio san juan and zelaya south. the contras said sandinista troops had overrun some rebel positions
the defense ministry said 35 contra fighters, seven sandinista soldiers and one civilian had been killed in the fighting
a state department official in washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said on tuesday that initial reports suggested the sandinistas hoped to deliver a ``knockout blow'' to the contras
the defense ministry announced tuesday that the offensive was launched last friday and intensified monday and tuesday
the drive occurred a week before the leftist sandinistas were to negotiate with the u.s.-supported rebels about a cease-fire in their six-year war. three days of talks scheduled to begin next monday in the small southern town of sapoa, near the border with costa rica
the u.s. house of representatives defeated a $30 million aid package for food and clothing for the rebels two weeks ago, just after u.s. aid ran out. president reagan opposed the package because it did not contain military aid
in a white house meeting tuesday, reagan pleaded with congressional leaders for a renewal of contra aid, but met an icy reception from democrats
congressional sources, declining to be identified, said reagan pounded the table and said, ``there are some people around this table who don't seem to know who the bad guys are down there.''
nicaragua did not report the offensive until tuesday evening, when a defense ministry spokesman said it was under way but denied contra claims that sandinista troops crossed into honduras, where the rebels have bases
the army has undertaken major offensive operations ... reports that the army has penetrated honduras are not true,'' the spokesman told the associated press in a telephone interview. he cannot be identified for security reasons
in december 1986, honduran warplanes and artillery pounded sandinista troops who had penetrated honduras to attack contra bases, and u.s. army helicopters were brought in to ferry honduran infantrymen to the front
honduras charged at the time that up to 2,500 sandinista troops had gone up to nine miles into honduras before returning to nicaragua about a week later
contra spokesmen in washington and miami claimed tuesday that sandinista troops entered honduras in the latest offensive in pursuit of rebel forces
col. manuel suarez benavides, a honduran armed forces spokesman, said on tuesday he had no information of sandinista incursions into his country. ``nevertheless, tomorrow we will probably be able to report on the situation.''
president jose azcona hoyo of honduras was watching developments closely and a government team ``is monitoring reports on the subject,'' a honduran government source said on tuesday in tegucigalpa, the honduran capital. the source spoke on condition of anonymity
the contras' clandestine liberation radio, in a broadcast monitored in managua on tuesday, claimed the sandinista army was carrying out ``genocidal bombardments'' in chontales, dropping 500-and 1,000-pound bombs from helicopters. ``many peasants had to flee for fear of being torn to pieces,'' the radio said
contra leaders said sandinista forces were knocking the rebels back. ``they have overrun certain of our positions,'' said ernesto palazio, director of the contras' washington office
sandinista military sources said the offensive involved about 6,000 troops and called it ``an important anti-insurgent operation.''
all sources spoke to the ap on condition they not be identified. quote and cost estimates and sites for both memorials.</note>
the house gave final congressional approval tuesday to legislation authorizing prime federal parkland in washington for a national monument to the 5,000 black patriots who served in the american revolution
the voice vote by the house followed senate approval of the bill on feb. 26
the house is expected to approve similar, senate-backed legislation wednesday that would authorize a choice washington site for a national memorial to americans who fought in the korean war
rep. james j. florio, d-n.j., said the korean war memorial, to be built on the mall that extends from the lincoln memorial to the capitol, will be ``a fitting and long-overdue monument to the 55,000 amricans who lost their lives in a forgotten war.''
private sponsors say they have raised $2.5 million toward a goal of $10 million for the korean war memorial. the black patriots monument, also expected to be built on the mall, will cost an estimated $4 million
both the black patriots and the korean war monuments previously were authorized by congress, and will be built with private donations
a 1986 law requires house and senate approval of interior secretary donald hodel's finding that the memorials deserve a preferred washington location because of their ``pre-eminent historical and lasting significance to the nation.''
the capital's prime monument area includes the national mall, the grassy parkland between the capitol and the lincoln memorial; the ellipse, the circular park behind the white house; lafayette park, west potomac park and the capitol grounds.   these are the 12 black roman catholic bishops who serve in the united states:
_monsignor eugene a. marino, appointed tuesday as head of the atlanta archdiocese;
_auxiliary bishop harold r. perry of new orleans, appointed in 1966;
_bishop joseph l. howze of biloxi, miss., appointed in 1973;
_auxiliary bishop joseph a. francis of newark, n.j., 1976;
_auxiliary bishop james p. lyke of cleveland, 1979;
_auxiliary bishop emerson moore of new york, 1982;
_auxiliary bishop moses anderson of detroit, 1982;
_auxiliary bishop wilton d. gregory of chicago, 1983;
_auxiliary bishop james t. steib of st. louis, 1983;
_auxiliary bishop john h. ricard of baltimore, 1984;
_auxiliary bishop carl fisher of los angeles, 1986;
_auxiliary bishop curtis guillory of galveston-houston, texas, who was named feb. 19, 1988
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ col. jean-claude paul, who commands the most feared army unit in haiti, said tuesday he is not involved in drug smuggling and journalists are defaming him
a federal grand jury in miami indicted paul, 49, last thursday. it accused him of allowing his private airstrip near port-au-prince to be used to smuggle drugs from latin america to the united states
i deny everything in this affair,'' paul said by telephone from his office in the barracks of his 700-man dessalines battalion, located just behind the presidential palace. ``i am a haitian in haiti. this concerns the americans, not me.''
when asked about the indictment he denied owning or operating a landing field
that's a lie,'' he said, and laughed. ``i have no landing field. i'm not even an aviator.''
paul said he had not been officially informed of an indictment and declared: ``it is the newspapers that are saying that.''
u.s. embassy spokesman jeffrey lite said monday that ambassador brunson mckinley personally told president leslie manigat of the indictment last week
manigat, elected jan. 17 in voting supervised by the army, has made no public comment on the matter. a spokeswoman for the information ministry said monday the government had not received official notification of the indictment
in the telephone interview, paul said: ``there is a campaign of denigration against me. haitians, when they want to denigrate somebody and can't do it in haiti, go abroad to do it.''
haiti progres and haiti en marche have printed banner headlines and front-page stories in the last few weeks about paul's alleged involvement with drug trafficking. the opposition weekly papers are based in the united states and printed there
le matin and le nouvelliste, the two port-au-prince dailies, and all 14 radio stations except the roman catholic church's radio soleil have refrained from reporting the indictment
one station manager said paul threatened him with violence if he broadcast the story
western diplomats and a former army officer said it is general knowledge that paul operates a landing strip near thomazeau, a village northeast of port-au-prince near the dominican border
asked what he would do to defend himself against charges in the miami indictment, paul said, ``military regulations are very strict concerning that. it is up to the corps, not me, to assume my defense.''
soldiers from paul's battalion, who reinforce port-au-prince police, were blamed for most of the attacks on civilians during anti-government protests last summer. at least 30 people were killed and 200 injured
dessalines soldiers also were accused of protecting and even aiding thugs who roamed the streets of the capital on nov. 29, the day of an election managed by an independent commission, killing at least 34 people and causing the election to be canceled
charles blitzer, president of the national humanities center in research triangle, n.c., has been selected to direct the woodrow wilson international center for scholars in washington, the center's trustees announced tuesday
he will succeed james h. billington, who became librarian of congress last september
the wilson center was established by congress in 1968 as the nation's official memorial to the 28th president. it provides about 50 research fellowships each year to academics, journalists and officials from the united states and other governments
blitzer, as an official of the smithsonian institution, helped shape the legislation which founded the center. he headed the center's fellowship selection committee for almost a decade
he is a specialist in the history of political theory and taught at yale from 1950 to 1961. while there, he was elected twice to the position of alderman in new haven, conn
a computer expert has been sentenced for a third time to 36 years in prison for poisoning his wife and hiding her body in a freezer
circuit judge nicholas geeker refused tuesday to back down from his original sentence for ed everage although it has twice has been rejected by the 1st district court of appeal in tallahassee
the appeals court initially sent the case back to geeker because he had cited some improper justifications for exceeding sentencing guidelines calling for a 12- to 17-year term. the second time he made a procedural error
defense lawyer leo thomas said everage will appeal his sentence again
everage, 44, who has a doctorate in chemical engineering and did computer-aided research for the monsanto co. in pensacola, was convicted of second-degree murder for killing his wife, aileen, 40, in 1984
everage claimed his wife accidentally swallowed a cold capsule he had filled with cyanide for his own intended suicide. he said he hid the body in the unplugged freezer because he didn't think anyone would believe him
everage had reported his wife was missing, saying she had been dispondent over their recent move back to pensacola from charlotte, n.c
geeker has cited the cover-up as justification for exceeding the sentencing guidelines. other reasons he initially listed, including a belief that everage was a danger to his two sons and himself, were rejected by the higher court
everage has remained in the escambia county jail since his 1985 conviction at the request of local authorities. they say he has saved escambia taxpayers $250,000 by developing computer programs for the jail and sheriff's department. ballasts</head>
imposing federal efficiency standards on the electrical devices that start fluorescent lights would save a massive amount of electricity, the equivalent of the power created by seven atomic plants, a congressman said tuesday
rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., said a bill that he was introducing would save 7,000 megawatts by the year 2000, nearly $11 billion in energy costs. he also said the measure would save more than $21 billion in power plant construction that could be avoided with the energy savings
the energy saved by these standards is equivalent to the energy produced by 15 large coal power plants or seven nuclear power plants,'' he said. gejdenson said his estimates came from the american council for an energy efficient economy, a non-profit research group based in washington
gejdenson and rep. phil sharp, d-ind., chairman of the energy and commerce subcommittee on energy and power, said the bill would mandate energy efficiency standards for ballasts by amending the national appliance energy conservation act passed last year. that law sets standards for stoves, refrigerators and other major appliances
massachusetts, connecticut, california, florida and new york have adopted similar measures on the state level. in connecticut alone, state officials estimate that consumers will save between $223 million and $496 million by the end of the century, according to gejdenson
most fluorescent lights use ballasts with an aluminum wire coil and small iron cores. under the proposed standards, producers would have to use either copper wire and steel cores or solid state circuitry. both types are already available
the alternative ballasts are about twice the price of the standard aluminum ballast, but they last twice as long
sharp said the alternative ballasts would save 10 percent to 15 percent in electricity over the traditional aluminum ballasts. there are more than 50 million ballasts sold annually, he said
industry groups supported the legislation, saying it would simplify their business by having one nationwide standard
michael stein, president of the certified ballast manufacturers association, noted that the five states with their own standards have differing laws, and that other states are considering their own requirements. with nicaragua denying its troops enetered honduras; picks up 4th graf pvs bgng, `reagan, asked'</note>
president reagan said today that nicaraguan troops had attacked contra rebel positions in neighboring honduras and his spokesman said the united states was considering ``everything ... short of invasion'' in response
the white house said the president of honduras, jose azcona, asked for american assistance in trying to repel the nicaraguan forces, but white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said he could not say whether that request included a plea for military help
the honduran ambassador put the number of nicaraguan troops in his country as in the thousands, but nicaragua today strongly denied that its soldiers had entered honduran territory
we have never invaded honduras and we have never invaded any neighboring country,'' said maj. rosa pasos, a nicaragua defense ministry spokeswoman. ``so we totally deny those declarations made this morning by the white house.''
reagan, asked whether he was considering any use of u.s. military forces, replied, ``we've been in consultation with the honduran government but i can't comment on anything.''
he said that ``the information we have is that nicaragua has crossed the border into honduras. obviously we're concerned.''
speaking separatel, the honduran ambassador, roberto martinez, said that here a had been a ``penetration into honduran territory of a number, ... definitely in the thousands, of sandinista troops
at this moment, we are trying the utmost to obtain a clearing of the area, ... a total withdrawal, immediate withdrawal, of the sandinista troops from our territory.''
but he said his government hoped to avoid military action
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan, his national security adviser, the secretary of state and others ``have conferred at length in the last 24 hours concerning the nicaraguan invasion of honduran territory.''
fitzwater did not spell out what options were being considered, except he did say that ``the organization of american states will be asked to consider the issue, and the presidents of guatemala, costa rica and el salvador, will present their views.''
he said the administration no longer is thinking of working with congress on an aid package to simply provide the resistance forces with food, medicine, and other supplies, but not arms
fitzwater said that secretary of state george shultz, national security adviser colin powell and white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr., were being dispatched to capitol hill to brief congressional leaders. he said they would ``review a menu of options and will probably make decisions after that.''
house speaker jim wright said he could not immediately evaluate reports that sandinista troops had crossed into honduras
if true, that would be a very serious matter and would introduce an element of gravity that could profoundly alter the situation,'' including the willingness of congress to vote for further aid of some kind for the rebels, he told reporters
but wright said he still does not believe support exists in congress for any kind of renewed military aid for the rebels, and repeated that congressional democrats remain willing to talk about a further package of purely ``humanitarian'' aid
fitzwater said that 1,500 nicaraguan troops were inside hondruas and that an additional 4,500 appeared to be in a staging area to cross the border
fitzwater told reporters that ``all options are under consideration. at this moment, everything is being considered short of (u.s.) invasion.''
fitzwater commented one day after reagan met with democratic and republican congressional leaders. he failed to persuade the democratic leaders to get behind a new package of humanitarian aid for the contras
congressional sources, declining to be named, said at the meeting reagan pounded the table and said, ``there are some people around this table who don't seem to know who the bad guys are down there.''
today, fitzwater said, ``more than 1,500 sandinista troops are now inside honduras, attacking freedom fighter camps in an effort to destroy their remaining supplies.''
he added:
there are nearly 4,500 sandinista forces with strong helicopter support moving into the bocay valley, which is just below the honduran border. they've established a new base for this operation ... 
in the last several hours, the united states government has been in contact with the presidents of the other three democratic governments in the region,'' he said. ``we've had discussions concerning their response to this incursion and its meaning for the guatemala peace plan.''
the united states government today is examining its options,'' he said
when first word of the sandinista operation came monday night, democratic sources in congress portrayed it as a nicaraguan attempt to strengthen their position in advance of cease-fire talks with the contras, scheduled to begin monday
today, one senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the sandinista drive appeared to be aimed at a contra camp complex and supply depot
if the depot is knocked out, ``there will be nothing left'' of the contra war effort, the source said
that official said that contra commander enrique bermudez is in the bocay region and may be in ``serious trouble'' because he and his forces are surrounded by sandinista troops
nicaragua did not report the offensive until tuesday evening, when a defense ministry spokesman said it was under way but denied contra claims that sandinista troops crossed into honduras, where the rebels have bases
the army has undertaken major offensive operations. ... reports that the army has penetrated honduras are not true,'' the spokesman said
today, however, another official of the defense ministry would neither confirm nor deny that its troops had invaded honduras
we're looking into the reports,` an officer said. ``it's serious and that's why i can't say yes or no.'' both nicaraguans would not be identified
the honduran defense ministry said that 43 people had been killed in the sandinista initiative
heavy fighting was reported throughout nicaragua's 5th military region, which includes boaco, chontales, rio san juan and zelaya south. the contras said sandinista troops had overrun some rebel positions
fitzwater was peppered with questions about whether the administration was considering any use of u.s. military forces stationed in honduras and in nearby areas
the president has said many times that he does not plan to introduce invasion forces in central america,'' fitzwater said. ``we have said in the past, and it still holds true, that we do not plan to invade. ... that certainly hasn't changed.''
but fitzwater also said, ``at this moment, everything is being considered, short of invasion.'' but later he said ``nothing is ruled out at this point.''
i'm trying to be as restrained as possible,'' the spokesman said under intense questioning about u.s. military intentions. ``i'm telling you not to draw that signal (of direct u.s. military involvement), but we're in the midst of discussions.''
fitzwater said that administration officials had consulted by telephone late tuesday with congressional leaders and their representatives
president reagan said wednesday he will not revise or abandon an american plan for mideast peace talks even though israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir complained that it was ``not conducive to peace.''
ending two hours of talks with shamir in apparent deadlock, reagan warned that opponents of the u.s. proposal face certain consequences
they'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they've turned down a realistic and sensible plan to achieve negotiations,'' the president said, standing alongside an unsmiling shamir during a white house departure ceremony
reagan said shamir did not specifically say ``no'' to an international peace conference demanded by jordan's king hussein with u.s. support
however, shamir made clear that he rejected the idea. ``i have strong reservations concerning the proposed international conference, which in my view is not conducive to peace,'' he told reporters
shamir last october accepted a proposal by secretary of state george p. shultz to hold direct talks with jordan under u.s. and soviet auspices. ``i shall be ready to consider a similar proposal,'' he told reagan
however, hussein has rejected the idea, holding out for a full-scale international conference, and a senior u.s. official said: ``standing by itself, there would not be much point in presenting that again.''
the official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity, said reagan and shamir dealt almost exclusively with differences over the international conference
he said they did not review israel's concerns about the u.s. proposal that it cede at least part of the west bank and gaza strip it has held since the 1967 six-day war in exchange for recognition by arab nations
shamir will wrap up four days of talks thursday with another meeting with shultz. ``we are where we expected to be,'' the u.s. official said, since shamir did not come to washington with a decision by the israeli cabinet on the u.s. plan
shultz had hoped to convene the peace conference next month and to open negotiations may 1. he asked for a prompt reply from israel and the arabs. ``we are not setting our watches on any of them,'' the senior official said
but he stressed the need to make arrangements rapidly
at the departure ceremony in the east room, reagan promised to work to strengthen u.s.-israeli ties during his final months in office
without specifically mentioning the three months of palestinian rioting and the israeli crackdown in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, he said the talks focused on the search for peace in the middle east
we've seen a new sense of urgency on the part of many in the region, and a wide recognition of the reality that the status quo is unacceptable,'' the president said
he said ``the present situation is a challenge and an opportunity to move decisively to break the deadlock that has lasted far too long. i hope we will not lose this opportunity.''
reagan said the u.s. plan ``offers a realistic and achievable way to change the relationship between israel and the arabs. ... so let's be clear about several things: the united states will not slice this initiative apart and will not abandon it.''
explaining reagan's stand later, the senior u.s. official said, ``you start pulling it apart, it's not going to be workable.''
while rejecting the notion of an international conference, shamir said, ``israel firmly believes that those who are prepared to live with each other in peace must learn to negotiate directly with each other.''
the u.s. official tried to put a positive face on the talks. he said ``there was essentially no slamming of the door'' by israel and that the tone of the talks was excellent
despite the apparent impasse, the president sought to reassure the hesitant israeli leader that the united states would not allow terms to be dictated at a peace conference and shared shamir's distrust of the palestine liberation organization
the official paraphrased reagan as saying that peace cannot be made under violence and terrorism
he said the plo is revealing its real intent: no to peace and yes to violence. we must find ways to give moderate palestinians and other arabs a stake in the process.'' loss</head>
former mayor jane byrne kicked in the door of chicago's fabled backroom politics nearly a decade ago, unsmiling and unafraid of mixing it up with the democratic machine's big boys
but after her third straight electoral setback, this one for clerk of the cook county circuit court and viewed by many political observers as the first step in a comeback bid, mrs. byrne apparently is calling it quits
when we say the people spoke,'' mrs. byrne said of tuesday's primary defeat, ``they apparently shouted
and therefore,'' she added, ``i'm very good at taking hints.''
mrs. byrne declined to be interviewed wednesday, when she departed chicago for phoenix, ariz., and ``some rest and relaxation,'' said joe pecor, her campaign manager
but asked whether mrs. byrne does not intend to run again under any circumstances, pecor replied, ``where she is concerned, one should never say `never
she has demonstrated time and again that she has a very solid core of support running somewhere between 35 (percent) and 40 percent of the democrats in chicago and the county.''
but that wasn't enough to stave off the late harold washington's upset bid in the three-way 1983 democratic mayoral primary, and it wasn't enough when she tried to avenge that loss against washington last year
it turned out be too little again tuesday when she lost to aurelia pucinski, endorsed by the party organization that mrs. byrne once held, vise-like, in her grip
and this latest loss came in a race rich with resonance and names _ pucinski, byrne and edward ``fast eddie'' vrdolyak _ that speak to the past, present and perhaps even the future of cook county's quirky democratic politics
mrs. byrne, a former debutante with a flair for the dramatic, became the city's first woman mayor in 1979, scoring a rags-to-riches victory after campaigning against the political machine of the late mayor richard j. daley
she defeated the machine's candidate, then-mayor michael bilandic, with the help of much of the city's machine-weary blacks, but later made peace with the regular democrats
included in that group were several aldermen mrs. byrne had railed against as members of ``an evil cabal,'' most notably vrdolyak and roman pucinski, aurelia pucinski's father and one of the machine's most loyal servants
but she paid dearly for cozying up to the old guard, as well as for several other moves _ replacing blacks with whites on the school board, then handing out hams at public-housing projects as the 1983 election neared
washington, galvanizing the black vote, turned her out of office and became the city's first black mayor
he spent the next four years retooling the party machinery to fit his needs, then became the first two-term mayor since daley by handily beating back successive challenges from mrs. byrne last february in the primary and then vrdolyak, running as a third-party candidate, in april
after washington's death in november, alderman eugene sawyer became mayor
vrdolyak, saying the party under washington had become untenable, completed his move away from the democratic organization last year. running as a republican, he was unopposed in tuesday's primary for court clerk
in the meantime, ms. pucinski, an attorney and metropolitan sanitary district commissioner, stepped out of her father's shadow and was welcomed into the washington camp
so much so that she may have beaten byrne in tuesday's race on the strength of her showing among chicago's blacks, who helped propel her to a 52 percent to 38 percent victory over mrs. byrne with nearly all the votes counted. two other candidates, thomas fuller, and janice hart, a follower of political extremist lyndon larouche, split the rest of the vote
ms. hart defeated ms. pucinski in the 1986 democratic primary for the illinois secretary of state's office, won that november by republican jim edgar
byrne's defeat spoiled an anticipated byrne-vrdolyak struggle in the fall, a match of two former titans for an obscure office both hoped would lead to bigger things
the housing industry, after staggering for two months following the october stock market crash, enjoyed a sharp 8.9 percent increase in construction activity in february, the biggest gain in more than a year, the government reported wednesday
the commerce department said the increase pushed construction of single-family homes and apartments up to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units last month following declines of 15.8 percent in december and 1.9 percent in january
those back-to-back setbacks, coupled with three consecutive monthly declines in new home sales, had raised concerns because housing is often the first industry to weaken at the onset of a new recession. economists feared that potential home buyers had grown wary following the record collapse of the stock market in october
but the february upturn in construction starts was seen as an encouraging sign that while housing activity will be slower this year, it will not weaken so much that it threatens overall economic growth
housing is on the rebound,'' said warren lasko, executive vice president of the mortgage bankers association. ``with interest rates at low levels and the economy growing and no recession in sight, we think we have all the ingredients in place to generate a strong spring building season.''
in another upbeat report, the federal reserve said that output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose 0.2 percent in february, leaving industrial activity 5.8 percent higher than it was a year ago
analysts said the increase, although much slower than the gains made at the end of last year, confirmed their belief that the manufacturing sector, aided by strong export demand, would provide much of the strength in the economy this year
the industrial production figures depict an economy that is growing less rapidly but really looks pretty healthy,'' said jerry jasinowski, chief economist of the national association of manufacturers
the declines in housing starts in december and january had pushed building activity to its lowest point since the end of the last recession in december 1982. even with the february increase, the pace of building is still 17.4 percent below where it was a year ago
however, economists predicted that construction activity would climb even more in future months as sales bounce back in response to lower mortgage rates
fixed-rate mortgages, which have risen slightly in recent weeks, are still below 10 percent, standing at 9.96 percent, according to a nationwide survey by the federal home loan mortgage corp
many economists predicted that rates would probably hold at this level, given the modest growth expected for the economy this year
i think we have seen the lowest rates for mortgages but i don't believe they will rise much from where they are now,'' said james christian, chief economist of the u.s. league of savings associations
the 8.9 percent rise in housing starts in february was the sharpest monthly gain since a 12.7 percent rise in december 1986
housing permits, considered a good sign of future economic activity, also rose sharply in february, jumping 11.5 percent to an annual rate of 1.40 million units, also the biggest monthly gain since december 1986
the strength in construction starts last month came in both the single-family and apartment sectors
construction of single-family homes rose 9.3 percent in february to a seasonally adjusted 1.10 million units while multi-family units rose by 7.8 percent to an annual rate of 399,000 units
david seiders, chief economist of the national association of home builders, said that the improvement in construction in february put housing on track with his forecasts for construction of about 1.49 million units this year, a drop of about 8 percent from the number of units built in 1987
we are not looking for 1988 to be a wonderful year but we are cautiously optimistic that we can get through the year without further declines,'' seiders said
the strength was widespread in all sections of the country except the west, where starts fell 9 percent. housing starts rose 25.6 percent in the south, 13.8 percent in the midwest and 2.7 percent in the northeast
the report on industrial production said that the 0.2 percent february increase was the fifth in a row but the weakest advance since output fell 0.2 percent in september
february production was held back by a further drop in activity at auto plants, where manufacturers have been scaling back plans in an effort to reduce a huge backlog of unsold cars
production in manufacturing rose 0.2 percent while output in the mining industry was down a sharp 0.8 percent, reflecting cutbacks in coal production. output at the nation's utilities rose 0.7 percent
a man who attacked with gunfire and grenades from behind a tombstone killed three people and wounded 52 at an ira graveside service wednesday before enraged mourners cornered and beat him
police arrested the man at the end of a wild chase over graves in the milltown roman catholic cemetery during which he hurled grenades at the pursuing mourners and fired until his gun jammed
a companion fled in a van parked on a nearby highway, witnesses said
thousands of mourners screamed and dived for cover when shots shattered the silence of the cemetery as the coffins of three unarmed ira members killed by british soldiers in gibraltar were being lowered into a single grave
one of the wounded was in critical condition and four were seriously wounded, a spokesman for royal victoria hospital said. most victims were shot or hit by shrapnel while scrambling for cover behind gravestones
sinn fein, legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army, blamed protestant paramilitary groups and accused britain of collusion
in london, aides of prime minister margaret thatcher said she was ``shocked and appalled.''
her government denounced the attack as ``insane and depraved.'' it appealed for calm, as did sinn fein, church leaders and the irish republic government in dublin
within hours, however, catholic youths took to the streets in the ghettos of west belfast. they shot at british soldiers and hijacking and burned buses. black smoke hung over several neighborhoods
police, the british government and the ulster defense association, an umbrella organization of protestant vigilante groups, all denied complicity
police gave no immediate indication whether the badly beaten attacker was a protestant. the largely catholic ira is waging a guerrilla war to drive the british from protestant-dominated northern ireland, and protestant paramilitary groups have grown up to fight it
martin mcguinness, vice president of sinn fein, said: ``it's obvious it was an attack by loyalist (protestant) movements.''
sinn fein president gerry adams said: ``there was collusion between elements with the british crown forces, probably the royal ulster constabulary (provincial police).''
police said they deliberately kept away from the funeral because of assurances that the ira would not turn them it into a paramilitary display
commandos in civilian clothes killed the guerrillas, mairead farrell, 31; sean savage, 24, and daniel mccann, 30, on march 6. british officials said they were on a mission to bomb a public military ceremony at the fortress colony in southern spain
they were buried beside dozens of other guerrillas killed in the ira battle against the british, which began in august 1969
mourners, with a priest officiating, were lowering miss farrell's flag-draped coffin into the grave when a bearded man opened fire 15 yards away from behind a gravestone
young men yelled ``there he is! there he is!'' and the thickset gunman bolted toward the highway
his cap fell off as he reloaded his pistol, and still dodging and weaving, fired at the youths and hurled two grenades while taunting the pursuers to keep coming, witnesses said
i saw a young man throwing things from the back of the mourners,'' said the rev. alec reid, who was saying prayers beside the open grave. ``i thought they were stones, but it looks as if they were grenades. he was also firing shots into the crowd. there was absolute chaos.''
adams said the attack involved two men who parked the van beside the cemetery, walked in carrying bags and cameras, and were mistaken for journalists
as the one attacker fled, the other fired a volleys of covering shots but then escaped in the van, adams said
the attack occurred after moderate andy tyrie was ousted as leader of the ulster defenses association. hardliners accused him of weakening the armed fight against the ira
new uda leaders held a news conferene monday. they would not reveal their identities, but told reporters their aim was to ``target the ira and irish national liberation army,'' a marxist offshoot
more than 2,600 people have been killed in northern ireland's sectarian violence since august 1969
a 16-year-old science whiz has been named ``all-american girl of the year'' in a contest co-sponsored by 'teen magazine
i have this permanent smile on my face,'' charlene brown, a student at stuyvesant high school, said after she was chosen from among five finalists
miss brown said the '80s definition of an all-american girl is ``somebody who tries her best and strives to do something out of the ordinary. it's somebody who likes to do things that are different, who takes chances with things that don't necessarily guarantee success.''
the other finalists were composer sherry lynn biedrzycki, 12, of st. francis, wis.; astronomer-pilot jennifer lynn patience, 17, of thousand oaks, calif.; athlete tamara ann shepherd, 17, of eagle river, alaska; and pianist jennifer watson, 14, of bountiful, ohio
miss brown previously won a ``future biochemist's award'' for her performance in the massachusetts institute of technology's introductory engineering and science program
she was summer program director for the junior academy of sciences in 1987 and a judge for the american institute of science and technology science fair
i try to give my all to everything i'm involved in,'' she said. ``that requires a lot of time management, being able to establish priorities.''
her father, franklin, an accountant, and her mother, pauline, a nurse, are immigrants from jamaica. her sister, shanna, is 9
at home, she was ``encouraged to do my best from very early on. and at my school, everybody works hard. everybody is motivated, striving to reach for the top. that kind of atmosphere encourages you to work even harder,'' she said
the prize is a $5,000 scholarship, which she will use next fall at mit, studying chemical engineering before going on to medical school
a lot of teen-agers are classified _ because of drinking and driving, pregnancies and crime _ as awful and violent,'' said miss brown. ``but plenty of teen-agers are not even recognized for accomplishments.''
now, miss brown will be a role model. ``i can handle it,'' she said. ``it's great.''
noxzema skin cream was the other sponsor of the event
president p.w. botha on wednesday rejected worldwide appeals to halt the hangings of the ``sharpeville six'' as defense lawyers launched a bid to save the condemned blacks
anglican archbishop desmond tutu, in a rare meeting with botha, urged the president to heed the widespread appeals for clemency. the black nobel peace laureate emerged after 40 minutes in botha's cape town office to say the president had ruled out personal intervention
if ever there was a case for the state president to exercise his discretion, and grant clemency, this is it,'' said defense lawyer prakash diar
they are very simple, ordinary people who do not see themselves as political martyrs.''
defense lawyers, battling for a stay of execution, filed an appeal in pretoria supreme court citing new evidence. the appeal contended that a prosecution witness committed perjury after being told by police to implicate two of the defendants
the five men and one woman, convicted of a 1984 mob killing of a black township official even though no evidence showed their direct involvement, are scheduled to hang at dawn friday at pretoria central prison
justice w.j. human, who sentenced the six to the gallows two years ago, will consider the appeal thursday. a finding of new evidence is the only means available to stop the hangings now that botha has refused to commute the sentence
the condemned are theresa ramashamola, 26; mojalefa sefatsa, 32; reid mokoena, 24; oupa diniso, 32; duma khumalo, 28; and francis mokgesi, 30
the six were convicted by white judges of murder in connection with the september 1984 killing of black township councilor jacob dlamini in sharpeville, about 40 miles south of johannesburg
the attorneys submitted documents wednesday stating that joseph manete, a black who testified anonymously during the 1984 trial, has claimed he was brutalized by police
according to the documents, manete said officers told him to say in an affidavit that he had seen two of the defendants at the scene even though he had not
defense lawyers tried during the trial to question manete about his statements to his own lawyer on the alleged police action, but the court objected, citing attorney-client privilege. in documents submitted to human on wednesday, manete waives those rights and the protection of anonymity
defense lawyers said they would request a retrial if the stay of execution is granted
the planned execution of the six has drawn condemnation and calls for clemency from religious and political leaders from around the world, including president reagan and leaders in britain, france and west germany
on wednesday, the european economic community appealed to south africa to spare them
the case is controversial because no evidence was produced to directly link the six to dlamini's death
they were convicted under the doctrine of ``common purpose,'' which holds they were responsible for the killing by joining a crowd of 100 people who gathered at dlamini's home with the intent to kill him. he was stoned and burned to death
dlamini was killed in riots which began a two-year outbreak of nationwide anti-apartheid unrest that left more than 2,000 blacks dead. activists frequently targeted black township councilors, considering them collaborators with the government
officials who considered going out of business to avoid road maintenance costs have decided the cost of not having a town government could be much higher
expected development at the gateway to adjacent voyageurs national park requires a government, with its planning and zoning powers, the officials decided
we're never going to have the kind of crowds they have at yellowstone, yosemite or glacier, but the traffic's going to increase,'' mayor mike williams said tuesday. ``we're going to get some development and we're going to have to have planning to control it.''
the opening last summer of the national park's visitor center spurred the beginnings of new development, including a recently built mobile home park and plans for a condominium project
officials hope to stay ahead of any development by finishing a comprehensive plan within a year, the mayor said
officials also were swayed by residents of this northern minnesota town of 101 people, who opposed the plan just as they had a similar proposal in 1984
officials hoped to pass their road maintenance costs on to koochiching county by dissolving the government. improvement of the town's five miles of mostly gravel roads was estimated to cost as much as $200,000, but the town could barely afford its $8,000 maintenance budget
an alaska senator called for a temporary ban on fishing in part of the bering sea as the coast guard said wednesday that 15 foreign vessels have been detected fishing illegally in alaskan waters over the past 18 months
coast guard commandant adm. paul yost said the vessels did not include the seven japanese trawlers videotaped by american fishermen in janaury nor six polish vessels spotted by a national oceanic and atmospheric administration plane in february
yost said it was impossible to catch any of the ships spotted by coast guard planes because they were long gone before a cutter could arrive on the scene, but information on the sightings was sent to the north pacific fishery management council
you can't cite them from an aircraft. you need ships to do the actual enforcement,'' yost told reporters, adding the coast guard has two ships to patrol the 800,000-square mile u.s. fishing zone off alaska
yost was among the dozen witnesses that testified before the senate commerce committee about illegal fishing in american waters and possible overfishing in an area of the bering sea known as the ``doughnut hole.''
alaska republican sen. ted stevens, a committee member, said he would introduce a resolution calling on the state deparment to open talks with the soviet union about closing the ``doughnut hole'' to all fishing until scientists complete studies of the area
other witnesses told the committee:
_evdience in a 1982-1983 court case showed the existence of a ``master plan by the japanese fishing fleet in alaskan waters to evade enforcement vessels and manipulate catch records.''
_the soviet union revoked the licenses of the captains of several of its fishing boats in april 1987 after the u.s. coast guard spotted the vessels fishing in american waters
_overfishing by foreign fleets in the international waters off the bering sea may ultimately affect the fish harvest by domestic fishermen in the u.s. zone
in addition, committee staff released a letter from kazuo shima, councillor of the japanese fisheries agency in tokyo, that said reports of illegal fishing in the american zone were ``vastly exaggerated.''
the letter to sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., committee chairman, also called for ``multilateral talks'' about the bering sea fishery
ed wolfe, the state department's ambassador for oceans and fisheries, said the reagan administration was reviewing the legal implications of such a closure
the catch by fishing vessels from japan, korea, poland and china in the 4,500-square-mile ``doughnut hole'' has risen from about 200,000 metric tons in 1984 over 1 million metric tons in 1987
a pentagon spokesman said wednesday that the first formal talks between the superpower defense secretaries were productive and friendly, despite the raising of sensitive issues by the united states
defense secretary frank c. carlucci and his soviet counterpart, dmitri yazov, discussed strategic nuclear weapons, the implementation of the superpower treaty to eliminate medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles and the size of their respective armed forces, said pentagon spokesman dan howard
carlucci and yazov met privately with only their translators present for 10 minutes at the opening of the afternoon session, at the soviet embassy, and emerged quiet and grim. neither side would comment on the private session
earlier, the mood had appeared jovial, although carlucci raised u.s. allegations that the soviets violated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty by building a phased-array radar far from the soviet border in siberia. the pact requires such radars to be along the border
the talks are scheduled to end thursday
the tone has been very positive and cooperative throughout,'' said howard, the assistant secretary of defense for public affairs. ``we are pleased with the way things are going.''
during the afternoon session, howard said carlucci questioned yazov about ``dangerous activities,'' such as the physical contact between u.s. and soviet ships in the black sea last month and the fatal shooting of army maj. arthur nicholson by a soviet soldier three years ago in east germany
the united states said the soviet ships intentionally bumped the u.s. ships
carlucci said earlier he would seek a soviet apology for the slaying of nicholson and try to work out new guidelines to prevent friction between u.s. and soviet ground, air and naval forces
a spokesman for the soviet embassy in bern, vladimir pozdniakov, said the soviet delegation would not comment on the talks until yazov and an aide, col. gen. nikolai chervov, address a news conference thursday
carlucci was also to give a full version of the u.s. position at a news conference thursday
yazov opened the formal talks wednesday on a light note, said howard
gesturing around the second-floor conference room of the u.s. embassy, yazov ``commented that (it) ... was a very small room, and said there is a saying in russian that although we have close quarters, we shouldn't quarrel.''
everyone got a laugh out of that,'' said howard
reporters and photographers were allowed briefly into the rooms where the conferences and meals were held but were ushered out as talks began
the main point that mr. yazov made in the beginning was that he wanted to have useful discussions without having the pressure of negotiations ... to arrive at some sort of agreement,'' said howard
the defense ministers faced each other across a long table, carlucci flanked by assistant defense secretary ronald lehman and a translator, and yazov by a translator and chervov, a top soviet arms control spokesman
before leaving moscow, yazov said he was ``prepared to discuss issues of preventing incidents between the armed forces of the united states and the u.s.s.r.''
and he said he hoped for ``a frank, constructive discussion'' of arms control issues including strategic arms, nuclear testing, chemical and conventional weapons. fighting</head>
the soviet union has failed to ``deal seriously'' with issues that need to be resolved for a settlement in afghanistan, state department spokesman charles e. redman said wednesday
in response to reporters' questions, redman reacted to a soviet announcement blaming ``procrastination and delay'' by the united states and pakistan for moscow's inability to meet a march 15 deadline for agreement on a withdrawal of its troops from afghanistan
the soviets had said that if the agreement was reached in united nations-sponsored talks in geneva by that date, it could begin the pullout on may 15
redman said in reponse, ``the march 15 target date was an artificial and arbitrary date put forward by the soviet union. the soviet union knows full well that an agreement cannot be reached without their commitment to a complete withdrawal in the context of a safeguarded and comprehensive settlement
we're disappointed that the soviet union has chosen to make a public issue out of the arbitrary date rather than deal seriously with the issues which remain to be resolved before the geneva process can be concluded.''
still to be settled, he said, are precise details of the withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops and the way the afghan government will be organized after the soviets leave
the united states and the soviet union must also reach an understanding about how they will cease aid to their clients in afghanistan _ the soviet-backed government and the u.s.-backed resistance forces, redman said
he reiterated the u.s. determination to aid the afghan rebels as long as the soviets assist the kabul regime
the soviets have objected to this condition on grounds the united states has no right to tell moscow it cannot support a legitimate government, but the united states has said the afghan government is merely a ``faction'' in what is essentially a civil war
the internal revenue service said wednesday it is sending tax bills averaging $4,000 to thousands of civilian employees of the u.s. military who work abroad
as many as 40,000 of these civilians work in military commissaries and recreation facilities. they are known as naf employees because they are paid out of non-appropriated funds _ typically from the revenues of those facilities
the irs said the employees may owe as much as $30 million in back taxes because they wrongly claimed the foreign-income exclusion, which allows americans working abroad to exempt up to $70,000 a year from u.s. taxes. this benefit is not available to government employees, but many naf workers insist they are not government employees because of the source of their paychecks
the irs has rejected that distinction since 1954, but said taxpayers who disagree may appeal
the agency said it already has mailed audit reports and tax bills to 600 employees in west germany
an engine room fire wednesday disabled a cruise ship off the mexican coast, but the crew extinguished the blaze and the ship with 715 people aboard was towed to port
the navy cutter vigilant escorted the 465-foot ship, the scandinavian star, as a precaution, according to chief petty officer luis diaz of the u.s. coast guard in miami
the fire is out and the ship is being towed by the mexican navy to cancun,'' said diaz
there were no injuries from the fire, but a 71-year-old st. petersburg man who suffered a heart attack was in stable condition and on his way home aboard a coast guard plane
a second person who suffered a spinal cord injury was also evacuated with the heart attack victim, but diaz said that injury also was apparently not related to the fire
the ship was expected to arrive in cancun late wednesday or thursday. the 449 passengers will be flown to st. petersburg, said jill dechello, spokesman for the ship's owner, seaescape ltd. of miami
the scandinavian star was on a 3-day cruise to cozumel, mexico, and was returning to st. petersburg when the fire broke out about 1 a.m. est wednesday, she said
the crew sealed off the engine room and pumped in carbon dioxide to put out the fire
they used all their co2 and closed off the engine room,'' said diaz. ``then they requested more assistance from the coast guard.'' the fire was already extinguished when the vigilant arrived about 10 a.m., he added
ms. dechello said the company did not know what sparked the fire
it will take a week before we know the cause and the extent of the damage,'' said ms. dechello
in august 1984, a fire struck the star's sister ship, the scandinavian sun, in the port of miami, killing a passenger and a crewman
i feel they are two totally different incidents that are in no way related,'' said ms. dechello. she said the cruise line was inspected by the coast guard and rigorously enforced all safety rules
wednesday's fire occurred as the scandinavian star was about 35 miles off isla mujeres, a mexican island north of the tourist resort cancun in the yucatan peninsula, the coast guard said
warren county officials have agreed to pay $166,000 to the family of a 5-year-old boy who was arrested at his home one night, taken to jail, informed of his rights and interrogated about vandalism at a construction site
the settlement came monday, when a trial was to have begun in u.s. district court on the family's lawsuit against several officials. the county also will pay attorneys' fees. the settlement will be paid by the county's insurance company over 21 years
jeremy lance, now 9, began having nightmares, visions of the devil and fears of dying soon after the incident, said his mother, billie jean lance myers. the boy has been seeing a psychiatrist, she said
he knows he was done wrong, and this is to set things straight,'' she said. ``maybe knowing this is all over, there will be a sense of relief.''
the family sued former warren county deputy sheriff billy prater, now a highway patrolman; former youth services officer dale potter, now city judge in mcminnville; the county sheriff; and the county executive
ms. myers said prater came to her house about 10:30 p.m. on june 5, 1984, and took jeremy in a patrol car to jail, where prater and potter questioned the boy. ms. myers said she was kept waiting for about 30 minutes before she was allowed to see her son
we think the sum paid to jeremy ... compensates jeremy for the damage done to him and the horrible nightmare he has lived through,'' said the family's attorney, michael galligan
the suit was dismissed once by u.s. district judge thomas hull, but reinstated by the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals in cincinnati

editors: laserphoto will transmit a color photo at 4:30 p.m. est showing gen. noriega smiling and waving today at his headquarters in panama city. the photo is vertical and the same as pan2 of today
ap photos
the long-awaited 23-count indictment _ which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim _ culminated a 14-month grand jury investigation into the arms-for-hostages deals with iran and the diversion of profits to the nicaraguan rebels at a time when congress banned direct u.s. military aid to the contras
the indictment variously charged the defendants with conspiracy, theft of government property, obstruction of justice, false statements, falsification, destruction and removal of documents
north was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing the presidential inquiry into the iran-contra affair in november 1986, and concealing, falsifying or destroying official documents
poindexter was named in two counts of obstructing a congressional inquiry and two other counts of false statements
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primary in illinois on tuesday
99 percent of precincts reporting.       dukakis                  0 gephardt                 0 gore                     0 jackson                 37 simon                  136 babbitt                  0 hart                     0 larouche                 0 uncommitted              0 total                  173
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primary in illinois on tuesday
99 percent of precincts reporting.       bush                    69 dole                    13 robertson                0 uncommitted              0 du pont                  0 haig                     0 kemp                     0 kirkpatrick              0 total                   82
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primary in illinois on tuesday
11,616 of 11,724 precincts reporting - 99 percent
dukakis, 242,076 - 17 percent
gephardt, 31,736 - 2 percent
gore, 76,795 - 5 percent
jackson, 457,352 - 31 percent
simon, 627,780 - 43 percent
babbitt, 4,870 - 0 percent
hart, 12,553 - 1 percent
larouche, 5,937 - 0 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primary in illinois on tuesday
11,616 of 11,724 precincts reporting - 99 percent
bush, 465,286 - 55 percent
dole, 308,107 - 36 percent
robertson, 58,857 - 7 percent
du pont, 4,606 - 1 percent
haig, 3,732 - 0 percent
kemp, 12,969 - 2 percent
no individual contracts will be signed during the writers guild of america strike, meaning the ``tonight show'' and other daily programs will get no new material until the walkout ends, the guild announced wednesday
the vote by the guild council reverses the position taken in earlier strikes, when individual waivers were approved for certain programs, including johnny carson's ``tonight show.''
the stance also reiterates the guild position that none of its writers will work on next month's academy awards broadcast
the council has decided to table all consideration of independent contracts until a future time,'' said mona mangan, executive director of the writers guild east, in a statement released after the vote
the strike by the 9,000-member guild against the alliance of motion picture and television producers began march 7. striking writers in hollywood and new york city have been walking picket lines
the writers had rejected an offer from the producers a day earlier. it marks the fourth walkout since 1973 by the wga; the longest, in 1981, lasted 17 weeks
the guild also announced wednesday that the canadian and british writers guilds have asked their members to support the walkout unless they had contracted for work prior to the strike
u.s. industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february as reductions in output at auto factories and coal mines offset gains in other areas, the government reported wednesday
the federal reserve said that the february advance, which followed a 0.3 percent january gain, was the poorest showing since output actually declined by 0.2 percent in september
but private economists said the gains, even at a much slower pace, represented good news for the economy, especially given fears that production would have to be cut back sharply in the early part of 1988 in order to work off high levels of unsold goods
there is nothing here that signals anything dangerous for the economy,'' said maury harris, chief economist at painewebber. ``we are slowing down, but we are not slowing all that much.''
industrial output had surged ahead with monthly increases of 1.1 percent in october and 0.5 percent in both november and december. however, much of that production went into inventories of unsold goods as consumer spending fell during the final three months of the year
economists had worried that factories would cut back production so much in the early part of 1988 that it could topple the country into a recession
but recent business statistics, including the continued advances in production, rising consumer spending and strong gains in employment, have eased those fears
the industrial production figures depict an economy that is growing less rapidly but really looks pretty healthy,'' said jerry jasinowski, chief economist of the national association of manufacturers
u.s. manufacturers have enjoyed a significant rebound in output over the past year as the weaker dollar has boosted export sales. forecasts of continued economic growth this year are relying heavily on those advances to cntinue
jasinowski said a recent survey of the association's members found that a significant 20 percent of the companies were looking forward to higher sales this year
they see a lot of strength in their markets and very little probability of a recession,'' he said
the february increase included a 0.2 percent rise in production at manufacturing plants, identical to the gain in january
auto production fell 0.9 percent in february and now stands 8.5 percent below where it was in october. the output of passenger cars was 6.1 million units at an annual rate, a small improvement over january, but this was offset by a drop in production of light trucks
factories making durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, saw output rise by 0.2 percent last month while output at plants making nondurable goods edged up 0.1 percent
output in the mining industry dropped 0.8 percent in february, the third consecutive monthly decline. the setback last month was blamed on a drop in coal production
output at the nation's utilities rose 0.7 percent in february following a 1.8 percent january increase
the various changes left industrial production at 134.4 percent of its 1977 base of 100. starting sunday, sted monday; originally moved in advance for wednesday pms as b0175</note>
filming a documentary inside the soviet union cannot occur without omnipresent government officials, state-selected interviewees and limited access to certain areas
despite the restrictions, executive producer ira miskin said he didn't believe his seven-hour documentary, ``portrait of the soviet union,'' was compromised
many of the soviets who appear in the film, to be shown in installments on sunday, monday and tuesday on ted turner's superstation tbs, are members of the communist party, hand-picked by the government to appear in the film. officials from gostelradio, the state broadcasting committee, accompanied his crews on nearly every shoot
at the end, we had to rely on our own judgment,'' said miskin. ``and you also see the pictures. you can say anything you want over pictures, but the pictures _ what's going on the frame _ don't lie.''
nevertheless, the result is a flattering depiction of life in the soviet union _ an official portrait, beautifully photographed, showing only the occasional wart
the series does mention the soviet union's problems, but only those that have been raised in the state-controlled media: bureaucratic sluggishness, shoddy workmanship, complaints about consumer goods and housing
larger problems are inexplicably absent, given the briefest of mentions, or left for viewers to discern for themselves. these include the struggles over jewish emigration and human rights, the explosive nature of the nation's more than 100 nationalities, the issue of who really wields kremlin power, and the massive military budget and the war in afghanistan
i think the films do look to some degree pro-soviet,'' miskin said in an interview. ``i think that our intention was for certain aspects of it to look pro-soviet. not pro-soviet government, but pro-soviet people.''
the first episode, which is about the ethnic russians, is fairly typical. there is poet yevgeny yevtushenko, the one-time rebel who is now part of the establishment, reading a few lines from his epic work about the holocaust, ``babi yar.'' that's the only reference to anti-semitism in the soviet union in the entire seven hours
miskin, who is of russian extraction and jewish, said he could not ``in good conscience'' overlook the problems of soviet jewry, but he added that ``it's a much more complicated story than can be done in this kind of survey piece. it's a story that deserves its own hour
so to the extent that we ignored jewish emigration, we could not ignore the fact that anti-semitism existed and exists in the soviet union. it is a fact of life. you gotta mention it. we did,'' he said
what gets more than a mention is music and dancing
there's dancing by leningrad ballerinas and russians dressed as cossacks; by teen-agers in discos and old men straight from a yogurt commercial; by the georgian state dance troupe and bemedaled red army veterans
so much foot-stomping and high-kicking is in the series that some viewers may get the impression the biggest name in the soviet union isn't lenin or stalin, but danskin
miskin, who also did the upbeat ``portrait of america'' series for tbs, said he wanted to draw in the general audience with the music and dance, then give viewers an understanding of the soviet lifestyle, politics and economy
such an overemphasis on dance weakened the segment that profiled the peoples of georgia and armenia, miskin said
one troubling part comes in the episode on central asia, in which an official involved in the restoration of mosques is allowed to deliver the statement: ``times change. islam is not so popular now.''
the documentary allows the statement to go unchallenged, even though there are 45 million moslems in the soviet union _ 16 percent of the population _ and many practice their faith regularly despite kremlin oppression
miskin replied that ``our perception was ... the general consensus seems to be that islam is a mile wide and an inch deep, rather than a mile deep and an inch wide. ... so, we couldn't find a way to challenge it, essentially.''
the strongest of the segments by far is the sixth hour, a moving piece on how world war ii affected the soviet union. miskin does a good job of blending historic war footage and poignant interviews with elderly widows and veterans
other episodes look at life in siberia and the baltic republics. the final hour summarizes the series and features a lot of footage from the goodwill games, the international sports competition that turner conceived with the soviets
elsewhere in television:
cable estimates _ nielsen says its surveys show cable continuing to grow rapidly across the country, up to 51.1 percent penetration in february 1988, compared to 50.5 percent last november _ which was the first time cable penetration was found in over half of u.s. television homes. the february figure translates into 45.5 million television households
a federal grand jury today indicted former national security adviser john poindexter, lt. col. oliver north, and two arms dealers on conspiracy charges in the diversion of iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the long-awaited 23-count indictment _ which in addition to north and poindexter also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim _ culminated a 14-month grand jury investigation into the arms-for-hostages deals with iran and the diversion of funds to the contras
the grand jury said the four men ``deceitfully and without legal authorization'' organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
the four defrauded the government ``by deceitfully exploiting for their own purposes'' u.s. arms sales to iran, ``rather than pursuing solely the specified governmental objectives of the initiative, including the release of americans being held hostage in lebanon,'' the grand jury said
one count said the defendants embezzled and converted to their own use proceeds generated by the weapons sales to iran. it was reported in the indictment that the arms sales generated approximately $30 million, while the u.s. government was paid only $12.2 million for the weapons
the indictment stated the conspiracy began in late spring or early summer of 1985 and continued through at least december 1986
the central conspiracy count charges that poindexter, north, secord and hakim ``together with others known and unknown'' conspired to defraud the united states by obstructing lawful government functions
the indictment variously charged the defendants with conspiracy, theft of government property, obstruction of justice, false statements, falsification, destruction and removal of documents
the indictment said the conspiracy deprived the government ``of the honest and faithful services of employees'' by using the positions of poindexter and north to generate funds for secord and hakim
north was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing the presidential inquiry into the iran-contra affair in november 1986, and concealing, falsifying or destroying official documents
poindexter was named in two counts of obstructing a congressional inquiry and two other counts of false statements
the three counts in which all four were charged _ conspiracy to defraud the united states and commit offenses against the government, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of the arms sale proceeds _ carry together maximum penalties of 25 years' imprisonment. each charge carries a maximum fine of $250,000
each of the obstruction and false statement charges against north and poindexter carries a five-year sentence and $250,000 fine
the destruction of documents charge against north carries a three-year term
hakim and secord, among other things, were charged with conspiracy to pay illegal gratuities to north and his family to further the sale of arms to iran so that secord and hakim ``would continue to receive opportunities for substantial revenues and profits'' from ``lucrative activities referred to them by north and facilitated by him.''
this charge listed a series of two payments totaling $16,000 to security expert, glenn robinette, who installed a security system at north's home in great falls, va
the indictment also charged that hakim created an investment account containing $200,000 in a swiss bank for the financial benefit of the north family
secord and hakim were also charged with offering an illegal gratuity to north in return for his support of the private supply network for the contras and iran arms sales
north was charged with receipt of an illegal gratuity stemming from the installation of the security system. the charge carries a two-year sentence and a $250,000 fine
north was also charged with pocketing at least $4,300 of the $90,000 in traveler's checks from contra leader adolfo calero. the charge alleged that calero had given the traveler's checks to north for efforts to help release u.s. hostages in lebanon and to help support the contras
north was also charged with conspiracy to defraud the government in connection with the use of a tax-exempt foundation that raised several million dollars in private donations to help arm the contras. two conservative fund-raisers, carl r. ``spitz'' channell and richard miller, pleaded guilty last spring to the same charge and identified north as a co-conspirator
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh and several of his top prosecutors made a final presentation to the panel
last week, former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane, pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges that he withheld information from congress in 1985 and in 1986 about covert administration efforts to help the contras during the ban on direct u.s. military aid
the 1985-1986 sales to iran were part of an effort to trade arms for u.s. hostages being held in lebanon by pro-iranian terrorist organizations
congressional investigators determined that of the $16 million in profits from the arms sales, $3.8 million went to the contras when the congressional ban on direct u.s. military aid to the nicaraguan rebels was in effect
the nicaraguan rebels on tuesday accused the sandinistas of being totalitarian for refusing to allow opposition political parties to be represented at cease-fire talks planned for next week
presidential press spokesman manuel espinoza said monday night that the leftist government vetoed the rebel request last week
one of the reasons is space,'' espinoza said. ``there's just not room for a mountain of people.''
the first face-to-face talks in nicaraguan territory between the government and rebels, known as contras, are set to begin monday at sapoa, a border post near the costa rican border. the meeting had been set for last week, but the government canceled it after the contras at the last minute insisted on a preliminary meeting to work out the topics for discussion
the rebels backed off that demand and both sides agreed to an open agenda. one issue the contras want to include in the discussions is a proposal by roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo that calls for political amnesty and a revision of the military draft law, among other things. the rebel delegation will be headed by its top political leader, adolfo calero
the sandinistas are insisting that the talks center only on the mechanics of working out a cease-fire in line with a regional peace plan the five central american presidents signed last august
the government group will be led by defense minister humberto ortega, the brother of president daniel ortega
a contra statement tuesday said nicaraguan resistance, as the rebels are formally called, ``puts special importance and utility on the participation by the respresentatives of the internal opposition in the talks, considering its protaganist role in the nicaraguan conflict and its participation in a national solution to the national conflict.''
the rebel communique, read over the telephone to the associated press, said the rejection of the presence of opposition party members as well as the dismissal of the cardinal as mediator of the negotiations confirmed the sandinistas' ``totalitarian tendencies.''
president ortega on march 2 said obando y bravo's mediation no longer would be needed because the talks would be direct. the move was seen here as retaliation for the cardinal's proposal, which included political themes that the government said it would not discuss
president ortega on tuesday said he did not ``discount that at the last minute the mercenary forces will come up with pretexts so the meeting would not take place.''
an esimtabed 50,000 people have been killed and wounded in the war that has continued for more than six years
president ortega also proposed monday the renewal of talks with the internal political opposition, also a condition of the peace plan. those talks broke off last december when the political parties insisted on discussing a change in the constitution
the peace outline was signed in august by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and costa rica. it seeks to end wars here, in el salvador and guatemala
it calls for cease-fires, political amnesties, democratic reforms and an end to logistic or strategic support for insurgencies
president reagan's former national security adviser, john m. poindexter, and fired white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north were indicted wednesday along with two arms dealers on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contras
the long-awaited 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, culminated a 14-month grand jury investigation into the arms-for-hostages deals with iran and the diversion of $4 million in profits to the contras at a time when congress banned direct u.s. military aid to the rebels
the indictment variously charged the defendants with conspiracy, theft of government property, obstruction of justice, false statements, falsification, destruction and removal of documents
all four were named in three counts that charged conspiracy to defraud the united states and commit offenses against the government, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of the arms sale proceeds
north was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing the presidential inquiry into the iran-contra affair in november 1986 and concealing, falsifying or destroying official documents
poindexter was named in two counts of obstructing a congressional inquiry and two other counts of false statements
the three counts in which all four were charged _ conspiracy to defraud the united states and commit offenses against the government, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of the arms sale proceeds _ carry together maximum penalties of 25 years imprisonment. each charge carries a maximum fine of $250,000
each of the obstruction and false statement charges against north and poindexter carries a five-year sentence and $250,000 fine
the destruction of documents charge against north carries a three-year term
the federal election commission certified almost $3.5 million in new federal matching funds on wednesday for 11 presidential candidates, including nearly $900,000 for pat robertson whose republican campaign is winding down
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis continued to lead the democratic money race, qualifying for more than $600,000 in new matching funds and raising his matching total to more than twice that of his competitors for his party's nomination
vice president george bush, who has a big lead in the republican contest, got in line for a new quarter of a million dollars in federal funds, keeping his edge in the category
in all, the new funds raise the total certified thus far for 14 candidates to $45.44 million
presidential candidates qualify for matching funds by raising at least $5,000 in individual contributions of $250 or less in at least 20 states. after qualifying, every individual contribution of $250 or less is matched dollar-for-dollar by federal funds. the money comes from the voluntary $1 checkoff on federal tax returns
candidates lose eligibility for matching funds for new contributions by withdrawing from the race or by failing to win at least 10 percent of the vote in two consecutive primaries in which they compete
here are the republican presidential hopefuls, the amount of new money certified wednesday and the total certified thus far:
bush, $247,118.92, $6,859,448.66
sen. bob dole of kansas, $380,928.96, $6,604,354.65
former gov. pete du pont of delaware, who has withdrawn, 0, $2,300,502.23
former secretary of state alexander haig, who has withdrawn, $45,237.64, $484,622.29
rep. jack kemp of new york, who has withdrawn, 0, $4,506,454.78
robertson, $896,551.91, $8,138,333.65
among the democratic candidates, here are the figures:
former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, who has withdrawn, 0, $870,133.58
dukakis, $621,098.39, $5,684,114.11
rep. richard gephardt of missouri, $161,107.89, $2,340,696.53
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, $336,312.04, $2,540,541.74
former sen. gary hart of colorado, who has withdrawn, $5,399.68, $1,122,281.67
jesse jackson, $330,189.60, $1,047,538.32
sen. paul simon of illinois, $397,839.29, $2,637,867.28
independent candidate lenora b. fulani qualified for $44,548.96, raising her total in federal matching funds thus far to $307,225.19. company, other comments.</note>
at least 10 firefighters have become ill after battling a weekend fire that destroyed a warehouse containing thousands of chemicals, authorities said wednesday
several residents of a nearby mobile home park also reported rashes and other adverse health effects after saturday night's fire in the town of seabrook, which was the worst accident involving hazardous materials in state history
until we take a look at specifically what compounds were involved, it's difficult to evaluate the seriousness of the health implications,'' said brian strohm, deputy director of the state division of public health. he was unaware of anyone being hospitalized
state fire marshal bill toland said some of the 75 to 80 firefighters called in to extinguish the fire have reported nausea, tightness in their chests and other symptoms
toland said exeter's fire chief ordered his firefighters to go to a hospital for blood tests _ and the chief himself wasn't feeling well
strohm estimated that 10 to 14 firefighters have fallen ill. he said the state became aware of the illnesses tuesday. he said he was not aware of any new illnesses since then
the firedestroyed an 8,000-square-foot warehouse of the aesar division of johnson matthey, an international precious metals company with u.s. headquarters in malvern, pa
johnson matthey officials did not immediately return a telephone message wednesday afternoon
the warehouse contained about 3,000 chemicals, including heavy metals and inorganic chemicals, the company said in a statement
officials said the fire caused millions of dollars in damages and will cost millions more to clean up. johnson matthey has hired clean harbors inc. of kingston, mass., to conduct the cleanup
federal and state investigators on wednesday continued trying to determine the cause of the fire. toland said investigators from the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms believe it was accidental
another fire broke out in seabrook at the same time saturday night, at an abandoned lumber yard. that fire caused an estimated $500,000 damages. toland said its cause also remains unknown
about 80 residents of a trailer park were evacuated when wind shifted and blew a plume from the chemical fire in their direction
fearing that radioactive materials could have been stored in the warehouse, some firefighters were tested for radiation exposure but the tests were negative. officials from the stalled seabrook nuclear power plant provided testing assistance
strohm said determining possible health risks from the warehouse fire is difficult because some of the chemicals' properties may have changed when mixed with each other and with water and when they burned
barbara curtis, johnson matthey's manager for environmental affairs, said clean harbors workers have finished cleaning the warehouse parking lot and are building a temporary cover over the fire site to prevent any precipitation from seeping through
state hazardous-waste officials have said they are conducting laboratory tests of the runoff but have not received results.  ever</head> national...</note>
the democratic presidential race was as scrambled as the republican contest was clear wednesday after sen. paul simon's illinois victory enhanced the chances the democrats would met this summer without an obvious nominee
on the republican side, the biggest question appeared to be merely whether _ or when _ george bush's rivals, trounced in primary after primary, would drop out
bush, donning his leader-at-work mantle, lunched with president reagan and played dinner host to israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir while savoring his 55 percent majority over bob dole's 36 percent and pat robertson's 7 percent in tuesday's illinois primary, the one that dole once said would start his turnaround
dole tended business in the senate and pondered his future. in the face of defeat, he met with supporters in washington
they're all very friendly, very positive, very upbeat, saying `hang in there,''' dole said
robertson, a big loser tuesday, went home saying he would have to scale back his effort. he has spent within $2 million of the $27 million allowed by law for the primaries
republican national chairman frank fahrenkopf signaled it was time for the gop race to end. he said dole and robertson should ``start thinking past the convention and start thinking about november'' and the need to win the white house
but among the democrats, the talk was of a brokered convention, which simon says is inevitable, and of the steps that some party leaders said must be taken to prevent so publicly divisive an event this summer
simon, aglow in the winner's circle at last, said the nomination in a deadlocked convention could easily come to him because ``i'm probably the second choice of as many people as anyone else.''
at the same time, he all but conceded the next big bloc of delegates _ michigan's 138, to be awarded in a primary march 26 _ and concentrated on another state he thought he could win, wisconsin, on april 5
home-state voters pumped up simon's political adrenaline with his 43 percent showing in tuesday's illinois primary, against jackson's 31 percent, dukakis' 17 percent and a weak 5 percent for albert gore jr. and 2 percent for richard gephardt. but simon conceded he still must prove himself
i have to win outside the great lakes region,'' simon said, ``and i will.'' he flew directly to milwaukee and told reporters, ``you are going to be seeing a lot of paul simon.''
but the debate among democrats was whether they should search for a formula to avoid a deadlocked convention. paul kirk, the democratic national chairman, has proposed a meeting after the primaries at which party leaders and the candidates would close ranks around the front-runner. he said a brawl at the convention would damage the democrats' chances in the election
new york gov. mario cuomo, often pictured as the beneficiary of a brokered convention, seconded kirk's motion
i think it would be a mistake to go to atlanta, have a divisive convention, have a contention over a canddidate, have deals cut practically in public,'' cuomo said
jackson said he would attend a post-primary season summit, but only to talk about fair play and fair rules at the july convention
my base of support is broader than any other candidate,'' jackson said, contending the nomination could go to him outright
simon, acknowledging he won't be the front-runner, said there was nothing wrong in the image of a convention deal selecting the nominee
brokered conventions produced franklin roosevelt, harry truman, john f. kennedy,'' he said. ``we didn't do too badly for this country in those brokered conventions.''
gephardt struck an underdog posture, saying ``the odds are against me here in michigan.''
they say i'm the underdog. i like being the underdog because the underdog usually does well,'' he said. the missouri congressman said he would duplicate a campaign gimmick that drew publicity just before iowa's long-ago caucuses: several dozen of his house colleagues will stump michigan for him on friday. 82nd airborne to honduras, quotes from howard baker that no decision yet made; deletes redundant 13th graf bgng, `fitzwater said that'</note>
president reagan said today that nicaraguan troops had attacked contra rebel positions in neighboring honduras and officials said he is considering sending the 82nd airborne in response
a senior u.s. official said the use of the 82nd airborne, based in ft. bragg, n.c., was one of a ``few options'' being considered by the administration to confront the new situation in central america
however, white house chief of staff howard baker, asked on capitol hill whether any military action was being taken in central america, said, ``that is absolutely not true....''
the president has made no decisions,'' baker said. ``he is identifying his options. he has not acted on them. we are keeping very close touch with the situation. it is a fluid and developing situation.''
baker and national security adviser colin powell briefed congressional leaders for more than an hour on what baker called ``an incursion'' by sandinista forces into honduras to eliminate contra supply locations in that country
it is clear the sandinistas ... have crossed the border into honduras and are mounting a major offensive,'' baker said. ``the outcome is uncertain.''
the white house said the president of honduras, jose azcona, asked for american assistance in trying to repel the nicaraguan forces, but white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said he could not say whether that request included a plea for military help
the honduran ambassador put the number of nicaraguan troops in his country as in the thousands, but nicaragua today strongly denied that its soldiers had entered honduran territory
we have never invaded honduras and we have never invaded any neighboring country,'' said maj. rosa pasos, a nicaragua defense ministry spokeswoman. ``so we totally deny those declarations made this morning by the white house.''
reagan, asked whether he was considering any use of u.s. military forces, replied, ``we've been in consultation with the honduran government but i can't comment on anything.''
he said that ``the information we have is that nicaragua has crossed the border into honduras. obviously we're concerned.''
speaking separatel, the honduran ambassador, roberto martinez, said that here a had been a ``penetration into honduran territory of a number, ... definitely in the thousands, of sandinista troops
at this moment, we are trying the utmost to obtain a clearing of the area, ... a total withdrawal, immediate withdrawal, of the sandinista troops from our territory.''
but he said his government hoped to avoid military action
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan, his national security adviser, the secretary of state and others ``have conferred at length in the last 24 hours concerning the nicaraguan invasion of honduran territory.''
fitzwater did not spell out what options were being considered, except he did say that ``the organization of american states will be asked to consider the issue, and the presidents of guatemala, costa rica and el salvador, will present their views.''
he said the administration no longer is thinking of working with congress on an aid package to simply provide the resistance forces with food, medicine, and other supplies, but not arms
house speaker jim wright said he could not immediately evaluate reports that sandinista troops had crossed into honduras
if true, that would be a very serious matter and would introduce an element of gravity that could profoundly alter the situation,'' including the willingness of congress to vote for further aid of some kind for the rebels, he told reporters
but wright said he still does not believe support exists in congress for any kind of renewed military aid for the rebels, and repeated that congressional democrats remain willing to talk about a further package of purely ``humanitarian'' aid
fitzwater said that 1,500 nicaraguan troops were inside hondruas and that an additional 4,500 appeared to be in a staging area to cross the border
fitzwater told reporters that ``all options are under consideration. at this moment, everything is being considered short of (u.s.) invasion.''
fitzwater commented one day after reagan met with democratic and republican congressional leaders. he failed to persuade the democratic leaders to get behind a new package of humanitarian aid for the contras
congressional sources, declining to be named, said at the meeting reagan pounded the table and said, ``there are some people around this table who don't seem to know who the bad guys are down there.''
today, fitzwater said, ``more than 1,500 sandinista troops are now inside honduras, attacking freedom fighter camps in an effort to destroy their remaining supplies.''
he added:
there are nearly 4,500 sandinista forces with strong helicopter support moving into the bocay valley, which is just below the honduran border. they've established a new base for this operation ... 
in the last several hours, the united states government has been in contact with the presidents of the other three democratic governments in the region,'' he said. ``we've had discussions concerning their response to this incursion and its meaning for the guatemala peace plan.''
the united states government today is examining its options,'' he said
when first word of the sandinista operation came monday night, democratic sources in congress portrayed it as a nicaraguan attempt to strengthen their position in advance of cease-fire talks with the contras, scheduled to begin monday
today, one senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the sandinista drive appeared to be aimed at a contra camp complex and supply depot
if the depot is knocked out, ``there will be nothing left'' of the contra war effort, the source said
that official said that contra commander enrique bermudez is in the bocay region and may be in ``serious trouble'' because he and his forces are surrounded by sandinista troops
nicaragua did not report the offensive until tuesday evening, when a defense ministry spokesman said it was under way but denied contra claims that sandinista troops crossed into honduras, where the rebels have bases
the army has undertaken major offensive operations. ... reports that the army has penetrated honduras are not true,'' the spokesman said
today, however, another official of the defense ministry would neither confirm nor deny that its troops had invaded honduras
we're looking into the reports,` an officer said. ``it's serious and that's why i can't say yes or no.'' both nicaraguans would not be identified
the honduran defense ministry said that 43 people had been killed in the sandinista initiative
heavy fighting was reported throughout nicaragua's 5th military region, which includes boaco, chontales, rio san juan and zelaya south. the contras said sandinista troops had overrun some rebel positions
fitzwater was peppered with questions about whether the administration was considering any use of u.s. military forces stationed in honduras and in nearby areas
the president has said many times that he does not plan to introduce invasion forces in central america,'' fitzwater said. ``we have said in the past, and it still holds true, that we do not plan to invade. ... that certainly hasn't changed.''
but fitzwater also said, ``at this moment, everything is being considered, short of invasion.'' but later he said ``nothing is ruled out at this point.''
i'm trying to be as restrained as possible,'' the spokesman said under intense questioning about u.s. military intentions. ``i'm telling you not to draw that signal (of direct u.s. military involvement), but we're in the midst of discussions.''
fitzwater said that administration officials had consulted by telephone late tuesday with congressional leaders and their representatives
the prosecutor in the ``preppie murder'' trial suggested in closing statements wednesday that the defendant strangled a teen-age woman after a bitter central park argument about his alcohol-induced impotence
perhaps he couldn't perform because he had too many tequilas and beers,'' assistant district attorney linda fairstein said of 21-year-old robert chambers
whatever the exact words were, only two human beings know what triggered the fight. it was an argument that escalated and became physical,'' she said
earlier, chambers' attorney ridiculed the prosecution version of the death of jennifer levin and said his client accidentally killed her during rough sex in the park
what he was doing was reacting to the pain. he was trying to stop her,'' lawyer jack litman said during his four-hour summation. ``he used force to repel the pain that was being caused to him.''
chambers is charged with second-degree murder. a former drug abuser who is under indictment on burglary charges in another case, chambers admits he killed the victim but says it was an accident after she attacked him sexually and hurt him
fairstein repeated her charge that chambers brutally beat and murdered miss levin, 18, while in a rage in the early morning of aug. 26, 1986
he squeezed her neck until her young life expired in his deadly hands. ... she struggled against death. she was in intense pain,'' fairstein said. ``she writhed and squirmed to free herself.''
holding a photo of miss levin taken in a bar hours before her death, fairstein told the jury: ``one can't help but look at that photograph and pray for time to stand still, for time to grab her and say, `don't go with robert chambers.'''
litman, in his summation, repeatedly told the jury in state supreme court in manhattan that the evidence supported chambers' version of the woman's death
litman reminded jurors that miss levin had pursued chambers in a bar on the upper east side of manhattan the night of her death because she wanted to have sex with him. a friend of miss levin testified the slain teen had said her previous encounters with chambers had been ``the best sex'' she ever had
that's why she pursued him, and that's why _ unfortunately _ this wound up the way it has,'' litman said
to convict chambers in the highly publicized case, ``you must exclude to a moral certainty every inference except one of guilt _ and you can't do that,'' he said
there are 20 different explanations that are as consistent with reality as the one they're (the prosecution) going to try to give you,'' said litman
following the summations, the jury is to receive its instructions in the case thursday before beginning deliberations. charges</head>
the very authority by which independent counsel lawrence e. walsh brought indictments wednesday against four major participants in the iran-contra affair is being challenged in a constitutional battle before the supreme court
but a supreme court decision striking down the so-called special prosecutor law would not necessarily invalidate the indictments returned against former national security adviser john m. poindexter, fired white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north, retired air force maj. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim
attorney general edwin meese iii had given walsh a back-up appointment in the justice department in an attempt to shield the iran-contra inquiry from legal attacks that the special prosecutor law improperly takes power from the president and confers it upon the federal judges
however, the status of walsh's investigation is further blurred because he began his work before the back-up authority was conferred. the targets of the investigation are expected to argue that the initial absence of the supporting authorization taints the entire inquiry
the supreme court will hear arguments april 26 in the constitutional challenge to the special prosecutor law. eight justices will decide the outcome. justice anthony m. kennedy has removed himself from consideration of the case without explanation. a decision is expected by july
a panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington ruled, 2-1, in january that the independent counsel provision of the ethics in government act of 1978 is unconstitutional
the law authorizes a federal court to appoint a special prosecutor when the attorney general recommends an independent investigation of a high-ranking administration official accused of a crime
the appeals court ruling came in the investigation of former justice department official theodore b. olson on charges he lied to congress
alexia morrison, the independent counsel investigating the olson case, appealed to the supreme court. ms. morrison did not receive back-up authority from meese and her investigation would be ended if the high court declares the special prosecutor law unconstitutional
two other inquiries by independent counsels also could be affected by the court's ruling
the perjury conviction of former white house aide michael k. deaver could stand or fall on the outcome. the investigation that led to the illegal lobbying conviction of former white house aide lyn nofziger had back-up authority similar to that conferred in the iran-contra case
here, at a glance, are developments in the economic picture wednesday:
production at u.s. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.2 percent in february, following a 0.3 percent january gain. it was the fifth consecutive increase and left american industry producing at a level 5.8 percent higher than a year ago, although the gains are below advances registered in late 1987
the february increase included a 0.2 percent rise in manufacturing, identical to january's gain. in both months, auto assembly lines were shut down as automakers worked to reduce a high backlog of unsold new cars
auto production fell 0.9 percent in february and now stands 8.5 percent below where it was in october
housing construction increased sharply in february, by 8.9 percent, the biggest monthly gain since a 12.7 percent rise in december 1986
it follows declines of 1.9 percent in january and 15.8 percent in december. all regions posted increases except the west, where starts fell 9 percent
many economists had predicted a housing rebound, since mortgage rates have fallen since the first of the year and are again in the single-digit range
job prospects for production and service workers are the brightest they have been in three years but are declining slightly for technical, professional and office workers, according to a survey by the bureau of national affairs, a private publisher of business research
twenty-one percent of the 398 corporations and organizations surveyed said they anticipate expanding production and service work forces from april through june. a year ago 15 percent expected an increase in hiring
but only 19 percent of the companies surveyed said they plan to increase technical and professional staffs, down from 21 percent for 1987's first quarter
stock prices climbed in late trading, putting on a show of strength in advance of thursday's monthly report on the nation's balance of trade
the dow jones average rose 16.91 to 2,064.32
the market had been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await the figures on the trade balance for january
in tokyo, the nikkei stock average closed at 25,704.43 points, up 228.76 points. the dollar closed at 127.49 yen, up 0.24 yen, on the foreign exchange market
the results of the illinois primary were just what the delegate counters for democratic candidates paul simon and jesse jackson expected, including michael dukakis's third-place finish without a single delegate
simon spokesman terry michael predicted early tuesday that the favorite son senator would claim 135 delegates in the direct-election primary. simon captured 136 of the 173 delegates at stake
steve cobble, delegate counter for jackson's campaign, expected his candidate to finish with close to 40 delegates based on his forecasts for various counties in illinois. jackson gained 37 delegates
the last-minute advertising blitz launched by dukakis failed to translate into delegates for the massachusetts governor
dukakis never made any headway,'' said cobble. ``he had four days of banging his head.''
michael, who contends that after all the primaries and caucuses the democrats will be ``gridlocked,'' said the illinois results solidify his theory of no clear winner heading into the convention
not only does it further assure the likelihood that no one claims a first-ballot victory on the morning of june 8, it pokes big holes in dukakis attempt to claim inevitability,'' michael said
the last big primaries _ new jersey and california _ are held june 7
dukakis still maintains a slight edge in total national convention delegates, according to the associated press survey. the massachusetts governor has 464.5 delegates with jackson second at 460.55 and gore third with 354.8. simon stands in fourth place with 171.5 delegates and gephardt is fourth with 145
there are 272.65 uncommitted delegates
on the republican side, vice president george bush _ to no one's surprise _ picked up 69 delegates out of the 82 at stake in illinois. kansas sen. bob dole finished a distant second and gained 13 delegates
bush has a commanding lead in the ap delegate count with 774 of the 1,139 needed to nominate. dole is second with 178 delegates and former television evangelist pat robertson is third with 17. there are 72 uncommitted delegates in the republican race
david sparks, delegate counter for the bush campaign, said the total was slightly higher than the delegates the vice president expected, and the campaign immediately started looking to the future
in puerto rico, we have a terrific organization. in connecticut, that's yet another home state of george bush and wisconsin has a good organization,'' sparks said. liability</head>
the senate on wednesday rejected an attempt to make private contractors at least partially liable for any future accidents caused by negligent work at the nation's nuclear weapons plants
the chamber voted 53-41 against a proposal by sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, after senate energy committee chairman bennett johnston said that subjecting private contractors to potentially huge damage claims while they are performing ``the most important and sensitive function of this government'' would merely drive them away from the nuclear weapons business
rather than attracting the big companies with the reliability and the expertise, we'd wind up with fly-by-night operators running these plants,'' said johnston, d-la. the senate's vote came on johnston's motion to table the metzenbaum proposal
metzenbaum, citing a long list of problems in the department of energy's nuclear complex, argued that ``unless we hold the contractors responsible, there is absolutely no incentive for them to operate these facilities as safely as possible.''
most of the doe's nuclear facilities, which produce the components for nuclear warheads, are operated by private companies, whose contracts total an estimated $100 billion
the debate over contractor liability occurred as the senate neared passage of a bill to renew the price-anderson act, the government's 30-year-old system of no-fault insurance covering nuclear accidents
the key feature of the measure is a tenfold increase, from $700 million to $7 billion, in the maximum amount of money that would be available for quick disbursement to victims of any single accident involving nuclear reactors
in the case of nuclear utilities, each commercial reactor would be required to continue to carry the maximum amount of private insurance available _ about $160 million. if any given accident cost more than that to compensate victims, the additional money _ up to $7 billion _ would be assessed equally among all 110 nuclear plants now operating
once that pool was exhausted, it would be up to congress to provide additional money to victims from taxpayer funds
the government, meanwhile, would continue to self-insure its own nuclear plants, offering the same $7 billion maximum that could be disbursed quickly in the wake of an accident. the system, for both commercial and government operations, shortcuts the usual legal requirements for damage claims by eliminating the necessity for victims to bring individual suits in court
since the legislation was first passed in 1957, doe contractors have been virtually absolved of any responsibility to share the financial burden in the event of an accident at a government plant
the senate did approve, 94-0, an amendment offered jointly by johnston and metzenbaum which provides for stiff fines, ranging to $100,000 per day, for violations of safety rules by doe contractors. additional fines, and prison sentences ranging up to five years, could be imposed on corporate officials who commit ``knowing and willful'' safety violations
but metzenbaum fell short on his bid to have contractors share the financial burden caused by accidents, even though, in a last-minute bid for additional support, he watered down the amendment to stipulate that a company could be held financially liable for no more money than its profit on its contract at the plant where an accident occurs
johnston noted that several companies have threatened to withdraw from bidding on future contracts unless they continued to be exempt from liability
the energy department already has shut down one weapons production reactor, the hanford facility in washington state. the others, at the savannah river plant in aiken, s.c., are being run at partial levels because of safety and environmental problems. dupont announced last year it will not seek to renew its contract to run savannah river. westinghouse is considered a front-runner to take over that plant. bail, details. picks up 10th pvs: `he must ...; deletes 15th graf pvs, ``israeli officials ... as redundant.</note>
an arab-american who advocates non-violent resistance to israeli occupation of the west bank and the gaza strip was arrested wednesday and may be expelled, officials said
mubarak awad, 44, was charged with participating in an anti-israeli demonstration. awad said he was questioned for four hours about taking part in a women's sit-in in isawiya, an arab village incorporated into jerusalem after israel captured the area in 1967
he said he was released by city police on $2,000 bail and ordered to appear before a judge, but no date was set for the hearing
awad, a palestinian born in jerusalem, is an american citizen with homes in jerusalem and wapakoneta, ohio. he was in israel on a three-month tourist visa that expired in november
awad said he told police investigators the protest began peacefully
the women were demonstrating with olive branches to protest the ransacking of five houses by police. i went there, i saw the broken furniture and smashed windows,'' awad told the associated press after his release
he said he left the village when police ordered him out, then watched from a hillside as police fired tear gas to break up the sit-in. he said arab youths responded by throwing rocks
awad said he was stopped a short time later by traffic police for failing to signal a right turn
he said they ordered him detained when he was unable to present either his israeli identity card or his u.s. passport, which were seized last november when awad defied an expulsion order
during the questioning, ``the police mentioned expulsion. they said it could be this time for you,'' awad added
a senior government official who spoke on condition of anonymity said the charges could lead to awad's deportation
he must be investigated. the charges against him will be checked, according to that we will decide,'' said the official
i'm not saying he is definitely going to be expelled, but this (investigation) may affect it. everything depends on what the investigation shows.''
on monday, israel's supreme court ordered the interior ministry to show within 60 days why awad had not been expelled
u.s. officials have repeatedly urged israeli officials to allow awad to remain
we've been in touch with him and a consular officer visited him at the police station,'' said david good, a spokesman for the u.s. consulate. ``we are following the case closely.''
awad came under fire after the publication in hebrew of his book titled ``non-violent resistance: a strategy for the occupied territories.''
the book urged the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip to refuse to pay taxes, lay down in front of bulldozers to prevent land confiscation and boycott israeli products
although awad has played only a minor role in the current uprising, some of his passive resistance ideas have been adopted, such as boycotting jobs in israel and refusing to pay taxes
gunmen on bicycles ambushed and killed auto speed king mickey thompson and his wife in their driveway wednesday, days after he told a friend he had received several death threats and feared for his life
the 59-year-old racing promoter and his wife, trudy, 41, were found dead at dawn, said sheriff's deputy doug gatlin. two male assailants fled on bicycles, investigators said
it was a double homicide, an assassination,'' said deputy richard dinsmoor
thompson became famous as the ``speed king'' in the 1950s when he set the first of his nearly 500 auto speed and endurance records. longtime friend carroll shelby described him as ``one of the greatest hot-rodders we've ever had'' and ``the dominant figure in off-road racing.''
as recently as sunday, thompson expressed fears for his life after receiving numerous death threats, friends and associates said
he was a little concerned,'' family friend ernie alvarado said. he said he talked to thompson early sunday and thompson mentioned the death threats
i don't know why trudy had to be involved,'' alvarado said. ``everybody loved her.''
neighbors heard six or eight shots and deputies found the bodies about 6 a.m. in the driveway of the couple's gated, spanish-style estate in an area of $1 million-plus homes 20 miles from downtown los angeles, investigators said
we don't know a motive,'' said deputy dan cox, who wouldn't divulge the type of weapon used. several bullets struck each of the thompsons in the upper torso, he said
mike difilippo, a building contractor who lives across the street, said he was awakened by shots
i heard yelling, `don't shoot.' that was trudy,'' said difilippo. he said thompson had voiced concern for his life after winning a series of multimillion-dollar lawsuits against another racing promoter
promoter and one-time partner mike goodwin lost a series of lawsuits to thompson, and goodwin's stadium motorsports corp. assets were ordered liquidated last year by a judge to settle the matter
at one point, thompson hired a guard, difilippo said. ``he told me around christmas they had threatened to kill him,'' difilippo said
the thompsons apparently were ambushed as they were getting into their van, cox said. the van, its passenger window shattered, rolled down the sloping driveway into a block wall
doug stokes, spokesman for thompson entertainment group in anaheim, said the thompsons were apparently leaving the house for work when the shooting occurred. he didn't know of any threats against thompson
thompson in 1960 became the first to travel over 400 mph on land when he drove a four-engine streamlined car 406.6 mph at the bonneville salt flats in utah
he later turned to drag racing and indianapolis car racing, and was a top competitor in road racing and off-road championships in the united states and mexico
thompson's other sports activities included stunt flying and management of prizefighters
racing put him in the hospital 27 times, including a seven-month stay when he was paralyzed from the waist down after a boat racing accident. it was two years before he walked again
here is what the presidential tower commission and the joint congressional investigating committees said about the four men indicted wednesday in the iran-contra arms scandal: former national security adviser john m. poindexter, marine lt. col. oliver l. north, and arms dealers richard v. secord and albert hakim
the tower commission, in its feb. 26, 1987, report to president reagan, depicted north as a backstage manipulator who carried out both the arms sale to iran and the diversion of profits to the contra rebels in nicaragua in an ``unprofessional'' manner that invited kickbacks and scandal
the tower commission said poindexter, a vice admiral who first was the deputy national security adviser and later held the top post in the national security council, ``failed grievously'' to consider the gravity of the diversion of proceeds from the arms sale to the contras
poindexter ``apparently failed to appreciate or ignored the serious legal and political risks presented,'' the tower panel said. ``his clear obligation was either to investigate the matter or take it to the president _ or both. he did neither.''
it said north ``conducted the operation through mr. (richard) secord and his associates, a network of private individuals already involved in the contra resupply operation.''
north cut himself off from resources and expertise within the government'' and relied on private businessmen and brokers with ``questionable credentials and potentially large personal financial interests in the transactions. this made the transactions unnecessarily complicated and invited kickbacks and payoffs.''
the use of mr. secord's private network in the iran initiative linked those operators with the resupply of the contras, threatening exposure of both operations if either became public. the result was a very unprofessional operation,'' the tower report said
the tower panel said that on one or more occasions, poindexter may have misled secretary of state george p. shultz about the initiative
the report quoted north as once saying, ``it's going to be just fine ... as soon as everyone knows that ... the ayatollah is helping us with the contras.''
the report said north ``misrepresented his access to the president and attributed to the president things the president never said'' during october 1986 meetings in frankfort, west germany, with iranian representatives
north reportedly told the iranians that reagan had said he wanted an end to the iran-iraq war on terms acceptable to iran, and that the persian gulf states had to be convinced saddam husain of iraq was ``causing the problem.''
reagan told the tower commission those statements were ``absolute fiction.''
the report said north once threatened the president of costa rica with a cutoff of $80 million in u.s. aid if he publicized the existence of a secret costa rican airfield used to resupply the rebels
secord, who retired from the air force as a major general in 1983 and became a private arms dealer, controlled swiss bank accounts under the name of lake resources into which $20 million in profits from the sale of u.s. weapons to iran were placed, the tower report said
hakim is an iranian immigrant and naturalized american who was secord's business partner in stanford technology trading group, a vienna, va., company. hakim helped open the channel of communications to the regime of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini in iran
the house-senate iran-contra committees in their report last nov. 18 faulted reagan for allowing a ``cabal of zealots'' to seize control of foreign policy and skirt the law
the report said that even when north became skeptical that the arms sales would free u.s. hostages being held in lebanon or lead to a new relationship between the united states and iran, ``he believed that the prospect of generating funds for the contras was `an attractive incentive' for continuing the arms sales.''
the decision to designate private parties _ secord and hakim _ to carry out the arms transactions had other ramifications,'' the committees reported. ``first, there was virtually no accounting for the profits from the arms deals. even north claimed that he did not know how secord and hakim actually spent the money committed to their custody. ..
second, by permitting private parties to conduct the arms sales, the administration risked losing control of an important foreign policy initiative.''
the committees determined that of the $16 million in profits from the arms sales, $3.8 million was earmarked for the contras when the congressional ban on direct u.s. military aid to the nicaraguan rebels was in effect in 1985 and 1986
the congressional committees said: ``in the iran-contra affair, administration officials holding no elected office repeatedly evidenced disrespect for congress' efforts to perform its constitutional oversight role in foreign policy.''
they called north ``the central figure in the iran-contra affair,'' but emphasized he ``did not act alone. ... north's conduct had the express approval of admiral john poindexter.''
police on tuesday occupied the campus of a technology institute and detained a number of students suspected of being involved in battles with villagers that left one student dead
authorities barred reporters from the rangoon institute of technology in west gyogone, seven miles north of downtown rangoon, following the weekend fighting
burma broadcasting service, the government radio station, said tuesday the violence began at a tea shop saturday night when students and villagers quarreled over the playing of a cassette tape. five villagers were arrested, it said
on sunday, larger groups of both students and villagers resumed the fighting and some 200 students set fire to seven buildings, according to the broadcast
it said police quelled the rioting with volleys of tear gas but 13 students were injured and one, maung phone maw, was fatally wounded. the report did not say how he was killed and added the government was investigating and would take ``necessary action'' against those involved
a resident of west gyogone told the associated press that police and army units were seen leaving the campus tuesday night escorting three police vans carrying an unknown number of students
the witness, who spoke with the condition he not be identified, said there was no violence as police occupied the campus and picked up the suspects. 15th graf pvs, sen. alfonse, with more comment from senators</note>
sen. bob dole came under increasing pressure on wednesday to give up his faltering presidential campaign as republican party chairman frank fahrenkopf said it was time to ``start thinking about november.''
a dozen of dole's senate supporters openly debated the merits of his continuing a candidacy that seemed doomed to failure _ although none of them advised dole to get out of the race. in any event, dole said, ``they're not going to decide. i decide what i'm going to do here.''
dole's campaign manager, william brock, said: ``we're in business.'' asked for how long, he said, ``until bob wants to change it.''
with vice president george bush marching with seeming inevitability toward the nomination, dole's aides said the senator had decided to stay in the race until the wisconsin primary on april 5. they said no decision has been made for beyond that date
bush's aides gave the kansas senator wide berth. ``we're prepared to accept whatever decision bob dole makes,'' said rich bond, the vice president's deputy campaign manager. he said bush was ready to match dole dollar for dollar in any primary state where he chooses to compete, and another spokesman said the vice president has a $4.5 million campaign treasury at his disposal
the other aide, pete teeley, said he believes bush will have enough delegates to claim the nomination by the end of april or early may in any event
fahrenkopf's comments seemed a broad hint to dole that the time is approaching to abandon the race. he stressed his campaign neutrality, but added that he has a responsibility as chairman ``to ask them (the candidates chasing bush) for some self-reflection.''
fahrenkopf said dole and former television evangelist pat robertson should ``start thinking past the convention and start thinking about november'' and the general election
he said either of the two would have to win roughly 75 percent of the remaining delegates at stake to have a chance at the nomination, and he called on them to assess ``realistically'' why they are still in the race
bush has won 774 delegates in the associated press count, compared with 178 for dole and 17 for robertson. it takes 1,139 to win the republican nomination at the party convention this summer
none of the three active candidates was campaigning during the day. dole was in the senate, bush attended to vice presidential duties and robertson was at home in virginia
but there was an extraordinary public airing of dole's prospects by his supporters in the wake of bush's illinois primary landslide on tuesday
sen. nancy landon kassebaum, dole's senate colleague from kansas, said, ``i guess the general feeling among some of us is he should go on through wisconsin.''
she added, ``if there's a way to stay in all the way and speak to the issues ... it benefits the party and benefits him, and it keeps the campaign on a positive level,'' she said. ``but i'm not sure it can be done that way. maybe it's not worth the strain of continuing on.''
sen. warren rudman, r-n.h., ``if he wants to stay in for a few more weeks he can do it. he's staying in because he's invested three years of his life.''
sen. alfonse d'amato of new york, who told cbs news on tuesday that it looked ``pretty clear and convincing'' that bush would be the nominee, said dole's chances are ``very very difficult, if not impossible. but that's all right. it's not over till it's over.''
sen. paul trible, r-va., said the meeting was of dole's ``best friends interested in his best interest and that of the party,'' adding: ``this is a decision for bob dole to make, and we will support that decision.''
sen. charles grassley, r-iowa, said ``no conclusions were drawn'' in the meeting, but ``i think there was a general consensus, more than a general consensus, that now the campaign ought to go forward.''
i believe that he should stay in,'' grassley said, adding that at the meeting, there was ``absolutely not'' anyone urging dole to get out
grassley said wednesday's iran-contra indictments were not discussed in the meeting, but said: ``there's going to be some reagan baggage that george bush has to contend with.''
that view was echoed by sen. dave durenberger, r-minn., who was not at the meeting but advised dole to stay in the race. ``george can't duck the (iran-contra) issue,'' he said
dole said his colleagues were `'very friendly, very positive, very upbeat, saying, `hang in there.''' bush's aides were careful not to gloat, but said it was as good as over
teeley said dole's ``got to do what's best for him.'' but he added that connecticut, which holds the next gop primary on march 29, ``is going to be a very strong state for us, there's no question about it.''
bush enjoys the support of several republican elected officials in the state. sen. lowell weicker, nominally neutral in the presidential race, is writing a newspaper article praising the vice president and is considering a formal endorsement at a bush campaign function being planned for a few days before the primary, sources said
beyond that, teeley said bush is in a strong position in primaries in wisconsin, new york and pennsylvania. he said he believes the vice president will clinch the delegates needed for the nomination either on april 26 when pennsylvania votes or a week later, with primaries in ohio and indiana
robertson, who met with republican party chairman fahrenkopf on tuesday, says he won't compete in either connecitcut or wisconsin, but will concentrate his efforts in caucus states. robertson says he is now concentrating on expanding his political base for the 1992 campaign
fahrenkopf said robertson indicated in the meeting that he intends to remain a candidate until the nominating convention
gov. michael s. dukakis' highly touted universal health care plan has been streamlined since it was raised a year ago, its deadlines extended, its bureaucracy reduced and its funding expanded by millions of dollars
but the proposal's basic premise, making massachusetts the first state to guarantee health insurance protection for all its residents, remains intact
the plan, which dukakis has held up as an example to the nation in his democratic presidential campaign, awaits final action by a legislative conference committee
senate ways and means chairman patricia mcgovern, the chief architect of the bill, said wednesday the house and senate proposals are so similar that ``there are no major sticking points'' that would prevent passage
universal health care in massachusetts first came to the attention of the legislature in a position paper issued by mcgovern in february 1987
in my wildest dreams, i didn't think a year later we'd be almost on the verge of accomplishing it,'' she said. ``i thought it would take much, much longer.''
dukakis wasn't an initial supporter of universal health care, considering it too costly. in his original proposal in august, the governor did not suggest any state spending for the plan, maintaining that employers should shoulder the cost
mcgovern is credited with getting the governor to support the present plan, which would phase in health care until all residents are insured by 1992
the present plan retains dukakis' proposed unemployment surcharge tax on employers who don't provide coverage by 1992. but it also contains a state commitment of $500 million or more over the next four years to make sure everyone is covered
the governor has taken the issue on the campaign trail, talking as much about the 600,000 uninsured in massachusetts as the 40 million uninsured nationally
only hawaii has anything comparable to what's been proposed in massachusetts. the state has required employers to provide workers with insurance coverage since the early 1970s
the federal employee retirement income security act was passed after hawaii's law took effect to prevent other states from imposing similar mandates on employers, and questions remain about how massachusetts' proposal will fare under federal review
massachusetts' small businesses lobbied hard and successfully against dukakis' bill last year
this year, although some small business groups still oppose it, the measure has been reshaped to reflect their concerns
state-brokered pooled insurance for small employers was added. so were tax breaks and a ``hardship trust fund'' in which the state agrees to help employers pay insurance costs that exceed 5 percent of their revenues
the house also passed an amendment exempting employers of nine or fewer workers from the 1992 deadline for providing employee coverage. the senate version has no such exemption, and the issue is expected to be a focal point of the conferee negotiations
other major changes since dukakis first proposed the bill include allowing more time to put the system into effect and scrapping a plan to create a ``super agency'' to oversee the universal health care system. iranian claim of 3,100 sted 1,150 iraqis dead</note>
iran and iraq blasted each other's capitals with missiles, hammered other cities with air raids, and fought ground battles along the front wednesday
the u.n. security council called for an end to the carnage
hundreds were reported killed in the air and ground exchanges, the latest in more than two weeks of almost daily attacks on the two nations' heaviest population centers
tehran's official islamic republic news agency said iran's revolutionary guards fired five missiles into the iraqi capital of baghad after 70 iranian civilians were killed in iraqi missile attacks on tehran and warplane raids on seven iranian cities
the state-run iraqi news agency confirmed only three hits on baghdad and said ``many civilians were killed or wounded.'' the agency, also monitored in nicosia, did not give a casualty count but reported seven missiles fired at tehran
iran confirmed that missiles hit the capital and said iraqi warplanes bombed bakhtaran, shiraz and other cities in western iran. the iranian agency said 25 civilians were killed and more than 100 wounded in shiraz alone
iraq says it has fired 22 surface-to-surface missiles into the iranian capital since a two-day truce in the so-called ``war of the cities'' broke down late sunday. iran has reported launching seven into baghdad
the iranian agency also said revolutionary guards pushed into sulaymaniyah province in northeastern iraq and seized 95 square miles, including 21 villages, in heavy battles with iraqi troops
it said more than 3,100 iraqis were killed or wounded and 800 taken prisoner in the fighting in the mountainous region, 160 miles north of baghdad
the agency said iranian troops were in control of the town of khurmal, near the border, and that the residents in the ``liberated'' area ``warmly welcomed the attacking iranian combatants.''
in switzerland, the newspaper neue zuercher zeitung quoted iranian charge d'affaires mohammed hussein malaek as saying his country had cut all ties to the security council
malaek also was quoted as saying only a military solution could end the persian gulf war, and that iran no longer felt obligated to respect international conventions which are supposed to protect civilians and prisoners in wartime and ban the use of chemical weapons
the u.n. security council, meanwhile, demanded an end to the missile attacks on baghdad and tehran. it also endorsed another round of negotiations by secretary-general javier perez de cuellar on implementing the council's july 20 cease-fire resolution and peace plan for the 7{-year-old war
a statement issued by the council president said the 15 nations on the panel ``strongly deplore the escalation of hostilities between these two countries, particularly the attacks against civilian targets and cities ...''
a presidential statement is the mildest form of council action. it falls short of the resolution and the appointment of a special negotiator the soviet union had been seeking
the united states said the soviet idea would divert attention from the july resolution. the resolution demands an immediate cease-fire and withdrawal to international boundaries as the first steps for negotiating an end to the war
iran's news agency said jet fighters bombed the northern iraqi city of kirkuk and other cities, ``inflicting heavy casualties and losses on the enemy.''
the iraqi agency reported that warplanes tuesday raided a ``large maritime target,'' a reference to an oil tanker, that night. gulf-based marine executives had reported a raid on the liberian-flagged trade fortitude at around the same time
lt. col. oliver north, his face drawn and gray, his voice breaking, said wednesday he was caught in the cross-fire of a bitter dispute between congress and the president and that ``it is a shame the new battleground for such a fight will be in a courtroom.''
the marine officer talked to reporters a few hours after a federal grand jury indicted him and three others on conspiracy charges
i did not commit any crime. i intend to fight allegations of wrongdoing for as long as necessary,'' said north. he said the fight will entail enormous costs, personal and financial, but ``nevertheless, i can assure you, i will never give up, we will win.''
north's eyes clouded and his voice quavered as he thanked the american people ``who have shown so much love and concern these past 16 months by their millions of telegrams and letters and prayers and support.''
beside him was his lawyer, brendan sullivan, who also represented north at last summer's hearings before joint committees of the senate and house. sullivan, whose spirited defense of his client was one of the highlights of the hearings, said that seeking wednesday's indictment ``was one of the worst prosecutorial decisions in the history of our country
it is a decision of an unaccountable prosecutor who came to washington determined to allege that some crime, any crime had been committed,'' sullivan said
sullivan added that lawrence e. walsh, the independent counsel ``presents an indictment after 15 months (of investigation) based on mistaken facts, novel and sometimes ridiculous legal theories
the return of an indictment under these circumstances presented here is an abuse of the criminal process,'' sullivan said. ``everyone must seriously wonder about a decision to indict a man like oliver north, a highly decorated marine corps officer, based on his tireless effort in the interests of his country.''
for his part, north said it was a sad irony that the decision to indict should occur on the fourth anniversary of the abduction in lebanon of william buckley and the third anniversary of the kidnapping of terry anderson, the associated press' middle east correspondent
the indictment is also sad for our country,'' north said. he said that as a marine officer he had always done his best
unfortunately, i have now been caught in a bitter dispute between the congress and the president over the control of foreign policy, the power of the president to deter communism in central america and the president's duty to protect our citizens against terrorist acts abroad,'' north said
it is a shame that the new battleground for such a fight will be a courtroom,'' north said
after he read his statement, north turned to leave. a reporter asked ``who authorized you to conduct u.s. foreign policy?''
i'm not going to take any questions,'' said north. damage</head>
separated siamese twin patrick binder may have suffered new brain damage after choking during a routine feeding, johns hopkins hospital said tuesday
patrick had been left unattended briefly late sunday afternoon when he choked on formula fed to him through a nasal tube, according to lisa hillman, spokeswoman for the hopkins children's center. since then, he has had some seizures, she said
a nurse making a routine check on the room patrick shares with his brother benjamin, found he had stopped breathing, called for emergency help and began mouth-to-mouth resuscitation
patrick was rushed to the pediatric intensive care unit, where a ventilator was attached to mechanically aid his breathing
the child awakened an hour later, an indication that his breathing had not stopped for very long, ms. hillman said
doctors believe ``there may be some damage,'' ms. hillman said, because ``he has had, since the incident, some mild seizures.'' she described them as ``jerking movements of the face'' and said they had been stopped by medication
the twins had been doing well since surgery last month to implant titanium mesh plates in the opening at the back of their heads, created by a complex, marathon operation last september to separate their joined skulls
doctors said both boys sustained slight brain damage during the separation procedure, and the long-term effects remain uncertain
benjamin remained in good condition tuesday, while patrick was listed in stable condition and showing slight improvement in the intensive care unit
doctors had hoped the 13-month-old twins would be going home to ulm, west germany, by the end of march, but ms. hillman said patrick's setback could cause a delay
investigators wednesday were trying to determine when and where the uss john hancock's disbursement officer was strangled, shot and robbed of the ship's payroll, a navy spokesman said
the body of lt. ratish prasad, 24, was found tuesday inside a locker on the destroyer. about $94,000 was missing from his office safe, the navy said, revising the amount downward from tuesday's estimate of $120,000
he was shot at close range, and also strangled,'' said chief petty officer art riccio
there was no indication prasad also was bludgeoned, as first reports indicated, riccio said. ``with all the blood and everything, that's the way it looked,'' riccio said. ``the bullet apparently passed right through the head.''
final autopsy reports have not been released, riccio said
the time of death and where prasad was shot had not been determined, navy officials said. no bullets or casings were found, and the caliber of the weapon was not known, riccio said
riccio said the twice-monthly payroll, due for disbursement tuesday, was $70,000, and about $20,000 in cash usually is kept in the safe
no information was available on suspects from navy investigative service officers working with duval-jacksonville sheriff's deputies, riccio said
people trying to board the destroyer or other navy ships must pass checkpoints at the base entrance, the pier area and the ship itself, riccio said
only family members and friends of the crew who have been previously cleared are allowed aboard the ship in port, he said. even naval personnel who do not have business on the ships cannot board, he said
prasad, who was single and came from park forest, ill., had enlisted three years ago
lt. cmdr. tim taylor said prasad normally would have been met at his office about 8 a.m. by an armed master at arms, a member of the ship's security force. prasad himself normally would not have been armed, taylor said
prasad and the master at arms then would have gone to the officer's quarters, chiefs' quarters, then crew messes to pay crew members, taylor said
when the disbursing office door was discovered open, a search was mounted for prasad, who had gotten off duty at midnight then spent the night on board, taylor said
prasad's body was found in an isolated storage area one deck below his office, taylor said. 03-16 0851</first> fitzwater comment.</note>
the white house remained silent wednesday on the question of whether president reagan would pardon key figures indicted by a federal grand jury for their involvement in the iran-contra affair
under the constitution, a president holds immense power when it comes to granting pardons. the question now looms whether reagan will choose to use it
on wednesday, a federal grand jury indicted reagan's former national security adviser, john m. poindexter, along with fired white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north and two arms dealers on conspiracy charges in the diversion of iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contras
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan was informed of the indictments by kenneth duberstein, his deputy chief of staff. speaking of reagan, fitzwater said, ``he had no response.'' he said there was no white house comment because ``it's a matter before the courts.''
since the iran-contra scandal erupted in november 1986, reagan has refused _ in public at least _ to entertain any discussion of pardons
this is a subject i have not and will not discuss at this time,'' reagan said last november
reporters tried _ at least four times that day _ to persuade him to discuss it, but reagan repeatedly refused to do so
in the intervening months, reagan has been careful not to rule out the option
he has made it clear _ particularly in his description of north as an ``american hero'' _ that he is giving the former national security council aide the benefit of the doubt
i'm going to wait until he's had his day in court,'' reagan said last summer when queried about north's testimony before the joint congressional committees investigating the matter. reagan added that he was ``not going to pre-judge'' north based on his televised appearances before the committees
and after congress completed its investigation, reagan said in a national broadcast that he thought north and poindexter ``believed they were doing what i would've wanted done.''
although contending he was as ``mad as a hornet'' about the damage inflicted on his administration, the president has never criticized his aides for lying to congress, shredding documents or participating in a cover-up
reagan, questioned at one time about the series of laws in 1985 and 1986 barring direct or indirect military aid to the contras, responded: ``i don't think that the law was broken.''
in fact, if reagan choses to grant pardons to anyone connected with the affair, he would not have to list a specific crime that is being pardoned
such sweeping power amounts to a legal grant of absolution, enshrined in the constitution. the founding fathers borrowed the concept from english common law
it allows a president virtually unlimited authority covering ``offenses against the united states, except in cases of impeachment.''
he's really very free,'' said c. thomas dienes, a professor of constutional law at george washington university
a president is able to grant a pardon involving a federal crime solely on his own initiative _ he need not consult anyone or even wait for an indictment or conviction before taking action, dienes said
dienes cited an 1867 supreme court case, ex parte garland, which states the effect of such a presidential decision: ``in the eye of the law, the offender is as innocent as if he never committed the offense.''
during his nearly eight years in office, reagan has granted 333 pardons out of 1,894 requests, according to the justice department
normally, the process begins with a four-page application submitted to the justice department's pardon attorney. since virtually all the applicants have been convicted of crimes, the department's guidelines require that applicants wait five years to seven years after the completion of their sentences
but presidents are allowed under the constitution to avoid that route
two months into his first term, reagan ignored the formal procedure and granted pardons to two former fbi officials convicted of sanctioning warrantless break-ins
that was the path president ford took to pardon richard nixon on sept. 8, 1974, for any wrongdoing connected with the watergate scandal
ford's pre-emptive pardon sent his popularity ratings into a tumble. it also contributed to his loss of the 1976 elections
although reagan is barred from running again, his decision in this case could affect vice president george bush's chances in the presidential election this fall and those of other gop candidates, according to stephen hess, a senior fellow and specialist in presidential affairs at the brookings institution in washington
hess predicted that if reagan decided to pardon any iran-contra figures, he would wait until after the november elections
since ford's action cost him the election, i doubt we'll see reagan move before november,'' hess said
he added: ``i would be stunned if there isn't a pardon between election day and january 1989. as outgoing president, reagan is in the best position to take the heat.''
protests that began months ago with allegations of criminal conduct by gen. manuel antonio noriega have turned into public rage over unpaid salaries in an economy without money
the largest demonstrations in nine months of turmoil, accompanied by strikes, took place wednesday. they started at about 10 a.m. and riot squads managed to disperse the crowds by mid-afternoon. by early evening the streets were deserted except for police patrols
people were reported injured, but there were no confirmed figures. there were reports of widespread looting and several stores were set ablaze
noriega, who rules panama as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces _ the military and police _ has been indicted in florida on narcotics charges and president reagan said tuesday he wants the general ``out of there.''
economic pressure applied by the united states includes a freeze on panamanian government accounts in u.s. banks and withholding panama canal revenues. this has dried up the supply of u.s. dollars, panama's national currncy
wednesday's protests began soon after young officers led by police chief leonidas macias mounted an unsuccessful coup
shops and other businesses closed early. reporters saw protesters at a barricade stop and open a refrigerated truck and empty it of frozen chickens
electric power went off throughout the country at about midday, soon after workers of the national power company walked out to protest not being paid
government workers were sent home after waiting all morning for biweekly paychecks that did not arrive
public transportation stopped because employees were not paid
in lower-income neighborhoods, burning barricades appeared at street corners. many protesters identified themselves as ``civilistas'' _ members of the national civic crusade, a coaliton of about 200 business, professional, labor, student and opposition groups
the crusade was formed last june, after the first reports that noriega was involved in drug dealing, corruption and allegedly even political murder. its stated purpose was to force him out
protesters at many street corners wednesday stoned the few buses that were running and any cars suspected of being from the government. those carrying journalists were allowed to pass
it is time for the gringos to come in,'' a demonstrator shouted at a carload of reporters, using the slang for north americans
carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a crusade leader, said: ``the fight will intensify tomorrow.''
one large group of protesters was made up of health workers from social security hospitals. they yelled that they have not been paid and many fought riot police with rocks and sticks
soldiers went to social security institutions wednesday morning and disarmed hospital security guards, also members of the defense forces
they probably do not want the people to take the guards' guns away,'' a hospital employee said
a nurse said of noriega: ``he must go. look what he is doing to this country.''
the second late-winter storm in a week dumped up to a foot of snow in mountain areas of utah, wyoming and colorado on wednesday and moved into the plains states, while record cold gripped the southeast
a winter storm warning was posted in northwestern kansas, and storm watches went up in parts of texas, missouri and oklahoma. up to 8 inches of snow were forecast for parts of kansas and missouri
the wintry weather comes on the heels of a storm that brought heavy snow to the area last weekend
parts of utah and western colorado got heavy snow wednesday morning, with more than a foot at fillmore and clear creek canyon, in central utah, 10 inches at lander, wyo., about 4 inches at red mountain pass, colo., and colorado springs, colo., and 2 inches at goodland, kans
blowing snow cut visibility at laramie, wyo., to an eighth of a mile
heavier snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 5 inches at roosevelt, utah, 4 inches at goodland, kans., and milford, utah, and 2 inches at russell, kans
record lows were set in 18 cities in the southeast on wednesday morning, including apalachicola, fla., 31; calico rock, ark., 16; charleston, s.c., 28; el dorado, ark., 26; greer, s.c., 25; hollywood, fla., 44; hot springs, ark., 25; key west, fla., 55; meridian, miss., 23; miami, 44; miami beach, 45; mobile, ala., 30; new orleans, 38; tallahassee, fla., 24, and west palm beach, fla., 43
a frost and freeze warning was in effect overnight for south carolina
rain dampened south-central and southeast texas, and scattered light rain was reported in the texas panhandle and southwest oklahoma
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 0.38 inch at corpus christi, texas; 0.31 inch at alice, texas; 0.30 inch at palacios, texas, and 0.26 inch at corpus christi, texas
snowshowers occurred from vermont across much of new york, western pennsylvania and eastern ohio to the mountains of west virginia
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at limon, colo., to 72 degrees at wink, texas, and palm springs, calif. the nation's morning low was 12 degrees below zero at west yellowstone, mont
temperatures dropped to near freezing wednesday morning in the pacific northwest, where yakima, wash., tied a record low of 23 degrees
thursday's forecast called for snow from southern michigan across the middle mississippi valley, kansas and much of oklahoma to parts of northwest texas; rain mixed with snow from the lower ohio valley across southeast missouri and northwest arkansas to eastern oklahoma; rain across portions of the lower mississippi valley and much of texas, and thunderstorms scattered over southern and eastern texas
high temperatures should reach the upper 20s or 30s from northern new england to new york and from michigan across the upper half of the mississippi valley and all of the great plains to the central rockies, the 60s or 70s from the south atlantic coast across the gulf coast to southern texas and from the desert southwest to the pacific northwest, and the 40s or 50s elsewhere
president reagan's former national security adviser, john m. poindexter, and fired white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north were indicted wednesday along with two arms dealers on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contras
the long-awaited 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, said the four men ``deceitfully and without legal authorization'' organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
the indictment charged that proceeds from the the $30 million worth of u.s. arms sales to iran were diverted illegally to foreign bank accounts controlled by secord and hakim for their personal financial gain
only $12.2 million from the arms sales was turned over to the u.s. government, according to the indictment
hakim and secord also were charged with conspiring to pay illegal gratuities to north by arranging the installation of a security system at the marine officer's home and by creating a $200,000 fund for his family in a swiss bank
outside the u.s. courthouse, iran-contra independent counsel lawrence e. walsh told reporters the investigation was continuing but declined to say whether there would be any more criminal charges brought in the case
the grand jury is not finished,'' walsh said. ``this is simply an interim report.''
north, who was fired from his job as a national security council aide in late 1986, said: ``i did not commit any crime. i intend to fight the allegations of wrongdoing for as long as necessary.''
his voice breaking, north said the months ahead will be difficult. but, he added: ``nonetheless, i can asure you, i will never give up, we will win, i just cannot tell you how soon.''
north's attorney, brendan v. sullivan jr., told repoorters it will be necessary to call high-ranking officials to north's trial
sullivan said the indictment was an abuse of the criminal process and said a criminal court is not the place to solve a dispute between the president and congress
it is mind-boggling to consider a protracted trial,'' sullivan said
a secretary in secord's office said he was out of town and had not commented on the indictment
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan was informed of the indictments by kenneth duberstein, his deputy chief of staff. speaking of reagan, fitzwater said, ``he had no response.'' he said there was no white house comment because ``it's a matter before the courts.''
just hours before the indictment, reagan was asked if he still stood by his assertion that no laws were broken in the iran-contra affair. ``i have no knowledge of anything that was broken,'' he replied
asked why he felt that way, he replied, ``because from all of the investigation and everything else, we don't know where that money came from and we don't know who had it and we don't know where it went. all i know was that we got the purchase price we had asked for.''
but the indictment, among other things, charged that north and secord conspired to divert millions of dollars from the sale of u.s. government arms to the alleged ``enterprise.''
among other things the indictment charged that north persuaded the cia to lower its price from $6,000 to $3,469 for each of the 1,000 tow missiles sold to iran in february 1986 even though the iranians were paying $10,000 apiece
as a result, the ``enterprise'' kept more than $6 million and turned over only $3.7 million to the u.s. government, the indictment said
in may 1986, only $6.5 million of the $15 million that iran paid for spare hawk missile parts was turned over to the u.s. government, leaving nearly $8.5 million for the ``enterprise,'' the indictment said
the indictment culminated a 14-month grand jury investigation into the arms-for-hostages deals with iran and the diversion of nearly $4 million in profits to the contras
all four defendants were charged with conspiracy to defraud the government and commit criminal offenses against it, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of arms-sale proceeds
the these charges together carry maximum penalties of 25 years imprisonment. each of the three charges carries a potential $250,000 fine
north was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing attorney general edwin meese iii's nov. 21-23, 1986, inquiry by making false statements and concealing, falsifying and destroying classified government documents in nsc files
meese's weekend inquiry uncovered the diversion of arms-sale profits and led to poindexter's resignation and north's dismissal from the nsc staff
poindexter was named in two counts of obstructing a congressional inquiry and two other counts of false statements
poindexter was accused of lying to the house and senate intelligence committees on nov. 21, 1986, by saying he did not learn about the november 1985 shipment of hawk missiles to iran until three months later
the indictment also charges that poindexter, a computer buff, deleted from the nsc computer system all stored messages that he had sent or received
poindexter and north are also charged with lying to house committees in the summer of 1986 by falsely stating that north was not helping raise money for the contras or providing military advice to the rebels
the obstruction and false statement charges against north and poindexter each carry five-year sentences and a $250,000 fine
after a full day of deliberations, walsh was called to the grand jury room at 3:54 p.m. and told the panel was ready to return an indictment. the 21 members of the grand jury then filed upstairs to a courtroom where the 101-page indictment was formally returned to u.s. magistrate jean dwyer
the case was assigned to u.s. district judge gerhard gesell, 77, who was appointed by president johnson and presided over one of the watergate trials
last week, poindexter's predecessor as national security adviser, robert c. mcfarlane, pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor charges that he withheld information from congress in 1985 and in 1986 by denying that members of his staff, particularly north, were helping raise private money to arm the contras during the contra aid ban
the indictment also charged north with obstructing the independent counsel's investigation of the security system at his great falls, va., home by creating false documents to conceal the fact that secord had paid $16,000 for it installation. he was charged with illegally accepting the security system as a gratuity
the indictment also charged that north pocketed $4,500 of $90,000 in travelers checks that he received from contra leader adolfo calero to cover expenses related to the rebel cause and the efforts to obtain release u.s. hostages in lebanon
in a statement, hakim's lawyer, n. richard janis, said: ``we believe strongly that mr. hakim has committed no crimes and that ths indictment is unfair and unwarranted.''
sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, who chaired the senate iran-contra committee, said, he believed ``justice will ultimately be done.''
while i personally remain convinced that they exhibited insufficient sensitivity to the rule of law, and to the fact that under our system of government the congress makes the laws, we must await the verdict of a jury of their peers as to whether this insensitivity was criminal in nature,'' inouye said
but sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, another member of the senate panel who was one of the administration's strongest supporters during the congressional hearings, said the investigation was ``a colossal embarrassment to our whole government.''
it's going to be a very tricky trial to try to prove these charges in an open forum,'' hatch told reporters
i'm not white-washing this. there were serious mistakes made here,'' hatch said
last spring, two conservative fund-raisers, carl r. ``spitz'' channell and richard miller, pleaded guilty to felony charges that they conspired with north to illegally use a tax-exempt foundation to raise $3.2 million for the contras
the indictment also charged north with participating in that conspiracy
the security council unanimously urged south africa on wednesday to commute the sentences of the ``sharpeville six,'' sentenced to be executed for a 1984 death by mob violence
its resolution asked for a stay of the executions, scheduled for friday, and said south africa's ``practice'' of executing opponents of apartheid has harmed the search for peace
on tuesday, president reagan issued a personal appeal for the lives of the six
they were convicted in the 1984 mob killing of a black township councilman stoned and burned to death in the sharpeville township south of johannesburg. an appeals court judge ruled that they did not kill him personally but had common purpose with the mob
dragoslav pejic of yugoslavia, security council president for march, said death sentences for the ``african patriots'' had caused ``undivided international condemnation and uproar.'' he also said thousands of innocent black south africans have been detained and tortured
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar sent a telegram to president p.w. botha of south africa asking mercy be shown the five men and one woman on humanitarian grounds
he said clemency would help reduce tensions in south africa, where 5 million whites control the government and the 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs
the council resolution spoke of the ``pretoria racist regime's decision to execute the sharpeville six ... in defiance of worldwide appeals.''
ambassador a. leslie manley of south africa issued a statement criticizing the council, which frequently condemns his country
he said the government ``strongly objects'' to council action that interferes ``not only in an internal south african matter but also a matter which is the result of the due process of law.''
south africa ``is not insensitive to the feelings aroused by capital punishment but must respect the independence of the country's judicial system,'' his statement said. ``murder is a common law crime. it has nothing to do with the color of a person's skin.''
it said south african courts ``are highly respected'' and that there are few countries ``if any, where the courts enjoy a higher degree of independence from the executive authority.''
this was the council's second action in a week of a resolution condemning apartheid, the official south african policy of race discrimination. last tuesday, the united states and britain vetoed a resolution that would have imposed economic sanctions
wednesday's resolution said the executions would ``further inflame an already grave situation in south africa.''
it urged south africa to commute the sentences and asked all countries and organizations to ``use influence and take urgent measures to save the lives of the `sharpeville six'.''
the united states, soviet union, britain, france and china are permanent members of the council, with veto power. other nations currently serving are algeria, argentina, brazil, italy, japan, nepal, senegal, west germany, yugoslavia and zambia
a japanese sound expert testified wednesday that tape-recordings show president corazon aquino's husband was killed on an airport stairway in 1983 by a gun other than previously claimed, and that soldiers shouted ``let me do it!''
matsumi suzuki, president of japan acoustics institute of tokyo, testified at the trial of 34 soldiers and three civilians accused of murdering former sen. benigno aquino and rolando galman, a purported communist agent originally accused as aquino's assassin
aquino's murder led to a groundswell of opposition to then-president ferdinand e. marcos that culminated in a february 1986 popular revolt which deposed marcos after 20 years in office and swept mrs. aquino to power
suzuki identified four soldiers as the ones who shouted ``this is it!,'' ``let me do it!'' and ``shoot, shoot!'' seconds before aquino was murdered at manila airport on aug. 21, 1983. he said the soldiers shouted in tagalog, the main filipino language
aquino was shot as he left a china airlines flight under military escort on his return from three years self-exile in america to lead the opposition to marcos. the soldiers shot galman on the tarmac seconds after aquino fell
suzuki, speaking in japanese through an interpreter, said he analyzed sounds picked up by journalists' tape-recorders during the assassination and from test-firing various types of guns in japanese and u.s. studios
chief prosecutor raul gonzales later told reporters suzuki's testimony supports the prosecution's claim that aquino was killed on the stairway, where only soldiers were in a position to shoot him in the back of the head
the marcos government claimed galman shot aquino on the tarmac with a .357-caliber magnum
suzuki said his analysis of tape-recordings show the first shot, which has been established as the one that killed aquino, could have come only from a .45-caliber pistol
he said the sound of the footsteps of aquino and his four soldier escorts were clearly picked up by two boom microphones extended over the top of the 21-step stairway as the party began descending
we can clearly analyze the sound of the first step to the 11th step,'' he said. ``after the 11th step ... the sound of gunfire was heard.''
the tapes picked up the words ``eto na'' (this is it), followed by ``ako na. ako na'' (let me do it. let me do it) and ``pusila. pusila.'' (shoot. shoot
suzuki said that from a study of voice prints, he concluded the words ``eto na'' were shouted by lt. jesus de castro, chief of the security detail who remained at the stop of the stairs while aquino was led down
the words ``let me do it'' were spoken by sgts. claro lat and arnulfo de mesa one after the other, he said
suzuki said the fatal shot came after both castro and constable 1st class mario lazaga shouted ``shoot'' one after the other
defense lawyer rodoldo jimenez objected that ``voice analysis is not an exact science.''
but suzuki and gonzalez claimed that like fingerprints, a voice print is unique and cannot be duplicated
judge regino hermosisima, one of the three judges trying the case, said the court was accepting suzuki's testimony as ``part of the evidence although this is not an exact science.''
an earlier trial acquitted 25 soldiers and one civilian implicated in the aquino-galman murders. but soon after mrs. aquino became president, the supreme court ruled marcos had influenced the decision and ordered a retrial
black anglican archbishop desmond tutu on wednesday canceled a meeting with leaders of the white dutch reformed church after they described his challenge of government policy as ``impious.''
tutu, a prominent foe of apartheid and winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize, had planned to meet the leaders in pretoria thursday for the first formal talks between the two churches since 1960. president p.w. botha and most other government officials belong to the dutch reformed church, the largest denomination of the dominant afrikaner white minority
tutu said he canceled the meeting because of an ``abusive attack'' on his church in a statement issued tuesday by dutch reformed leaders and published wednesday. he said the leaders ``deliberately sabotaged the talks.''
later wednesday, botha issued a statement asking tutu to repudiate the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement. tutu says he does not endorse the anc's use of violence but shares its professed goal of a non-racial democracy
the question must be posed whether you are acting on behalf of the kingdom of god or the kingdom promised by the anc and the sacp (south african communist party),'' botha said
are you in favor of the establishment of a marxist dictatorship in south africa under the rule of the anc and the sacp, to the detriment of the church?''
tutu later met with botha to urge clemency for the ``sharpeville six'' _ a group of blacks scheduled to hang friday for complicity in a 1984 mob killing during anti-apartheid unrest
tutu said botha scolded him for taking a confrontational stance toward the government
the archbishop said his decision to cancel the church meeting was influenced by a ``background of unease'' related to the scheduled hangings. he urged dutch reformed leaders to join anglican clergy in prayers for condemned prisoners
the dutch reformed leaders' statement referred to comments by tutu and the rev. allan boesak, a mixed-race minister, at a church service sunday in cape town
tutu and boesak were protesting a recent government ban on political activity by 19 organizations
boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches, and tutu used strong language in responding to law and order minister adriaan vlok's warnings that he will act against the clergymen if they did not stop ``preaching revolution.''
boesak said the government ``signed its own death warrant. ... no government can challenge the living god and survive.''
tutu said, ``if it is revolution to say i work for a south africa that is truly democratic ... i am for that.''
the dutch reformed church objected to the clergymen's ``language, convictions and veiled threats that do not breathe the spirit of the gospel.''
it said it was ``not unsympathetic to the problems that churches in this country have to contend with.'' but the statement called on boesak and tutu ``to divorce themselves from this impious road and to discuss their problems openly'' with vlok and botha ``who are both avowed christians.''
botha issued a statement wednesday through the south african broadcasting corp. saying the churches had to recognize ``certain limitations in the execution of their prophetic task outside the ecclesiastical field.''
one major point of boesak's and tutu's sermons was to dispute vlok's statement that they were preaching revolution instead of the christian message
the dutch reformed statement appeared to agree with vlok and botha
in exceeding these limits they have confronted the state, and cannot equate themselves with the church in the face of state retaliation,'' it said. ``the church of jesus christ cannot be used as a means for a revolutionary change of government.''
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
a woman who pleaded guilty to keeping an 8-year-old in a playhouse-sized box for two years says she was trying to prevent the boy from destroying her property while she slept
retha skyles, 54, pleaded guilty to unlawful imprisonment tuesday. sentencing was set for april 26
the child, who was kept in the box from 1985 to 1987, is the son of ms. skyles' stepdaughter. when the boy was removed from the skyles home, he said he was surprised to learn that all little boys weren't kept in boxes, court papers said
in a handwritten statement, ms. skyles said, ``i restrained (the boy) during my sleeping hours in order to keep him from destroying property
my judgment may not have been proper, but my judgment as to the amount of restraint seemed proper to me under the circumstances,'' she said
the box often was locked and contained a jar in which the boy was expected to urinate, police said. he was not allowed to attend school, but did attend church. when he was removed from the home, he had a severe case of head lice
the law provides for a maximum sentence of 90 days in jail, two years' probation and a requirement that the woman pay indefinitely for counseling for the boy, deputy prosecutor barbara corey-boulet said wednesday
however, a judge can declare the case exceptional and impose a stronger sentence
the prosecutor declined to comment on whether she thought the sentence contained in the law would be appropriate, adding only that the boy is ``going to be needing a lot of counseling as he adjusts to a more normal life and she's (ms. skyles) going to be paying for that. that's the kind of punishment that will benefit the child.''
larry fehr, executive director of the non-profit washington council on crime and delinquency, said: ``one can't help but be struck by the discrepancy ... in regard to a child being confined for a much longer period of time than the person who pleaded guilty to the crime.''
ms. skyles' attorney, wallace cavanagh, did not return messages left with his office wednesday
an anonymous tip led child protective services workers to the skyles home, where they took the boy and his 11-year-old sister into custody. they are living with foster parents and are ``thriving,'' said frank mendizabal, dshs spokesman
more than 2,000 ferry workers voted overwhelmingly wednesday to continue a six-week strike against a ferry line, despite a company ultimatum to sign new contracts or lose their jobs
in an outdoor meeting in this southeast england port, all but two of the ferry workers from the national union of seamen raised their hands in favor of maintaining the strike
roger wilkins, deputy general secretary, and other union leaders urged members to step up picketing and fight what they said were moves by p and o european ferries to hire non-union foreign workers
the strike has halted sailings of p and o's 11 vessels between dover and the french ports of boulogne and calais across the english channel and zeebrugge, belgium, across the north sea
peter ford, chairman of the ferry company, denied the company planned to use foreign workers and said he was disappointed with the vote
i hope they will opt for the new contracts,'' he said
the ferry workers struck after the company announced plans to reduce the number of crews for each vessel
pay for a deckhand ranges from $23,125 to $33,300 a year
the union agreed to fewer jobs to maintain profitable operations against the challenge of the channel tunnel project, but wanted the cuts spread over three years
the underwater rail tunnel now being built between england and france is scheduled to open in may 1993 at a cost of $9 billion and is expected to cut into ferry profits
the company's ultimatum followed the collapse of five days of talks with the union, which were convened by the government's arbitration service. each side accused the other of intransigence
six hundred ferry masters and officers will decide whether to settle a dispute with the company at a meeting saturday
the company wants to cut 200 of their jobs because of redundancies and new work patterns. the officers have not been on strike. 03-16 0882</first> `embarrassment'</head> jackson comment. adds three grafs at end of group calling for presidential pardon for north.</note>
a republican senator said the investigation that led to indictments wednesday of four people in the iran-contra scandal was a ``colossal embarrassment'' to the government, while democrats said the charges vindicate last year's congressional inquiry into the arms and money affair
the charges were announced by lawrence e. walsh, the independent counsel whose investigation began about the same time that committees of both the house and senate began looking at the secret sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of some of the money to the nicaraguan contras
sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, chairman of the senate committee, said he believes that ``justice will ultimately be done.''
inouye added that ``i personally remain convinced that they (the four men) exhibited insufficient sensitivity to the rule of law, and to the fact that under our system of government the congress must make the laws,'' but he said, ``we must await the verdict of a jury of their peers as to whether this insensitivity was criminal in nature.''
rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., chairman of the house iran-contra committee, noted that the indictments closely paralleled the conclusions of the congressional committees, although the panels made no attempt to assess criminal blame
i don't think there are any major surprises,'' he said, although ``there was more of an emphasis on the misuse of federal funds ... than i might have anticipated.''
they are very serious charges, obviously, and quite extensive,'' hamilton told reporters. ``they cover a lot of misconduct.'' he added that walsh probably developed more information than the committees were able to get on financial records
sen. george mitchell, d-maine, another member of the senate panel, said, ``it is a serious matter when any citizen is charged with a crime, and it is even more serious when a former high government official, and close adviser to the president, is charged.''
mitchell said ``no one should prejudge the case,'' but said he had heard nothing in the indictments which had not come out during last summer's iran-contra hearings
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, another member of the senate panel, was one of the administration's strongest supporters during the congressional hearings and he was critical of the indictments
the investigation was ``a colossal embarrassment to our whole government,'' hatch told a news conference. ``it's going to be a very tricky trial to try to prove these charges in an open forum.''
i'm not white-washing this. there were serious mistakes made here,'' hatch said
you may very well be able to get convictions under technicalities of the law,'' he said, speaking of the indictments, but ``these indictments are choking on the nits of the law.''
rep. henry hyde, r-ill., a member of the house investigating committee and another strong administration supporter, said, ``these indictments aren't any surprise. but this is only the beginning of what will be a very long legal process that will question the sufficiency of the indictments and the constitutionality of the laws.''
for example, he said, ``i believe the indictments are premised on some assumptions that may or may not be true, like title to the money. the prosecutors believe the money from the sale of weapons to iran belonged to the u.s. treasury and therefore it was misappropriated for the contras, but i think a very good argument can be made that the proceeds of the sale don't belong to the treasury.''
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., a candiate for the democratic presidential nomination, said, ``whatever the outcome of these prosecutions, i think the special prosecutor has given us fresh evidence that the reagan administration generally has put the constitution of the united states through the shredder.''
this will be an important issue in the campaign,'' gephardt said, particularly the role of vice president george bush, who is the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination
jesse jackson, another presidential candidate, said the indictments were ``a source of embarrassment to this administration and a disgrace to our country,'' but called those indicted ``the fall guys.''
they were, in fact, implementing this administration's policy,'' he said
lt. col. oliver l. north, the fired white house aide who was one of the four men charged, was supported wednesday by andy messing, head of the national defense council, a private, conservative organization. messing is a friend of north
it's a difference between persecution and prosecution that walsh is going to have to explain to the american people,'' messing said. ``after 15 months and $10 million and almost 300 people at his disposal, judge walsh is going to have to convince the american people that is not persecution but a prosecution.''
robert grant, president of another group that supports north, the american freedom coalition, issued a statement calling on the president to pardon north
col. north is a man of principle, honor and commitment. his patriotic, pro-american values are a tremendous asset to the well-being of the united states,'' grant said
this is hardly the definition of a criminal,'' grant said. ``he should be pardoned immediately.''
a soldier in one of the units involved in a helicopter collision that killed 17 servicemen said at a memorial service wednesday that the loss was magnified by ``the bond between us soldiers.''
military and civilian dignitaries, including gov. wallace g. wilkinson, joined family members and other mourners in the 450-seat post central chapel for two services
the first half-hour memorial honored the seven army aviators flying the helicopters when they collided march 8; the second paid homage to the 10 foot soldiers on board
an open bible rested on a simple altar, flanked by banners representing the the 101st airborne division and flags pinned with colorful streamers representing battles in which units of the 101st fought
the seven helicopter crewmen were represented in front of the altar by seven flight helmets placed atop sabers for the officers and m-16 rifles for the enlisted men. infantry helmets were used to represent the foot soldiers
the 17 were killed when a uh-60 black hawk helicopter, returning from a night mission, was struck by another copter on a separate mission at fort campbell
army investigators said they have not determined the cause of the crash
during the toughest of times we find ourselves wondering why we choose to be infantrymen,'' said spec. 4 colin cannon, whose unit included 10 of the victims. ``it is a job that is at best difficult and at its worst fatal.''
the loss was magnified by ``the bond between us as soldiers, which brought us closer to each other in a way that so many others can never know; something that only people who serve in a profession such as ours can ever understand,'' cannon said
i have flown personally with each of these (helicopter crew members). i can tell you without reservation that they truly loved what they were doing,'' said lt. col. joseph a. fucci, commander of the 101st aviation regiment's 5th brigade
we all share in the loss of these men. and though all the grief that we feel does not begin to compare with the sorrow being felt by their wives and their families, our hearts and our prayers go out to you,'' he said. arrival in ljubljana. picks up 7th graf pvs, gorbachev said ...</note>
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev proposed wednesday that the superpowers freeze their naval forces in the mediterranean as a first step toward reducing tensions in the region
he described the mediterranean as ``one of the most explosive regions in the world'' and recommended that the freeze begin july 1
in a wide-ranging speech to the yugoslav parliament, gorbachev also indirectly criticized the late soviet dictator josef stalin, who imposed an economic blockade of yugoslavia after president josip broz tito set his own foreign policy course in 1948
the kremlin leader also discussed the ethnic unrest in his own country, saying he was determined to resolve it democratically but would not allow independence for nationalist groups
yugoslavia itself is an ethnically diverse nation of six republics and two autonomous regions and is plagued by growing ethnic tensions as the economic situation worsens
gorbachev later flew to ljubljana, capital of the northern slovenia republic, one of the most prosperous regions in the communist world
plans for the soviet communist party chief to visit a private farm in the area were canceled because he arrived late, officials said
gorbachev will meet slovenian leaders thursday as he continues his five-day visit here
gorbachev said his country was concerned about the military presence in the mediterranean because it is provides soviet ports on the black sea their only access to the world's oceans
in addition to the naval freeze, gorbachev called on the superpowers to set a limit on the number of vessels they maintain in the mediterranean, and he suggested they give each other and nations in the region advance notice when they redistribute their forces or conduct military exercises there
gorbachev also proposed that military observers be permitted to watch such maneuvers
he made no direct reference to ethnic rioting in the soviet republic of azerbaijan, in which at least 32 people were killed, nor did he mention mass demonstrations in the armenian capital of yerevan
but he said the state of relations between the more than 100 nationalities within the soviet union is ``one of the most important and delicate issues in a multinational country such as ours.''
there are certain difficulties inherited from the past,'' gorbachev said, apparently referring to a 1923 decision to put an aremenian-controlled region under control of azerbaijan
armenians' demands for annexation of that region are believed to have been at the root of the sumgait riots
we are determined to secure democratic solutions to these problems,'' gorbachev said, but he served notice that he would not tolerate nationalists' demands for independence. that theme has been kept alive by exile groups from the baltic republics of lithusania, latvia and estonia
whatever constituent or autonomous republic or region we take, it is now bound by thousands of threads to all other parts of the country,'' gorbachev said. ``it has indisoluble links within the integrated economic and political complex.''
gorbachev said the 1948 rupture in relations between his country and yugoslavia ``inflicted grave damage on yugoslav-soviet relations and ... on socialism as a whole.''
but he assured his hosts he wants improved relations with yugoslavia and does not intend to try to press his ideas of perestroika, or restructuring, on them
we are implementing our perestroika in keeping with the conditions and needs of our own country, and we have no intention whatsoever to palm it off as a universal model or recipe that would be good for all,'' gorbachev said
the soviet leader blasted unnamed leaders in the nato alliance for ``harping on the lie'' of a soviet threat to prevent nuclear disarmament and build up nato's conventional forces in europe
these contradictions, not to say absurdities, have quite definite political convictions behind them,'' gorbachev said
thousands of yellow ribbons adorned trees, traffic signs and lapels on terry anderson day in the journalist's hometown wednesday, the third anniversary of his kidnapping by moslem extremists in lebanon
the most sacred experience is to be remembered by frends, loved ones and by god,'' said the rev. jack wolter of st. james episcopal church, where prayer services were held for anderson
we pray that terry will be remembered today and soon delivered from his tormenters,'' wolter said
anderson, the chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, was kidnapped in beirut and has been held longer than any of the 22 foreign hostages in lebanon
the activities in batavia coincided with a national observance in washington, d.c. the anniversary also was marked in anderson's birthplace, lorain, ohio, where a group including relatives hoisted an american flag and tied a yellow ribbon to the flagpole at city hall
may this be a day of miracles,'' the rev. thomas vickers, who has acted as personal chaplain to anderson's family in recent months, said in batavia. ``please lord, set him free.''
journalists outnumbered the handful of churchgoers at an early morning service at st. james. vickers asked reporters to put down their notebooks to join hands and pray for a colleague
at the church's midday service about 30 people heard a service by vickers and wolter, who said christians had a duty to speak up for those who suffer injustice
anderson's younger brother, jack, who grew up in batavia and works as a prison guard in ocala, fla., urged those attending to write their congressmen to press the government to do more to win the release of the hostages
i'm sure terry is thinking of batavia today,'' he said. ``i know he wants more than anything to be able come back here and be with his family and friends.''
several florists in the small city of 17,000 donated more than two miles of yellow ribbon, which was tied in bows and handed out to residents. nearly every tree, sign post and railing along main street sported yellow ribbon
we always knew people were concerned about terry,'' jack anderson said. ``but in the past they didn't turn out and make an effort to show it.''
anderson's sister, peggy say of batavia, has fought to free her brother since his kidnapping, but her activities did not win widespread support in her hometown until recently
people didn't know how to react,'' said terry fritts, a talk show host on radio station wbta. ``i don't think many people opposed what peggy was doing. they just didn't know if it was the best thing to do.''
mrs. say, who was in washington on wednesday, and other family members have said they hope the attention will force the administration to develop a new policy. indictments; adds 2 grafs with later event</note>
jesse jackson said wednesday he's counting ``the number of votes, not the color of votes'' in the wake of his second-place showing in his home state of illinois where he garnered less than 10 percent of the white vote
jackson also said the four men indicted wednesday on conspiracy charges in the iran-contra affair _ lt. col. oliver l. north, fired national security adviser john m. poindexter, retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and secord's business partner, albert hakim _ were ``fall guys.''
they were in fact implementing this administration's policy,'' jackson said, calling the iran-contra affair `` a source of embarrassment to this administration and a disgrace to our country.''
back on the subject of the illinois contest, jackson was upbeat
we came in a strong second in illinois,'' he told reporters. ``i am gratified with the response to my campaign in illinois yesterday.''
we did well. illinois did well by both of its favorite-son candiates,'' he said, when asked about pre-election polls that had showed him virtually dead even with home state sen. paul simon. jackson ended up with 31 percent of the vote, to simon's 43 percent
exit polls showed jackson overwhelming won the state's black vote, but pulled only 7 to 8 percent of white voters into his camp. that was less than the 10 percent he garnered across the super tuesday states on march 8, and a represented an apparent setback from his strong showings in northern states that have black populations of 1 percent or less, including minnesota, maine, vermont and alaska
when asked if that spelled trouble in the states yet to come as he tries to attract crucial white support to his campaign, jackson replied, ``let's count the number of votes, not the color of votes.'' he noted he is first in the cumulative popular vote count of states that have held primaries so far, and is a close second in the delegate count to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
of 30 contests now i have come in number one or number two ... we have reason to celebrate in my campaign. we are where every campaign wants to be.''
jackson made the comments following an observance at holy trinity church of the third year of captivity for american hostage terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press who is being held in lebanon
earlier he had a chance meeting at national airport with rival sen. albert gore jr., of tennessee, who was leaving as jackson was arriving. the two spoke briefly, and according to jackson talked about party unity
organizers of the hostage memorial said all the presidential candidates were invited to the service, which included remarks by former hostages and family members of anderson and others still being held. jackson, who helped gain release of downed navy pilot lt. robert goodman from syria in 1983, was the only one who attended
at a news conference afterward, jackson said he has ``done everything i can'' to make contacts that might secure the hostage release, but that the situation is complicated because he does not know who is holding the hostages
he criticized the administration, however, saying that the u.s. intelligence operations should be put to work finding the location of the hostages and the identity of the captors so that negotiations for their release can begin
they can be found, through our intelligence network,'' he said, adding that negotiations should begin ``either directly or through our allies.''
outside the church in the posh georgetown neighborhood of washington, jackson caused a stir among holy trinity elementary school students, georgetown university students and passersby who rushed out to shake his hand
the school children squealed in delight as he raced across a cobblestone street to greet them, then went to the other side to shake hands with college students who rushed out on the balconies of their brownstone homes to cheer him
i don't think i'd want him to win, but i think i might vote for him. he's the only one bringing out the important issues,'' said erich vaden, 19, a georgetown student
later, jackson went to one of washington's most well-known drug-trafficking neighborhoods, where he and district of columbia mayor marion barry addressed a rally. jackson made a strong anti-drug statement, telling 300 people, ``we must stop drugs or drugs will stop the people.''
you must be sober and free of drugs whether you have a job or not,'' he said. jackson also said drugs are a foreign policy issue that has been dealt with inadequately by the reagan administration. private aid to public aid.</note>
president reagan vetoed a major civil rights bill wednesday, saying it would ``vastly and unjustifiably extend the power of the federal government over the decisions and affairs of private organizations.''
reagan also proposed an alternative that he said would ``protect civil rights and at the same time preserve the independence of state and local governments, the freedom of religion and the right of america's citizens to order their lives and businesses without extensive federal intrusion.''
the veto was immediately criticized by civil rights and other groups, and congressional democrats predicted a quick override
the legislation, which had bipartisan support, passed the senate 75-14 on jan. 28 and the house 315-98 on march 2. both votes are more than the two-thirds majority necessary to override a presidential veto
sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, called the veto ``a kick in the teeth of civil rights. it is the most regrettable and least justifiable of all the reagan vetoes.''
the bill the president vetoed was designed to undo the effects of a 1984 supreme court ruling that, in cutting off federal funds because of illegal discrimination, the government could treat each specific ``program or activity'' separately
that meant that other parts of the institution involved could still receive federal funds
under the bill, federal aid to the entire institution would have to be cut off in such cases
in his veto message, the president said he supported legislation to ``strengthen the civil rights coverage of educational institutions'' that were affected by the high court's decision
he said he had already endorsed legislation to do this but his new bill ``goes further than the legislation previously endorsed.''
reagan's bill is similar to one rejected by the house by a vote of 266-146
the president said his bill would:
_``prohibit discrimination against women, minorities, persons with disabilities, and the elderly across the board in public school districts, public systems of higher education, systems of vocational education, and private educational institutions which receive any public aid
_``extend the application of the civil rights statutes to entire businesses which receive federal aid as a whole and to the entire plant or facility receiving federal aid in every other instance
_``prohibit discrimination in all of the federally funded programs of departments and agencies of state and local governments.''
reagan said his bill ``complements well our body of existing federal civil rights laws.''
congress, on the other hand, has sent me a bill that would vastly and unjustifiably expand the power of the federal government over the decisions and affairs of private organizations, such as churches and synagogues, farms, businesses, and state and local governments,'' he said. ``in the process, it would place at risk such cherished values as religious liberty.''
rep. augustus hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the house education and labor committee, said he was confident the house will override the veto. ``i don't think many members will be so weak-kneed that they will change on the basis of lobbying that is now going on,'' hawkins said
house speaker jim wright said in a statement that ``president reagan may want to turn the clock back on civil rights, but the american people do not... i am confident that the senate and house will move swiftly to override this unfortunate and shortsighted veto.''
a senate leadership aide said the chamber would vote thursday on overriding the veto. the house was not expected to act before tuesday
ralph g. neas, director of the leadership conference on civil rights, and benjamin l. hooks, chairman of the organization, issued a statement denouncing the president's action and predicting that it would be overturned
while we are confident that huge bipartisan majorities in both houses of congress will vote to override a presidential veto, we believe strongly that this veto is not in the best interests of the country because it sends a terrible signal to the nation, especially in this bicentennial year of the constitution,'' the statement said
the president sometimes expresses wonder that anyone can criticize him on his civil rights record,'' the two leaders said. ``in fact this administration is compiling the worst civil rights record of any administration in half a century.''
the afl-cio issued a statement wednesday calling the veto ``a strong message of retreat from enforcement of laws intended to prevent discrimination based on race, sex, age and handicap.''
the united states catholic conference, an association representing the nation's roman catholic bishops, issued a statement saying the conference was
deeply disappointed that the president saw fit to veto one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation to come along in many years.''
it said the bill would have done much to ``strengthen federal civil rights protection while safeguarding vital concerns about human life and religious liberty.'' the conference vowed to work ``actively'' for an override
the white house, in a statement accompanying reagan's veto message, said the administration alternative would protect religious liberty by limiting coverage to the part of a church or synagogue that participates in a federal program. the statement said the reagan bill would provide that when a religious secondary or elementary school receives federal assistance, only that school, and not the entire religious school system, would become subject to federal regulation
the statement said the measure would ``ensure that the reach of the federal regulation into private businesses extends only to the facility that participates in federally funded programs, unless the business as a whole receives federal aid, in which case it is covered in its entirety.''
it said the administration bill also states explicitly that farmers will not become subject to federal regulation by accepting federal price support payments and that grocers and supermarkets would not be afgfected because they accept food stamps from customers
it said the independence of state and local governments would be preserved because federal regulation would be limited to the part of a state or local entity that receives or distributes federal assistance
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said tuesday he believed the bill would attract the support of ``a large number'' of senators and representatives
more soviets are applying to visit or live abroad and fewer of them are being refused permission, a soviet official said wednesday
sergei apatov, head of the moscow police department's visa office, told soviet journalists that 82 percent of soviets who apply to go to israel are granted permission
about 200 people have been turned down, he said. he did not break the number down into travel and emigration requests or provide an overall figure
the government newspaper izvestia and the official tass news agency carried reports on apatov's briefing
apatov said citizens were refused permission either because of their access to state secrets or because they could not satisfy their relatives' financial demands
he said those not allowed to leave because of their alleged access to state secrets can reapply, usually after six months
many soviet jews say officials abuse the law that says people can not leave if they know state secrets or are needed by their families for financial reasons
western sources say more than 8,000 soviet jews were allowed to emigrate in 1987, after several years when emigration was held to about 1,000 a year. emigration reached its peak in 1979, when more than 51,000 people left
apatov said a reduction in the paperwork needed to travel abroad also prompted more soviets to apply for permission for trips
the number of people applying to travel to capitalist countries increased 93 percent in the first two months of 1988, apatov said. the number of people refused such permission fell 44 percent in 1987 from the previous year, he said, without providing specific figures
a fee imposed on those leaving for capitalist and developing countries has been halved to 200 rubles (about $320), apatov said. money</head> image, trusting aides, allegation of protecting aide accused of death threat, rescinding martin luther king holiday. no pickup.</note>
gov. evan mecham took the stand at his impeachment trial wednesday and said that he did not protect an aide accused of making a death threat and did not sell appointments for campaign contributions
the governor, portraying himself as a naive victim of political enemies who skewered him with bad publicity, said the public never saw him as ``the nice guy i really am.''
i've learned a lot,'' he said in his first appearance at the senate trial, which opened feb. 29. the first-term republican was scheduled to return to the stand on thursday
mecham, 63, is the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades. wednesday's session was his first return to the seat of state government in more than a month
he is accused of trying to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat against a former aide who was about to testify in an investigation of mecham's finances. he is also charged with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 in state money by loaning it to his auto dealership
mecham has denied wrongdoing
the 192-seat senate gallery was jammed as mecham took the stand. senators remained standing as he took an oath to tell the truth
defense attorney fred craft asked whether mecham intended to protect the aide accused of making the death threat, lee watkins
protect him from what?'' mecham asked. ``i've heard those allegations. i wish somebody would tell me what i protected him from.''
craft mentioned a conversation in which mecham was alleged to have ordered the state's top law enforcement officer to resist the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat
were you intending to do anything to protect lee watkins (in that conversation)?'' asked craft
not in the least,'' said mecham
mecham has claimed he was inadequately informed about the death threat allegation
he has acknowledged he may have told the state's top police official, department of public safety director ralph milstead, to resist the attorney general's efforts to investigate. milstead has said he cooperated with the attorney general
mecham on wednesdsay also denied allegations that he rewarded fund-raisers with jobs. ``money was never an object and it was never used as a criteria to get a job,'' he said
the governor also denied that watkins was his biggest fund-raiser, saying watkins ``brought in some loans'' but not a huge amount in contributions
last week, donna carlson, a former mecham aide, had testified that watkins was protected by the mecham administration because of his fund-raising
she said that when she once complained about watkins' position in the governor's inner circle she was told by the governor's then-chief of staff: ``we have to take care of lee. he raised a lot of money for the campaign.''
earlier wednesday, sam udall, mecham's former appointments secretary, had testified that campaign contributions were a criterion, although not a major one, in making appointments to state boards and commissions
udall also testified that he did not immediately realize that two proposed appointees to the housing finance review board had been recommended by barry wolfson, who provided a $350,000 campaign loan to mecham
mecham, a millionaire auto dealer, said wednesday that he himself was his biggest campaign contributor
unfortunately i always have been,'' he said of his political career, which included four previous runs for governor before his successful 1986 campaign
mecham also seized the opportunity to complain of being misunderstood on one of his first official acts, elimination of the state's martin luther king holiday. he said that his action was mandated by the attorney general and that he replaced a paid state holiday with an unpaid ``recognition day.''
what we did was tell peoiple we in arizona believe in civil rights for all people,'' he said
shortly before mecham appeared, the senate resoundingly voted down a motion to dismiss the charges. the senators also defeated defense motions to declare a mistrial or to hold a hearing on defense claims of witness tampering
robert usdane, house republican majority leader, noted that claims by mecham's lawyers that the state police were intimidating witnesses were under investigation by law enforcement agencies
mecham, a perennial political outsider who won election in a three-way race, has been staying at suburban glendale offices he calls his ``government in exile.'' he retains his salary and is referred to as governor during the impeachment proceedings, but mofford has gubernatorial power pending the outcome of the trial
it would take a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate to convict mecham and remove him from office. the senators could then take another vote and bar him for life from holding state office
mecham also faces a criminal trial april 21 on charges he concealed the $350,000 loan, and a recall election is scheduled for may 17
reputed druglord carlos lehder rivas interrupted his smuggling trial wednesday to say he had evidence the chief prosecutor was blackmailing the judge, an allegation the prosecutor called ``high comedy.''
u.s. attorney robert merkle said the man who sent the letter to lehder had ``mental problems'' and had made similar allegations about authorities in tampa, where he had been convicted on extortion and racketeering charges
u.s. district judge howell melton read the letter and said he had also received previous letters from the man
lehder, 38, charged with smuggling tons of cocaine into the united states, rose as the court was breaking for a mid-morning recess
your honor, i would like to disclose that i have received evidence that mr. merkle is blackmailing judge melton and i'd like to present it,'' he said
this is high comedy,'' merkle said as melton said he'd like to hear any such evidence
the statement apparently was unexpected even by lehder's attorneys. it resulted in quick recesses so they could confer with their client. the letter-writer's name was not revealed in court
this individual is familiar to me. he has mental problems,'' said the prosecutor
i do not intend for the integrity of this court, nor the prosecutor to be impugned,'' the judge said of the allegations. ``i would categorically say that at this time, they are absolutely untrue.''
the judge gave the defense until thursday morning to file any motions they might want to make concerning the material
lehder said the information had been filed by the letter writer with a federal appeals court and the senate judiciary committee. ``i wanted to just call it to the judge's attention so that something can be done about it,'' said lehder
defense attorney edward r. shohat said his client had no personal knowledge about the source of the information
lehder, reputed to be one of the leaders of colombia's medellin cocaine cartel, is on trial on charges he and others conspired to import some 3.3 tons of the drug into the united states from colombia via the bahamas
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, of san pedro, calif., is charged with being a part of the smuggling conspiracy. update with thiokol response; deletes 16th graf pvs, `three violations ...' to conform.</note>
a state agency cited morton thiokol inc. for six safety violations and fined the aerospace company $31,700 wednesday in a fire in an mx missile motor assembly building dec. 29 that killed five workers
the victims' presence in the building and failure to use remote-control equipment instead at the time of the fire were among the most serious violations alleged by the utah division of occupational safety and health
the penalties represent the maximum that could be imposed, said doug mcvey, uosh administrator
the contractor has 30 days to appeal the citations and penalties to the independent utah uosh review commission. three violations were deemed willful and serious, two were deemed serious and one was ``other than serious.''
in a statement late wednesday, chicago-based morton thiokol said that it is ``confident that the facts will not substantiate any conscious or knowing violation of the act'' and that it will challenge the citations
morton thiokol described many of the alleged violations as ``random instances unknown to company management, which reflect a failure of some employees to follow all rules established by the company.''
the company said increased supervision and stricter enforcement of the company's discipline program have been instituted as a remedy
the workers were withdrawing the core from a casting of the first stage of an mx missile when 100,000 pounds of solid fuel ignited in a fireball. the blaze caused $6.2 million in damage to the plant 25 miles west of brigham city
morton thiokol makes the missile's four stages, and also makes the space shuttle's solid-fuel rocket boosters, which failed when the challenger blew up in january 1986
the fire at thiokol's wasatch division has held up production of the mx missile until the cause of the fire can be determined and corrected
air force investigators, in a briefing wednesday, blamed either static electricity or friction, perhaps from grit, as the probable cause of the fire, said art kingdom, a spokesman for rep. wayne owens, d-utah
another theory is that as the propellant was compressed, its chemistry changed, making it more volatile, kingdom said
mcvey said state investigators agreed with the air force's findings, although his division's investigation focused on safety regulations, not the cause
results of the air force's investigation were scheduled to be made public thursday, but members of utah's congressional delegation were briefed a day in advance
uosh alleged that workmen were removing the core from an engine manually rather than by remote control. the cores, or metal forms, are removed after the propellant has been poured into the casing and allowed to harden
the agency also said protective walls and barricades were not provided, and proper precautions against static electricty weren't taken
in addition, it said, dual controls for a hydraulic system were not interlocked to prevent unintentional operations, and employees entering the explosive material area did not turn over all prohibited articles, such as coins and keys
also, an unauthorized crowbar was in a restricted area, uosh said
kingdom said the air force recommended better electrical grounding, increased humidity and more care in withdrawing cores from engines
the air force said the fire destroyed one of three missile engine cores. investigators said two completed castings are awaiting withdrawal of the cores before the engines can be shipped to the air force in california, kingdom said
kingdom said the air force had indicated it needed the engines within the two months to continue its mx test program. loss</head> comment from byrne.</note>
former mayor jane byrne kicked in the door of chicago's fabled backroom politics nearly a decade ago, unsmiling and unafraid of mixing it up with the democratic machine's big boys
but after her third straight electoral setback, this one for clerk of the cook county circuit court and viewed by many political observers as the first step in a comeback bid, mrs. byrne apparently is calling it quits
when we say the people spoke,'' mrs. byrne said of tuesday's primary defeat, ``they apparently shouted
and therefore,'' she added, ``i'm very good at taking hints.''
i truly believe that politically it's all over for me,'' mrs. byrne said wednesday before leaving for phoenix, ariz
she headed west for ``some rest and relaxation,'' said joe pecor, her campaign manager. asked whether she would run again, he said, ``where she is concerned, one should never say never.''
she has demonstrated time and again that she has a very solid core of support running somewhere between 35 (percent) and 40 percent of the democrats in chicago and the county.''
but that wasn't enough to stave off the late harold washington's upset bid in the three-way 1983 democratic mayoral primary, and it wasn't enough when she tried to avenge that loss against washington last year
it turned out be too little again tuesday when she lost to aurelia pucinski, endorsed by the party organization that mrs. byrne once held, vise-like, in her grip
and this latest loss came in a race rich with resonance and names _ pucinski, byrne and edward ``fast eddie'' vrdolyak _ that speak to the past, present and perhaps even the future of cook county's quirky democratic politics
mrs. byrne, a former debutante with a flair for the dramatic, became the city's first woman mayor in 1979, scoring a rags-to-riches victory after campaigning against the political machine of the late mayor richard j. daley
she defeated the machine's candidate, then-mayor michael bilandic, with the help of much of the city's machine-weary blacks, but later made peace with the regular democrats
included in that group were several aldermen mrs. byrne had railed against as members of ``an evil cabal,'' most notably vrdolyak and roman pucinski, aurelia pucinski's father and one of the machine's most loyal servants
but she paid dearly for cozying up to the old guard, as well as for several other moves _ replacing blacks with whites on the school board, then handing out hams at public-housing projects as the 1983 election neared
washington, galvanizing the black vote, turned her out of office and became the city's first black mayor
he spent the next four years retooling the party machinery to fit his needs, then became the first two-term mayor since daley by handily beating back successive challenges from mrs. byrne last february in the primary and then vrdolyak, running as a third-party candidate, in april
after washington's death in november, alderman eugene sawyer became mayor
vrdolyak, saying the party under washington had become untenable, completed his move away from the democratic organization last year. running as a republican, he was unopposed in tuesday's primary for court clerk
in the meantime, ms. pucinski, an attorney and metropolitan sanitary district commissioner, stepped out of her father's shadow and was welcomed into the washington camp
so much so that she may have beaten byrne in tuesday's race on the strength of her showing among chicago's blacks, who helped propel her to a 52 percent to 38 percent victory over mrs. byrne with nearly all the votes counted. two other candidates, thomas fuller, and janice hart, a follower of political extremist lyndon larouche, split the rest of the vote
ms. hart defeated ms. pucinski in the 1986 democratic primary for the illinois secretary of state's office, won that november by republican jim edgar
byrne's defeat spoiled an anticipated byrne-vrdolyak struggle in the fall, a match of two former titans for an obscure office both hoped would lead to bigger things
kim dae-jung resigned thursday as leader of his party in an attempt to unite the opposition before national assembly elections expected in april
he said he was stepping down because his presence as head of the party for peace and democracy was blocking unification and because he failed to win the dec. 16 presidential elections
i have keenly felt guilty,'' kim dae-jung said in a statement read by a party vice president, park young-sook, who said she would be acting party president
the statement made no mention of kim dae-jung's future plans. he did not make the statement himself because he was ill, party officials said
efforts to unite peace and democracy with the rival reunification democratic party collapsed last week when kim dae-jung refused the other party's demand that he resign
it was not clear if his resignation thursday would clear the way for the opposition to unite. the reunification democratic leadership met after kim dae-jung's announcement to consider its response
kim dae-jung acted after the reunification democrats moved to unite with three smaller opposition parties
many opposition supporters are angry that the two main opposition parties have failed to join together, and party leaders fear a major loss of support
kim dae-jung and his supporters split from the reunification democratic party to form the peace and democracy party late last year after he and kim young-sam, the reunification democrats' leader, failed to agree on who should run for president
both kims ran and were defeated by the government party's nominee, roh tae-woo, who became president feb. 25. opposition supporters blamed the two kims for the defeat because they split the opposition vote
kim young-sam resigned as reunification democratic party president in february to clear the way for the two parties to unite. unity talks ran into problems over leadership and political goals and collapsed
the opposition is concerned it will suffer a major defeat in the national assembly elections expected april 26
the security council unanimously urged south africa on wednesday to commute the sentences of the ``sharpeville six,'' sentenced to be executed for a 1984 death by mob violence
its resolution asked for a stay of the executions, scheduled for friday, and said south africa's ``practice'' of executing opponents of apartheid has harmed the search for peace
on tuesday, president reagan issued a personal appeal for the lives of the six
they were convicted in the 1984 mob killing of a black township councilman stoned and burned to death in the sharpeville township south of johannesburg. an appeals court judge ruled that they did not kill him personally but had common purpose with the mob
dragoslav pejic of yugoslavia, security council president for march, said death sentences for the ``african patriots'' had caused ``undivided international condemnation and uproar.'' he also said thousands of innocent black south africans have been detained and tortured
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar sent a telegram to president p.w. botha of south africa asking mercy be shown the five men and one woman on humanitarian grounds
he said clemency would help reduce tensions in south africa, where 5 million whites control the government and the 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs
the council resolution spoke of the ``pretoria racist regime's decision to execute the sharpeville six ... in defiance of worldwide appeals.''
ambassador a. leslie manley of south africa issued a statement criticizing the council, which frequently condemns his country
he said the government ``strongly objects'' to council action that interferes ``not only in an internal south african matter but also a matter which is the result of the due process of law.''
south africa ``is not insensitive to the feelings aroused by capital punishment but must respect the independence of the country's judicial system,'' his statement said. ``murder is a common law crime. it has nothing to do with the color of a person's skin.''
it said south african courts ``are highly respected'' and that there are few countries ``if any, where the courts enjoy a higher degree of independence from the executive authority.''
this was the council's second action in a week of a resolution condemning apartheid, the official south african policy of race discrimination. last tuesday, the united states and britain vetoed a resolution that would have imposed economic sanctions
wednesday's resolution said the executions would ``further inflame an already grave situation in south africa.''
it urged south africa to commute the sentences and asked all countries and organizations to ``use influence and take urgent measures to save the lives of the `sharpeville six'.''
the united states, soviet union, britain, france and china are permanent members of the council, with veto power. other nations currently serving are algeria, argentina, brazil, italy, japan, nepal, senegal, west germany, yugoslavia and zambia
federal authorities in at least two states are investigating whether ferdinand marcos tried to arrange an arms shipment to philippine forces loyal to him, according to federal officials and other sources
marcos' chief american attorney denied the former philippine president was involved in any arms shipments. ``that's a dry well for you, my friend,'' richard a. hibey said friday in washington. ``there's no truth to that allegation.''
word that authorities were pressing such an investigation surfaced here last week when u.s. district judge alfred j. lechner jr., in sentencing a defendant in an arms smuggling case here, referred to a continuing probe
chris franzblau, an attorney for the defendant, abelardo morua, said tuesday that federal agents had asked his client about marcos
they asked a lot of times about if whether we had anything to tie up marcos to this transaction,'' he said, adding that morua was unable to provide such a link
morua was charged with three others in a customs service sting operation stemming from the alleged arms deal
no arms were alleged to have changed hands. however, officials said the shipment would have supplied automatic rifles and submachine guns for an 80-member force
leon dicker, a disbarred hewlett, n.y., attorney, was convicted of conspiring to export weapons. the two others were acquitted. dicker was sentenced to four years in prison. morua received a two-year term
during the trial, the government said the arms were destined for thailand, but two federal officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said last week that the weapons were believed headed for pro-marcos forces in the philippines
pro-marcos elements failed in at least two coup attempts in 1987
during dicker's trial, the prosecutor said new york businessman robert l. steele had worked with dicker on the proposed arms shipment
steele, who was not charged, and dicker have been linked to orlando c. dulay, a marcos supporter and former provincial governor later connected by philippine military sources to an august 1987 coup attempt against the government of marcos' successor, corazon aquino
dulay was questioned by police on the grounds of a marcos-owned estate in lawrence township in august 1986. he said steele and dicker, whom he identified as his lawyers, told him to clean up the estate. he was not arrested
a newspaper in manila said last week that dulay was contacted by u.s. authorities who traveled there seeking his cooperation in an investigation of alleged arms shipments to pro-marcos groups
assistant u.s. attorney john peyton in honolulu on monday confirmed that he met with dulay last week, but said he could not comment further because of an ``ongoing criminal investigation.''
raul rabe, deputy chief of mission at the philippines embassy in washington, said dulay joined marcos in honolulu before being deported to the philippines, where he faced charges in the 1986 slayings of three presidential campaign workers for mrs. aquino
marcos has been living in exile in honolulu since his 1986 ouster. he has said he wishes to return to his homeland
last year, two u.s. businessmen testified before a house subcommittee that marcos had sought to buy weapons for shipment to the philippines in june, four months after dicker's arrest. they played for the panel secretly taped conversations with marcos
it could not be determined if the alleged coup attempt, the dicker case and the honolulu investigation were directly related
neither u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. nor richard mercier, head of customs' newark office, would comment on the case. leonard s. walton, customs director of illegal export investigations in washington, also would not comment
on monday, marcos issued a statement denying he wanted to resume power ``through violent means.''
steele did not return repeated phone messages left this week and last at his commonwealth group ltd., a company in new york city. major u.s. pipeline interrupted. picks up 6th graf pvs, washington has ... with minor editing</note>
soldiers tried to overthrow gen. manuel antonio noriega on wednesday but they were overpowered, and thousands of people poured into the streets in the largest protest yet of his continued rule
many workers are broke in a country that uses u.s. dollars as its currency but has almost none of them. street corners in poor neighborhoods were dotted with burning barricades wednesday
the nation's defense forces said the coup attempt apparently was led by col. leonidas macias, head of the national police. he was arrested along with three majors, a captain and some civilians, the communique said
maj. edgardo lopez, head of the military press office, said ``no more than eight or nine'' officers were involved in the revolt. he said there were no casualties but did not say what happened to officers not listed among those arrested
it was the first sign of trouble within noriega's defense forces, which had kept a solid front through nine months of civil unrest caused by accusations that noriega was involved in crimes ranging from drug trafficking to political assassination. he was indicted on drug charges in florida
the panama canal commision, which supervises operation of the 50-mile waterway between the atlantic and pacific oceans, said dockworkers' strikes and an electricity shutoff had not impeded ship passage. the canal has its own electrical generating capacity
but operations stopped on the trans-panama pipeline, which carries about 650,000 barrels of alaskan crude oil a day across the isthmus for delivery to gulf of mexico and east coast markets. the pipeline relies on local power and the u.s. embassy in panama city said the line lacked electricity to drive the pumps
bp america inc. and its subsidiary sohio oil own up to three-quarters of the oil that flows through the line and exxon co. usa owns the rest, comprising about 10 percent of total u.s. production
washington has put pressure on noriega, and president reagan said tuesday the united states wants him ``out of there.'' sanctions such as freezing panamanian accounts in u.s. banks and withholding panama canal fees created a cash shortage that makes it impossible to pay the 130,000 public employees
flaming barricades blocked hundreds of streets on the third day of the latest public protest. by midafternoon, police and military units began reappearing in the city
many protesters identified themselves as ``civilistas'' _ members of the national civic crusade, a coalition of about 200 business, professional, labor, student and opposition groups
the crusade was formed last june to lead the campaign to oust noriega as chief of the defense forces, which include the military and police
by midafternoon, the demonstrators were dispersed, buses and taxis stopped running and the city was virtually deserted, with most shops closed. widespread looting broke out downtown, mostly by youths
reporters said men in civilian clothes fired pistols and rifles at demonstrators from four-wheel-drive vehicles. opponents have accused the government of using hired thugs or plainclothes security agents to break up protests
electricity went out in most of the country after workers at the state power company joined the protests at midday. local telephone service was sporadic
protesters chanted ``noriega must go!'' and ``noreiga, tyrant, your end is near!''
residents near the defense forces headquarters heard the clatter of light arms fire inside the walled compound beginning at about 8:15 a.m. it continued for at least half an hour
an hour after the shooting stopped, noriega appeared on the stairs on one side of the building, dressed in civilian clothes and accompanied by members of his high command
they were kisses,'' he said when asked about the shooting
to questions from reporters about what had happened, he replied: ``what happened is that you are visiting us here.''
a communique by the defense forces said ``an attempt by several officers to take over the headquarters of our institution was foiled. the attempt was an isolated action that was repressed by the officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers of the institution.''
among those arrested, the communique said, were macias; majs. fernando quezada, aristedes valdonedo and jaime benitez and capt. humberto macias
the statement said ``most of the officers involved in this attempt were returned recently to the country after taking specialized courses in different military installations of the united states, where they were influenced and compromised into betraying the oath they had given to the defense forces and the fatherland
troops loyal to the commander in in chief, in a quick action, repressed and controlled the situation, thus avoiding bloodshed.''
earlier, soldiers stopped associated press reporters eloy o. aguilar and pauline jelinek and photographer diana smith as they drove up to the heavily guarded headquarters, forced them from the car at gunpoint and marched them into the compound
they saw guards lead an officer with his hands behind his head into a barracks
a captain told the journalists, who were later released, that the man was taking part ``in a simulated exercise'' of taking prisoners
the captain would not identify himself
hundreds of soldiers surrounded the headquarters in one of the older, poorer sections of panama city. residents were kept away
the u.s. southern command put its 10,000 military personnel and their dependents on the highest security alert, ordering americans ``not to go into public areas except for essential business.''
officials of the canal commission said in washinton that roads to the canal were blocked and the panamanian military closed the entrance to a u.s. air base near the canal administrative headquarters in balboa
dennis p. mcauliffe, administrator of the commission, said he ``would not regard (the blockade) as a hostile act at this moment.''
about 6,000 nicaraguan soldiers used helicopters and heavy artillery in a major offensive against contra rebel forces, but the government denied reports that its troops had crossed the border into honduras
honduran officials also denied contra claims that sandinista troops fighting in northern nicaragua on tuesday had entered honduran territory
heavy fighting was reported throughout nicaragua's 5th military region, which includes the provinces of boaco, chontales, rio san juan and zelaya south. the contras said sandinista troops had overrun some rebel positions
two lebanese newspapers today published letters addressed to kidnapped american journalist terry anderson and his pro-iranian captors on the third anniversary of his abduction in moslem west beirut
the independent an-nahar and the sunni moslem al-liwa also published a picture of anderson's 2-year-old daughter sulome, who was born after his march 16, 1985, abduction by islamic jihad
here is sulome, our daughter, wishing you a safe return home, daddy,'' said a letter to anderson from madeleine, sulome's mother. ``she often asks about you. wondering which of all the planes she is seeing will be the one bringing daddy home...''
anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest-held of 22 foreign hostages in lebanon. there has been no word of him for three months
hundreds of prison guards here have engaged in corruption including drug sales and aiding escapes, the district attorney said in announcing the first nine arrests from a continuing investigation
authorities say seven guards, one prison cook and an inmate were charged as a result of ``operation ferret,'' an investigation begun 18 months ago
the investigation will potentially yield the largest number of arrests related to official misconduct by correctional officers in this country's history,'' district attorney ronald castille told a news conference tuesday
arizona's top lawman _ an accuser in gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial _ is a liar who had ambitions to be governor, claimed a defense witness who said she's the lawman's ``disgusted'' ex-lover
mecham, a first-term republican, has not been attending the senate impeachment trial, but defense lawyer jerris leonard said attorneys hoped to decide by today when he will be brought to the stand
christina johnston testified tuesday that her relationship with department of public safety director ralph milstead was ``intimate and personal.''
milstead has accused the governor of ordering him not to cooperate with an investigation of an alleged death threat against a former mecham aide who was to testify before a grand jury about an unreported campaign loan. news digest: wash _ us-nicaragua; managua, nicaragua _ nicaragua; wash _ iran-contra; panama city, panama _ panama; wash _ us-israel; wash _ arms sales; belfast, northern ireland _ ira-funeral; wash _ anderson-anniversary; undated _ political rdp; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham.</note>
paul simon's favorite-son primary victory revived talk of a deadlocked democratic convention on wednesday, but non-candidate mario cuomo condemned the possibility as ``the best way to give this election away to the republicans.''
the new york governor joined party chief paul kirk in calling for the democratic leadership to meet and unify behind the front-runner at the end of the primary season in june, rather than wait until the july convention in atlanta
simon pulled his campaign back from the brink of extinction with the illinois primary win on tuesday, with fellow favorite son jesse jackson running second. simon took the lion's share of the delegates, with jackson winning the rest, shutting out delegate front-runner michael dukakis
former mayor jane byrne kicked in the door of chicago's fabled backroom politics nearly a decade ago, unsmiling and unafraid of mixing it up with the democratic machine's big boys
but after her third straight electoral setback, this one for clerk of the cook county circuit court and viewed by many political observers as the first step in a comeback bid, mrs. byrne apparently is calling it quits
when we say the people spoke,'' mrs. byrne said of tuesday's primary defeat, ``they apparently shouted
corporate training unlimited, the organization of former army commandos that has been credited with rescuing a 7-year-old girl from jordan for her american mother, has built a reputation as one of the best places for police and corporations to get anti-terrorist training
they are extremely competent and detailed in what they do,'' said fayetteville police chief ron hansen, whose 12-person emergency response team was trained by company specialists at no cost last year
although corporate training officials have denied involvement in the rescue mission, the company reportedly was paid as much as $200,000 by cathy phelps mahone to help snatch her daughter, lauren bayan, off a school bus in jerash, north of amman, in late january
the housing industry, after staggering for two months following the october stock market crash, enjoyed a sharp 8.9 percent increase in construction activity in february, the biggest gain in more than a year, the government reported wednesday
the commerce department said the increase pushed construction of single-family homes and apartments up to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units last month following declines of 15.8 percent in december and 1.9 percent in january
those back-to-back setbacks, coupled with three consecutive monthly declines in new home sales, had raised concerns because housing is often the first industry to weaken at the onset of a new recession. economists feared that potential home buyers had grown wary following the record collapse of the stock market in october
hopes for an end to the war in afghanistan have focused attention on talks in geneva this week, but more is at stake than the soviet union's military withdrawal from the 9-year-old conflict
the kremlin's apparent willingness to extract its estimated 115,000 troops may signal a broader policy change in the superpower's role in foreign revolutions
should an acceptable retreat be found from afghanistan and the conflict between pro- and anti-communist forces be left to the afghans, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev would heal one of his nation's most visible foreign policy sores. he also could improve relations with the united states, china, the indian subcontinent and the moslem world
the prosecutor in the ``preppie murder'' trial suggested in closing statements wednesday that the defendant strangled a teen-age woman after a bitter central park argument about his alcohol-induced impotence
perhaps he couldn't perform because he had too many tequilas and beers,'' assistant district attorney linda fairstein said of 21-year-old robert chambers
whatever the exact words were, only two human beings know what triggered the fight. it was an argument that escalated and became physical,'' she said
three decades after the irish government evacuated his weeping father and the few other people who remained on the tiny blasket islands, mike carney says the exiles are flourishing in their landlocked new home
there's more of us here than in ireland,'' said the happy emigrant from the harsh life that ended abruptly in 1955 with the closing of the islands off the western tip of the dingle peninsula
carney, 67, is among the last surviving natives of the five-mile-long main island that preserved 18th-century language and customs into the middle of the 20th century, when the government deemed the land too dangerous to inhabit
a 94-year-old man's offer of $10,000 to anyone who can end his 65 years of hiccuping has drawn some exotic nostrums _ dill seed, magnesium phosphate, holy water, indian hemp, among them _ but the man hiccups on
unbelievable,'' lucretia peterson of rural aitkin said as she sifted through some of the more than 5,000 letters, cassettes, and parcels that have poured into her home from europe and north america since her father, charlie osborne, offered the reward in january
people really care. even though the $10,000 is a big deal to some of them, a lot say keep the money and spend it in good health. it's unbelievable for that many people to write in this day and age,'' she said
munusamy gunasekaran sleeps on the job, but his boss doesn't mind
gunasekaran is one of 34 volunteers hired by the health department to act as ``human bait'' to attract and catch mosquitoes as part of a program that helps keep this city of 1 million people free of malaria
the volunteers are paid between $120 and $160 a month to sleep in small huts on a bed surrounded by mosquito netting
the mosquitoes are attracted by the scent of the men inside the hut and the light from small hurricane lamps hanging by the doors, said muthuthamby balakrishnan, a senior assistant in the city's public health department
jan kinast left his post at the polish embassy in washington 20 years ago little dreaming he would return this winter trying to mend relations shattered by martial law and a foreign debt that is still rising
i keep pretty busy,'' says kinast, a junior diplomat at the polish embassy in washington 1964-68 and poland's first ambassador to the united states since the military crackdown against the independent solidarity trade union in december 1981. kinast's predecessor, romuald spasowski, defected to protest martial law
so far, kinast is having better luck winning friends for poland among america's officials than its businessmen and bankers
we are delighted with ambassador kinast,'' said deputy secretary of state john whitehead, who has traveled twice to poland since martial law was lifted in 1983. whitehead, in a telephone interview, described kinast's immediate previous post, deputy foreign minister, as analagous to his own job as no. 2 in the state department
kinast, like many poles, is a chain smoker, and nicotine stains the thick glasses through which he pores over reams of finanicial statistics
poland's foreign debt, which was $25.5 billion in 1981, rose to $39. billion by dec. 31, 1987, driven higher by the collapsing dollar and a lack of quality exports
the reagan administration has lifted the freeze it imposed on new credits to poland during martial law, but poland is still such a bad risk that western bankers balk at offering any new loans
john davis jr., who just became the first u.s. ambassador to poland since 1982, said in a televised interview last week that polish authorities appeared genuinely interested in economic reforms
if economic reform is in place, and we see that it is in place, it may be that there are some opportunities for joint ventures, or other means of being helpful,'' said davis
poland took one step toward better relations with the united states by closing down a business enterprise affiliated with the abu nidal terrorist organization last fall and ordering the two men in charge to leave poland in january. u.s. anti-terrorism experts say they are watching the situation carefully
and u.s. officials say more american help might be forthcoming if polish leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski reached political accommodation with solidarity and poland's roman catholic church
i think that u.s. help would follow liberalization,'' davis said in an interview broadcast from warsaw by abc-tv
the billions of dollars poland received in credit in the 1970's, davis said, ``went down the drain through a combination of bad luck and bad management,'' creating the economic crisis that spawned solidarity in august 1980
but kinast said in a recent interview in his washington office that poland is looking not for new long-term credits but for short-term commercial credits to facilitate transactions
ninety-five percent of our (foreign) purchases are cash,'' he said. ``no other country in the world is buying machines and durable goods for cash.''
a polish trade delegation which visited washington feb. 14 for the 10th session of the joint american-polish trade commission _ the first such meeting since 1981 _ went home with friendly words instead of dollars
one deal under discussion is the purchase or rental by poland's state-owned lot airlines of two or three jets from boeing corp. the planes would fly between u.s. cities and warsaw, and money from tickets sold in the united states would pay for the planes, say polish officials
there are geopolitical overtones in poland's latest turn toward the west. lot grounded its fleet of eight soviet-made ilyushin 62 jets, the best moscow has to offer, after one crashed last may near warsaw, killing all 183 people aboard
a government commission blamed a faulty roller bearing for the crash, poland's worst, and the weekly przeglad tygodniowy recently complained that the il-62 is more costly to operate, and requires more maintenance, than other jetliners
kinast said that poland, like other soviet bloc countries, is seeking joint ventures with the west, and may be willing to waive previous requirements, allowing private polish firms to take part, allowing the western firm to own more than half the joint venture, and relaxing rules and taking hard currency out of poland
poland is seeking western help in the agricultural sector, as well. on feb. 20, the the foundation for the development of polish agriculture, created with the help of the rockefeller brothers' fund, was opening up a $2.4 million-line of credit for private farmers in poland to stimulate the export of hams
two weeks after he became pastor of a southern baptist church in west-central illinois, the rev. gerald price said he knew the congregation might end up firing him
it did
getting along with a congregation is a common challenge for clergy, particularly in the baptist system
the congregation which ousted price, he found later, had fired five previous staff members. it was plagued with financial problems and had split over the issue of speaking in tongues
price, who now is minister of education at park avenue baptist church here, said being fired devastated him and his family. but he said he found comfort in scripture and help from friends and family in relocating
the southern baptist convention, in which churches have local autonomy and can simply fire a pastor, has concluded the problem is severe enough to set up a special program to help fired pastors
other denominations have found that maintaining good relations between the pastor and congregation, as well as among members, often takes some effort. but in most denominations, a pastor can't simply be fired by the congregation
the southern baptist sunday school board research department discovered in 1984 that 88 ministers were fired by their churches each month, said norris smith, who coordinates a program to help fired ministers
we found that pastors who had been terminated had great need, both for a job and emotional support,'' smith said. ``being terminated does not change that pastor's internal spiritual awareness that god has called him into the ministry.''
previously, he said, there was no clear place for pastors to turn for financial or emotional help
smith tries to make sure they receive counseling if they need it, and seeks to put them in touch with others who can help in finding another job, if it appears they were unjustly fired. state conventions have funds to help with financial needs
smith works with churches such as highview baptist in louisville, ky., and first baptist church of orlando, fla., which have established temporary paid staff positions to help terminated ministers rebuild their careers
in the methodist, episcopal, roman catholic and lutheran churches, severe problems between a pastor and church are referred to the bishop or someone else within the church hierarchy. those churches have structures to investigate problems and work to remedy them
in the united methodist church, problems can be referred to a pastor-parish relations committee, or the bishop. a methodist pastor can be transferred, or suspended, if convicted in a church trial of some serious offense, such as immorality
in the episcopal church, pastors can be removed only through joint action of the parish governing body, the vestry, and diocesan bishop
the rev. patrick connor, vicar general of the nashville catholic diocese, said problems between priest and congregation would go to a parish-pastoral council and then the bishop, but a parish by itself can't fire a priest
the lutheran church-missouri synod has a full-time consultant on a ``peace in the parish'' program, aimed at improving relations between pastors and congregations and among members
the rev. norman grotelusuhen, president of the denomination's mid-south district, said a congregation can fire a pastor for particular causes, but he would investigate
if you can get in early enough, you usually can defuse it; if you come in late, it will more likely lead to a termination,'' he said
sometimes it's the pastor's fault, sometimes the church,'' he said. problems can arise over the pastor not spending enough time visiting the sick and bereaved, or having difficulty administering congregational affairs
the rev. james qualben, a lutheran, has for three years conducted sessions on such problems with church officials and ministers from lutheran, episcopal and methodist churches
he said that when he is asked to help resolve a problem in a congregation, he starts by reviewing its value system, and how past difficulties may come back as old angers and old hurts operating within the congregation
i went to one church that had split over slavery in 1872,'' he said. ``the descendants of the slavery congregation still sit on one side of the church, while the descendants of the non-slavery congregation still sit on the other side.''
qualben said he tries to help the church get a longer range perspective for making wise decisions and coping with the past without hoarding hurts
but eliminating all conflict doesn't square with human nature, he said. ``if the absence of conflict is the mark of a successful church then the disciples never qualified.''
but he said conciliating efforts often bring ``new life, new vitality of mutual ministry in the church.''
an official team of lutheran and roman catholic scholars says it is working toward agreements on the role of mary and the saints in christian faith
a key issue of the protestant reformation was roman catholic belief in prayers ``invoking the intercession'' of mary and the saints. protestants contended this obscured the primacy of christ as mediator for humanity
at a meeting here, members of the lutheran-catholic dialogue team said they expected to publish their conclusions in 1989. the team previously agreed that mary was a model of faith, devotion and spirituality
the assemblies of god reports that its number of congregations rose last year from 10,886 to 11,004, up 118
earth day'' comes this sunday _ at the spring equinox _ with an appeal for ringing of church bells at noon, and for people to pause for two minutes to pray for peace
lutheran john mcconnell of brooklyn, promoter of the day dedicated to peaceful care of the planet, says participation has been increasing since the annual observance began in 1970
the new international version of the bible, on its 10th birthday, has more than a million copies in print, reports its publisher, zondervan publishers
the version was produced by conservative scholars
company official bruce e. ryskamp cites sale figures indicating that nearly a third of new bibles sold are the niv version, putting it near the best-selling spot. he says,``this is an amazing feat in merely 10 years.''
the u.s. department of defense is distributing a 96-page booklet titled ``days of remembrance'' to assist members of the armed forces in organizing education programs and ceremonies in remembrance of the nazi slaughter of 6 million jews during world war ii
special observances are to take place april 10-17. the booklet was produced with assistance of the international center for holocaust studies of the anti-defamation league of b'nai b'rith
the church of the brethren has urged the u.s. congress to make further foreign aid to israel conditional on ending of its occupation of the west bank, gaza and the golan heights
we are outraged by the regular and sustained killing and injuring of unarmed palestinians who live under military occupation,'' the 165,000-member denomination's general board said in a resolution
southern baptists want to send their missionaries back to lebanon, but the u.s. state department says it's still too unsafe
that word was received here by the denomination's foreign mission board, which had ask that its 24 missionaries, forced to leave lebanon last year because of risky conditions, be allowed to return
the rev. keith parks, head of the mission board, expressed disappointment at the new ruling. he said that in other equally dangerous places of the world, the state department has not banned u.s. citizens
he said ``we long for the time'' when the missionaries can ``re-establish a presence and a ministry in lebanon.''  
when three whooping cranes flew out of a tidal marsh, sounds of awe mixed with the clicking of cameras on the deck of the lucky day
the three birds made up nearly 2 percent of the entire population of their kind
flying whooping cranes at 9 o'clock,'' capt. harry sloat told the 80 passengers, his second tour group of the day on the gulf intracoastal waterway. ``they're showing off their wing tips for you.''
each year, it gets a little easier to spot the birds at the aransas national wildlife refuge, which is celebrating its 50th aniversary
there are about 195 whoopers in the world today; in 1941, the population had dwindled to 15. the decline came as habitats were developed for farms and cities, while hunters helped to nearly finish off the species
whooping cranes made aransas famous, but when congress created the coastal preserve in 1937, the legislation did not mention the bird known scientifically as grus americana
this refuge was not established to protect whooping cranes,'' said refuge biologist tom stehn. ``it was established to protect waterfowl habitat.''
the government saw the need to protect less spectacular game birds, such as ducks and geese. whooping cranes just happened to be lucky enough to share the same area during the winter
their precarious situation by 1945 prompted the u.s. fish and wildlife service and national audubon society to work on rescuing the birds from extinction
without the aransas refuge, i think it's pretty evident the whooping crane would have become extinct,'' stehn said, while observing an unusual gathering of 14 whoopers in the same field
he called it ``just phenomenal to be able to see that many whooping cranes from one location, to think that at one point there were only 15 in the entire flock.''
scientists don't think the whooping crane population ever exceeded 5,000, he said
only about 8,000 acres on the refuge provide the marshy winter habitat whooping cranes use to look for food including plants, clams, snakes, crabs, snails, fish, worms and insects
several other endangered species make the refuge their home. they include the bald eagle, brown pelican, peregrine falcon, attwater's prairie chicken, jaguarundi and eskimo curlew
the texas whooping crane flock numbers 132 this year, a 79 percent increase in four years. virtually all are on or near the 54,829-acre refuge
they migrate each winter to texas from canada's wood buffalo national park 2,400 miles away
eighteen to 20 whoopers live among sandhill cranes that migrate between gray's lake national wildlife refuge in idaho and new mexico's bosque del apache national wildlife refuge. they were introduced as chicks into the sandhill families, but none have started breeding
a third group of 41 lives in captivity at the fish and wildlife service's patuxent wildlife research center in maryland. lone specimens of whooping crane also live at the san antonio zoo and the international crane foundation in baraboo, wis
with their population steadily growing, the texas whoopers have started spreading to a 44,000-acre state park and refuge on nearby matagorda island. the u.s. fish and wildlife service is buying an additional 11,502 acres at the southern end of matagorda from the nature conservancy. that will add important new habitat as the territorial whooping cranes spread out
we're really encouraged by the land that they're adding'' because wildlife is rapidly losing ground, said jesse grantham, biologist and manager for the national audubon society's texas sanctuaries. ``we're not creating habitat. we're just saving little pieces of what's left.''
whooper pairs, mated for life, stake out winter territories and return to the same claims each year
the birds stand nearly 5 feet tall and have wings spanning about 7{ feet. adults are snowy white, with black wingtips and red crowns on their heads. immature whooping cranes are rusty red and white with black wing tips. males breed at about the age 3, while females wait until they're about 5
in rockport, where sloat's lucky day and four other whooping crane tour boats are based, the endangered bird means money for the local economy
just a couple of years ago, only two whooping crane boats were operating
you have people that are staying in motels and eating and seeing other things while they are here'' to see the whooping cranes, said bob lynch, executive vice president of the rockport-fulton chamber of commerce. ``it has an economic impact on our community, there's no doubt.''
some estimate the refuge brings up to $5 million to the local economy
refuge officials, however, worry about its location on the gulf intracoastal waterway, a man-made channel that cuts right through the whooping crane habitat
some 1,485 acres of habitat have been lost since 1941 due to construction of the canal and erosion caused by boat wakes
regular barge traffic leaves oil, grease, cadmium, arsenic, nickel and mercury, while many of the barges carry deadly cargo
there is some nasty stuff going through that canal,'' said refuge manager brent giezentanner. ``you're carrying very toxic chemicals within 100 yards of the cranes. if we have one barge break open some time, we potentially could have a major portion of the whooping crane habitat contaminated.''
remember 20 years ago? black-and-white television, the vietnam war, the assassinations of martin luther king jr. and robert kennedy, campus unrest, sexual revolution, hippies, flower children?
other events shook the earth, too. growing up, for instance
in abc's ``the wonder years,'' kevin arnold is 12 years old in 1968. he has to be careful of the neighborhood bully, namely his older brother. his father is a distant figure who shows up now and then to straighten him out. the offstage narrator is kevin as a grownup, looking back and remembering. of course, remembering it in his own fashion
the wonder years,'' simply put, is wonderful. every adult out there who has ever grown up will identify with this awkward age
fred savage stars as kevin, jason hervey is his older brother, wayne, and olivia d'abo is his sister, karen. the midseason replacement series being given a limited trial by abc has been given a tuesday night spot between ``who's the boss'' and ``moonlighting.''
1968 was a year when a lot of amazing things took place,'' said carol black, creator and executive producer with her husband, neal marlens. marlens also created abc's ``growing pains.''
we were about that age that year. there were a lot of really disruptive events in the background of a kid's life.''
marlens said, ``it's different when you're 12. you know things are happening, but you're not quite sure about them. it struck us as an interesting time. there were already retrospectives about people who were a little older, like `the big chill.'''
when you're young you don't have a context in which to place things,'' black added. `it's just part of the world. it's a time when you get your first impression of life.''
it's also a time when a self-conscious 12-year-old is more interested in figuring out how he fits in. you can put it into context later. at 12 you just want to blend in
black admits ``the wonder years'' is not really about the 1960s. `it's the problems a kid has with his older brother, his father, his girlfriend,'' she said. ``the period is more of a backdrop than the essence of the show.''
black and marlens share common backgrounds. both were raised in the suburbs, he outside new york city and she outside washington, d.c. both had older brothers. they met while students at swarthmore college in pennsylvania
they started writing together about 6 years ago. he was working as a newspaper reporter in massachusetts and she was a graduate student
we wrote a spec script for `barney miller,' which had just gone off the air,'' said marlens. ``we felt it was better to write for a show that wasn't on the air. it got good response.''
marlens wrote for ``oh madeline'' and ``newhart.'' then he created ``growing pains'' while black wrote the movie ``soul man.'' actually, they worked together on both projects, but thought it best to separate the credit
they also stress that ``the wonder years'' is not autobiographical
i was never a 12-year-old boy,'' said black. ``and neal was never this particular 12-year-old boy.''
we make up the specifics,'' said marlens, ``but we do use incidents from our lives and those of our friends. it's the story of a family, but it's seen from the viewpoint of the boy
we didn't set out to do anything deep. `leave it to beaver' in its day was well thought out. but i think audiences today want to be challenged by something more substantial. we grew up in a controversial period and we're more prone to writing that way. but there are some things about growing up that never change. things that happened to the cleavers could happen to the arnolds, too.''
elsewhere in television:
hope acts _ bob hope makes a rare appearance on an episodic television show when he plays an angel dispatcher in nbc's ``highway to heaven'' on wednesday, march 30. he mistakenly reincarnates a man to disrupt his son's marriage and calls on jonathan (michael landon) to straighten it out. his character is called syncopomp. john pleshette and bill macy also guest star in the show. ..
lonesome dove _ robert duvall, tommy lee jones and anjelica houston will star in `lonesome dove,'' the eight-hour cbs miniseries based on the pulitzer prize-winning novel by larry mcmurtry. it tells of an epic cattle drive and the lives it changed. simon wincer will direct from a screenplay by bill witliff
as they file their tax returns this year, many savers and investors are making a decision by omission _ skipping any contribution for 1987 to their individual retirement accounts
a recent study commissioned by fidelity investments found that less than half the respondents with iras from previous years planned to add any money to them this time around
their reasoning isn't hard to understand. the tax deduction for contributions has been eliminated for anybody covered by an employer's retirement plan who has income of $35,000 or more ($50,000 for married couples filing joint returns)
in the $25,000-$35,000 income range ($40,000 to $50,000 for married couples), only part of the contribution is deductible
all working americans are still eligible to put up to $2,000 each year in an ira, whether they can claim the deduction or not. the interest, dividends or capital gains their money earns can still compound without being taxed until withdrawals from the account begin
however, money invested in an ira _ including non-deductible contributions _ can't be withdrawn before the year in which you reach age 59{ without incurring a penalty tax
why tie the money up, people seem to be concluding, if the incentive of the up-front deduction no longer exists? besides, the new rules have taken the simplicity of the old system and replaced it with a lot of paperwork hassles
what's the point of spending extra time or professional preparers' fees on a venture whose after-tax value is less than it was before?
these are sensible questions, to be sure. but some advisers suggest that many people who are no longer eligible for ira deductions give the matter some extra consideration
after all, they say, no matter what happens with the tax law, the need to save and plan for retirement hasn't changed
the discipline of automatic, annual contributions is especially useful to people who spend instead of save,'' says wallace head, tax partner at the accounting firm of arthur andersen &amp; co
they need only ask themselves if they can afford to invest cash for many years. if the answer is yes, iras should be considered an effective investment.''
for anyone who does make non-deductible contributions, good record-keeping is a must to avoid paying taxes on that money twice _ now, and again when you make withdrawals from the account
the internal revenue service requires that any non-deductible contributions be reported on the new form 8606, which the taxpayer attaches to his or her return for the year in question
you will probably want to save a file of extra copies of form 8606s for 1987 and subsequent years, or start a notebook, to serve as documentation for when you start taking money out of your ira
although this paperwork may be burdensome, it can make a big difference in the taxes you will have to pay in the future
suppose at some point around the year 2000 you have accumulated $100,000 in an ira, of which $25,000 came from non-deductible contributions, and you want to withdraw $20,000 from the account
since 25 percent of the total value of your ira is money that has already been taxed, having the proper records will enable you to establish that you owe taxes on only $15,000 of the distribution, rather than the full $20,000
americans are accustomed to hearing federal reserve chiefs discourse on the threat of inflation, but some might have been mystified by alan greenspan's reference to it this week
greenspan told congress that a further decline in the jobless rate, now 5.7 percent, might produce upward pressure on wages _ and, since wages are a large constituent of prices, the probability of inflation
how can that be, many americans are asking?
how can there be a worker shortage when 7 million members of the labor force are without jobs? how can there be a labor shortage when the jobless rate is so much above the old 4 percent ``full employment'' standard?
and how can inflation, which is usually associated with a boiling economy, be a threat at a time when expansion is so sluggish at times it takes the most sophisticated statistical measures to catch any movement at all?
greenspan's reference to the subject is bound to be passed off by some as a mere requirement of the office, a ritual expression that is now expected of a fed chairman, since his predecessor had made it the no. 1 enemy
but there is more to it than that
the most significant ``more'' involves a better understanding of market forces than existed back in the 1960s, when it was generally believed that unemployment could drop to 4 percent before inflation flared
experience taught otherwise, as witness the decade of inflation that followed in the 1970s
the second ``more'' involves the makeup of the labor force
in the 1960s, the economy had lots of younger workers to fill the beginning jobs. in the 1980s there are fewer labor-force entrants. and congress is considering sharp increases in the minimum wage
stated differently, most of those who are available to take jobs today are older and more experienced and thus come at higher prices. you don't need a decline to 4 percent before worrying about inflation. you worry at 5 percent
in truth, there is no certainty among economists on the point at which a falling jobless rate becomes inflationary. clearly, they were wrong in putting it at 4 percent in the 1960s, because double-digit inflation ensued
it can be argued, therefore, that it is merely wisdom and responsibility that causes a fed chief always to be vigilant, and for him to act on the theory it is wiser to ward off inflation than to treat the infection later
greenspan told congress that in his opinion the country is getting close to the point at which inflation could be ignited
certainly it's less than a percentage point,'' he said, adding that it was his impression that the flare point was ``closer to a half, and maybe somewhat less than that.''
is he premature in his concern?
hardly, if you consider that the last big bout of inflation was one of the worst and longest the country has ever experienced, and that it took a harsh recession to defeat it
consider also that a case of inflation in the range of 6 percent _ mild, when compared with the double-digit disasters of the 1970s _ can cut in half the value of everyone's money in a dozen years
the destruction of millions of acres of tropical jungles each year by peasant farmers and others is a problem for the developed nations as well as the third world and requires economic and educational solutions, say scientists at a leading plant research institution
the missouri botanical garden, known for its man-made tropical atmosphere in the so-called ``climatron'' designed by buckminster fuller, is working to halt the decimation of the world's real tropical jungles
the outlook is pretty grim,'' said biologist peter h. raven, director of the garden. ``although tropical forests once covered at least 12 percent of the globe _ an area about twice the size of europe _ they have already been reduced to about half that.''
currently, the forests are being cleared or degraded at the rate of about 60 million acres a year. that's an area about half the size of california.''
raven said roughly half of all known plant and animal species on earth are found in the tropical forests. at the current rate of destruction, as many as 60,000 species of plants will be extinct by the year 2020
the plant-rich tropics supply man with a wealth of food crops, medicines and other useful products,'' said dr. enrique forero, director of research at the garden. ``but they are being destroyed rapidly.''
the chief culprits, forero said, are loggers and slash-and-burn peasant farmers. the loggers obviously need the trees to stay in business and the farmers often have to destroy the forests to feed themselves and their families
and the scientists say the situation can only get worse unless something is done to stop it
at present, over half the people in the world live in countries that are at least partly tropical, excluding china,'' forero said. ``nearly a third of these people are already living in extreme poverty and with current rates of growth, the human population of these countries will double in less than 30 years.''
how can you tell these starving people that you are going to save the very things they have to destroy in order to sustain their already meager existence,'' asked raven. ``education and political and economic stability are obviously the keys. that and understanding.''
which is why, raven said, the garden has committed itself to an all-out effort to explore, document and save the forests
with a staff of 70 researchers and technicians, including many who live permanently in the tropics, the garden makes up one of the world's largest active field research programs in tropical botany
the goals, the scientists said, are to collect the plant species before they become extinct and to teach the impoverished farmers how to live in the forest without destroying it
with the growing knowledge of genetics, they said, it is important that the genes, the biological blueprints, of the endangered species be saved
to lose this genetic capital through massive extinctions just as we are developing our capabilities to explore its potential would indeed be a tragedy,'' raven said. ``the developments in genetics make the specter of extinction even worse,'' raven said. ``for each species of plant or animal lost to extinction, you're losing the potential for another 20,000 to 30,000 variants in the future.''
many of the plants, scientists say, could almost certainly be developed into cheaper, easy-to-grow sources of highly nutritious food. others could be converted into abundant sources of new medicines
another important part of the garden's program is to lend technical assistance to and train scientists from developing tropical countries through cooperative agreements
unfortunately, only 6 percent of the scientists working on the problem live in the countries involved,'' raven said. ``we must change that. momentum to implement the innovative conservation and development strategies needed to deal with these urgent problems ultimately must come from the affected countries themselves,'' raven said
the backbone of the garden's research, the scientists said, is its herbarium, or plant collection. along with the new york botanical garden and the smithsonian institution, the missouri herbarium is one of the three largest in the united states and among the 12 largest in the world
started by garden founder henry shaw in the 1850s, the missouri herbarium now contains samples of more than 3.5 million species and is expected to expand to 4.5 million within the next decade
pointing to a large map showing the locations of the garden's researchers in central and south america and africa, raven said of the encroachment on the forests: ``it won't be stopped soon
but there are encouraging signs. what people have to learn is that conservation and development are really two sides of the same coin.''
producers and consumers have to learn that they have a common problem. it can all be done, but it won't be easy.''
twenty years after a sniper's bullet felled martin luther king jr., his dream of equality and prosperity for american blacks still shines like a beacon. despite some remarkable progress, however, for too many it remains only a dream. the first story of three in a series that assesses black progress in economics, politics and social influence looks at a poor west side chicago neighborhood where king lived in 1966 to wage war on slums and poverty
this is truly an island of poverty in the midst of an ocean of plenty.''
_ martin luther king jr. in his 1967 book, ``where do we go from here: chaos or community?''
bonnet hampton knows what it's like to huddle in bed with a baseball bat at hand, wondering how to protect her babies from rats scurrying across the rotting wooden floor of her tenement flat
she knows how to sidestep young men strung out on drugs huddled in dingy hallways, and she's no longer shocked by dead bodies _ even at her doorstep
you don't get used to it,'' she said, ``but it's not a nightmare. if you see someone get shot or stabbed today _ usually you'd be nervous for days. it's not like that. ... it's just another one. you don't lose any rest over that.''
hampton lives in north lawndale. a generation ago, martin luther king jr. lived here in a four-room flat. king had come north to wage war on poverty and inequality, but 20 years after his death, the slums and disparity remain. so do dreams of a better life
this poor black community he adopted has become even poorer _ and that, say those who knew him, would grieve king if he were alive today
if king were to look at lawndale ... he'd think that his worst nightmare had come true,'' said gary orfield, a university of chicago political science professor who did volunteer work with king
some residents reluctantly agree
i think he was great enough to know and powerful enough to know his dream is not being fulfilled,'' said cleodia dawkins o'quinn, who welcomed king to her home. ``he would know we have stepped backward.''
black poverty is a bleak fact of life. nearly one in three blacks _ 31.1 percent _ lived below the poverty line in 1986, compared with 11 percent of whites, according to federal statistics
and 20 years after the kerner commission examined inner-city problems following the mid '60s riots and warned the united states was moving toward two societies, ``one black, one white _ separate and unequal,'' the gap remains
life for inner-city blacks has worsened, scholars said in a follow-up study this year, partly because of industrial decline. over 35 years, rust belt cities have lost almost half their manufacturing force, according to a report by the university of chicago's william julius wilson and loic wacquant
chicago, the report said, lost half its manufacturing blue-collar workers from 1967-82. and that's taken its toll on north lawndale. the neighborhood's misery index is high. according to federal, city and state records:
_ four of ten people lived in poverty in 1980, an increase of a third over a decade earlier
_ more than a third of the housing is uninhabitable or so deteriorated it's beyond rehabilitation
_ eight of 10 children are born out of wedlock. the 1986 infant mortality rate, 27.2 per 1,000 live births, was more than 2{ times the u.s. average
_ women headed 61 percent of the households in 1980
_ one in five people was out of work in 1980. unemployment, some activists say, may now be as high as 30 percent
much of north lawndale has simply vanished. since 1960, more than half the residents, thousands of jobs and most industries have fled. gangs are more vicious, drugs more common
still, optimists remain, proud, hard-working folks fighting to turn things around. ``we have been at the lowest of low,'' said jesse miller, head of the lawndale peoples planning and action conference, an activist group. ``the citizens of this community are facing up to the problems.''
but reversing those fortunes is a formidable task. north lawndale has block after block of weed-filled lots, gutted buildings and men in their prime who while away their days loitering on street corners or huddled around fires in garbage cans
you can't envision how it looked before,'' mrs. o'quinn said, shaking her head sadly. ``it's a wilderness now.''
once a largely jewish community with gray stone houses, stores, factories and banks, north lawndale turned from white to mostly black in the 1950s. absentee landlords and political neglect had contributed to its decline by 1966 when king moved into a $90-a-month, third-floor flat, with inadequate heat and halls reeking of urine
you can't really get close to the poor without living and being here with them,'' he said. king lived in the building, since torn down, on and off for several months that year
king tried to fight slumlords, build tenant unions, end discrimination. he led open-housing marches in all-white neighborhoods and tried to be peacemaker when riots flared in the summer of 1966
king, folks say, brought hope to north lawndale. his assassination brought destruction. riots that tore apart u.s. cities after king's death in 1968 unleashed a storm of rage here as well _ the skies were ablaze, the streets filled with looters, blocks of businesses turned to rubble, houses to ashes and dreams to despair
the riots killed or ... almost mortally wounded the hope of the community,'' said primus mootry, executive vice president of the local better boys foundation
there was no marshall plan for this war-torn community. it was as if someone decided to let them sit there in the mess that they made and let them stew,'' he said. ``the consequences have been devastating. the community has been damned from the outside.''
today, north lawndale has 61,000 residents, less than half the population of almost 125,000 in 1965. much of the middle-class has fled
if i had somewhere to go, i would have run, too,'' said 33-year resident mildred hunter
tens of thousands of jobs also disappeared. seventy-five percent of businesses were lost from 1960 to 1970. international harvester co. (now navistar) closed a plant. sears roebuck &amp; co. later moved its world headquarters out of north lawndale, keeping only a distribution and planning center
the main shopping strip, roosevelt road, remains a burned-out shell. a proposal by a national organization of planners, builders, bankers and others to build a $9.5 million shopping mall has been postponed
after 25 years of ``uninterrupted decline, north lawndale resembles a war zone,'' wilson and wacquant said in their study
today, the neighborhood has some food and liquor stores. to buy anything else, ``you have to go an area you're not wanted to spend your money,'' said isabelle burrell. ``it's insulting.''
shopping, however, seems like a minor problem against the drug dealing, gangs and violence
hampton, for example, a 30-year-old with three teen-agers and a baby, has survived four apartments and 14 years of horror stories: she's fended off giant rats slurping out of her toilet, been forced out by an arsonist, witnessed a robbery, faced drug users shooting up in the hallway and seen murder victims, including a decapitated man
i've seen a lot of disaster,'' she said, adding that she carries a knife by day, a gun at night. ``we have a lot of lunatics out here.''
hampton talks about returning to her native mississippi. in the meantime, she attends church with her children, visits their schools and preaches against drugs
they understand it,'' she said. ``they have seen it.''
others have, too. residents can rattle off the corners where drugs are sold like newspapers, customers pulling up in cars day and night
the only game left is the drug game,'' said leon farley, an unemployed counselor. ``to survive, to eat, to pay the rent. we don't have a lot of jobs.''
drug trafficking wasn't always a problem, and the gangs of decades past directed their violence at each other
they didn't bother those of us doing good things,'' said mrs. o'quinn, who with her husband runs a drum and bugle corps for youths. `the gangs don't respect anything now.''
mootry confirmed gangs are more lethal: zip guns, knives and chains have been replaced by uzi submachine guns and other sophisticated weapons
yet the biggest problem, he said, may be a perception among youths that north lawndale is ``an island ... a walled city (where) nothing comes in and nothing comes out. that is the way in which they are socialized. that's a great tragedy.''
mootry's organization tries to broaden horizons, offering recreational and education programs, including scholarships that have sent teens to harvard and the university of chicago. block clubs, slum-busting projects and infant health programs also have been started
because people live in the ghetto, you don't got to be dealing in dope, be a prostitute or on public aid,'' said hunter, the long-time north lawndale resident. ``you can live anywhere and be what you want to be.''
some businesses have stayed afloat, too. the community bank of lawndale, which opened in 1977 with $2 million in assets, now has $25 million
but jim hadley, senior vice president, said investors still question the neighborhood's viability, despite its prime location and good transportation
a main reason is housing shortages. only 727 units have been built since 1969, city officials say. some federally subsidized housing has been built and almost $7 million has been spent to improve 5,000 units since 1983, they add
as long as you don't have any housing, you're not going to have desirable residents,'' said resident edward manning. ``this community is not going to be the way you'd like it to be anytime soon.''
manning and others say a comeback depends on folks flexing political muscle. for years, ``we didn't demand nothing and we didn't get anything,'' he said
that, many say, changed with the 1983 election of harold washington, the city's first black mayor who died last year and is regarded in the same revered tones as king
miller, who last tuesday defeated the incumbent for the democratic ward committeeman post, says north lawndale's problems may be the same as they were a generation ago, except for one difference: ``the political maturity is there now.''
lawndale was and is a very poor community,'' he said. if king were alive, ``i think he'd be proud of the attitude of the residents. there's still hope. there are still efforts ... to bring lawndale into the 20th century. i think we're very close.''
sharon cohen is the ap midwest regional reporter, based in chicago
the rev. martin luther king jr. wrote of his experiences in north lawndale in his book ``where do we go from here: chaos or community?'' it was published in 1967
here are a few excerpts:
the phone rings daily with countless stories of man's inhumanity to man, and i find myself struggling constantly against the depression and hopelessness which the hearts of our cities pump into the spiritual bloodstream of our lives.''
the children's clothes are too skimpy to protect them from the chicago wind, and a closer look reveals the mucus in the corners of their bright eyes, and you are reminded that vitamin pills and flu shots are luxuries which they can ill afford. the `runny noses' of ghetto children become a graphic symbol of medical neglect in a society which has mastered most of the diseases from which they will too soon die. there is something wrong in a society that allows this to happen.''
on his children's summertime experiences in the community:
their tempers flared and they sometimes reverted to almost infantile behavior. ... it (the apartment) was just too hot, too crowded, too devoid of creative forms of recreation. ... and i understood anew the conditions which make of the ghetto an emotional pressure cooker.''
on higher prices charged in the local stores:
once confined to this isolated community, one no longer participates in a free economy, but is subject to price-fixing and wholesale robbery by many of the merchants in the area.''
the ritual of the poor is conducted almost every day at the southern christian leadership conference's headquarters here
they walk in and sit quietly on battered chairs, their eyes scanning walls lined with photographs of martin luther king jr. marching along alabama roads
they wait, sometimes for hours, hoping for help to find a job, a home or a lost welfare check
they helped my sister last year when her lights was off, so i was thinking they would help me find another place to stay _ you know, a cheaper one,'' said betty mitchell, who works at a fast-food restaurant and was waiting at the sclc offices last week
but trying to meet such demands strains the financially strapped organization and its skeleton crew, which struggles both to treat the symptoms of poverty and find a cure for the disease
oh, lord, we get more requests than we can handle,'' said the rev. joseph lowery, sclc president. ``we do what we can, but we just don't have the staff to respond to all the cases.''
the poor bring complaints about everything from police brutality to housing and hiring practices, lowery said
the major incidents, for example, are the violence of minimum-wage jobs, or no jobs at all,'' lowery said. ``the violence of homelessness. the violence of being the last hired and first fired
most poor people are working; they simply don't earn enough to get out of poverty.''
the sclc has tied itself to the needs of the needy since 1957, when it was founded by king, lowery and the revs. ralph abernathy and fred shuttlesworth to expand the non-violent movement against legal segregation. its eventual victory over discriminatory laws earned the sclc a reputation of militancy that holds to this day
we are the activist arm of the movement. when you do that, you step on toes and you don't become the most popular kid on the block,'' lowery said. ``we know it's not as popular to give us support as it is some other groups that are not as controversial.''
the nation heard from the sclc frequently last year as it spoke out on issues it felt could jeopardize human rights. it organized marches in virtually all-white forsyth county, ga.; helped establish a biracial committee on race relations there; opposed judge robert bork's nomination to the u.s. supreme court; condemned statements about blacks in sports made by al campanis and jimmy ``the greek'' snyder, and negotiated with major league groups to move blacks into upper management
we still believe in the efficacy of conscience-working and consciousness-raising and, if necessary, civil disobedience,'' lowery said. ``we're going to have to continue to have advocacy groups to keep pressure on _ creative, non-violent pressure. we have to keep that alive.''
the group, which lacks solid corporate support, operates from a dingy brownstone in atlanta's historic auburn avenue district. the building has changed little since it was first occupied in 1962
this is martin's desk,'' lowery said, running his hand over the cluttered, chipped wooden desk in his office. ``we have not put thick carpets on the floor or lined the walls and ceilings with chandeliers because that's not where our priorities are.''
on april 4, the 20th anniversary of king's assassination, the group will kick off its 1988 poor people's crusade with hearings on homelessness and unemployment. it will also hold rallies, starting in memphis, tenn., then sweeping through alabama, georgia and mississippi
the sclc was ready to start a similar campaign when king was gunned down at a memphis hotel in 1968. days later, sclc members dried their tears and marched on washington, d.c., carrying thousands of the nation's poor with them to dramatize poverty
this time around, the sclc wants more than a display of what's gone wrong with efforts to wipe out poverty, lowery said
the crusade is trying to get poverty on the national agenda,'' lowery said. ``whoever comes into office (as president), we want them to have a commitment to eliminating poverty and look at it as the urgent, critical problem that it is.''
lowery said he hopes the campaign will change the recent tendency to celebrate the national king holiday in january with glitzy, ceremonial events that ignore the issues that dominated king's life
we're beginning to honor martin as a orator, as a dreamer, but we're not honoring the message,'' lowery said, glancing at a large photograph of him talking with king in a church pulpit
you've got people now who are paying honor to him on that holiday who are not doing anything about helping the poor or working for economic justice
they say, `dr. king this, dr. king that,' then they don't register to vote, they don't join a boycott, they don't work for peace and human dignity.''
here are some statistics on black poverty and related issues:

poverty:
_ the national poverty rate for blacks in 1986 was 31.1 percent, compared with 11 percent for whites, according to the census bureau. the poverty rate is based on those people whose income falls below a level determined by the federal government; the level is $8,737 for a three-person family, and $11,203 for a four-person family
_ in 1968, the year martin luther king jr. was assassinated, the black poverty rate was 34.7 percent, compared with 10 percent for whites
_ the midwest had the highest proportion of blacks living below the poverty line, 34.5 percent, in 1986, according to the state of black america, a series of reports published by the national urban league
unemployment:
_ the black unemployment rate in 1987 was 13 percent, 2{ times the 5.3 percent for whites, the census bureau said
_ in 1968, before statistics were broken down for specific racial or ethnic groups, all minority unemployment was 6.7 percent. the white jobless rate was 3.2 percent
income:
_ median family income for blacks has increased every year since the recession-fueled low point of 1982, the urban league said. however, the average median black family income throughout the 1980s is $16,476, compared with $17,765 for the 1970s
_ in a single year, 1986, median black family income was $17,604, compared with $30,809 for whites
_ in 1986, 44.2 percent of black families had incomes of less than $10,000, compared with 13.7 percent of white families
children:
_ in 1986, 42.7 percent of all black children under 18 years of age were officially classified as poor. the comparable figure for white children was 15.3
cities:
_ from 1970 to 1980, the number of people living below the poverty line in the cores of the nation's 10 largest cities increased by 19 percent, from 3.1 million to 3.8 million, according to a university of chicago study by loic wacquant and william julius wilson
the increase, the study said, was due entirely to increased poverty among minorities. the cities measured were the largest as of 1970 _ new york, chicago, philadelphia, detroit, baltimore, dallas, cleveland, indianapolis, los angeles and houston
_ in the 1970-80 decade, the number of poor people rose 30 percent in los angeles, 24 percent in chicago, 20 percent in new york city and 16 percent in philadelphia, the study said
the proportion of blacks living in extremely poor neighborhoods doubled in chicago and tripled in new york city from 1970 to 1980
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of march 18 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner is blanche du bois and aidan quinn plays stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``joe turner's come and gone,'' august wilson's new play about the search for identity by the sons and daughters of slaves. ethel barrymore, same number as telecharge. ticketron. now in previews, opens march 27
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``m. butterfly,'' john lithgow stars in a play by david henry hwang about the love affair between a former french diplomat and a chinese opera star. eugene o'neill, 246-0220. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!'', long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``penn &amp; teller,'' hip vaudeville and magic tricks from two comedians. ritz, 582-4022. teletron. available. closes march 20
_ ``sarafina!'', a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the gospel at colonus,'' a gospel version of a greek classic by sophocles. lunt-fontanne, 575-9200. now in previews, opens march 24. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
this may be a sleep time for great agricultural crusades in washington, at least until after the november elections
a widely reported financial recovery in the farm sector, new credit legislation, rising agricultural exports, and the approaching busy time of another spring have dulled the swords of challenge
one of the last hints of battle on behalf of producers was put aside 10 days ago by rep. dan glickman, d-kan., who announced he had no further plans to seek changes in the current soybean program
there was simply ``a lack of consensus'' on how to proceed on a proposed marketing loan program for soybeans, glickman said. the american soybean association, in fact, had asked that no changes be made
but an attempt was made last week to include a ``triggered'' marketing loan program in the thousand-page trade bill being negotiated by house and senate conferees. marketing loans, already in effect for some commodities, provide crop support at u.s. price levels, allowing farmers to repay the loans at world prices, with taxpayers making up the difference
the marketing loan approach would be triggered for wheat, corn and soybeans if trade negotiations fail to reduce world agricultural subsidies by 1990. administration officials have indicated president reagan might veto the trade bill if such a measure is included
congress in december passed landmark legislation on farm credit, providing some financial relief to thousands of sorely pressed families. and a $76 billion budget-cutting package included reductions and other adjustments in farm program loan rates and target prices through the 1990 crops
thus, except for the possibility of changes in the sugar program or sudden tinkering with dairy, the remainder of 1988 may be a legislative yawner for farm folk
but in 1989 _ with a new administration and congress _ the debate will begin again, this time on 1990 legislation to amend, replace or extend the current food security act of 1985
the reagan administration's philosophy for more than seven years has been in support of ``market-oriented'' agricultural policy, which the 1985 law, within specific limits, has allowed. the reduction in crop price support rates, a lowering of milk supports, and other adjustments are examples of the flexibility permitted in the current law
critics have proposed more of a ``supply management'' texture to u.s. farm policy, some advocating the direct role of farmers in determining how far to go
the 1990 farm bill debate will pit old adversaries, or at least their ideas, some of which have long outlived their progenitors
don paarlberg, professor emeritus at purdue university, was a young farmer with his father and brother at the beginning of the great depression, when farm commodity prices dropped 56 percent from 1929 to 1932, and land values plummeted by more than half
paarlberg much later held posts in the administrations of three republican presidents: eisenhower, nixon and ford. he has been recognized for decades as one of the nation's foremost agricultural economists and farm policy experts
last fall paarlberg wrote an article for imprimis, the monthly journal of hillsdale college, hillsdale, mich., in which he recounted those early depression years on the northwestern indiana farm. he described the differing schools of economic thought that prevailed at the time
one school was led by george f. warren of cornell university, who thought the farm problem was general, resulting from the collapse of money and credit. warren thought the remedy lay in revised monetary policy. paarlberg agreed
the other school, led by john d. black of harvard university, held that agriculture itself was to blame because of surplus production. the remedy consisted of reducing supplies so that prices would improve
as it happened, the new deal farm program was built upon the latter philosophy and was a ``major change in the farm policy agenda,'' paarlberg said. for 70 years prior to the onset of new deal of franklin d. roosevelt's administration in 1933, there had been a ``historic agenda based on increased production, individual farmer decision and competitive markets,'' he said
paarlberg said the key words for the new farm policy were relief, recovery and reform
i recall well the revival of hope on the farm front that accompanied passage of new deal farm programs,'' he wrote. ``farmers were given a role in working out their own chosen solutions to their problems. they were put on committees by the thousands. they elected officers, attended meetings and spoke their minds.''
paarlberg added: ``government checks began to flow. the hemorrhage of farm foreclosures began to abate. on every hand was evidence that the government cared. the great depression dragged on, but the mood changed for the better on american farms.''
but recovery was only partial seven years after passage of the initial new deal programs. complete agricultural recovery from the depression of the 1930s ``must ge credited more to the stimulus of (world war ii) than to management of supply and price,'' he said
important traits of the new deal programs persisted beyond their usefulness, paarlberg said
reform was, for the greater part, aborted,'' he said. ``the agricultural elite, generally the large landowners, managed to retain most of the program benefits themselves rather than share them with tenants or employees
the modern farmers home administration, for example, is a descendant of the resettlement administration and the farm security administration, agencies created to bring relief to impoverished farmers
but the fmha today ``has been co-opted by the agricultural establishment,'' paarlberg said
the new deal farm programs, intended to lift average farm income, actually widened the income gap between the top and bottom economic groups,'' he said. ``relief was achieved, recovery occurred for other reasons, and reform miscarried.''
in their modern form, government farm programs cannot be called new deal programs because ``they have been adopted by most of the republican farm politicians,'' paarlberg said
as an observer, i can no longer find credible differences in the congress between the farm policies of the two major parties,'' he said
yet, when programs persist so long, it can be virtually impossible to root them out or even change them substantially
if the programs are to be cut back and reformed, the effort will have to be applied from outside the farm sector,'' paarlberg said. ``the farm lobby will never discipline itself.''
wall street's confidence in first republicbank corp. has dropped after bank officials announced they will seek federal help in restructuring and rebuilding the company's ailing financial reserves
standard &amp; poor's corp. on tuesday downgraded first republicbank's senior debt rating to the lowest level short of default
meanwhile, houston-based first city bancorporation of texas inc. extended by two weeks the deadline for its debt holders to submit their securities under a key portion of a plan that represented the second-largest u.s. bank bailout ever
led by a generous jump in purchases of ford motor co. vehicles, sales of domestic cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in early march from a year earlier, automakers have reported
the eight companies that build cars and trucks in the united states sold 328,437 in the nine selling days of march 1-10, up from 274,626 in eight days a year ago
industry leader general motors corp. did not share the strong sales increases enjoyed by ford and incentive-heavy chrysler corp
the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987 as the nation fell deeper into debt to the rest of the world, the commerce department has reported
the deficit in the u.s. current account reported tuesday was 13.7 percent higher than the 1986 deficit of $141.4 billion and marked the fifth consecutive year the current account deficit has hit a new record
private economists contend the rapid buildup of foreign debt could eventually topple the country into another recession
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan has told congress that foreign investors make ``good corporate citizens'' and should not be discouraged from buying more u.s. assets
despite statistics showing the united states widening its lead as the world's largest debtor nation, greenspan said tuesday he had ``very little concern about the issue of direct foreign investment.''
greenspan also suggested a recession is unlikely throughout the next year
e.w. scripps co., the privately held parent of the scripps howard media group, says it plans to sell some of its limited-voting common stock to the public
the newspaper publishing company said tuesday the number of shares to be sold had not been determined but that control of the company would remain with the founding scripps family
scripps said the stock sale was intended to pay off debt incurred for the company's acquisition program begun in 1986 and to finance further growth
students at the university of akron are aiming for a breakthrough that has eluded some of the best minds in government and the professions: a tax form that can be understood without a college education
we know it can be done and we're going to prove it,'' professor nicholas j. creme, director of the center for taxation studies in the university's law school, said in an interview tuesday
if you simplify the forms, people will be a lot less hostile toward the internal revenue service,'' he said. ``and you'll raise a lot more revenue.''
chrysler corp. will try to meet its foreign competition by trimming executive-suite jobs and stepping up teamwork on the plant floor, according to a chrysler vice president
by year's end, the nation's no. 3 automaker will begin cutting its eight-level organizational chart to a six-tier plan similar to japanese auto company structures, anthony st. john, vice president of human resources and chrysler's chief labor negotiator, said tuesday
the company also plans a new dispute-resolution system for management employees in addition to opening early negotiations with the united auto workers union on a contract for some 60,000 union employees
unisys corp., at&amp;t and ncr corp. have unveiled computers and ibm said it was making a version of the popular unix operating system available on its largest mainframes
the announcement tuesday by international business machines corp. was another acknowledgment of the growing popularity of unix, a kind of internal traffic cop for computers that was invented by american telephone &amp; telegraph co
unisys announced additions to its 1100 family of mainframe computers. ncr introduced the system 10000, which it called a family of mid-range, multi-user computers
eli lilly &amp; co. has rejected a demand by british lawmakers that the pharmaceutical giant set up a trust fund for victims of a discontinued anti-arthritis medication
the demand rejected tuesday was made monday by 100 british lawmakers who signed a letter to richard d. wood, lilly chairman and chief executive officer
hundreds of former users of the anti-arthritis drug oraflex, sold in britain under the name opren, sued lilly in the mid-1980s, claiming that the drug caused severe side effects, including liver and kidney disorders. the drug also was linked to several deaths
manufacturers hanover corp. president john r. torell iii has resigned effective at the end of the month, according to the banking company
the company said tuesday that torell was leaving ``at his initiative'' to pursue other business opportunities, according to spokesman john stefans
torell, 48, said in a statement from the bank that after a 27-year career at manufacturers hanover, including 10 years as a director, ``it is time for a change.''
the conservative government has unveiled a sweeping reform of the british tax system, slashing rates for higher income groups in a move that provoked an uproar from the parliamentary opposition
prime minister margaret thatcher's government also announced a $5.55 billion budget surplus on tuesday, the country's first in almost 20 years
shame, shame!'' and ``rich man's budget!'' opposition members shouted as chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson presented the annual spring budget statement to parliament
stock prices were little changed tuesday in a quiet session. the dow jones average of 30 industrials dipped 2.66 points to 2,047.41
the dollar gained against most major currencies. gold prices also rose
bond prices were little changed
grain and soybean futures prices were mixed on the chicago board of trade
oil prices have rebounded slightly, although analysts say trading remains cautious and light
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, rose 9 cents to settle at $15.68 per barrel tuesday
the contract fell 70 cents monday in response to reports that saudi arabia, the largest producer in the organization of petroleum exporting countries, had rejected calls for new restrictions on crude production
wti rose above $16 late last week after opec members called for a meeting of the cartel's pricing committee to stabilize market prices. officials of non-opec producers also met to discuss similar concerns
analysts said they didn't know what to make of tuesday's rebound. prices began lower but moved higher later in the session
i think that what you're seeing here is a reassessment of the market,'' said peter beutel, assistant director of elders futures inc. ``i'm not saying that means it's a positive reassessment. there's a lot of uncertainty right now in the market.''
wholesale gasoline for april delivery, down 1.23 cents on monday, rose 0.02 cent to 44.38 cents per gallon on tuesday. wholesale heating oil gained 0.13 cent to 43.47 cents per gallon, after falling 1.35 cents in the previous session
federated department stores inc. shareholders apparently are not rushing to decide between the competing tender offers of r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp
campeau announced tuesday that 2.4 million federated shares had been tendered to the toronto-based developer but not withdrawn by the close of business on monday
campeau's offer of $75 cash per share for 70.5 million federated shares was to expire at midnight est friday, although a federal judge has extended that deadline into next week
macy, whose $77.35 a share offer for 70.43 million federated shares expires april 4, declined to announce how many shares it had received. maureen milano, a spokeswoman for the retailer, said figures usually are not announced until after an offer's expiration
federated stock fell 50 cents to $65.50 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading on tuesday
the number of shares tendered to campeau, which represents less than 4 percent of the company's goal, indicates shareholders might be waiting to see what will happen next in the battle for federated
the focus of attention was federal court in manhattan, where u.s. district judge leonard sand was considering the validity of federated's ``poison pill'' shareholders rights plan and the expiration date of the campeau bid
during a hearing late monday, macy asked sand to delay expiration of campeau's offer by 20 days to lessen the pressure on federated shareholders to accept the hostile bid
macy contended the campeau offer, which was amended from an earlier proposal, actually was a new offer and under federal law would have to remain open past its planned friday expiration
sand was seeking an opinion from the securities and exchange commission on the macy argument and said he would not rule before today
sand also was considering campeau's challenge to the poison pill, which federated's board approved in january before campeau made its hostile bid and after developer donald trump indicated interest in the nation's fifth-largest retailer
the plan allows current federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount during a hostile takeover, making a takeover prohibitively expensive
campeau says its bid cannot proceed while the poison pill is in effect
sand said both buyout offers would have to remain open at least three business days after he ruled on the poison pill, meaning campeau's offer must now remain open into next week
on monday, macy sweetened its merger agreement with federated by $200 million in cash to a total of $6.3 billion. macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, up from its original $74.50 per share. macy will exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares
campeau is offering $75 in cash per share for 70.5 million federated shares. the remaining of federated stock would be acquired later for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger, giving the deal an aggregate value of $68 per share or a total of $6.18 billion
on tuesday, federated announced its fourth-quarter earnings
the company said its net income rose nearly 10 percent to $176.97 million, or $2 per share, up from $1.71.3 million, or $1.82 per share, in the same period a year earlier
sales for the quarter, which ended jan. 31, totaled $3.55 billion, up from $3.44 billion
for all of fiscal 1987, federated said it earned $313 million, or $3.40 per share, up 14 percent from $287.6 million, or $2.97 per share, in 1986
sales for the year rose to $11.12 billion frtom $10.51 billion
late mortgage payments and mortgage foreclosures increased in the last quarter of 1987, with delinquent payments rising for the first time in two years, according to the mortgage bankers association
the lenders trade group reported tuesday that the number of homeowners who were at least 30 days late in making a mortgage payment edged up to 4.99 percent of the 10 million mortgages surveyed in the fourth quarter
this compared to 4.63 percent in the july-september quarter, which had been the lowest level in more than eight years
warren lasko, executive vice president of the association, called the increase ``disappointing but not disheartening,'' noting that the increase reflected continued weakness in depressed areas of the country such as the oil-producing states of the southwest
foreclosures also rose to 0.27 percent of mortgages, up from 0.25 percent in the third quarter, with much of the increase coming in the midwest and the south
the increase in late mortgage payments was the first rise since the fourth quarter of 1985, when the delinquency rate climbed to 5.75 percent
even with the increase late last year, all regions of the country reported lower deliquency rates when compared to a year earlier
the west had the fewest delinquent mortgages in the final three months of last year at 4.6 percent, followed by the northeast at 4.76 percent and the north central states at 5.96 percent. the south had the highest delinquency rate in the fourth quarter with 6.07 percent of mortgage-holders at least 30 days late with a payment. 1987</head>
car and truck shoppers who expected general motors corp.'s buyer incentives to expire at the end of february hastened their gm purchases, weakening the industry-leader's sales in early march, industry analysts say
but early march brought generous surges in domestic car and light truck sales for gm's top rivals, as ford motor co. joined the incentives battle that chrysler corp. has waged all year
automakers reported tuesday that total sales of domestic-built cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in early march from a year ago. sales reached 328,437 in the nine selling days from march 1-10, compared with the 274,626 sold in the eight selling days of the same period last year
the percentage change in sales measures the difference in average daily sales during the two periods, not the difference in total numbers of vehicles sold
sales have improved in each of the seven sales periods of 1988 over early 1987, when showrooms were empty because of the late 1986 buying rush to beat impending tax law changes
in early march, automakers sold 211,772 domestic cars, up 3.5 percent from 181,820, and 116,665 light trucks, up 11.7 percent from 92,806 a year ago
despite last-minute extensions of its buyer incentives, gm's domestic car sales fell 13 percent from a year ago and its light truck sales slowed 1.5 percent from early march 1987
gm's domestic car sales fell to 95,372 from 97,487 a year ago. gm's light truck sales fell slightly to 42,489, or 4,721 a day, from 38,327, or 4,790 a day
a lot of people rushed to buy (gm) cars in early february, so we had a kind of pay-back effect in early march,'' said david healy, analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc. in new york
gm dealers also had pushed sales particularly hard in late february, fearing a buildup of unsold car inventories that would be hard to move in march without incentives, said joseph phillippi, analyst with shearson lehman hutton in new york
gm's share of the domestic car market slipped in early march to 45 percent from 53.6 percent a year earlier. gm's truck market share fell to 36.4 percent from 41.3 percent
meanwhile, ford boosted its early march sales by sweetening its incentive program, the analysts said. ford said its combined domestic car and light truck sales were its highest for early march since 1979
ford's domestic car sales jumped 21.4 percent to 68,859 in early march from 50,407 a year ago and its market share rose to 32.5 percent from 27.7 percent
its light truck sales rose 18.1 percent to 46,073 in early march from 34,685 a year ago as its market slice improved to 39.5 percent from 37.4 percent
chrysler's domestic-built car sales rose 18.3 percent to 34,667 from 26,046 a year ago. its light truck sales jumped 24.1 percent, to 25,287 from 18,108 a year ago
the no. 3 automaker's share of the domestic car market rose to 16.4 percent from 14.3 percent a year ago and its truck share increased to 21.7 percent from 19.5 percent
among the remaining domestic builders, honda motor co. reported a 71.9 percent jump in sales of cars built at its marysville, ohio, factory. toyota motor corp.'s domestic car sales rose 97.3 percent
nissan motor corp.'s domestic car sales fell 19.7 percent from a year ago but its domestic truck sales rose 48.5 percent. volkswagen of america's domestic car sales dropped 18.6 percent
here are the sales results for the eight major u.s. automakers for march 1-10 and the year to date, as compared with the same period a year ago
the percentage changes are based on average daily sales _ not total numbers of vehicles sold _ to take into account differences in the number of selling days in each period
there were nine selling days in the first 10 days of march this year and eight last year. there were 59 selling days in 1988 as of march 10 and 58 days in 1987
cars and trucks imported for sales under the gm, ford and chrysler names are counted as foreign. sales of imported cars and trucks are reported at the end of each month
cars and trucks made in the united states by volkswagen, honda, nissan, toyota and mazda are counted as domestic and appear in this table
march 1-10: 211,772 vs. 181,820, up 3.5 percent
year: 1,392,056 vs. 1,166,451, up 17.3 percent
march 1-10: 116,665 vs. 92,806, up 11.7 percent
year: 751,420 vs. 597,318, up 23.7 percent
march 1-10: 328,437 vs. 274,626, up 6.3 percent
year: 2,143,476 vs. 1,763,769, up 19.5 percent
march 1-10: 95,372 vs. 97,487, down 13 percent
year: 690,929 vs. 607,950, up 11.7 percent
march 1-10: 68,859 vs. 50,407, up 21.4 percent
year: 405,769 vs. 315,708, up 26.3 percent
march 1-10: 34,667 vs. 26,046, up 18.3 percent
year: 204,565 vs. 162,929, up 23.4 percent
march 1-10: 8,496 vs. 4,394, up 71.9 percent
year: 58,471 vs. 52,143, up 10.2 percent
march 1-10: 777 vs. 849, down 18.6 percent
year: 7,940 vs. 7,476, up 4.4 percent
march 1-10: 1,931 vs. 2,137, down 19.7 percent
year: 11,768 vs. 15,906, down 27.3 percent
march 1-10: 1,110 vs. 500, up 97.3 percent
year: 8,886 vs. 4,339, up 101.3 percent
march 1-10: 560 vs. 0
year: 3,728 vs. 0
march 1-10: 42,489 vs. 38,327, down 1.5 percent
year: 300,632 vs. 235,748, up 25.4 percent
march 1-10: 46,073 vs. 34,685, up 18.1 percent
year: 268,206 vs. 223,440, up 18 percent
march 1-10: 25,287 vs. 18,108, up 24.1 percent
year: 165,197 vs. 123,317, up 31.7 percent.   
march 1-10: 2,816 vs. 1,686, up 48.5 percent
year: 17,385 vs. 14,813, up 15.4 percent
first city bancorporation of texas inc. again has extended its deadline to dissident debt holders who have been asked to redeem their securities at a discount under a federal bailout plan for the institution
only about 51 percent of the holders of first city notes totaling $225.9 million had tendered their securities as of lare tuesday afternoon
texas' fourth-largest bank holding company had sought 90 percent of those securities, which were to be redeemed at less than face value as part of a buyout plan contained in a $1.5 billion bailout led by the federal deposit insurance corp
if completed, it would be the second-biggest u.s. bank rescue ever
the low response prompted first city to extend tuesday's 5 p.m. est deadline to march 29. it was the second extension given by the houston-based company _ the first being last week after only 41.4 percent, or $93.6 million, of the notes had been redeemed for cash
chicago investor a. robert abboud, who would become chairman of first city under the bailout plan, said actions were being taken to complete the transaction by alternate means but did not elaborate
under a buyout plan that was made a condition of the federal bailout, holders of first city's debt securities wre offered from 35 cents to 45 cents on the dollar for their notes
abboud, who said debt holders would fare worse if the bank were liquidated, told federal regulators in washington last weekend that not enough of the note holders had agreed to sell at those prices. he also has contended there was no intention to raise the amount of the offer
however, some industry analysts have indicated that some debt holders who don't tender their notes might end up getting a better deal once first city is recapitalized. depending on the strength of the recapitalized institution, the bonds could trade at significantly higher prices than abboud is offering
still other analysts have said the fdic could refuse to raise the offer for fear of setting a precedent for future bank bailouts
some of the alternatives being discussed for first city included dropping the participation threshold below 90 percent or terminating the tender offer
other options available to the fdic, analysts said, include canceling the abboud deal and reopening bidding for the bank, or having the fdic itself take over first city. the fdic did just that in 1984, pumping $4.5 billion into continental illinois bank and trust of chicago during the largest u.s. bank bailout ever
another plan calls for first city's 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota to fail and merge into a ``bridge bank'' until a new buyer is found. still another option is for the holding company, with $11 billion in assets, to enter voluntary bankruptcy proceedings
first city grew quickly during the texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate losses when oil prices plummeted. for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss
the bailout plan calls for $970 million in federal assistance, a $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by abboud and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets
on march 4, more than 71 percent of the bank holding company's 37 million shareholders approved the controversial bailout
the united states, angry over european subsidies for the airbus aircraft-manufacturing consortium, is increasing pressure on airbus nations to abolish or at least reduce the payments, say diplomatic sources
the americans at a minimum want the europeans to give a signal that they are willing to accept some effective discipline in regard to subsidies,'' an informed diplomatic source, who asked not to be identified further, said tuesday
the united states estimates that the four countries involved in airbus industrie _ france, britain, west germany and spain _ have pumped $10 billion into the consortium since it was created 17 years ago
ministers of the four airbus countries are to meet with u.s. trade officials in the southern west german resort city of constance on friday to continue discussions on the dispute
willy de clercq, the european economic community's external relations commissioner, said last week that there was a ``realistic chance'' of settling the dispute, but said eec governments could not entirely renounce state aid payments to airbus
he predicted an agreement would require ``further rounds of very difficult negotiations.''
the united states maintains that subsidies to airbus are unfair to u.s. aircraft makers in the wide-body, long-haul passenger jet market
the airbus nations contend the subsidies do not distort trade and are allowed under the civil aircraft provisions of the general agreements on tariffs and trade
the eec also contends u.s. aircraft manufacturers long have enjoyed huge, indirect subsidies through military contracts from the pentagon and millions in government research grants
the united states has threatened to retaliate against airbus if the negotiations fail, despite a recent decision by the four airbus ministers to have airbus managers enter into direct negotiations with mcdonnell douglas corp. on a possible joint project
the aim of the talks is to see whether the two sides could collaborate on one or more new airplanes. under the prosposal, the new aircraft would not compete with existing models
but diplomatic sources told the associated press that the move was unlikely to reduce tensions over the subsidy issue
it may well be helpful for airbus and mcdonnell douglas to agree on a joint project, but that will not solve the core problem of the current subsidies,'' said another diplomatic source, who also declined to be identified further
a spokesman for u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter in washington declined comment on the upcoming meeting. yeutter is expected to attend the talks. week</head>
the announcement tuesday that weekend office hours will end next year for the nation's postal savings system could mean an effective move to a five-day work week
japan's posts and telecommunications minister, a top banking official and the president of the tokyo stock exchange all indicated separately on tuesday that they favored moving toward a nationwide five-day work week beginning february 1989
such moves by the concerned parties would eliminate saturday business hours for the postal savings system, banks and stock trading
japan's banks and stock market currently only close on the second and third saturdays of each month, while keeping half-day hours for the remaining saturdays. a six-day work week still is routine for many japanese
the proposal is designed to promote a less workaholic and a more leisure-based society commensurate with japan's higher standard of living. such a trend, proponents argue, could indirectly stimulate domestic demand by increasing personal consumption and the growth of service and other non-export industries
the movement toward a five-day work week has drawn increased support from financial and government groups for the past several years
posts and telecommunications minister masaaki nakayama touched off a flurry of comments tuesday by announcing he had decided to terminate weekend office hours for the postal savings system beginning next february
the ministry oversees the system _ one of the largest savings networks in the world _ where cash deposits have been declining due to higher interest rates on other investment instruments
in response to nakayama's decision, kenichi kamiya, chairman of the federation of bankers' associations of japan said, ``it is important for all large participants to be in agreement.''
a federation spokesman said kamiya's comments, made at a separate press conference, meant to suggest major banks and securities houses would be willing to fall in line with the savings ministry's move
in another separate comment, tokyo stock exchange president michio takeuchi said he favored the five-day work week in the wake of nakayama's decision
kamiya, who also is president of mitsui bank ltd., added the banking federation, which represents the interests of major japanese banking institutions, has been working on the concept of creating a five-day work week since november of last year
japan's banking industry had hoped to shift toward the five-day week as early as october 1988, but postponed its action until early 1989 in order to overlap with the anticipated weekend closing of government postal savings offices, industry sources said
e.w. scripps co., the privately held parent corporation of the scripps howard media group, says it plans to sell some of its limited-voting common stock to the public
the newspaper publishing company said tuesday that the number of shares to be sold had not been determined but that control of the company would remain with the founding scripps family
it said the required paperwork was expected to be filed with the federal securities and exchange commission next month
lawrence a. leser, president and chief executive officer, said the stock sale was intended to pay off debt incurred for the company's acquisition program begun in 1986 and to finance further growth
leser said it also would provide liquidity for members of the scripps family who will control the company after the termination of the edward w. scripps trust, the present controlling shareholder
the trust is to terminate upon the death of the last of the four eldest children of robert p. scripps, son of company founder e.w. scripps. at termination, the assets of the trust are to be distributed to 28 great-grandchildren of e.w. scripps
during its existence, the trust is required to maintain voting control of e.w. scripps co
the company has an 80 percent-owned subsidiary, scripps howard broadcasting co., which has public ownership and is traded over-the-counter. the stock sale will not affect the status of that company, the announcement said
e.w. scripps co. owns 21 daily newspapers, nine television stations, five radio stations and cable systems nationwide that serve approximately 400,000 cable tv subscribers. it also owns united media, a new york-based syndicator of newspaper columns and comic strips
e.w. scripps co. was reincorporated in delaware in 1987 and has two classes of common stock outstanding: regular common and class a common, which has limited voting power. the capital structure is similar to that of other media companies that seek to retain control within the founding family, leser said
the edward w. scripps trust now owns 73 percent of the regular common shares and 90 percent of the class a shares
holders of the class a common shares to be sold to the public will be entitled to elect a third of the company directors, but will not have other voting rights
in all other respects, the class a stock is comparable to the regular common shares, the company said
charles e. scripps, board chairman of the e.w. scripps co. and chairman of the trustees of the trust, said: ``my grandfather, through the trust, perpetuated family control for as long as was legally possible. the present capitalization, with a public market for the class a common shares, will permit the next generation of the family to retain control of the company after the termination of the trust and provide liquidity for their holdings.''
the majority of the shares to be offered will be newly issued stock. the trust will sell a portion of its holding, but it will continue to hold a majority of both the regular common and class a shares after the sale
first republicbank corp.'s attempt to seek federal assistance comes as the nation's 13th-largest banking company tries to bolster the waning confidence of its depositors and the financial markets
first republicbank indicated tuesday it was seeking federal aid to keep from failing, and had held preliminary discussions with the federal deposit insurance corp
we seek some assistance, yet to be defined. we will be putting together, over the next few weeks, a plan that we can submit to the fdic for assistance,'' said gerald w. fronterhouse, chairman and chief executive officer
it was important that we initiate those discussions in order to provide a more stable environment for our company,'' he said
shaken by the slumping real estate and energy sectors and a loss of confidence in the institution by wall street, first republicbank suffered a loss of about $600 million in deposits over a five-day period last month, prompting the decision to seek federal help
certainly two or three weeks ago we didn't believe this would be necessary,'' said joseph c. bowles, a spokesman for the company
first republicbank officials tried last month to combat rumors that the bank was considering merging with another financial institution, taking the unusual step of buying full-page newspaper ads to assure customers their deposits were safe
bowles said he didn't believe the latest development would lead more depositors to withdraw their money because ``we expect our customers will understand that their money is protected.''
first republicbank is discussing whether to pursue open-bank assistance from the fdic, generally used only if the agency finds keeping a bank open would be less costly to the government than letting it fail
an fdic bailout of that kind would require regulators to determine that the bank would fail without help
disclosure of the talks with the government _ and the company's suspension of payment of preferred stock dividends _ were greeted with pessimism by wall street
first republicbank's stock fell 25 cents to $1.50 a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange _ a 14.3 percent drop
furthermore, standard &amp; poor's corp. downgraded first republicbank's senior debt rating to its lowest level short of default. the wall street credit rating form also downgraded the bank holding company's certificate of deposit and commercial paper ratings
fronterhouse contended the company would continue to thrive and remain an important institution in the state for years
but financial analysts said the request for federal aid could foretell a buyout or merger for first republicbank, which was created by the merger of dallas rivals interfirst corp. and republicbank corp. in 1987
the real estate market turned down, i think, much more rapidly than the bank had thought and it just turned into a snowball effect,'' said frank anderson, a dallas independent bank consultant. ``and they got into a situation where news was being leaked from meetings of some of their top-level officials to various news media
and whereas that did not cause the problem, it surely exacerbated the problem,'' said anderson
first republicbank lost $656 million in 1987, mainly because a staggering 17 percent of its $15 billion loan portfolio was either past due or renegotiated
reports indicate the holding company stands to lose another $450 million this year. the company has 73 affiliate banks in texas and assets of $33.2 billion, and employs 15,188 people
separately, houston-based first city bancorporation of texas inc. extended a tuesday deadline for debt holders to redeem their securities at a discount under a rescue plan representing the second-largest bank bailout in u.s. history
first city granted a second extension, to 5 p.m. est march 29, after the required 90 percent of debt holders failed to tender their the securities
some industry analysts contended that first republicbank's decision to seek federal aid could help texas banking
it should lend further stability to the banking system in the state,'' said sandy flannigan, an analyst and vice president of painewebber inc. ``there has been a great deal of negative press, and the fact that they are seeking some kind of fdic assistance should create some additional confidence in the system.''
john r. torrell iii's surprise resignation as president of manufacturers hanover corp. comes as the bank holding company is on the verge of an expected rebound from recent financial setbacks
torell resigned ``at his initiative'' to pursue other business opportunities, according to spokesman john stefans. the resignation is effective at the end of this month
the board accepted it with deepest regret,'' stefans said
recent speculation on wall street about a possible management shakeup at the bank had focused not on torell but on john f. mcgillicuddy, manufacturers hanover's chairman and chief executive, according to analysts
in his most recent position, torell was the company's no. 2 executive behind mcgillicuddy and widely was considered his heir apparent
analysts have said torell played a key role in helping the banking company emerge from its recent earnings problems and was largely responsible for developing its successful consumer finance business
in its annual report released earlier this month, manufacturers hanover said it expected a profit of at least $807 million this year. like other big money-center banks, manufacturers hanover established a huge loan-loss reserve to cover shaky foreign debts in 1987, which was largely responsible for a $1.14 billion loss that year
torell, 48, said in a news release from the bank that after a 27-year career at manufacturers hanover, including 10 years as a director, ``it is time for a change.''
torell joined the bank fresh from graduation from princeton university. he became vice chairman in 1978, president of the bank in 1982 and president of the holding company in 1985, stefans said
manufacturers hanover is the nation's sixth largest bank holding company with assets totaling $73.3 billion
a search committee of the board will be convened to choose a successor for torell. candidates from inside and outside the institution will be considered, according to mcgillicuddy
citibank says it is retreating from a policy that denied credit cards to some university students because they majored in humanities, after receiving complaints from around the country
in the latest fallout from the policy, students at the university of california who said they were denied cards because of their humanities majors called for the bank to change the policy or get its representatives off campus
it doesn't take people from college to see that their reasoning that a humanities major is more of a financial risk than an engineering major is pretty weak,'' said student kennedy yip, 22
yip _ a rhetoric major _ received a visa last year while attending a different college as a mathematics major. yip's rejection letter for a citibank mastercard dated feb. 13 listed ``field of study'' as the cause
other liberal arts majors who say citibank rejected their credit applications include some studying italian and history
bill mcguire, a citibank spokesman in new york, said the bank was ``moving away'' from the policy, which would be discontinued by the end of june. he admitted the company had received complaints from students at other universities around the country but he would not identify the schools
mcguire, in an interview tuesday with the oakland tribune, would not describe how the policy was applied
some students with humanities majors at berkeley reported they had received citibank credit cards
furthermore, a spokesman for the u.s. comptroller of the currency in kansas city, mo. said tuesday that the equal credit opportunity act does not prohibit using a student's academic major in a credit application system
nevertheless, some of the students turned down for credit at berkeley are seeking to have citibank denied access to the campus, where its representatives set up tables around the student union to accept credit applications
the humanities policy surfaced last week when irene chang, a reporter for the independent campus newspaper, the daily californian, asked a campus bank-card canvasser how to apply
i told her i had heard a rumor that english majors were being turned down, and she said i should give her a student photo identification instead of my registration card, which lists my major,'' chang said tuesday in an interview
she then told me to fill in the application by putting in business administration or electrical engineering as my major, instead of english, which she said was what students (at another university) were doing,'' chang said
matt denn, berkeley student body president, said he doesn't want to threaten citibank but believes student government's right to regulate groups at the student union building gives him ``leverage to suggest a policy change.''
molly sorkin, 22, an art history major rejected last fall for a visa from citibank because of her major, says she supports punitive action against citibank
it's obvious discrimination, and i don't think they should be allowed to get away with thinking that some majors are the ones that are going to be making all the money,'' she said
what i study says nothing about my responsibility or whether or not i can pay my bills,'' said sorkin, who graduated in december and now works in retail sales
aggregate overseas equity investment by south korean companies since 1962 totaled $1 billion as of the end of february, the finance ministry reported wednesday
ministry officials said it was the first time the cumulative tally topped the $1 billion mark since 1962 korean companies began investing abroad in 1962
they said about one-third of the total went to the united states for manufacturing and other projects
officials also said korean investment abroad had shown marked rises in the past two years, reflecting the country's growing current account surplus, with $157 million invested in 1986 and $397 million in 1987
ministry statistics indicated foreign equity investment in south korea since 1962 was a cumulative $3.92 billion as of the end of january, after deducting withdrawals over the period
the dollar gained ground against all major foreign currencies except the canadian dollar in thin european trading early today despite some profit-taking
gold prices were mixed
foreign currency dealers said market attention was focused on thursday's scheduled release of u.s. trade figures for january. analysts are divided on whether the figures will show an expanding or shrinking trade deficit
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 0.24 yen to 127.49. later, in london, it was quoted at 127.40 yen
the yen is easing against the dollar ... but everyone is waiting for the latest u.s. trade data,'' said an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo
a trader with a major italian commercial bank in milan, italy, said his bank was predicting a january shortfall of $13.5 billion, wider than $12.2 billion in december. but he said ``it shouldn't hurt the dollar too much.''
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late tuesday's rates, included: 1.6683 west german marks, up from 1.6650; 1.3802 swiss francs, up from 1.3760; 5.6770 french francs, up from 5.6605; 1.8734 dutch guilders, up from 1.8705; 1,237.50 italian lire, up from 1,232.40; and 1.2540 canadian dollars, down from 1.2564
in london, one british pound cost $1.8505, cheaper for buyers than late tuesday's $1.8570
gold was firming in london at midmorning amid reports of swiss buying
gold opened in london at a bid price of $445 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $443.50. at midmorning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $447.15
in zurich, the bid price was $442, down from $442.50 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $4.52 to close at a bid $447.79
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.36 a troy ounce, up from tuesday's $6.25
tokyo's leading stock index surged today to its highest level since last october's crash, while the u.s. dollar rose slightly as traders awaited the release of u.s. trade deficit figures for january
the dollar closed at 127.49 yen, up 0.24 yen from tuesday's close. it opened at 127.38, and ranged between 127.32 yen and 127.55 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which climbed 42.16 points tuesday, closed today at 25,704.43 points, up 228.76 points, or 0.90 percent
today's closing was the highest since stock prices plunged in october. the previous post-crash high was 25,682.82 points, on march 2
volume in the first section was estimated at 1.6 billion shares, roughly the same as tuesday, but 1.1 billion shares changed hands during the morning session alone in what traders were calling exceptionally heavy trading
heavy industrials, steel and electronics were leading the surge, said one broker
investors were spurred by u.s. payments data for the final quarter of 1987 showing the invisible trade balance in the black, one analyst said
in the foreign exchange market, traders continued their attitude of wait and see
the yen is easing against the dollar ... but everyone is waiting for the latest u.s. trade data,'' said an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo
the u.s. commerce department is scheduled to release the nation's foreign trade figures for january on thursday. also moved on general news wires.</note>
president reagan was poised today to veto a major piece of civil rights legislation and call for an alternative giving corporations and religious schools more exemptions from anti-discrimination laws
a top civil rights leader said the veto would leave ``a terrible and lasting stain on the reagan presidency'' and democratic leaders predicted that congress would quickly override the president's action
today was the deadline for action on the sweeping measure, designed to overcome the effects of a 1984 supreme court decision that has allowed institutions to receive federal aid even when some of their departments discriminate illegally
the bill would require all parts of any institution receiving federal aid to obey anti-discrimination laws
we have said all along we would veto,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said tuesday
fitzwater said the president believes the supreme court's decision, which involved grove city college in pennsylvania, was a mistake but that the corrective legislation goes too far in seeking to correct the problem
the bill became an issue in tuesday's illinois presidential primary when vice president george bush refused to say whether he would veto or sign the legislation if he were president
fitzwater said the administration has ``a very positive alternative bill'' but he declined to give details
an administration official, however, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the alternative was expected to be ``very much like'' a gop substitute that the house rejected by a 266-146 vote on march 2
that measure would have scaled back the bill's impact on corporations and allowed more schools to avoid compliance with civil rights laws on religious grounds
reagan wrote to house republicans that he objected to the bill that eventually passed because it ``dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local governments and the private sector'' and ``poses a particular threat to religious liberty.''
the senate passed the bill 75-14 and the house passed it 315-98, margins substantially greater than the two-thirds majority of both houses needed to override a presidential veto
house majority leader thomas s. foley, d-wash., said tuesday that he expected the senate to override reagan's veto later this week and the house to follow suit next week
ralph neas, executive director of the 200-group leadership conference on civil rights, said that by vetoing the bill reagan would be ``favoring federal subsidies to discrimination.''
a presidential veto of a bill to end federal funding of discrimination would be unconscionable,'' he said. ``it will leave a terrible and lasting stain on the reagan presidency.''
the administration official who spoke anonymously said the white house strategy would be to try to get house members who voted for the gop substitute to vote to sustain the veto. since 146 _ the number of legislators who supported the house gop substitute _ is slightly more than one-third of the full house membership of 435, that could be enough to sustain
the civil rights bill would require entire colleges, school systems, government agencies and private entities to comply with anti-discrimination laws if any program or activity within them receives federal money. institutions that did not comply would lose their federal funding
the supreme court's grove city decision limited the penalty to the specific program or activity that violated the law
stock prices fell wednesday amid concerns about british monetary policy following tuesday's fiscal 1989 budget announcement
the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 stocks was down 9 points, or 0.5 percent, at 1,830.9 at midday
volume was a moderate 314.1 million shares, compared with 241.3 million shares the same time tuesday
concerns focused on the strength of the pound and perceptions that the next move in british interest rates likely would be higher
the pound's recent rise has spurred worries about lower corporate profitability. the budget announcement did little to dispel these fears, dealers said
also hitting share prices was profit-taking following strong gains posted in the run-up to the budget announcement, dealers said
they added that prices were being marked down amid light volume as the market awaits thursday's release of u.s. trade figures for january
with u.s. trade figures tomorrow, i don't think i'd be an aggressive buyer either,'' said nicholas knight, an equities strategist at james capel and co. others</head>
chrysler corp. has boosted buyer incentives on six models, offering as much as $1,500 in rebates, and one analyst said a ``fire sale'' seemed to be under way at the no. 3 u.s. automaker
chrysler said tuesday it was raising rebates on five 1987 and 1988 dodge cars and trucks and one jeep model. the incentive program has no expiration date
the automaker also said it planned to reduce rebates on three other models after the weekend
analysts credit the aggressive use of incentives with spurring sales. in early march, chrysler's domestic car sales were up 18.3 percent and its light truck sales were up 24.1 percent from a year ago
chrysler has the most generous incentives of any automaker. it's really running a fire sale on its left-over '87s,'' said ronald glantz, analyst with montgomery securities inc. in san francisco
rebates rose to $1,500 from $750 on the daytona pacifica; to $1,000 from $750 on daytona shelby z and standard ram pickups; to $1,000 from $500 on standard ram b150, b250 and b350 passenger vans; and to $750 from $500 on dakota mid-size pickups and jeep comanche pickup
chrysler said it also added its 1987 and 1988 chrysler lebaron convertible to the program with a $750 rebate
on monday, rebates on three other models will be reduced. the rebate on the 1987 and 1988 lebaron coupe will drop to $750 from $1,500; to $1,000 from $1,500 on the dodge ramcharger sport-utility vehicle; and to $500 from $750 on the dodge daytona highline
instead of rebates, buyers can opt for low-rate financing with interest rates of 3.8 percent on loans up to 48 months and 8.8 percent on loans up to 60 months, chrysler said
meanwhile, general motors corp.'s gmc truck division said it was extending its $500 rebate campaign through the end of the month on 1987 and 1988 s-15 compact pickups and sport-utility vehicles
gm also added its new 1988 sierra full-size pickup and 1987 and 1988 rally passenger vans and vandura cargo vans to the program, also with $500 rebates
the rebates may be used in addition to continuous option discounts
analysts said gm sales fell in early march because buyers took advantage of widespread incentives in february. rights.''</note>
the publisher of a canadian computer magazine says he was trying to show the dangers of software piracy when he wrote a rogue computer program that has popped up in software developed by seattle's aldus corp
but to aldus and others, the so-called computer ``virus'' _ apparently the first to appear in commercial software _ has caused consternation
viruses are programs created by computer operators for secret insertion into other programs as jokes or as acts of vandalism. they can spread from computer to computer when operators share contaminated software
consequences of the ``disease'' can range from a surprise message that pops up on a computer screen, as happened with the aldus virus, to the destruction of information stored in computer memories
until now, personal computer viruses were thought to reside only in non-commercial software, such as that available free or at low cost on computerized bulletin boards or on software disks shared by computer users
experts had thought viruses could be avoided if users used only commercial, off-the-shelf programs
richard brandow, publisher of montreal-based macmag, acknowledged tuesday in an interview that he wrote the so-called ``peace message'' that popped up on thousands of apple macintosh computer screens
brandow claimed that besides calling for world peace, the virus was intended to discourage software piracy or unauthorized copying and to encourage computer users to buy original copies
the virus was discovered in freehand, a new program developed by aldus for macintosh computers, said aldus spokeswoman laury bryant said. the message flashed when the program was loaded in the computer, ms. bryant said
although it ``was a very benign incident,'' aldus officials are angry and ``are talking with our attorneys to understand what our legal rights are in this instance,'' ms. bryant said
we feel that richard brandow's actions deserve to be condemned by every member of the macintosh community,'' she said
the incident resulted in aldus having to recall or rework thousands of packages of the new software. ms. bryant declined to say how much the recall or reworking of software would cost
the incident also sent a scare through the computer industry, because several of the nation's largest software companies also are clients of a macromind inc. of chicago, a subcontractor that inadvertently spread the virus to aldus
macromind president marc canter said in a telephone interview tuesday that he believed aldus was the only customer that received the virus
among canter's clients are the nation's three largest software producers _ microsoft corp. of redmond, ashton-tate, and lotus development corp. _ and apple
ashton-tate declined comment, but officials at microsoft, apple and lotus all said none of their software was infected
canter said the virus apparently was in a packet of software he obtained from brandow. unaware of the infection, canter ran the progam once and when he used the same computer to work on aldus software, the disk eventually sent to aldus became infected, he said
the computer virus then inadvertently was copied onto disks sold to customers and infected their computers, he said
brandow said he met canter, but denied giving him software
brandow said the virus program was written and tested for a year on a number of macintosh computers, and was left for two days in december on a macintosh at the magazine's offices
the publisher said he had expected that people making unauthorized copies of programs on the machine would spread the virus in the montreal area and possibly a few other areas of canada and the united states
instead, brandow said, an estimated 350,000 people in north america and europe had the message pop up on their computers on march 2
brandow said neither he nor his employees put the message on a computer billboard or information network, but he did not rule out the possibility that others who copied it without permission placed programs containing the message on such services
ms. bryant and brandow both said the virus died out after march 2
the full message, according to brandow, read: ``richard brandow, the publisher of macmag, and its entire staff would like to take this opportunity to convey their universal message of peace to all macintosh users around the world.'' beneath that was a graphic of the globe. fares</head>
northwest airlines has lowered the advance purchase requirement, to three days, on a discount fare used by business travelers
the change took effect tuesday as major airlines, including northwest, raised full coach fares and ended some discount fares, sharply increasing the cost of travel for people who cannot make plans in advance
northwest's change, which its competitors are expected to match, will make it easier for travelers to take advantage of some discount fares. the fare, available on a limited number of seats on most routes, carries no cancellation penalty and has no other restrictions
under the changes that took effect tuesday, most discount fares generally require a seven-day advance purchase and carry a cancellation penalty of 25 percent
if other airlines match the northwest fare, it would be the first modification of a series of fare increases proposed this month by continental airlines and matched by all leading carriers
william wren, vice president for public relations at northwest, said the airline was joining its competitors in extending to seven days from two the advance purchase requirement on maxsaver fares, the lowest fares available
in addition, wren said some carriers were proposing a 14-day advance purchase requirement, but that northwest did not support the idea
the stock market showed a small gain today, continuing the sluggish pattern of the past two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose .83 to 2,048.24 in the first half hour
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 468 up, 446 down and 578 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 19.47 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
the market has been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await thursday's report on the nation's trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
but traders apparently are sticking with a cautious approach until then so as not to be caught off guard by any surprise either way
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass quietly, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
among actively traded blue chips, union carbide rose | to 25 and coca-cola was up | at 39[, but american telephone &amp; telegraph dropped \ to 28]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks edged up .03 to 150.02. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .35 at 297.10
on tuesday the dow jones industrial average dropped 2.66 to 2,047.41
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 10 to 9 on the nyse. big board volume totaled 133.17 million shares, against 131.89 million million in the previous session. higher</head> production, tighten. picks up 5th graf pvs, on tuesday ...</note>
housing construction posted the biggest increase in more than a year as new projects climbed by 8.9 percent in february, while industrial production edged up 0.2 percent, the government reported today
the commerce department said last month's gain in housing construction raised activity to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units. the increase followed declines of 1.9 percent in january and 15.8 percent in december
the unexpectedly strong february report was likely to ease worries about a possible recession. the 8.9 percent rise in housing starts in february was the sharpest monthly gain since a 12.7 percent rise in december 1986
the increase in february industrial production represented the fifth consecutive monthly gain, according to the federal reserve. the fed said the advance followed a 0.3 percent increase in january and left american industry operating at a rate 5.8 percent above a year ago
analysts said the report was consistent with their view that the economy will continue to move forward this year, but at a slower pace than in 1987
on tuesday, a jump in early march auto sales and news of a record 1987 trade deficit failed to wield much influence in the financial markets
major automakers said tuesday that sales of domestic cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in the first 10 days of march compared with a year earlier, led by surging sales of vehicles made by ford motor co. and chrysler corp. industry leader general motors corp. reported weaker results
in washington, the commerce department said the deficit in the broadest measure of foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987, a reflection of america's deepening debt to the rest of the world
the deficit in the u.s. current account was 13.7 percent higher than the 1986 deficit of $141.4 billion and marked the fifth consecutive year that this trade deficit has hit a new record
the reagan administration has sought to downplay the significance of the trade deficits, but private economists contend the rapid buildup of foreign debt could cause a further weakening in the dollar's value and a recession
the current account measures not only the flow of merchandise across u.s. borders but also the flow of services, primarily investment earnings
net debtor status means americans own less investments abroad than foreigners do in this country
despite the latest trade statistics, federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan said tuesday that americans shouldn't be overly concerned and that foreign investors make ``good corporate citizens.''
we will find that foreign investment in the united states will be a plus,'' even at present record levels, greenspan told the house-senate joint economic committee
neither the auto sales or foreign trade figures had much impact on wall street, where stocks were mixed in light trading. the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 2.66 points to 2,047.41
prices in the bond market, a sensitive barometer of interest rates and the economy, also ended little changed. economists' comment after 6th graf pvs, however, the</note>
housing construction posted the biggest increase in more than a year as new projects climbed by 8.9 percent in february, the government reported today
the commerce department said the increase last month pushed construction activity to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units
the increase followed declines of 1.9 percent in january and 15.8 percent in december
those back-to-back monthly declines, which left housing starts at their slowest pace since the end of the last recession, had raised fears of a possible new economic downturn in the wake of the record collapse of the stock market in october
pessimists noted that housing is often the first sector to turn down at the onset of a new recession
however, the big jump in housing activity in february, which was much stronger than expected, was likely to ease worries about a possible recession this year, especially since other business barometers including employment gains, have shown strength since the oct. 19 stock market collapse
in another report today, the government said that production at u.s. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.2 percent in february following a 0.3 percent january gain. it was the fifth consecutive increase and left american industry producing at a 5.8 percent higher level than a year ago
economists said the increase in housing starts, while still leaving them well below the level of a year ago, was a good sign that the industry's two-month skid had been halted
the rebound in housing is yet another sign of an economy that is growing slowly but is far from a recession,'' said john a. tuccillo, chief economist of the national association of realtors. ``the lower interest rates enjoyed by the mortgage market in late january through february have revived what had seemed to be a dying housing sector.''
james christian, chief economist of the u.s. league of savings institutions, said he expected that mortgage rates, which are currently at an average of 9.96 percent for 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages, will not likely fall further but should stay around that level for the next several months
the 8.9 percent rise in housing starts in february was the sharpest monthly gain since a 12.7 percent rise in december 1986
housing permits, considered a good sign of future economic activity, also rose sharply in february, jumping 11.5 percent to an annual rate of 1.40 million units, also the biggest monthly gain since december 1986
many economists had been predicting a rebound in housing, given the fact that mortgage rates have fallen sharply since the first of the year and are again in the single-digit range
the strength in starts last month came in the construction of both single-family and multi-family housing
construction of single-family homes rose 9.3 percent in february to a seasonally adjusted 1.10 million units
construction of multi-family units was up 7.8 percent to an annual rate of 399,000 units
the strength was widespread in all sections of the country except the west, where starts fell 9 percent
housing starts rose 25.6 percent in the south, 13.8 percent in the midwest and 2.7 percent in the northeast
sears, roebuck and co. announced today it has agreed to buy a majority interest in western auto supply co. and will make a tender offer for the remainder of western auto's outstanding shares in a $402 million deal
sears said in a statement it will pay $19 a share for 52.3 percent of western auto's stock held by certain stockholders, including officers and directors
sears said it will offer the same cash price for all remaining stock if it can win the approval of western auto's board of directors this week
western auto's stock, which is traded on the over-the-counter market, was up $6 to $18.50 a share in early trading today
the stock buyout would cost sears $250 million and the retailer also would assume the auto supply company's $152 million debt
western auto is a kansas city-based marketer of auto supplies, tires, appliances and lawn and garden equipment. it has 6,600 employees and operates 278 company-owned retail stores. it also sells at wholesale to 1,570 independently owned western auto stores nationwide
the acquisition would represent sears' further expansion into specialty marketing. the nation's largest retailer previously bought apparel store and optical center chains
last year, western auto had a profit of $10.5 million on sales of $930.8 million. sears earned $1.65 billion and had revenues of $48.44 billion
sears said it reserved the right to cancel the deal if the western auto board fails to give its approval by friday
the stock market gave ground in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of the past two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.62 to 2,039.79 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 505 up, 667 down and 562 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 43.69 million shares at midmorning
the market has been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await thursday's report on the nation's trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
but traders apparently are sticking with a cautious approach until then so as not to be caught off guard by any surprise either way
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass quietly, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
losers among the blue chips included merck, down 2 at 156\; american express, down | at 25~; usx, down } at 30~, and sears roebuck, down | at 37[
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .31 to 149.68. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .37 at 296.38
a federal judge sent attorneys working on a.h. robins co.'s merger agreement with american home products corp. back to the drawing board today, but the hitch did not appear to be major
my view right now is i will not approve it as it stands,'' u.s. district judge robert r. merhige jr. said at a brief hearing on the proposed merger
merhige, who is overseeing robins' chapter 11 bankruptcy case with u.s. bankruptcy judge blackwell n. shelley, said he was concerned about the status of dalkon shield claims during the expected appeals of the case
under the $700 million merger agreement, american home products would not be obligated for claims from users of the intrauterine device until the final order is entered after appeals
merhige said he found that provision unacceptable
i'm not going to delay this any more. these women have waited and waited and waited,'' the judge said
merhige suggested that the case go forward by having american home products put up $100 million of the proposed $2.475 billion fund to resolve claims against the intrauterine birth control device
if the merger is voided on appeal, merhige said, then american home products could recover the money from robins
merhige sent the attorneys to work on the problem
robins' reorganization must include a settlement of about 195,000 claims from women who contend they were injured by the iud, which was sold by robins in the early 1970s
robins and american home products of new york reached a merger agreement jan. 21 after the richmond-based pharmacuetical company had negotiated similar agreements with two other potential buyers, france's sanofi sa and the rorer group inc. of pennsylvania
robins has been under chapter 11 protection from creditors since august 1985 because of the dalkon shield claims
most grain and soybean futures prices opened slightly higher today on the chicago board of trade but began slipping in early trading
traders say soybeans got some help from reports of dry weather in brazil's main bean area, which creates the prospect of reduced yields there
light movement of corn and wheat in this country supported those grains on the board of trade. however, traders said gains were limited by dull export demand
in early dealings, wheat was { cent lower to 1\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.96\ a bushel; corn was unchanged to { cent lower with $2.05{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to { cent higher with march at $1.89 a bushel; and soybeans were 1 cent to 2\ cents higher with march at $6.15 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly lower at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .12 cent lower to .03 cent higher with the april contract at 73.70 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .22 cent lower to .05 cent higher with march at 82.50 cents a pound; live hogs were .05 cent to .35 cent lower with april at 44.85 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .15 cent lower to .03 cent higher with march at 52.55 cents a pound
on tuesday, livestock and meat futures were mostly lower
brisk exports will help south korea's economy grow by at least 8 percent this year, the economic planning board said
in its revised economic management program issued wednesday, the agency forecast that south korea's gross national product would swell to the equivalent of $145 billion, up 8 percent from last year
that would boost the country's per capita gnp for this year to $3,450, up $637 from last year, the planning board said
under the original projections, 1988 gnp was expected to reach $124 billion for a per capita gnp of $2,922
the gnp is the total output of goods and services a country produces in a year
government officials said stronger-than-expected exports so far this year have prompted them to revise the projections upward
south korea's merchandise exports during january and february reached $8.01 billion, up 39.9 percent from the same period last year
at that pace, total 1988 exports would rise to $55 billion and imports to $50 billion, creating a trade surplus of $5 billion, according to the revised figures
the projected trade surplus, combined with an expected surplus of $2 billion in invisible trade items such as tourism income, would help south korea register a current-account surplus of $7 billion this year
helped by strong exports, south korea's current-account surplus more than doubled to $9.78 billion last year from the 1986 level
the current account measures trade in goods and services plus certain unilateral transfers
the projected current-account surplus would help south korea trim its external debts to $31 billion from $35.6 billion at the end of last year, the agency said
an additional 354,000 new jobs would be created this year but the unemployment rate would rise to 3.7 percent from 3.1 percent last year, it said
a.e. hotchner traveled with ernest hemingway, has authored best-selling books and scripted plays. this is not the man one expects to find running a food business, but there he is, assuming the role of entrepreneur at the behest of another of his famous friends, paul newman
listening to hotchner talk, one gets the feeling he is also incredulous _ even after six years _ to find himself in charge of newman's own inc., a $40 million-a-year business hotchner calls ``this wacko food thing.''
and the author's wife, ursula, a former researcher at time inc., also seems a little bewildered to be overseeing the day-to-day operations of a company that manufactures salad dressing, spaghetti sauce, lemonade and popcorn
so, how did these neophytes get into the business? by the persistence and persuasiveness of paul newman, the star of films such as ``the hustler'' and ``butch cassidy and the sundance kid'' and the president of newman's own
they started the company in 1982, with a vinaigrette dressing
newman was always into salad dressing,'' hotchner recalled during a recent interview
hotchner said the actor had his own homemade dressing. when he visited friends, he took bottles of it with him. he gave it as christmas presents
one christmas, he beseeched hotchner, his longtime friend and neighbor in westport, conn., to help fill wine bottles with dressing, and when there was some left over, newman got the notion of selling it
i did everything to ignore him,'' hotchner said
but newman wouldn't let go of the idea. while he went off to film ``the verdict,'' he put his friend to work, setting up a salad dressing company
he would call from the movie set between takes: `hotch, how are we doing? you got a bottler?''' the author recalled. ``he drove me nuts.''
with a $40,000 investment, they began to market the dressing locally in connecticut
we didn't know what we were doing,'' hotchner admitted
but after two months they began to get orders from major supermarket chains like grand union and a&amp;p
so they hired advantage food marketing, a company on long island that found factories, set up a national distribution network and arranged for publicity
the salad dressing, with a drawing of newman smiling expansively on the label, became enormously successful. the hotchners became corporate vice presidents
hotchner sounds like he still does not believe it all happened. ``it was 80 percent luck,'' he said
the newman aura was a major factor in their initial success, hotchner admitted. but, he said, what has kept the company going since then is its insistence on quality
you can get acceptance because of paul's face on the label, but what's in the bottle better be good,'' he said
while quality was a major concern, profits weren't
`look, we don't intend to be food tycoons, so let's just give it all away,''' hotchner quoted newman as saying. in the six years since newman's own began, it has donated $15 million to charity and helped set up a camp for seriously ill children
people expected newman's own to come out with another dressing after the vinaigrette caught on, but as mrs. hotchner put it, ``we don't do logical things.''
so, next came spaghetti sauce, followed by popcorn and most recently, lemonade. as its product base expanded, the company's sales grew by 20 percent a year, hotchner said
hotchner _ the a.e. stands for aaron edward _ is a 67-year-old st. louis native who attended washington university, became a lawyer but hated it and then went off to serve in world war ii. after the war, he worked for cosmopolitan magazine, and while on an assignment in cuba in 1948, met ernest hemingway
with hemingway, hotchner traveled to paris, madrid, havana, venice _ ``not a bad way to be introduced to venice,'' he now says _ and other cities. he hunted with hemingway, watched bullfights with him and drank with him
hemingway killed himself in 1961. hotchner wrote of their friendship in his best-known work, ``papa hemingway.''
it was hemingway who indirectly brought the future food makers together
in 1956, hotchner was asked to adapt a three-page hemingway story, ``the battler,'' for television. one of the actors in the drama was paul newman
the two men became friends, and later, neighbors in westport, an affluent suburb of new york city
they owned boats and fished together, but ``paul and i never got involved in anything over the years other than mischief until this wacko food thing came up,'' hotchner said
he sounds disparaging of the business and his own role in it, but he's committed to it, fielding inquiries from advantage foods at 7:45 a.m. if necessary. he manages to keep his literary projects going, but said he sometimes feels like he's a juggler who ``has one apple too many.''
both hotchner and his wife give a lot of credit for the success of newman's own to advantage foods and david kalman, a vice president at the marketing company
he was out there hustling,'' mrs. hotchner said. ``he believed in us.''
kalman handles what hotchner calls the nitty-gritty of the business, dealing with the factories and workers
but there is still enough to keep the hotchners busy. the night before the interview, mrs. hotchner returned from west germany, where she met with one of the company's international distributors
mrs. hotchner, 44, a native of cologne, west germany, is in the newman's own office in westport almost every day, supervising a staff of five people. although they began as amateurs, the hotchners said they have learned plenty about the angles of running a food business. in the early going, for example, they discovered that if they discounted newman's own products, supermarkets would pay faster and the company would have the cash to pay its own bills
but the couple is well aware that unlike most business people, they have the luxury of nothing to lose
we don't have to produce $3 million every month,'' hotchner said. ``no heads are going to fall. no executives are going to be out on the street.''
it's not like anything else,'' he said. ``it's mostly fun.''
a federal judge approved a settlement tuesday of a sex-discrimination suit against state farm insurance co. that grants women who were denied jobs as insurance agents in california up to $420,000 each
the settlement, restricted to california because the case was filed as a state class-action suit, also requires that 50 percent of the sales agents hired by the company during the next 10 years be women
lawyers for three women who sued on behalf of the discrimination victims said the total award could range between $100 million and $300 million, a record for a civil rights suit, based on 1,100 jobs that were filled between 1974 and 1987, the years covered by the suit
but company lawyers say the payment estimate is far too high in light of the stringent test claimants will have to meet
to qualify for an award, a woman must not only show that she was rejected or was discouraged from applying for an agent's job during the period, but also convince a court-appointed fact-finder that she was more qualified than the man who was hired. she would then collect between $15,575 and $420,822, which includes the amount of pay she was wrongfully denied and interest on that figure. the women would receive additional interest from now until the date they are paid
the suit was filed in 1979 by three former company secretaries, muriel kraszewski of los angeles county, wilda tipton of ventura county and daisy jackson of santa clara county, who has since died. under the settlement, each, including ms. jackson's estate, will get the maximum award of $420,822
u.s. district judge thelton henderson ruled in 1985 that state farm had discriminated against women in hiring, prompting the settlement negotiations
henderson approved the settlement tuesday after a brief hearing, calling it fair and comprehensive. he deferred a ruling, however, on whether some women would be allowed to sue separately in state court on discrimination claims
the four-month claims period will begin may 1. women who applied for jobs with the company between 1974 and 1987 will be mailed claim forms, said guy saperstein, a lawyer for the plaintiffs
aspiring wall street broker bud fox thought he had a deal that couldn't go wrong. he would make a killing in the stock market by trading on inside information about secret takeover plans for bluestar airlines
fox _ the fictional focus of the movie ``wall street'' _ didn't count on getting nailed by a computer
his trades sent the airline stock into an erratic flight pattern, which sounded an alarm in the control tower of the new york stock exchange
as it might have unfolded in real life, the exchange's ``stock watch'' monitors triggered an investigation that resulted in fox's arrest for securities fraud
collaring wall street's bad guys is not always so easy, but the movie turned the spotlight on a surveillance system that has become the first line of defense against abuse in the stock market
they stole it from us,'' joked donald j. solodar, the nyse's senior vice president for market surveillance, who supervises a staff of more than 100
at the center of the big board's operation are four analysts who scrutinize oddly behaving stocks from a carpeted, glass-walled office crammed with computer terminals and newswire printers high above the exchange floor
solodar's detectives have played roles in exposing some of the biggest insider traders in history, ranging from former ltv corp. executive paul thayer to ex-investment banker dennis b. levine
in an era marked by takeover speculation and daily volume that has multiplied 12-fold over 20 years, tracking suspicious trades has become a high-tech adventure
in 1965, we averaged a few million shares a day. we read ticker tape and clipped items from the papers,'' said solodar, whose nyse career began then as an investigator. ``you didn't have all the mergers and acquisition stuff.''
on a typical trading day now, dozens of computer alerts about unusual stock activity go off in the monitoring rooms at the new york and american exchanges in manhattan and the national association of securities dealers on-line office in washington, which follows over-the-counter trading
the computers are programmed to know the price and volume behavior of every listed issue over the past several months, which stock watchers call a parameter or ``fingerprint.'' when a sleepy stock suddenly jumps in value, the computers send out their warnings
they range from colored lights at the nyse to a synthesized voice that shouts ``high price!'' or ``volume!'' in the amex's ``stockwatch automated technique'' system, dubbed ``swat'' for short
it doesn't mean by necessity there's a violation,'' said solodar. ``but when you have a 200 million-share day you need that computer support to guide the analysts. once those flags or whistles go off, we try to ascertain whether there's public news to account for it.''
the news could include relatively innocuous events such as a dividend payment, earnings report, stock repurchase or a buy recommendation from a respected investment firm
when 32.4 million shares of detroit edison stock changed hands march 8, for example, nyse analysts ignored their computer's red-alert, the most serious warning. they knew investors were trading the stock based on the company's quarterly dividend
when more than 600 million shares were traded during the oct. 19 crash, volume warnings blazed across every computer screen, but analysts paid little heed because massive selling affected many stocks
if an analyst cannot determine the source of a stock's curious behavior, the next step is to call the exchange floor for an explanation. the analyst also might call the company and brokers who traded the stock
more times than not it takes more than something on the screen to figure it out,'' said solodar. ``it doesn't flash, `insider trader.'''
if questions persist, a mysterious trading pattern might be referred to an exchange investigator and possibly the securities and exchange commission, which is ultimately responsible for enforcing securities laws
a common example is a stock that suspiciously rises in price, suggesting an impending takeover that hasn't been disclosed. insiders with advance knowledge of that information might be buying illegally, knowing the stock's price will jump after the takeover is announced
the sec has sharply increased its prosecution of these insider trading violations over the past few years. but in most cases, the agency must rely partly on evidence of wrongdoing supplied by the stock markets themselves
i guess we're more like the cops on the beat,'' said jay s. bono, head of the amex system in a cramped office 10 stories above the trading floor. ``i think we deter members from getting involved in shady things. they know what we do.''
bono oversees three analysts who work in perhaps the most advanced surveillance system of any exchange, with synthesized-voice computers that not only shout warnings but also read news from a financial information service to advise analysts of market-sensitive developments
the amex operation also includes about 60 staffers who follow up leads uncovered by the stock watchers. like the nyse, amex's system has been credited for exposing many illicit trades, notably the conspiracy that resulted in the arrest and conviction of former wall street journal reporter r. foster winans a few years ago. winans had peddled advance knowledge of his ``heard on the street'' column, which often influenced the price of a stock he wrote about
in a typical day, bono's stock watchers will arrive an hour before the exchange opens and talk with floor traders to acquaint themselves with the latest news and gossip. they also will scour the newspapers and overnight copy from financial wire services
the amex computer ordinarily will record about 100 daily alerts, called ``kickouts'' or ``parameter breaks.'' bono said about half are readily explainable and the others require further inquiry
ultimately, a few might be referred to an amex investigator and about 50 a year are referred to the sec, bono said
nyse stock watchers conduct a similar screening process, also referring about 50 trades a year to the sec. solodar didn't disclose the number of outstanding in-house inquiries but said it exceeds 100
does the operation deter wrongdoers?
in a broad sense i would say yes,'' observed solodar. ``but if somebody wants to be a crook, they're going to be one, irrespective of the bells and alarms that are available to us.''
koppers co.'s board today rejected a $1.27 billion takeover bid from a group led by beazer plc and shearson lehman brothers holdings inc. and said it is mulling a recapitalization plan to fend off unwanted suitors
british investor brian beazer, who heads the london-based construction concern, and shearson lehman launched a $45-per-share tender offer for koppers' common shares on march 3. koppers management today called the offer inadequate and recommended stockholders not tender their shares
beazer, shearson and natwest investment bank ltd., a british investment bank, reportedly own about 7.45 percent of koppers' outstanding common shares
the pittsburgh-based road builder and manufacturer of construction materials said in a statement its board is ``considering alternative plans intended to enhance shareholder values both immediately and over the long term.''
koppers shares fell 75 cents to $53.75 in early trading on the new york stock exchange after jumping $2.25 on tuesday
charles pullin, koppers' chairman, said the board is considering a recapitalization plan that would involve a ``substantial cash distribution or dividend'' to common shareholders
he said the company will explore the sale of some or all of its construction materials and services business, the proceeds of which would be used to fund the dividend payout
beazer has said it probably would sell koppers' chemical business if it gained control
pullin said a recapitalization also could include the sale of stock to an employee stock ownership plan that the company would establish
koppers' board believes that the company remaining independent would, over the long term, be a superior alternative to accepting'' the buyout offer, the company said
koppers said the beazer-shearson offer to pay $107.75 for each of the 150,000 outstanding shares of preferred stock was adequate but declined to advise preferred shareholders whether to tender their stock
beazer and shearson made their bid through bns inc. conspiracy</head>
in october 1983, a computer at the american stock exchange sounded an alarm about tie communications shares, which were slipping in extraordinarily active trading
it was the beginning of the end for the career of r. foster winans, a wall street journal reporter who played a key role in what would become one of the most publicized insider trading conspiracies in history
a day after the tie alarm, a negative story about the company appeared in winans' ``heard on the street'' column, which made the stock tumble even more
it looked like it was intentionally made to do a job on tie,'' said jay s. bono, head of the amex stock watch unit, where suspicions arose that something was seriously wrong
shortly thereafter, the amex computer sounded the alarm about key pharmaceuticals shares, which were falling in heavy volume. a few days later, a negative story about key appeared in the ``heard'' column and tie pattern repeated itself
then we alerted our surveillance department, saying, `this is amazing. definitely look at this sucker,'' bono recalled
amex investigators began checking records to determine which brokerages had been active in tie and key in the days before the ``heard'' columns appeared
their inquiries showed significant trading was done by peter n. brant, then a star trader for kidder peabody &amp; co., and two of brant's friends, kenneth p. felis, and david w.c. clark
before tie and key fell, they had been aggressively buying ``put options'' on the stocks, entitling them to sell at a certain price within a specified time. the options soared in value when the stocks declined
securities and exchange commission investigators were alerted, and eventually the journal's senior management. it was almost certain that brant, felis and clark had known the pre-publication contents of the ``heard'' column
faced with exposure, winans told the sec of a secret arrangement under which he would leak advance word of the ``heard'' column to brant and the broker would share the trading profits he made with winans and winans' male lover, david j. carpenter
all were prosecuted for insider trading
in a book about the conspiracy, winans wrote that none of the participants had been aware market stock watchers would be alerted by their trading, especially brant, who had ``muscled his way into tie like a refugee trying to catch the last helicopter out of saigon.''
in hindsight, winans wrote, ``fewer people would have noticed what peter was doing if he'd hired a skywriter.''
despite the success of such surveillance in the winans case, market officials concede other instances of blatant abuse can be hard to identify. a good example was the insider trading done by ivan f. boesky, a notorious speculator who was exposed by co-conspirator dennis b. levine
using secret tips about impending takeovers supplied by levine, a former investment banker, boesky made millions of dollars buy acquiring stocks of acquisition targets
boesky was not a name that was foreign to us; in fact we had tracked a number of trades by ivan boesky over a long period of time,'' said donald j. solodar, head of the new york stock exchange stock watch unit
but it's like seeing a woodsman in the forest,'' solodar said. ``we expected him to be there. because as a big player, we knew and were able to see he was in many deals, many times. and there was no discernible pattern.''
nyse stock watchers had better luck with levine, who did all his illicit trading under a phony name through an account at the bahamas branch of bank leu international ltd., a swiss bank
solodar said his analysts forwarded to the sec about two dozen suspicious trading patterns over a period of several years that originated from the bank leu account. sec investigators used that information to help identify levine
beyond bank leu, because of a jurisdictional problem, we had to rely on the sec,'' solodar said. ``but we do take partial credit.''
end adv sunday march 20
sony corp. on wednesday introduced the first compact disk player designed specifically for the new 3-inch compact disks
the new d-88 pocket discman is smaller than a person's hand and can also play standard 5-inch cds, although the larger disks stick out one side like a slice of salami in a sandwich
the d-88 will be available in june at a suggested retail price of $359.95, sony said
the 3-inch cds can hold up to 20 minutes of music. they have been available since late last year and can be played on most standard-sized players
separately, sony said its digital audio disc corp. of terre haute, ind., expects to deliver 1.5 million of the 3-inch disks per month by later this year
the stock market drifted lower in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of the past two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 9.94 to 2,037.47 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 511 up, 770 down and 543 unchanged
the market has been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await thursday's report on the nation's trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
but traders apparently are sticking with a cautious approach until then so as not to be caught off guard by any surprise either way
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass quietly, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
losers among the blue chips included merck, down 1~ at 156]; american express, down } at 25}; usx, down } at 30~, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, down ] at 28\
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .43 to 149.56. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .90 at 295.85
volume on the big board came to 68.46 million shares at noontime, against 66.68 million at the same point tuesday
domestic crude oil production dropped again last month, while increased imports continued to feed the nation's ever-growing thirst for petroleum-based products, a trade group reported wednesday
the nation's output of crude dropped 1.8 percent from january to 8.16 million barrels a day _ a fall of 11 percent from the level of two years ago, the american petroleum institute said in its monthly report
at the same time, daily imports averaged 6.66 million barrels of crude and products, which was up 14.8 percent from 5.8 million barrels a day in february 1987, the washington-based group said
that marked a 38 percent increase in imports from february 1986, when the nation bought 4.84 million barrels of foreign crude and products each day, said joe lastelic, an api spokesman. a barrel is the equivalent of 42 gallons
february's deliveries of refined products increased by 2.5 percent, or 417,000 barrels daily, reflecting expected trends in actual consumption after an unusual 7 percent year-to-year leap in january, the report said
gasoline led the increase in deliveries of refined products, rising 2.6 percent from last february. on a year-to-date basis, however, this worked out to an expected 2 percent gain when adjusted for unusual factors, the trade group said
the report said annual domestic consumption of motor fuels has grown by 2.2 percent to 3.2 percent a year in the 1982-1987 period, as americans traveled nearly 3.8 percent more each year
among other highlights, the api reported that:
_february deliveries of home heating oil and diesel fuel were essentially flat, compared with february 1987, partly because weather in new england and the mid-atlantic states was warmer than usual
_heavy fuel oil, known as residual fuel oil, rose 2 percent from the previous february, apparently reflecting ``the competitive nature of the fuel in the electric utility and industrial markets.''
_kerosine jet fuel deliveries fell a sharp 3.5 percent from a year ago, in part because of heavy inventory buildup in january
_the utilization rate of the nation's refineries slackened to 81.9 percent from an average 83 percent use over the winter months, as the winter heating season wound down
_inventories of crude and products dropped 1.6 percent from january and 2 pecent from february 1987
a son of late oil billionaire j. paul getty will become a majority stockholder in deltaus corp. under an agreement reached with the financially troubled tyler drilling company
the 57-year-old delta uscorp. last turned a profit in the oil boom year of 1981
an unnamed corporation owned wholly by gordon p. getty is to pay $7 million for newly issued shares of common stock in delta, giving getty 75 percent ownership of the tyler company, delta chairman keating zeppa said tuesday
the agreement also calls for the getty-owned corporation to provide delta with a $2.5 million cash infusion to help finance its weakened drilling operations
zeppa said delta suffered a net loss in excess of $10 million last year on revenues of $51 million
the company has 1,100 employees, less than half its peak employment of about 2,400 workers in 1982. only 13 of its 50 u.s.-based rigs are active, zeppa said. six of seven delta rigs in italy are in operation
the agreement with getty should ``give us the ability to withstand worse-case conditions for three to four years and still be around when things turn up (in the drilling industry),'' zeppa said
zeppa said getty does not anticipate any changes in management or current operations
getty, 54, is a resident of san francisco and reportedly has no plans to assume an executive role with delta
getty played a major role in 1984 merger talks involving getty oil co. and houston-based pennzoil co
texaco inc. wound up making a higher bid and buying the california-based company
a houston jury in 1985 awarded the largest court judgment in history _ $10.53 billion _ to pennzoil, which had argued that texaco had improperly interfered with the proposed pennzoil-getty merger
texaco has since agreed to pay pennzoil $3 billion to settle the case
united auto workers local 72 plans to approach chrysler corp. stockholders in its fight to keep as many of the automaker's jobs in kenosha as possible this fall when car assembly is scheduled to end here
ed steagall, president of the local, said tuesday the union plans to solicit proxies from stockholders in time for chrysler's may 19 shareholder meeting in new york
steagall said the union is ``contacting somebody to see how to obtain the maximum amount of proxies'' and would announce its strategy at a news conference
asked what the proxies would say, steagall said the union has not set a complete agenda
a proxy is a ballot that empowers somebody to vote for another
joseph philippi, an auto analyst at shearson lehman and hutton in new york, said he doubts the union could get enough votes to make chrysler's board of directors change its mind about halting assembly operations at kenosha
but he said the proxies could serve as a show of support for the union cause
it's a means of registering protest,'' he said. ``in terms of the effectiveness, i seriously doubt they're going to get enough votes for it.''
baron bates, chrysler vice president of public affairs, the company is on the verge of sending out its proxies, said the uaw itself is a big chrysler shareholder. several local 72 members also own shares which they got in a stock swap after chrysler bought american motors corp. last august
chrysler said jan. 27 that it would stop car assembly at kenosha by september, wiping out 5,500 jobs. it, however, intends to preserve about 1,000 jobs in continuing engine operations
scientists at international business machines corp. have made and tested the world's fastest silicon circuits, the company said wednesday
ibm said the experimental circuits could switch on and off 75 billion times a second, twice as fast as the fastest silicon transistors known to date
the extra speed was made possible by shrinking the circuit parts down to a tenth of a micron across, which is one-thousandth the width of a human hair and only a few hundred atoms wide
the company cautioned that complex problems remain to be solved before entire chips can be made that take full advantage of the experimental transistors
ibm's advance helps close the speed gap between silicon and gallium arsenide, another kind of semiconducting material that is faster than silicon but more expensive and harder to work with
the fastest gallium arsenide circuits can switch on and off about 200 billion times a second, ibm said
general electric co. said its scientists have put a superconducting film on a silicon chip and gotten it to work at temperatures warmer than liquid nitrogen, the first such achievement
the matching of a superconductor and silicon is considered important because of silicon's dominance in the microelectronics field, ge said in an announcement for release thursday
virtually all of the world's microchips are made from silicon, so if you want to use the new superconducting materials in any way in microelectronics, it is advantageous to be able to deposit them on this substrate,'' antonio mogro-campero, who did the research along with larry g. turner, said in a statement
previous attempts to apply a superconducting film on silicon had failed because the layers mixed in the process of heating the film, known as annealing. researchers at ge's research center in schenectady, n.y., solved the problem by using a buffer layer of zirconia, a heat-resistant metallic oxide
ge said the thin film remained superconducting _ that is, with zero loss of energy to resistance _ at temperatures as high as 310 degrees below zero fahrenheit, 10 degrees above the point at which nitrogen becomes liquid. today.</note>
black &amp; decker corp. says it may submit another takeover bid for american standard inc., which is considering rival bids to the power tool maker's $2.27 billion offer
american standard says it has at least one all-cash bid of more than $75 per share. black &amp; decker's hostile tender offer is for $73 a share
the plumbing and air conditioning maker has said it was negotiating with several potential buyers, including one willing to pay at least $2.4 billion
american standard's board was meeting today to consider definitive bids arising out of talks with other suitors, spokeswoman lois stewart said
the result of the meeting was considered pivotal to the outcome of a six-week takeover battle that has pushed american standard's stock price from $38 to an all-time high above $75 a share
in a related development today that might influence the fight, a judge in delaware, where american standard is incorporated, granted a black &amp; decker request at least temporarily prohibiting american standard from making defensive changes in its retirement and severence pay plan
black &amp; decker had argued the changes would cost the company more money only if it were acquired by a third party, while producing little effect under a recapitalization plan american standard is considering, said black &amp; decker attorney robert zimet
on tuesday, black &amp; decker spokeswoman barbara lucas said the company was reviewing internal financial information supplied by american standard and was expected to make a decision on whether to offer a new bid
if black &amp; decker doesn't submit a new bid, it would be taking the chance that american standard's management might strike a deal with another bidder, she acknowledged
industry analysts said that american standard's internal five-year growth projections, made public by black &amp; decker monday, appeared to back a bid in the $75-a-share range
taken at face value, these numbers seem to support a bid higher than $73, but it's hard to say whether they support a bid higher than $75,'' said franklin morton, of alex. brown &amp; sons in baltimore. ``there's a significant downside to these numbers because they're based on a pretty optimistic scenario.''
he said a $73 bid would enhance black &amp; decker's aim of broadening its earnings base but questioned whether that objective would be reached at a higher price
other analysts noted that american standard's estimates are based on a business climate similar to that of the past year
cornelius sewell, an analyst at argus securities in new york, said the projections don't reflectthe cyclical downturn expected to affect the building supplies industry, to which american standard sells air-conditioning and plumbing products
katherine stults, an analyst at dean witter, said a bid in the $75 range might be attractive to a company that specializes in buying going concerns and selling them off in parts
there has been little speculation over the identity of american standard's potential suitors. wickes cos. inc., a major home-improvement and furnishings company based in santa monica, calif., has been mentioned, as well as textron inc., a $7 billion aerospace, automotive products and financial services conglomerate based in providence, r.i. hanson trust plc, a $10 billion london industrial management conglomerate, has also been mentioned as a possible white knight
a judge has postponed until april 12 hearings in the $3 billion compensation suit filed by the government against union carbide corp. for the 1984 bhopal gas disaster, it was reported
bhopal district judge m.w. deo on wednesday delayed the hearings because of an appeal in the madhya pradesh high court against an order directing carbide to pay $350 million in interim relief to the gas disaster victims. the high court has scheduled its hearing on the appeal for april 4
deo had ordered carbide to pay interim relief in december. the compensation suit was filed in his court by the government in september 1986
the government says the danbury, conn.-based multinational corporation is responsible for the poisonous gas leak from the carbide plant in bhopal. union carbide says the leak was caused by sabotage
at least 2,800 people were killed and more than 20,000 injured in the dec. 3, 1984 disaster, considered the world's biggest industrial accident
swedish researchers have developed an electronic identity card for cars so that drivers can pay tolls without stopping, according to a spokesman for the company which is marketing the invention
the 5-by-6 centimeter (2-by-2.4 inch) plate on the rear window identifies the car by a microwave transmitter to a computer when the car passes a toll booth at normal speed, said stig rune johansson, of kista industrier ab
he said the small town of aalesund on norway's western coast became the first to try the system last october. it was developed at stockholm's institute for microelectronics
about half the 3,000 cars passing through aalesund's tunnel every day never stop and pay the fee. the information is transmitted to the car owners' bank, and charges are automatically deducted once a month
the soviet oil ministry and u.s., italian and japanese companies signed an agreement wednesday that would create the soviet union's largest joint business venture with foreigners
under the $6 billion deal, the venture would build and operate a petrochemical complex off the caspian sea in the central asian republic of kazakhstan. it is expected to produce 400,000 tons of polypropylene, 600,000 tons of polyethylene and more than 1 million tons of granulated sulfur annually
polypropylene and polyehylene are used to make plastics
the foreign partners are occidental petroleum corp. of los angeles, the italian companies of montedison and enichem and marubeni of japan
officials of the four companies signed a preliminary agreement with soviet representatives on wednesday, committing them to study plans for the petrochemical complex for nine months before completing a long-range contract
montedison chairman raul gardini said the soviets had invited the four companies to establish the joint venture
it reflects the necessity for the soviet union to get involved in the world market and the necessity for western firms to get closer to sources of raw materials in order to process them more efficiently at the sites,'' he said
the soviet union has vast natural resources, and is the world's largest oil producer
vassily a. dinkov, soviet oil minister, told a news conference that housing for the petrochemical workers, roads, a railroad link, electricity and communications facilities are under construction for the complex, which will be built near the western kazakh town of kulsary
under the agreement, dinkov said, gas and oil extraction facilities are to be operating next year, with refining plants following within the next few years. oil reserves in the deposit, known as the tengiz oil field, are estimated at between 14 billion and 17.5 billion barrels, dinkov said
foreign participants will hold a total of no more than 49 percent of the joint venture's capital, with the rest held by the soviet government
occidental chairman armand hammer told the news conference each of the foreign partners will invest $750 million in the project, and the soviets will put in $3 billion. the western partners will utilize bank financing, he said
previous joint ventures, which have sprung up under mikhail s. gorbachev's overhaul of the soviet economy, have been worth in the millions of dollars
the foreign partners will sell half the complex's products abroad. the soviets will sell the other half, either domestically or on the world market
hammer, whose business ties with the soviets date to the 1920s, expressed confidence that the western partners will find the deal financially satisfying
we're not here for charitable purposes,'' he said. ``we, each of the four companies, expect to make profits.''
chemical new york corp. wants to get the empire state out of its name
the bank holding company, the fourth largest in the nation, has asked shareholders to approve plans to change its name to chemical banking corp. at an april 26 annual meeting
the corporation's name will better reflect the geographic diversification that results from our merger in 1987 with texas commerce bancshares and the planned merger next january with horizon bancorp in new jersey,'' chairman walter v. shipley said in a statement wednesday
shipley added that chemical has expanded to accommodate clients worldwide since the company adopted its current name in 1968. he said the company anticipates further geographical expansion
the stock market declined slightly in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of the past two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 9.11 to 2,038.30 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 557 up, 797 down and 549 unchanged
the market has been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await thursday's report on the nation's trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
but traders apparently are sticking with a cautious approach until then so as not to be caught off guard by any surprise either way
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass quietly, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
losers among the blue chips included merck, down 2 at 156\; american express, down } at 25}; usx, down | at 31, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, down \ at 28]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .32 to 149.67. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .77 at 295.98
volume on the big board came to 97.77 million shares with two hours to go
sears, roebuck and co. is expanding its role in specialty retailing with a plan announced wednesday to buy western auto supply co. in a $402 million deal
sears said it was buying 52.3 percent of western auto stock from officers, directors and others for $19 a share and will make a tender offer for the remainder of the stock at the same price
the acquisition will cost the nation's biggest retailer $250 million. it also will assume the auto supply company's $152 million debt
western auto's stock, traded on the over-the-counter market, rose $5.87{ a share to $18.37{ by wednesday afternoon
john landschultz, a financial analyst in chicago with mesirow financial corp., said this was probably the first of several steps sears would take to increase its presence in the specialty field
this move does several things that were needed,'' said landschultz
first, he said, it gets sears out of the major malls where it has had a dominent influence and into the smaller markets. it also capitalizes on sears' strength in automotive parts and equipment
western auto sells auto supplies, tires, appliances and lawn and garden equipment through nearly 2,000 stores nationwide
the kansas city-based company operates 278 retail stores it owns, and sells wholesale to 1,570 independently owned western auto outlets
sears said john t. lundegard, western auto's chairman and chief executive officer, will remain as head of the auto supply unit and will report to alfred g. goldstein, president of sears' specialty merchandising
these personnel decisions are significant, said landschultz
it's very important that (lundegard) stays in place,'' he said, adding that goldstein has been extremely successful in the specialty field
the acquisition would represent sears' further expansion into specialty marketing. it previously bought apparel and optical chains
but the western auto deal is the first significant move in this direction, said landschultz
last year, western auto earned $10.5 million on sales of $930.8 million. sears earned $1.65 billion and had revenues of $48.44 billion
a former vice president of continental illinois national bank &amp; trust co. exceeded his authority and improperly approved risky loans in the years before the bank's near-collapse, a former lending officer testified
john lytle, accused of misusing bank funds, exceeded a limit of $5 million on the amount of loans he could approve by granting extensions on a loan, the former lending officer, anne liddell, testified tuesday
and she said lytle's initials appeared on a credit reporting form that was submitted in her name but that she did not fill out. the form listed the history of a prospective borrower
my name was misspelled,'' she said
ms. liddell's statements came during the second day of testimony in the five-day-old u.s. district court trial of lytle and two other men
lytle headed energy lending in oklahoma for contintental. the government has accused him of buying high-risk loans from the now-defunct penn square bank in oklahoma city in exchange for nearly $600,000 in kickbacks between 1980 and 1982
defendant william patterson, former head of energy lending at penn square, gave the kickbacks to lytle in the form of unsecured personal loans, the government contends
a third defendant, tulsa oil driller jere sturgis, is accused of purchasing oil-well investments from lytle at inflated prices in hopes of getting future loans from continental
all three are charged with multiple counts of wire fraud. lytle and patterson are also charged with misapplication of bank funds
the 1982 failure of penn square bank jolted continental, which was rescued in a massive bailout by the federal deposit insurance corp. two years later
wickes cos. inc. said wednesday it is negotiating to sell the kayser-roth hosiery group to members of the unit's management and narragansett capital inc. of new york
the hosiery unit, based in greensboro, n.c., is one of the world's leading manufacturers of men's and women's hosiery, including such brands as no nonsense, liz clairborne, calvin klein, burlington and supp-hose
it has 9,600 workers at 16 manufacturing plants and four distribution centers in the united states and europe
the kayser-roth units were part of gulf &amp; western industries' consumer and industrial products segment that was acquired by wickes for $1 billion in 1985
the hosiery group was one of three units put on the auction block by wickes last october. the others are its kayser-roth apparel group and wickes lumber
none of the three has been sold. wickes had tentatively agreed to sell the lumber segment to members of management, but that deal was called off in january because of financing problems. the lumber unit's management group is seeking other financing and wickes is looking at other possible buyers
the three units last year had sales of $1.8 billion and operating income of $80 million. of that, the hosiery group accounted for $500 million in sales, but no operating income figures were disclosed
wickes has said that proceeds from the asset sales will be used to buy back stock, pay debt and possibly fund acquisitions to expand continuing operations
the management group leading the buyout talks includes james i. spiegel, who was president of the consumer and industrial products units and corporate senior executive vice president at gulf &amp; western and later at wickes, and michael c. proies, president of no nonsense fashions inc. spiegel retired from wickes in early 1986
narragansett is a private investment firm that manages over $500 million in risk capital. industrial companies that make up its investment portfolio have sales of about $1 billion a year. narragansett also owns several radio and television stations and cable tv systems serving more than 350,000 subscribers
business took precedence over brotherhood in a suit that ended in u.s. district court when michael b. shane was awarded $1.3 million after suing his brother and partners six years ago
michael shane is the founder of leading edge products inc. of canton, a leading supplier of asian-made clones of ibm personal computers, in 1980
the case decided by a jury tuesday involved appendagez, a company founded in 1973 that sold a popular brand of blue jeans called faded glory
michael shane was 25 and had made $1 million selling wigs when james ip, a hong kong businessman, approached him about selling blue jeans. they were joined by shane's brother, james shane, and charles lee, a hong kong businessman
ip owned 14.5 percent of the hong kong company that made the jeans
appendagez at its peak sold $50 million to $60 million in jeans a year, said michael b. keating, lawyer for michael shane
michael shane was president and majority stockholder of appendagez until 1979 when he sold his stock in the company in two transactions
in january 1979, he sold 30 shares for $1.3 million. in november, he agreed with his three partners to sell his remaining 26 shares for $50,000 and ended all business relations
three years later he sued his brother and his other two former partners, charging them with securities fraud
he claimed that between the times of the two transactions, the three conspired to deceive him about the condition of appendagez so they could buy him out for less than his remaining shares were worth
tiger international inc. said wednesday it has paid off, at a substantial discount, $132 million in debt from its failed north american car rail-car leasing unit
the debt was paid off using proceeds from a new $100 million debt offering and an unspecified amount of internally generated cash, the company said
tiger, parent of the world's oldest and largest air-cargo concern, flying tiger line inc., wrote off its entire $132 million investment in north american car in 1984
in january, tiger said it had reached an agreement with holders of the north american car debt to repay them at a discount
tiger wouldn't say wednesday how much the discount was, other than that it was substantial
the $100 million in new debt is in notes that are due no later than 1993 and are secured by a pledge of 51 percent of flying tiger's stock
most grain and soybean futures prices turned weaker today on the chicago board of trade
hedge selling from south america put pressure on the soybean market from the start, said jerry gidel, an analyst with g.h. miller &amp; co
this was compounded by industry data putting the soybean crush figure for february at 3.7 million tons, substantially lower than a month earlier and the year-agofigure
the implication is that soybean processors still have large supplies of beans
a lack of export interest in corn and wheat weighed on those markets, said gidel
on the close, wheat was 3 cents lower to { cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.92{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $1.97{ a bushel; oats were } cent lower to 1 cent higher with march at $1.89{ a bushel; and soybeans were 2\ cents to 4{ cents lower with march at $6.11{ a bushel
the stock market showed some spotty losses in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of the past two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 6.30 to 2,041.11 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 604 up, 840 down and 489 unchanged
the market has been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await thursday's report on the nation's trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
but traders apparently are sticking with a cautious approach until then so as not to be caught off guard by any surprise either way
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass quietly, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
losers among the blue chips included merck, down 2 at 156\; american express, down | at 25|; usx, down { at 31[, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, down \ at 28]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .20 to 149.79. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .82 at 295.93
volume on the big board came to 114.54 million shares with an hour to go. says</head>
a group of venture capitalists recently polled will have an average of $44.8 million to invest in growing companies this year, up 11 percent from the average earmarked for investments last year, according to a study released wednesday
grant thornton, the accounting and management consulting firm that conducted the survey, notedthat 93 percent of the 183 venture capital firms that responded said they anticipate receiving more requests from young companies seeking funds for expansion this year compared with the previous year
forty-seven percent of the venture capitalists polled said they would invest in more companies this year, the study said
only 13 percent of the respondents said they have shifted investment strategies since the october stock market crash, with several noting they prefer ``later-stage'' companies that may present less risk
a full 96 percent said they expect going public will be a more difficult and lengthy process in the post-crash environment
grant thornton mailed questionnaires to 501 venture capital firms across the country in january. the 183 completed surveys represent at 36 percent response rate
stock prices climbed in late trading today, putting on a show of strength in advance of thursday's monthly report on the nation's balance of trade
the market had been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders await the figures on the trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass without much disruption of stock prices, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors. drops</head>
warner-lambert co. said it is planning a $5 million joint venture with the people's republic of china to make and market chewing gum, cough drops and candies
the pharmaceutical company said an agreement with the chinese government calls for a plant to be built in the city of harbin, capital of the northeastern province heilongjang
warner-lambert said it would provide the machinery and technology while the government would provide the land, building and some equipment
the joint venture, to be called the harbin warner-lambert confectionary co. ltd., would employ about 120 people, the company said in an announcement tuesday. the plant would produce dentyne gum, halls cough drops and fruitfuls candies for use in china and for export
warner-lambert has another joint partnership with china, called suzhou capsugel ltd., which makes empty hard gelatin capsules. it was established in 1985
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 16.91 to 2,064.32
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 945 up, 540 down and 481 unchanged
big board volume totaled 153.59 million shares, against 133.17 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained 1.29 to 151.28. bid</head>
societe generale de belgique sa announced tuesday that it will call a shareholders meeting on april 14, the first since italian financier carlo de benedetti tried to take control of belgium's largest holding company two months ago
cerus sa, the french investment company controlled by de benedetti, has called for such a meeting. societe generale said cerus and other allied companies had furnished proof that they hold at least 20 percent of shareholder capital, the minimum percentage required to force the calling of such a meeting
societe generale said the agenda of the meeting will include a speech by the president of the company, rene lamy, and the nomination of directors
in addition, the company said, there will be items on the agenda which had been requested by cerus
cerus has said that the number of company directors must be decided and that the nominations of de benedetti as well as his allies, andre leysen of gevaert n.v. and pierre scohier of compagnie belge de participations paribas sa, must be put forward
cerus also has said that a request would be made that societe generale not make use of its recent capital increase of 12 million shares. the shares were issued by the company immediately after it became aware of de benedetti's takeover bid, but de benedetti contested the capital increase in court and the case is still under review
societe generale claims that, together with its allies led by france's compagnie financiere de suez, it controls more than 52 percent of the company's shares. de benedetti and his allies, on the other hand, say they have more than 47 percent
efforts by congress and the pentagon to overhaul defense contracting policies since 1984 are having the unintended effect of dissolving the financial foundation of the entire u.s. arms business, an industry-sponsored study said tuesday
the new policies, taken together, are beginning to reduce the industry's profitability to the point that contractors will not be able to attract new investors, nor will they be able to sustain their private research efforts, the study says
that, in turn, is going to ``slow the rate of technological growth and result in a loss of (u.s.) technological leadership,'' the study adds
our findings should concern those in the congress and dod who believe that a strong, research-and-development and investment-oriented defense industry is a key factor in maintaining the united states' military strength,'' the authors wrote
the study, entitled ``the impact on defense industrial capability of changes in procurement and tax policy, 1984-1987,'' was released by the aerospace industries association, the electronic industries association and the national security industrial association
the research was funded by the three associations but performed independently by the mac group, a management consulting firm based in cambridge, mass
the three associations asked the consultant to analyze the combined impact of a number of recent changes in the defense procurement world, ranging from an end to certain tax deferral benefits; a reduction in profit markup allowances; a cut in the percentage of money paid out monthly for work in progress, and requirements that industry pay for more of the upfront costs of research and development
those changes were all enacted or promulgated during the period from 1984 to 1987 ``and were introduced in a piecemeal fashion,'' the study found
we find no evidence that the combined impact of the changes was studied by the congress or the department of defense,'' it said
while the effects of the changes may be absorbed on an individual basis, the combined impact is devastating, the study said
to demonstrate, the authors collected actual data from nine contractors on nine large weapons programs and then applied the various tax and contracting changes as if they had been in effect from the start of the programs
the return on investment on the programs analyzed would have been less than the return necessary to preserve shareholder value,'' the report stated
put simply, there would have been no financial reason to bid the programs. profits will be substantially reduced _ by an average of 23 percent on the companies' defense business.''
as a result of slower cash flows and lower profits, defense contractors are almost assuredly going to have to begin borrowing heavily, the report continued
using the case studies, ``the additional financing required to fill the gap caused by the changes _ $8.5 billion _ is equivalent to 50 percent of the total 1985 equity of the companies in our study.''
the industry is unlikely to be able to raise that kind of money, meaning it will have to slow plant modernization and curtail private research
competition will be reduced because there will be fewer competitors willing to bid on future programs. and a financially weakened industry will be less able to compete against growing, and sometimes subsidized, foreign competition.''
congress and the pentagon might not like it, but the only real answer is to restore to contractors some of the profitability they have lost when performing defense work, the study concluded
equally important, the congress should ensure that the type of uncoordinated policy change that led to this unintended outcome is not repeated,'' it said
the stock market jumped ahead in late trading wednesday, putting on a show of strength in advance of thursday's monthly report on the nation's balance of trade
trading remained relatively quiet, however
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which sat for most of the day with a modest loss, closed up 16.91 at 2,064.32
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 952 up, 558 down and 475 unchanged
big board volume totaled 153.59 million shares, against 133.17 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained 1.29 to 151.28
the market had been in a holding pattern since the start of the week as traders awaited the figures on the trade balance for january
most economists look for a modest increase in the trade deficit after two months of pronounced declines. if the figures match those expectations, analysts believe the market wouldn't feel any great shock effects
after the trade report, the market is also faced with a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a series of stock index options and futures that will be settled friday
that too may pass without much disruption of stock prices, brokers say, but until it is over it adds an additional element of uncertainty for investors
meanwhile, the debate continues on wall street over whether the market is making a sustainable comeback from the crash last fall
the pessimists argue that stocks are merely enjoying a ``bear market rally'' that may not last much longer. but to date the optimists seem to have the upper hand
takeover rumors continued to abound. pillsbury, said variously to be a potential target for any of several financiers, gained 3~ to 42 and led the active list on volume of more than 2.3 million shares
similarly, u.s. shoe climbed 2{ to 22{ and carolina freight picked up 3] to 27}
airline stocks were strong, continued to benefit from relatively low oil prices and signs of movement in the industry toward higher fares
amr rose 1\ to 43[; delta air lines 1[ to 48{; trans world airlines | to 25{; nwa ] to 43~, and allegis 2[ to 81|. allegis said its self-tender offer for 35.50 million of its shares at $80 apiece was oversubscribed by 11 million shares
point-plus gainers among the 30 stocks in the dow jones industrial average included international business machines, up 1\ at 115\; general motors, up 2 at 73}; international paper, up 1[ at 44, and dupont, up 1| at 88
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $20.24 billion, or 0.77 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 177.08 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 2.84 to 311.39, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 2.52 at 268.65
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 1.97 to 378.54. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 297.51, up .76. reuters stake</head>
news corp., an international media company controlled by publisher rupert murdoch, said wednesday it had arranged to buy nearly all the shares of australian associated press pty
that company, which is no relation to the associated press in the united states, distributes news and photographs throughout australia. it owns a 7.75 percent voting stake in reuters holdings plc, the large british news and information service
if murdoch's acquisition succeeds, his company would become the biggest single shareholder in reuters because news corp. already owns a 6.8 percent voting stake in reuters
news corp., which had owned 44.65 percent of the australian associated press, said it had acquired another 8.3 percent from bell group ltd., a concern controlled by australian investor robert holmes a court
news corp. said it also had agreed to acquire a 44.65 percent stake from john fairfax ltd., one of australia's major media companies
prices weren't disclosed
murdoch, a native australian who became a u.s. citizen in 1985, already controls about 60 percent of australia's press and has encountered government resistance to an expansion from government antitrust officials
it was not immediately clear whether murdoch's arrangement to effectively acquire the australian associated press would be blocked by the government. but an official of the trade practices commission, which regulates such transactions, said it would investigate
the official, who declined to be identified by name, said elements of the sale appeared to conflict with an order issued last year that prevented murdoch from acquiring the parent company of the australian associated press, the australian associated press information services ltd. second graf; uppicks 3rd graf pvs: the $100...</note>
a federal judge approved the a.h. robins co.'s merger pact with american home products corp. on wednesday after robins agreed to put $100 million toward dalkon shield claims before its chapter 11 bankruptcy case is completed
u.s. district judge robert r. merhige jr., who earlier in the day had raised questions about the merger deal, signed an order to execute the agreement in the wake of the pharmaceutical company's offer, said roscoe e. puckett jr., a robins spokesman
the $100 million would cover administrative costs to set up a dalkon shield trust fund that eventually will grow to $2.475 billion, the amount merhige said is needed to pay claims against the intrauterine birth-control device
the claims covered by the initial funding would be smaller amounts to women who show minimal proof of dalkon shield use and injury, said puckett, the robins spokesman
earlier wednesday, merhige, citing years of delay in paying dalkon shield claims, refused to ratify the merger unless it allowed some compensation before the company's reorganization became final
the surprise ruling sent attorneys in the 2{-year-old bankruptcy case back to the drawing board to hammer out a compromise that would allow payments of some claims pending expected appeals of the reorganization
you know it's coming. i know it's coming,'' merhige told the attorneys of expected court challenges. ``but we can't wait any longer.''
merhige's objection involved a section of the merger agreement that would allow the new york-based american home products, which plans to acquire robins through a $700 million exchange of stock, to back out after one year, if appeals of the court's confirmation order for robins' reorganization plan are still pending
putting off payments of injury claims against the intrauterine device until all appeals are resolved and a final order approving the reorganization is entered would be unacceptable, the judge said
instead, the judge suggested that american home products put up $100 million to begin paying claims pendig appeal. if the reorganization is later voided, he said, then ahp could recover the money from robins
i'm not going to delay this any more,'' he said. ``these women have waited and waited and waited.''
under the agreement reached later wednesday, robins will put up the $100 million instead of ahp, puckett said
until the hearing before merhige and u.s. bankruptcy judge blackwell n. shelley, there were no known hitches with the merger, except for a $25 million breakup claim against robins filed by the rorer group inc
robins and rorer, a suburban philadelphia drug manufacturer, had reached a tentative merger pact late last year. but in subsequent talks involving rorer, ahp and a third potential robins' buyer, france's sanofi sa, officials of robins accepted the american home offer
merhige said he would conduct a hearing on the rorer claim at a later time
the american home deal, reached jan. 19, had been endorsed by attorneys for 195,000 women with dalkon shield claims and by robins stockholders. in addition to the $2.475 billion dalkon shield trust fund, robins' trade creditors would receive full payment of claims
when the merger proposal came up in court, robins' attorney dennis drebsky said the plan ``happily is largely consensual.''
but merhige surprised attorneys by announcing, ``i have a problem.''
the judge said ahp's withdrawal option put an unnecessary delay on paying claims unless the appeals court ordered a freeze on payments pending a resolution of the case
robins filed for chapter 11 protection from creditors in august 1985 as millions of dollars in claims mounted against the dalkon shield. the company distributed about 4.5 million of the iuds in the united states and abroad in the early 1970s
at the time it entered bankruptcy court, robins had settled 9,500 of 15,000 dalkon shield lawsuits with payments of about $530 million. injury claims have ranged from pelvic infections to sterility
the dollar firmed slightly against most major currencies wednesday, but traders remained cautious in advance of new trade data to be released thursday
gold prices edged lower in domestic trading after climbing overseas. republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $445 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, down $1 from late tuesday
analysts said the foreign-exchange markets remained relatively quiet in anticipation of the government's january trade figures, which are expected to show a small increase in the monthly trade deficit
although estimates have varied, most traders now expect the deficit for january to total somewhere between $13 billion and $14 billion, compared with $12.2 billion in december
a figure at the low end of the range would be a boon to the u.s. currency; a high-end number would revive the downward pressure on the dollar, they said
the dollar has been pressured lower in the past by trade reports showing a growing imbalance of imports over exports. but as recent reports have shown improvement in the trade gap, the currency has stabilized
in advance of the latest report, traders were reluctant ``to step up and buy the dollar,'' according to karen gibbs of the investment firm dean witter reynolds inc. in chicago
the currency managed its slight gains in response to better-than-expected government reports on housing construction and industrial production. the commerce department said housing starts jumped 8.9 percent in february, while the federal reserve said output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose 0.2 percent during the month. both appeared to be positive signs for the u.s. economy
because it is viewed as a safe haven in times of international turmoil, the dollar also drew strength from reports of an attempted coup in panama and of a nicaraguan attack on contra rebels in honduras
in tokyo, where the trading day begins, the dollar rose 0.24 yen to a closing 127.49. later, in london, it was quoted at 127.37 yen. in new york, the dollar traded at 127.455 yen, up from 127.375 late tuesday
in london, the british pound slipped to $1.8505, cheaper for buyers than late tuesday's $1.8570. in new york, the pound fetched $1.84925, up from $1.8455 late tuesday
other dollar rates late wednesday in new york, compared with late trading tuesday, included: 1.67395 west german marks, up from 1.66985; 1.3854 swiss francs, up from 1.3805; 1.2535 canadian dollars, down from 1.25385; 5.6894 french francs, up from 5.6660; and 1,242.00 italian lire, up from 1,232.40
late dollar rates in europe compared with late tuesday included: 1.6690 west german marks, up from 1.6650; 1.3810 swiss francs, up from 1.3760; 5.6782 french francs, up from 5.6605; 1.8750 dutch guilders, up from 1.8705; 1,238.45 italian lire, up from 1,232.40; 1.2518 canadian dollars, down from 1.2564
gold climbed to a late price of $446.20 a troy ounce in london, compared with late tuesday's $443.50. in zurich, the late bid price was $447, up from $442.50 late tuesday. earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $4.52 to close at a bid $447.79
on the new york commodity exchange, gold bullion for current delivery eased back to $445.30 a troy ounce, from $446.30 tuesday
silver was quoted in london late wednesday at a bid price of $6.36 a troy ounce, up from tuesday's $6.25. at the comex, silver bullion for current delivery traded at $6.327 a troy ounce, down from $6.365
energy futures prices spurted upward wednesday on the new york mercantile exchange, reponding to a drop in oil inventories and to turmoil in central america
on other markets, copper futures moved sharply higher; cattle prices were a little higher while other livestock and meat declined; grain and soybean prices retreated
oil traders said an unsuccessful coup attempt in panama against the regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega set the oil market on edge
and there were rumors that workers on the panama oil pipeline went on strike,'' said richard kane, an analyst in new york with merrill lynch capital markets
the pipeline is the primary means of moving crude oil shipped from alaska across panama to other tankers that take it to gulf coast
there also were rumors that the panama military cut off roads to the u.s. military base in the panama canal zone and fears that the canal could be closed, kane said
all this helped people to make up their minds to cover'' their ``short'' positions, kane said
there has been an unusually large number of open contracts on crude oil, with many traders having sold contracts with the idea of buying them back later in hopes prices would fall in the interval _ a practice known as ``selling short.''
fearing the events in panama could drive prices up instead, many people who were short felt it was wise to buy now to offset their earlier sales, kane said
the reports out of panama topped a market that opened bullish on industry data released tuesday
the american petroleum industry said crude oil, gasoline and heating oil stocks were all down in the latest week. gasoline was down 3.59 million barrels from the previous week and heating oil was reduced by 5.6 million barrels
these are very good product drawdowns,'' said kane
prices for west texas intermediate crude oil rose 19 cents to 32 cents a barrel, with the contract for delivery in april settling at $16. heating oil was .43 cent to .66 cent higher, with april at 44.08 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was .40 cent to .89 cent higher, with april at 45.24 cents a gallon
copper futures rallied strongly after suffering sharp declines the previous day on the commodity exchange in new york
the recovery was triggered by a reversal in outlook for the size of stockpiles in the exchange warehouses
the inventory expectations went from the plus side to the minus side,'' said bette raptopoulos, an analyst in new york with prudential-bache securities inc
the expectations wednesday, she said, was that there would be further drawdowns in stocks
trading of precious metals, meanwhile, was quiet as the market awaited the government's report thursday on the nation's foreign trade balance during january
copper settled .30 cent lower to 3.05 cents higher, with the may contract at 97.55 cents a pound
gold was $1 lower, with march at $445.30 a troy ounce; and silver was 3.8 cents to 4 cents lower, with march at $6.327 a troy ounce
grain and soybean futures prices turned weaker on the chicago board of trade
selling from south america put pressure on the soybean market from the start, said jerry gidel, an analyst with g.h. miller &amp; co
this was compounded by industry data putting the amount of soybeans processed in mills during february at 3.7 million tons, substantially lower than a month earlier and the year-ago figure
the implication is that soybean processors still have large supplies of beans
gidel said the corn and wheat prices were depressed by a lack of export interest
wheat was 1{ cents to 2} cents lower, with march at $2.92{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1\ cents lower, with march at $1.97{ a bushel; oats were } cent lower to 1 cent higher, with march at $1.89{ a bushel; and soybeans were 2\ cents to 4 cents lower, with march at $6.11{ a bushel
live cattle futures rallied to close a little higher, while other livestock and meat were weaker at the chicago mercantile exchange
traders said a snowstorm in the plains encouraged buying of cattle futures
live cattle settled .05 cent lower to .15 cent higher, with the april contract at 73.97 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .32 cent lower, with march at 82.40 cents a pound; live hogs were unchanged to .30 cent lower, with april at 44.77 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .05 cent to .25 cent lower, with march at 52.50 cents a pound
stock-index futures moved higher on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 2.80 points higher at 268.80 points. the underlying spot index gained 2.52 points, closing at 268.65
financially troubled de laurentiis entertainment group inc. said tuesday it will sell the foreign television, video and non-theatrical rights to virtually its entire 320-movie library for $69 million
the foreign rights are being acquired by a newly formed british company controlled by financier michael w. stevens
stevens also controls parafrance communications s.a. of paris which, through its tele-cip subsidiary, is the largest privately owned television production concern in europe
de laurentiis still is seeking a buyer for the remaining rights to its library and the sprawling wilmington, n.c., studio where most of its films are made
the company has been dogged by a string of box-office flops since it went public three years ago
in first nine months of the company's past fiscal year, it took $42.5 million in writeoffs on unsuccessful films. the company posted a net loss for the three quarters of $36.2 million. results of the fiscal year ended feb. 29 haven't been released
in mid-february, the company's founder, italian filmmaker dino de laurentiis, 68, stepped down as chairman and chief executive, but he continues to own 60 percent of the company. based on wednesday's closing price; picks up 3rd graf pvs bg'ng, henley is ...</note>
henley group inc., a two-year-old holding company, on wednesday announced plans to split into two public companies and buy back 22 percent of its stock
the stock buy-back would cost about $512 million at current prices. henley jumped $1.75 a share to close at $25.625 a share in over-the-counter trading
henley is an amalgam of 35 construction, environmental, energy, chemcial, manufacturing and finance businesses spun off in april 1986 by allied-signal inc., which itself was formed by a $5 billion merger in 1985
henley has gained a reputation for tightening operations to boost profits in individual units and then taking those units public. the current market value of henley's investments in its subsidiaries that have publicly traded shares and its other long-term investment securities is $2 billion
in recent months henley has been involved in a so-far unsuccessful bid for santa fe southern pacific corp., the chicago-based railroad, land and natural resources giant
under the restructuring, which was approved in principle by the company's board on wednesday, henley's assets would be divided between two public companies:
_wheelabrator group inc., which already is publicly traded, would take over henley's stake in its successful wheelabrator technologies inc. subsidiary and other assets related to the refuse-to-energy business
wheelabrator group would have the flexibility and resources to speed up the expansion of its businesses through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures
_a newly created entity, to be called henley group inc., would own signal capital corp., signal landmark holdings inc., henley manufacturing corp. and henley's stake in fisher scientific group inc., plus other assets
this program will enable our shareholders to participate directly in henley's $650 million investment in wheelabrator technologies, the nation's leading refuse-to-energy business,'' said michael dingman, henley's chairman and chief executive
shares of the new entity that will be created for henley's other holdings will be distributed to stockholders as a partially taxable special dividend, the company said
henley's board also authorized the repurchase of 20 million of the company's 90 million outstanding shares. the number of outstanding shares peaked at 129 million in november 1986 before the company initiated a series of stock buy-backs
after the buy-back is completed, henley will have repurchased nearly 43 percent of its stock
separately, henley said it decided to waive protection under a recently enacted delaware statute providing that a holder of 15 percent of a company's stock is prohibited from merging with the company or undertaking certain other actions for three years
we do not believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to impose these restrictions,'' dingman said. ``we prefer to give investors a free hand to make those decisions.''
henley's top management owns about 6.5 million of the company's shares. that stake would rise to 9.3 percent with the completion of the stock repurchase
henley spokesman norman ritter said management wasn't considering a bid to take the company private
henley also said it intends to raise $1 billion by issuing notes, then using the proceeds to pay off its current $980 million in bank debt. that will allow the company to arrange $2.5 billion in new bank credit, henley said
the car rental company avis suddenly reversed a five-year policy forbidding employees to wear cornrows after two black workers filed a racial discrimination complaint tuesday
in a memorandum filed with the philadelphia commission on human relations, longterm employees linda holman, 43, and wanda williams, 35, contended a ban against the small, tight braids injected ``racial considerations into the employment process.''
they argued the ban targeted blacks because the hair style was worn predominantly by blacks, often as an affirmation of their african heritage
just hours after the memorandum was filed by the american civil liberties union, the avis headquarters in garden city, n.y., notified the philadelphia branch the ban had been lifted
i am delighted that avis is in fact trying harder,'' aclu attorney stephan presser said. ``the ... office tells me i am to inform my clients that they are free to wear their cornrows proudly to work tomorrow. this is the fastest victory i ever had in my life. i'm just delighted. my clients won.''
john britton, a spokesman for avis rent a car systems inc., said the company was in the process of ``formalizing'' new standards allowing cornrows before the employees' filed their complaint. the new grooming guidelines will appear in a brochure that will be issued to avis' 1,400 national branches in may, he said
cornrows were banned in a written circular in 1983 along with ``extreme'' bouffant hairdos and unkempt layered cuts
but things are modified, hairstyles are modified and attitudes are modified,'' britton said. ``in the '60s, we used to require women behind the counter to wear girdles, and we had rules governing hair length and facial hair. all those things have changed over time.''
when the ban was implemented, cornrows were not predominantly considered a sign of black pride, he said
my first awareness of cornrows was with a (white) movie actress, bo derek,'' he said
avis reversed its position as part of an effort to respect cultural differences, he said
according to presser, ms. holman and ms. williams were warned that they would be fired when they began wearing cornrows in july. the rental agents wore wigs over the cornrows ``until they literally became a headache'' and then gave up the hairstyle, he said
their memorandum charged that the ban on cornrows violated city, state and federal job discrimination laws. had the philadelphia commission on human relations concurred, the agency could have taken avis to court, presser said
presser said he will wait a few weeks to see how the women fare before withdrawing the charges
the federal energy regulatory commission decided wednesday that 71 applications to construct new natural gas pipelines serving the northeast really amount to 31 projects, and the staff has warned two that they are in danger of rejection already
the analysis was necessary because a single project may require more than one request to the commission to proceed. if a new pipeline would use a segment of an existing line in the middle, it might mean three applications _ one for the middle and one for each end
the commission attracted the applications during an ``open season'' ending in january for new pipeline applications to serve new england, new york, pennsylvania and new jersey, where demand for gas is rising
as is its custom, the commission declined to release immediately the text of what it had voted on, but staff lawyer susan court told reporters afterward the commission wanted public comment on its analysis and how to proceed, and would request market data from the applicants and schedule technical conferences in the next step
chairman martha hesse told her four fellow commissioners she would propose a schedule in the next few days
without the text of what the commission voted, it was impossible to tell which companies fell in what class. but the commission was told in a staff briefing that of the 31 projects, 20 appear to be competitive, requiring hearings comparing one proposal against another
court said later it was not clear yet whether all 20 would be in one hearing, or whether separate competitions were involved and the hearings could be held in groups, perhaps according to the market that would be served
seven projects have no competition and can proceed on their own, and backers of four were sent ``deficiency letters,'' warning that their applications were inadequate
two of those letters went to anr corp., whose erie subsidiary has one project, and to panhandle eastern pipeline co., whose indiana-ohio subsidiary has another
the two companies were among three applying for permission under an optional procedure whereby the applicant assumes the economic risk of building the line and is forbidden from spreading those costs among other other lines and customers if its expectations don't pan out
the commission, however, has limited such applications to pipelines promising to transport gas for anybody _ and has denied such applications from ``open access'' companies it judged mere extensions of a ``closed'' company
that is the case with anr and panhandle, court said. streamlining</head>
chrysler corp. will try to meet its foreign competition by trimming executive-suite jobs and stepping up teamwork on the plant floor, a chrysler vice president said tuesday
by year's end, the no. 3 automaker will begin cutting its eight-level organizational chart to a six-tier plan similar to japanese auto company structures, said anthony st. john, vice president of human resources and chrysler's chief labor negotiator
the company also plans a new dispute-resolution system for management employees in addition to opening early negotiations with the united auto workers union on a contract for some 60,000 union employees
contract talks could begin as early as the third week in april, st. john said. the uaw agreed last week to chrysler's request for early negotiations on a contract to replace a three-year contract expiring sept. 14
st. john said chrysler needs to find ways to inspire employee commitment and loyalty while keeping the company's employment costs at competitive levels
the outcome may well be determined by our ability to provide meaningful assurances of employee security,'' st. john said at a labor-management seminar at oakland university's ken morris labor studies center
chrysler's request for an early start of talks was part of an effort to return to a teamwork labor-management approach, he said. talks normally begin in mid-july
tension already is running high in response to chrysler's decision to close down operations in kenosha, wis., and its plan, since reversed in the face of bitter uaw opposition, to sell its acustar inc. parts subsidiary
our goal is to reach a strike-free settlement,'' st. john said. ``it is going to then put the adversarial action behind us.''
chrysler already has begun talks with the uaw on a contract covering 800 employees who will continue engine assembly work at kenosha and a closing agreement to cover 5,500 employees losing their jobs in assembly and stamping operations at the former american motors corp. factory
in addition to the contract talks, st. john said, the company will be attempting to negotiate additional modern operating agreements such as those set up in six of its plants since 1985
the agreements involve a teamwork concept, also found in japanese auto plants, involving workers in decisions, cutting the number of supervisors by about 30 percent, and eliminating artificial barriers such as separate management dining rooms and parking
it puts into practice the simple but long neglected truth that people exist from their shoulders up as well as from their shoulders down,'' st. john said
the 1985 contract established a six-member joint activities board with three members each from the company and union. the board has organized training to bring employees up to date in areas such as computers, new technology, robotics
training programs will be stepped up, along with such modern operating agreement features such as higher pay for workers mastering additional skills
roughly 25 percent of our hourly work force is illiterate,'' st. john said
st. john did not say how many jobs would be involved in the upper-level cuts, but said most are expected to be accomplished through retirements and other normal departures
stronger industrial production and a rebound in housing construction were reported by the government wednesday, but the financial markets had mixed reactions in advance of a more potent statistic, the trade deficit
the federal reserve said industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february despite output reductions at auto factories and coal mines. economists said the gain, although slower than the january level, represented good news for the economy and further dampened concerns about a severe slowdown
the commerce department said the housing industry, after staggering for two months following the october stock crash, enjoyed a sharp 8.9 percent increase in construction activity in february, the biggest gain in more than a year
the department said the increase pushed construction of single-family homes and apartments up to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units last month following declines of 15.8 percent in december and 1.9 percent in january
those setbacks, coupled with three consecutive monthly declines in new home sales, had raised concerns because housing is often the first industry to weaken at the onset of a recession. economists feared that home buyers had grown wary following the record collapse of the stock market in october
but the february upturn in construction starts was seen as an encouraging sign that while housing activity will be slower this year, it will not weaken so much that it threatens overall economic growth
housing is on the rebound,'' said warren lasko, executive vice president of the mortgage bankers association. ``with interest rates at low levels and the economy growing and no recession in sight, we think we have all the ingredients in place to generate a strong spring building season.''
nevertheless, the news hurt the bond market, a barometer of interest rates and the economy. since stronger growth implies future inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income investments, bond prices tumbled
the treasury's key 30-year issue fell $10 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price, jumped from 8.51 percent to 8.60 percent, its highest level since late january
on the other hand, the stock market closed largely higher. the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, which sat for most of the day with a modest loss, ended with a 16.91 point gain at 2,064.32, though trading was slow
analysts said the markets remained preoccupied with what the commerce department would report thursday on the january trade deficit. that monthly statistic has become one of the most important influences because of its implications for american monetary and trade policy
the deficit declined in november and december, suggesting that the dollar's depreciation over the past two years has made american products more competitive. three straight monthly declines would provide further confirmation of that trend and lessen pressure for more devaluation of the u.s. currency
conversely, if the deficit significantly widened in january, the dollar likely would fall, raising fears of inflation and foreign flight from u.s. investments. 6,000, sted in addition to; also moving on general news wires</note>
the u.s. labor department agreed tuesday to let some north and south carolina school districts continue to use 17-year-old bus drivers through the end of the school year
the agreement supersedes a labor department order that had required both states to end the use of 17-year-old school bus drivers by april 1
the department had told the two states it was ending an exemption allowing the 17-year-old drivers because the states had violated the terms of the exemption, primarily by using drivers who had moving violations
officials in both states had protested that some districts had been unable to find qualified replacements, and that abruptly replacing experienced 17-year-olds with new drivers could create safety problems
under the agreement announced by labor secretary ann mclaughlin, school districts that have had the most problems finding new drivers can use 17-year-old drivers through june 15, and all districts may use drivers who will turn 18 before that time
all 17-year-old drivers must have been hired and trained before the school year began and must have clean driving records, the agreement said
south carolina gov. carroll campbell called the compromise a ``fair agreement.''
this agreement was essential to provide the safest possible situation for our children for the remainder of the school year, as well as prevent major disruptions in the 12 districts unable to find qualified adults,'' campbell said
the state of south carolina will not seek another extension,'' campbell said. ``we will have an all-adult force in place by the beginning of the next school year.''
campbell and state education superintendent charlie williams said they support state budget proposals that would raise minimum bus driver pay from $3.47 to $4.75 an hour and fund some fringe benefits
north carolina gov. jim martin said he would seek a $24 million budget amendment during the june session of the general assembly to increase drivers' pay to enable the state to attract and hire additional adult drivers. the state has 2,085 drivers under age 18, officials said
during our discussions with secretary mclaughlin, i think it became apparent that our school children would be a lot safer riding with 17-year-olds with seven or eight months of bus driving experience than it would be to have them riding with drivers who have little or no experience driving a school bus,'' martin said
williams said the agreement leaves south carolina with about 350 adult positions to fill by next year. after beginning the year with 2,250 17-year-old drivers, the state now has 808 17-year-olds among its 6,000 drivers, deputy superintendent of education carl garris said
the 17-year-olds have been permitted to drive in the two states under an exemption to the fair labor standards act. but that was repealed after labor department investigations during january and february found north carolina had violated the act 80 times, and south carolina had recorded 200 violations during the two-month period
the investigation was triggered when a 4-year-old boy in west columbia was struck and killed by a 17-year-old bus driver with a bad driving record. pickup</note>
a federal judge wednesday blocked a moved by an italian tire maker to stop an ohio law from hampering its attempted takeover of firestone tire &amp; rubber co
u.s. district judge alice m. batchelder ruled that the ohio control share acquisition act does not violate federal law by discriminating against interstate commerce, or causing inconsistent state regulation
the statute requires a corporate raider to wait up to 50 days for shareholders to vote before purchasing tendered shares. federal law requires that any tender offer remain open for no less than 20 business days
pirelli societe generale sa of italy made a tender offer of $58 a share last week for firestone, which has its corporate offices in chicago and its north american tire headquarters in akron
the $1.9 billion offer is contingent on firestone dropping its plans to enter into a joint tire venture with bridgestone corp. of japan
firestone officials said pirelli's offer killed earlier plans to sell most of the firestone tire-making business to bridgestone, but the firestone board met monday and decided to explore other options. firestone said it is again talking with bridgestone, adding that the talks concern ``what course of action bridgestone may now wish to pursue.''
the u.s. tire maker said it would advise shareholders by friday on the pirelli offer
firestone attorney patrick f. mccarton opposed pirelli's attempt to win a preliminary injunction during a court hearing monday, saying ``control is one of the most valuable assets a shareholder can possess. it is a collective asset and should be (given up) in a collective manner.''
dennis orr, an attorney representing pirelli-owned veere inc. of delaware, argued the law is a burden on interstate commerce and could hurt shareholders by giving firestone time to defeat pirelli's tender offer
ms. batchelder said it is possible for companies to comply with both ohio and federal law
the ohio act ... by allowing the shareholders collectively to evaluate the fairness of the tender offer and to vote as a group, ... furthers the policy of investor protection,'' ms. batchelder wrote, in a 14-page opinion
the ohio statute does not discriminate against interstate commerce or cause inconsistent state regulation because it has the same effects on raiders from inside and outside of ohio, she said. picks up 5th graf, shearson's equity...</note>
koppers co. said wednesday it was studying a cash payout to shareholders, asset sales or a recapitalization plan to battle a takeover attempt by a british investor and a new york investment bank
koppers did not disclose the options it was studying, but investor brian beazer, who has joined with shearson lehman hutton inc. in making the $45 a share, or $1.3 billion, takeover offer, criticized the company's disclosure
beazer said that if koppers decided to undertake a recapitalization, the case the company essentially was bidding for itself. as such, koppers was obligated to give beazer's group access to the same confidential corporate information koppers would use to formulate such a plan
you now have a duty to provide us with a `level playing field,' to meet with us, and to furnish us with the same information you would provide to potential lenders or investors in any recapitalization or asset sale program that koppers is considering,'' beazer said in a public letter issued wednesday
in addition to disclosing possible alternatives to thwart beazer, koppers likely will launch a publicity campaign criticizing shearson, according to one securities analyst
i would expect the first thing you'll see ... will be some newspaper advertising that'll peel the hide off shearson,'' said donald a. pattison of cyrus j. lawrence inc. of new york
pattison said shearson is vulnerable to criticism for owning 46 percent of bns inc., the company formed with beazer to attempt the takeover of the pittsburgh building materials and chemical company
shearson's equity participation is a more aggressive variation of investment bankers' traditional role as adviser and financier in hostile takeovers
koppers alleged in a federal lawsuit filed march 11 that shearson violated disclosure requirements of securities laws and that it offered to sell koppers its services defending the company against hostile takeovers after laying plans with beazer to raid the company
pittsburgh filed suit in federal court wednesday alleging that shearson, as underwriter of city bonds, violated its duty not to do anything to hurt the pittsburgh economy, said david welty, spokesman for mayor richard caliguiri
under beazer's plan to sell koppers' chemical business, about 1,100 jobs could disappear in pittsburgh, city officials contend
caliguiri also ordered city department heads to exclude shearson from consideration as an underwriter of future financing, welty said
a koppers spokesman said the board set no timetable for settling details of any recapitalization offer
the question is what's it worth'' to shareholders, said securities analyst gregory drahuschak of butcher &amp; singer of pittsburgh. ``until that happens you wait around
pattison said he expects koppers to defeat the tender offer through the lawsuit and an offer to common shareholders of cash and securities worth up to $60
i don't see a third party out there that would be a competitor to beazer,'' said drahuschak. ``i tried to find one and couldn't even scare up a good rumor.''
pattison, however, said aggregates, the crushed stone used in roadbeds and mixed with cement to make concrete, are tightly controlled in britain, enhancing interest in u.s. producers like koppers. the weak u.s. dollar and accounting rule differences in britain and the united states might also attract other bidders for koppers
koppers' board believes that the company remaining independent would, over the long term, be a superior alternative to accepting the bns offer,'' which is inadequate, the company said
koppers common stock jumped $2.75 a share tuesday to $54.50 on the new york stock exchange, apparently in anticipation of wednesday's deadline for the company to respond to the tender offer. the announcement sent the stock down 87{ cents to $53.62{ wednesday in heavy trading
koppers chairman charles r. pullin said management will explore the possible sale of an equity interest in all or part of the construction materials and services business or portions of the business and the proceeds used to sweeten the payments to common shareholders
beazer has said it probably would sell koppers' chemicals business if it gained control
the bns offer of $107 for each preferred share is adequate, koppers said, while declining to advise holders whether to tender their stock
koppers said it is being advised by the first boston corp
