empire of the sun'' was named best movie and its director, steven spielberg, and young star, christian bale, also received honors as the national board of review of motion pictures presented its 1987 awards tuesday night
a lifetime achievement award was given to lillian gish, who also was named best actress for her 105th film, ``the whales of august'' _ an award shared with holly hunter for ``broadcast news.'' michael douglas was named best actor for his performance in ``wall street.''
the national board was founded in 1909 to oppose censorship and reward excellence on the screen. its d.w. griffith awards have been given annually since 1917. miss gish's first film, ``an unseen enemy,'' was directed by griffith in 1912
bale, 13, was given a special award, the first the national board has given to a child actor
neither miss hunter nor miss gish, recuperating from a fall in january, was present. miss gish's best friend, helen hayes, said, ``she was bullied into staying home. i'm sure that doctor has been dismissed.''
michael douglas, accepting the best actor award from glenn close, his costar in ``fatal attraction,'' called his part in ``wall street'' ``the best i've ever had.'' he thanked oliver stone and stanley wise, who wrote it
spielberg said ``empire of the sun'' was ``the hardest movie any of us involved have ever made.'' he called christian bale, who did not attend, ``a regular kid _ i think a lot of that came out in the movie.''
if christian bale hadn't existed, we had no second choice. he carried this movie really all by himself,'' spielberg said
host jose ferrer called ``empire of the sun'' ``a powerful and richly human anti-war film.'' spielberg said that if griffith had made the movie, it would have cost ``about $175,000, in the early part of this century.''
olympia dukakis, cousin of the massachusetts governor, was named best supporing actress for her role as cher's mother in ``moonstruck.'' sean connery, who wasn't present, was named best supporting actor for``the untouchables,'' in which he played a tough irish cop
the two-part ``jean de florette''-``manon of the spring'' from france was named best foreign film
the award for best documentary went to ``chuck berry: hail! hail! rock 'n' roll'' begins with john lennon saying, ``if you tried to give rock 'n' roll another name, you might call it chuck berry.'' lennon's widow, yoko ono, presented the award to performer-songwriter berry
lee remick received a special television award. frank rowley, who will choose vintage movies for the biograph theater, which will open friday near carnegie hall, also received a special award
ceremonies were held at the library for the performing arts in lincoln center. recipients of the awards are known ahead of time. one of the presenters, actress judith ivey, drew applause when she said, ``we're not sitting here waiting for an envelope to be opened. some people think that's entertaining. i think it's sick.''
a former broker pleaded guilty tuesday to charges that he defrauded his employer of more than $1 million in a scheme involving illegal trading at the chicago mercantile exchange
jeffrey donnelly, 28, of chicago, a former trader in standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index-futures contracts, pleaded guilty to two counts of commodities fraud, said assistant u.s. attorney howard pearl
u.s. district judge james alesia set sentencing for april 7, pearl said. donnelly, a former employee of crt services inc., faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine
under a plea agreement, pearl said, the government reserves the right to grant donnelly immunity from prosecution in return for his testimony
donnelly was expelled by the merc last march and fined $100,000 on charges of fraudulent trading. the charges to which he pleaded guilty were brought last week
the plea agreement states that he defrauded crt services by diverting money from profitable s&amp;p futures trades to four accounts between january 1984 and july 1986
authorities charged that donnelly split the profits with four other people after diverting the money into their accounts. donnelly's share, 35 percent of the profits, amounted to $350,000, prosecutors said
pearl said donnelly already has paid back some of the money
he and the others have made substantial restitution,'' the attorney said
pearl would not say whether the other four would be charged. but he said the investigation is continuing
donnelly was among 10 men charged feb. 9 with fraudulent trading in commodity futures. the men were accused in four separate schemes _ one of which, authorities said, involved the use of wigs, makeup and phony credentials to gain access to trading pits. but donnelly was involved only in the scheme to which he pleaded guilty tuesday
kevin bacon and elizabeth mcgovern didn't mind playing two squares in the comedy hymn to marital fidelity, ``she's having a baby.'' in fact, they liked the movie's emphasis on old-style morals
old-fashioned is new-fashioned, let's face it,'' bacon said
director-writer john hughes ``is basically an old-values type of guy in all his movies,'' mcgovern said. and his story of a young couple, jake and kristy briggs, is ``a tribute to suburbia'' and to the virtue of commitment
though the actors are young _ bacon is 29, mcgovern is 26 _ both are examples of another old-fashioned virtue: hard work. they recently talked about just how hard it was to bring out ``baby.''
one scene _ the briggs' wedding _ was shot over 26 consecutive hours. it was filmed in the winnetka congregational church in illinois, which was available for only a limited time
two versions of the scene were filmed: a straight-forward account of the wedding, and jake's hallucination about what his wedding vows really mean
wilt thou listen to endless conversations about children's clothes and decorator checkbooks?'' the minister asks in the fantasy version
the marathon session demanded a lot of bacon. ``i actually fell asleep on my feet,'' he said
bacon, who previously appeared in ``diner'' and ``footloose,'' is on the screen in almost every frame of the film. in one scene, jake sits outside the church with his best man, who tries to tempt him not to get married
the struggle, bacon says, was to win the audience's sympathy, despite the fact that his character is on the brink of jilting the beautiful kristy
i really wanted him to seem like a little boy in a monkey suit, and that was difficult,'' bacon said
mcgovern's travails were more subtle. her character, kristy, appears bland. but she's not, said the actress
kristy is ``very strong, although she doesn't necessarily appear on the surface to be strong,'' said mcgovern, who first drew attention in the industry with her portrayal of timothy hutton's girlfriend in 1980 in the academy award-winning ``ordinary people.'' the next year, she had a supporting actress oscar nomination for her role in ``ragtime.''
she's a person you wouldn't ever think twice about,'' mcgovern said. but before the end of the movie, ``the door opens on her soul and you see how much there is she has to offer.''
both actors lauded hughes' direction. ``as strong and independent as i come off on the set, i need a director who will say, `ok, that's good, you got it,''' bacon said. hughes did that for him
mcgovern agreed. ``i always felt supported and i always knew that he would guide me.''
by the end of the filming, hughes trusted bacon to improvise. one touching and funny result has jake trying natural childbirth methods _ massaging his abdomen and panting _ while kristy gives birth in another room
by that point i'd been playing this character so many times and in so many different situations that i really felt that i knew him and john knew him. ... and he just kind of said, `we'll turn the camera on and you just hang out in the room and do what you would do.''
the tension bacon has felt in front of the camera in other movies didn't apply in this one, he said. ``john sort of blows all that tension right out of the water,'' by letting the camera roll during retakes instead of shouting, ``action!'' or ``cut!'' a lot
the atmosphere during filming was relaxed enough for bacon to bring along his dog, jane, whom he calls ``a labrador deceiver'' _ a mutt that's part lab
bacon and mcgovern are both accomplished on the new york stage, and are used to feeding on the energy of an audience. but in a way, mcgovern said, the director filled that function
when he was looking at me he would see kristy, he wouldn't see elizabeth,'' she said
the letters, phone calls and telegrams come from across the nation, but the message to police and state parole board members is almost always the same: thomas trantino must not go free
nearly 25 years after trantino and an accomplice shot sgt. peter voto and officer gary tedesco to death at point-blank range in a nightclub here, emotions still run high
from an accountant in nearby teaneck: ``the courts and the parole system should start to recognize the danger which these criminals present to society. if he killed in cold blood two police officers who were in uniform, how can those of us who are citizens in plain clothes be safe?''
from a connecticut woman: ``i don't want to hear that he is a model prisoner who is now a writer, a painter. ... they are forgetting he has one other glaring accomplishment, and that is that he committed a cold-blooded murder of two human beings.''
the prospect of release has sparked a petition drive, legislative proposals, a letter-writing campaign and a candlelight rally by more than 1,500 people to convince the parole board that trantino must remain behind bars
the case has also revived debate over an old question: when has a murderer finally paid his debt to society?
paramus police chief joseph delaney, a leader of the campaign against parole, said many feel ``the people who commit the violent acts aren't getting punishment that fits the crime.''
they want to see pure, unadulterated punishment,'' he added. ``don't say `life in prison' for someone and then let him out 15, 20 or 25 years later.''
on aug. 26, 1963, trantino and frank falco were at the angel lounge celebrating a robbery. when voto and tedesco arrived to investigate a disturbance, trantino and falco surprised them, partially stripped them and shot them
falco was killed the next day by police trying to capture him. trantino was caught, convicted and sentenced to die in the electric chair
the sentence was commuted to life when new jersey's death penalty was ruled unconstitutional in 1972. in 1980, the full parole board voted to release trantino, provided that he make restitution to the families of his victims
the decision sparked an outcry, and in 1982 the board voted to keep trantino locked up for 10 more years, a term that was cut almost in half through credits for good behavior and work
a two-member panel decided last month that he should be paroled march 15, but the full board has decided to review the decision
a parole board official, citing policy, declined to explain the decision. however, under state law trantino can be paroled only if he shows ``no substantial likelihood of future criminal activity'' and proves he has ``made progression in rehabilitating himself.''
from 1978 to 1982 trantino was granted regular furloughs from prison, which ended after the controversy over his parole. in 1980, he married the community college english professor who had edited his prison writings into a book
trantino, 50, is now at the medium-security riverfront state prison in camden, and declined an interview request. in a 1986 interview he said he had no recollection of the murders and believed his freedom was long overdue
he works in the prison canteen storeroom and participates in a program that tries to convince juvenile delinquents, in a ``low key'' way, to change their ways, said department of corrections spokesman james stabile
victims' rights organizations, delaney and voto's brother andrew, now police chief in this small blue-collar community, have been at the forefront of efforts to block parole
recently, delaney and voto appeared on morton downey jr.'s television talk show. the next day about 1,000 people called the board from across the country to oppose trantino's release
he's a classic con artist,'' delaney said. ``i have dealt with people in my many years as a cop and there's no question in my mind that if they release him he will kill again.''
the case has struck a chord among family members of crime victims
most of the letters that come in to me thank me for picking up the fight against coddling prisoners. there's too much concern for these people,'' voto said
why should a man walk out when he was sentenced to death? there is rehabilitation, and i am for it, but not in these types of cases ... not an outright killer, a cold-blooded killer.''
former television evangelist pat robertson took in stride his bottom-of-the-pile finish in the new hampshire primary tuesday, saying he was ready to shine in the south, ``in my backyard.''
with returns nearly complete in the republican primary, robertson was last among the five contenders
we played in bob dole's backyard (in iowa) and i beat george bush there,'' robertson said. ``we played in new hampshire, which according to george bush is his backyard, and he won convincingly
tomorrow morning, i go into the south, and they're going to be playing in my backyard,'' robertson said in a concession speech at a hotel ballroom as several hundred supporters cheered, stomped and chanted, ``we want pat!''
robertson, 57, with his wife, dede, at his side, said:
i'm throwing the gauntlet down to bob dole and george bush: south carolina is the first super tuesday state, and i'm going to beat you there convincingly.''
south carolina republicans actually vote the saturday before super tuesday, when 20 states hold caucuses or primaries
the crowd cheered again when one supporter yelled out, ``you've got the biggest backyard, pat!''
earlier, robertson's national field director, richard pinsky, acknowledged that after robertson's surprise second-place showing in the feb. 8 iowa caucuses, ``we were hoping to do better here.''
robertson said in an interview on nbc-tv: ``our polling showed we would have a strong third place. we came up very short on that.''
pinsky blamed robertson's showing on two controversies in the past week: kemp's charges about allegations made by a group from which robertson distanced himself and robertson's claim during a gop debate sunday that the soviet union has ``nukes in cuba.''
robertson was hounded monday by questions on his statement during the debate, and subsequently said his was not ``a categorical statement per se.''
but in his concession remarks, robertson said he will meet with cuban leaders in florida this week, and ``it may be that something happened in the debate here which may be the key to victory in florida.''
later he said: ``we've got an issue that came out of here on the cuban missiles. i wasn't expecting it to play this way, but i'm getting reports from texas and florida that the people down there are with me on this issue. so new hampshire may have given me the key issue to win the two biggest states in the south.''
it was once known as the black country because of its long winters, harsh terrain and hard life. even at the dawn of this century, it still was a land of barbarian tribes and powerful feudal warriors _ one of japan's last frontiers
warrior clans and impoverished peasants lived in isolation among its vast mountain ranges
but it had a bucolic tranquility and japanese poured in from all over to enjoy what japan once was _ volcanic hot springs and rugged seascapes, folk crafts and villages, old temples and teahouses, well-tended apple orchards and rice fields
this is tohoku, the black country's formal name, and it takes up the entire northern end of honshu, japan's main island
but tohoku's leaders are planning to catapult tohoku into the 21st century, turning the region into a hub of technological progress, filled with high-tech factories, seaports and telecommunications centers
if that happens, some fear, tohoku's culture and way of life will vanish
some of it already has
new highways and high-speed train lines have brought modern japan closer to tohoku. thousands upon thousands come to its ski resorts and lakes, snowscapes and primieval marshes in three national parks, all offering a respite from the urban plain around tokyo, a little over 100 miles to the south
sendai is now tohoku's largest city, with 700,000 residents. devastated by world war ii bombing, its broad tree-lined boulevards are a rare product of postwar city planning
between tohoku's growing cities lie vast wooded mountains and cultivated plains, where people carry on a simpler, more traditional japanese lifestyle
most live in houses that are huge by comparison with those in tokyo, but they lack central heating and flush toilets. people's lives are suited to the seasons: the cold winter months are spend clustered around quilt-covered heaters called kotatsu, and observing the traditional festivals and rituals tied to the planting and harvesting of rice
but in sendai, the tohoku federation of economic organizations, a powerful business alliance, is planning a leap into the 21st century
if the federation has its way, rustic northern japan will become a network of technolopolises, marinopolises, teletopias and a ``magmapolis'' _ modern cities based on high technology, seaports, telecommunications and power generation and tourism tied to volcanic activity
prime minister noboru takeshita's ``furusato (hometown) concept'' _ a plan to establish centers of industry and culture in rural japan _ is further encouragement for tohoku's planners
more than 34 foreign firms and some of japan's leading electronics companies already have moved their factories from tokyo to industrial parks in tohoku, attracted by tax incentives, lower land costs and abundant water and energy
real estate cost an average $9 a square foot in tohoku in 1987, compared with $110.50 in suburban tokyo
several company presidents said fresh, skilled labor drew their firms to tohoku, where the people are known for their ``serious character and diligence.''
federation officials maintain that high-tech industrial development poses little threat to the tohoku's environment
but opponents claim the air already has become polluted around heavily used roads and that even ``clean'' semiconductor factories must use dangerous chemicals
about one-tenth of japan's 121 million people _ the same number that live in tokyo _ live in all of tohoku, which makes up 20 percent of japan's land area
toshio tamakawa, chairman of the tohoku federation and president of the region's largest corporation, tohoku electric power, says tohoku is an attractive alternative to tokyo's congestion and high prices
people used to say tohoku was a barbarian hinterland,'' he said. ``they certainly can't say that anymore.''
nearby matsushima (pine island) is still considered one of the most beautiful spots in japan, but the pacific coast to north and south is a mass of grey factories and shipyards
modernization has brought flashy department stores and hotels to sendai, along with subways, urban sprawl and traffic jams
but even in quieter, less developed areas, life is changing
a few hours north of sendai in hiraizumi, taxi driver kirio aoyanagi, in blue uniform and white gloves, talks of how he returned to his native town from ``miserably lonely'' tokyo after living there almost 10 years, to marry and raise his family
aoyanagi now guides tourists through ancient temples and describes the floods, wars and fires that destroyed most of hiraizumi, a city built around 1100 by the powerful fujiwara clan that was once a center of political power
aoyanagi says he and others can't live by farming alone, and need factory jobs. but he worries that old traditions are disappearing as tohoku grows more modern and less isolated
it's not like it used to be,'' he said. ``people are becoming self-centered just like in tokyo. the younger generation is completely different.''
a giant buddha's face loomed out of a nearby cliff in a quiet mountain valley. below, a group of farmers, in traditional aprons and kerchiefs, worked at rethatching a farmhouse roof _ a picture of the past
i want to keep tohoku a good place to live,'' aoyanagi said, ``where people care about each other, and not just their money.''
hospitals in the occupied west bank and gaza strip are overcrowded and increasingly overwhelmed with victims of israel's policy of using beatings and blows to subdue arab protesters
last wednesday at the gaza strip's largest shifa hospital, palestinian doctors set the broken limbs of 24 arabs clubbed by israeli soldiers, then swiftly discharged them to make room for more
in the west bank's nablus on friday, troops fired rubber bullets and smashed windows with their rifle butts to break into al ittihad hospital and detain four arabs suspected of throwing stones
a wall was smeared with blood where docors said the arabs were beaten and six windows were broken, one punctured with a rubber bullet
besides treating scores of victims, palestinian hospitals have served as havens for arab protesters trying to elude detention after anti-israeli demonstrations
shifa hospital has been a staging ground for riots by hundreds of palestinians who hurled firebombs and stones at soldiers. troops stormed the hospital twice within two days in december and shot dead two arabs
this is a situation worse than on the tv serial `m-a-s-h,''' said dr. h. jack geiger, a member of a fact-finding team from the boston-based physicians for human rights that visited hospitals in the territories
people are stitching wounds without gloves and without anesthesia. these hospitals are completely inadequate for the treatment of this kind of trauma and do not meet an acceptable standard,'' geiger said last wednesday
as geiger spoke at shifa, a large ginger-colored cat wandered through wards that reeked with the smell of urine and feces. thick fetid water filled clogged-up toilets and sinks in the bathroom and a pool of open sewage ran on the floor
at alia hospital in hebron last week, an associated press reporter watched doctors stitch up the wounds of palestinian patients lying on blood-stained stretchers on the emergency room floor because all the beds were filled
a doctor stitched shut a deep gash on the head of a 20-year-old man shaking with pain, while in a stretcher beside him another doctor set a man's broken forearm
we work with the minimal medical standards,'' said dr. ahmed yassih of shifa, which like hebron's alia hospital is israeli-run. ``every time we operate there is a shortage.''
one day there was no clean linen. another day, no water. then no towels, no sterile instruments. sometimes we work without electricity or have no silk thread for stitches,'' said yassih, one of four palestinian surgeons who perform most operations at shifa
yassih said he discharged 45 palestinians with beating injuries, including 24 with broken limbs, after only a few hours of treatment last wednesday
there just aren't enough beds,'' yassih said. ``we get more and more cases every day. i have to keep at least 15 beds free for emergencies.''
lying in rows of narrow metal frame beds were dozens of palestinians recovering from more serious beating injuries and gunshot wounds
one 17-year-old palestinian student, jihad al achronz of rafah, was paralyzed from the waist down from a bullet wound that punctured a spinal nerve
another 14-year-old, ahmed al khalud of jabaliya refugee camp, suffered epileptic seizures, incontinence and paralysis of his lower spine and upper leg from a bullet wound to the back
youssef hamad, 40, screamed as doctors lifted him to examine a swollen black bruise from his neck to lower back. both hamad's arms and legs were in casts, his bandaged head had 12 deep gashes, and several ribs were fractured
hamad said he was beaten by 10 soldiers who accused him of raising the outlawed palestinian flag on a gaza city street
yasih said beating victims often were from the same family or section of a refugee camp and frequently were clubbed at night. he said he treated 12 members of the al masri family from gaza, six of whom had broken limbs
we find people injured in the same places over and over: the upper chest, legs, back, knees, arms, hands and elbows,'' yassih said. he said about half the victims treated at shifa had broken legs and 60 percent had broken hands
yassih also said many palestinians were reluctant to go to shifa or other israeli-run hospitals because hospital officials are required to give patients' names to the army, which patrols outside the hospital gate
three days earlier, troops entered the hospital and took three arab patients from their beds, reinforcing palestinians' fears, the doctor said
abc only got a silver in the ratings the first week of winter olympics coverage, but abc's ``world news tonight'' was golden for the first time since august, snapping cbs' 20-week win streak
the first two nights of the olympics, saturday and sunday, varied widely in the a.c. nielsen co. ratings, but according to abc averaged higher than the first two nights of the 1984 games
an estimated 25 million viewers saw sunday night's coverage, featuring pairs figure skating, putting it in the top 10 with a 19.7 rating and a 30 share. but saturday's coverage of hockey was in the bottom 10 with a 9.9 rating and 17 share
the rating is a percentage of the 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use that are tuned to that program
the first two nights of the 1984 games were a tuesday and a wednesday, and had a combined rating of 13.8 compared to 15.5 for this year, said abc
abc's highest rated show of the week wasn't the olympics, but the conclusion of the two-part miniseries ``elvis and me,'' the highest-rated miniseries so far this season
but nbc handily won the week ending feb. 14, with an average prime-time rating of 16.2. abc was second with 14.9. cbs was third with 14.2. after winning 19 of the 21 weeks so far in the season, nbc has an average rating of 16.4, and cbs and abc are tied with 13.6
the 10 top-rated shows of the week were: ``the cosby show'' nbc, ``a different world'' nbc, ``elvis and me, part 2'' abc, ``cheers'' nbc, ``golden girls'' nbc, ``growing pains'' abc, ``night court'' nbc, ``who's the boss?'' abc, ``l.a. law'' nbc and the winter olympics sunday coverage on abc
nbc's new ``sonny spoon,'' starring mario van peebles as a chameleon private eye, premiered last friday with so-so numbers, ranking 49th
the lowest rated shows of the week were: ``our house,'' winter olympics saturday coverage, ``west 57th,'' ``the law and harry mcgraw,'' ``decision '88 _ the iowa caucus,'' ``star trek ii: the wrath of khan,'' ``the thorns,'' ``48 hours in israel,'' ``sledge hammer!'' and ``the charmings.''
for the week ending feb. 12, abc's ``world news tonight'' had an average rating of 11.8 and a 20 share. the ``cbs evening news'' had an 11.1 and 19. ``nbc nightly news'' had a 10.9 and 19
network analysts had no immediate explanation for abc's showing. however, last week's ratings could have been affected by coverage of the iowa caucuses, the first results from the 1988 presidential race
we tend to do well with major stories, be it challenger or coverage of chernobyl, and with live programming like the iran hearings and political coverage,'' said abc news spokeswoman elise adde
abc's prime-time special on iowa ranked a respectable 44 out of 68. it followed the conclusion of ``elvis and me.'' nbc's iowa coverage ranked 63rd. cbs delayed its coverage of iowa until 11:30 p.m. est, after prime time
the last time abc was first in news ratings was the week of aug. 10, 1987
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of feb. 8-14. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 30.1 rating, 26.7 million homes
2. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 26.9, 23.8 million homes
3. (31) ``elvis and me,'' part 2, _ ``abc monday night movie,'' 24.9, 22.1 million homes
4. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 24.7, 21.9 million homes
5. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 24.4, 21.6 million homes
6. (5) ``growing pains,'' abc, 24.0, 21.3 million homes
7. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 23.9, 21.2 million homes
8. (7) ``who's the boss?'', abc, 22.6, 20.0 million homes
9. (11) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 20.5, 18.2 million homes
10. (x) ``winter olympics-sunday,'' abc, 19.7, 17.4 million homes
11. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 19.5, 17.3 million homes
11. (10) ``moonlighting,'' abc, 19.5, 17.3 million homes
13. (15) ``hostage'' _ ``cbs sunday movie,'' 19.4, 17.2 million homes
14. (16) ``matlock,'' nbc, 19.2, 17.0 million homes
14. (12) ``alf,'' nbc, 19.2, 17.0 million homes
16. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 19.0, 16.8 million homes
17. (21) ``227,'' nbc, 17.6, 15.6 million homes
18. (19) ``dallas,'' cbs, 17.5, 15.5 million homes
19. (x) ``windmills of the gods,'' part 2, _ ``cbs special movie presentation,'' 17.3, 15.3 million homes
20. (30) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 17.2, 15.2 million homes
20. (19) ``moving target'' _ ``nbc monday night movies,'' 17.2, 15.2 million homes
22. (24) ``head of the class,'' abc, 16.7
23. (43) ``j.j. starbuck,'' nbc, 16.6
24. (27) ``perfect strangers,'' abc, 16.4
25. (35) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 15.8
26. (13) ``family ties,'' nbc, 15.3
27. (34) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 15.2
28. (36) ``dynasty,'' abc, 15.0
29. (40) ``thirtysomething,'' abc, 14.9
30. (x) ``growing pains special,'' abc, 14.7
31. (28) ``hooperman,'' abc, 14.5
31. (33) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 14.5
33. (23) ``the dirty dozen: fatal mission'' _ ``nbc sunday night movie,'' 14.3
34. (36) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 14.2
35. (28) ``designing women,'' cbs, 14.1
36. (36) ``magnum, p.i.,'' cbs, 14.0
37. (43) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 13.9
37. (26) ``newhart,'' cbs, 13.9
39. (45) ``st. elsewhere,'' nbc, 13.7
40. (39) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 13.6
41. (24) ``hunter,'' nbc, 13.4
41. (21) ``my two dads,'' nbc, 13.4
43. (47) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 13.3
44. (x) ``'88 vote: iowa caucus,'' abc, 12.9
45. (53) ``a year in the life,'' nbc, 12.8
46. (x) ``magic in-magic kingdom,'' nbc, 12.5
46. (62) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 12.5
48. (46) ``the slap maxwell story,'' abc, 12.4
49. (56) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 12.0
50. (50) ``20-20,'' abc, 11.9
50. (51) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 11.9
50. (47) ``the equalizer,'' cbs, 11.9
53. (58) ``wiseguy,'' cbs, 11.7
53. (64) ``full house,'' abc, 11.7
55. (58) ``mr. belvedere,'' abc, 11.3
56. (55) ``crime story,'' nbc, 11.0
56. (51) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 11.0
58. (70) ``houston knights,'' cbs, 10.1
58. (57) ``our house,'' nbc, 10.1
60. (x) ``winter olympics-saturday,'' abc, 9.9
61. (79) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 8.9
62. (68) ``the law and harry macgraw,'' cbs, 8.7
63. (x) ``decision '88-iowa caucus,'' nbc, 8.4
64. (73) ``star trek ii: the wrath of khan'' _ ``abc thursday night movie,'' 8.1
65. (73) ``thorns,'' abc, 7.7
66. (69) ``48 hours: in israel,'' cbs, 7.6
67. (79) ``sledge hammer!'' abc, 6.8
68. (81) ``the charmings,'' abc, 6.3
a smelt fisherman who fell into the cowlitz river learned what it's like to be netted when his fellow smelt dippers dipped him out
before i realized it, i was in a very swift, icy stream, my waist-high wading boots were full of water and they were dragging me under,'' elton ``tommy'' krueger, who cannot swim, said after his rescue sunday
five other smelt dippers held out their long-handled nets to krueger, 72, of wapato, after he slipped in from the muddy river bank
i grabbed and they dipped me out,'' he said
krueger said he brought home a near-limit of smelt, not counting the four that he poured back into the river when he emptied his boots
the 130 palestinian deportees whose voyage home was aborted by the bombing of their ship this week include prominent arab proponents of peace with israel as well as others who advocate violence
most were expelled from their israeli-occupied homeland without trial, under a process considered illegal by virtually every nation except israel
the palestine liberation organization gathered the deportees and hundreds of observers in athens for a trip back to israel aboard a ``ship of return.''
their goal was to focus attention on israel's policy of exiling palestinians from the west bank and gaza strip, which israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
participants said the voyage would have been probably the largest non-violent action attempted by the plo
we have chosen to go back with no guns, no explosives, not even any stones,'' said mohammed milhem, deported mayor of the west bank city of halhoul
israeli leaders had vowed to block the ship from reaching israel's shores
on monday, before the deportees could fly from athens to the port of limassol, cyprus, to begin the protest voyage, an explosion left a hole below the waterline of the ferry bought for the trip. a day before, three plo guerrillas were killed in a car bombing also in limassol
the plo accused israel of responsibility
the planned voyage carries echoes of the 1947 trip of the ship exodus, in which jewish refugees from nazi death camps were turned back by british forces as they tried to reach palestine
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir had called the plo-sponsored trip a ``declaration of war'' on israel and branded participants as ``terrorists and those who want to kill us, every one of us.''
defense minister yitzhak rabin said in 1985 that deportations were effective ``for those who instigate and call for participation in terror, even though they themselves are not active.''
the same 1945 british mandate laws used by israel for many of the deportations were applied against shamir and other israeli leaders who led guerrilla bands that assassinated and bombed british soldiers and arabs in the 1940s
the u.n. security council denounced the deportations in 1980 and again last month, saying they contravened the 1949 geneva convention
their goal is to leave our people leaderless,'' said abdul-jawad saleh, exiled in 1973, a year after his re-election as mayor of al-bireh
among those listed for the trip are the president of bir zeit university, the president of the jerusalem higher islamic council, the jordanian mayor of jerusalem, the deputy mayor of jenin and the assistant anglican archbishop of jerusalem
milhem, expelled in 1980 and elected to the plo executive committee in 1984, often has been suggested as a moderate palestinian negotiator for middle east peace talks
saleh described himself as ``a non-violent activist,'' and said he was never told specifically what triggered his deportation
he recalled that israeli military officials had summoned him to warn against founding agricultural cooperatives and ordered him to stop protesting on behalf of villagers outside al-bireh
like milhem and many other exiles, saleh said he favors acceptance of israel alongside a palestinian state. ``two states to live in peace together in the same country,'' was the way anglican bishop eliya khoury put it
not all deportees agree with that view
four palestinians expelled last month issued a statement shortly after arriving in lebanon, saying islamic radicals there should ``threaten to execute'' three israeli hostages if israel kept up its crackdown on palestinians in the occupied lands. more than 50 palestinians have been killed in rioting in the west bank and gaza strip since dec. 8, most of them by israeli gunfire
according to palestinian and jordanian officials, israel has deported up to 3,000 palestinians
many deportees say they want peace with israelis, but within an arab-dominated palestinian state
my brother and my grandfather and his father and my children were born in palestine,'' said nashaat labadeh, a nablus school principal. ``this is our land. palestine belongs to us.''
he said he was deported largely for his involvement in a 1968 teachers' strike against israel's attempt to impose its school books on west bank pupils
saleh said israel should not close its doors to those who have attacked it in the past
even if we were terrorists, and we are demanding a peaceful solution, i think we are the people to make peace with,'' he said
you don't make peace with your friends. you make peace with your enemies.''
a city official says transit agency employees are suspected sabotaging safety devices on train doors
this appears to be an insider problem, someone who obviously knows enough about cars to disable them,'' said frank wilson, the chicago transit authority's senior deputy executive director in charge of maintenance
inspectors at a rail yard discovered the vandalism, involving the air-filled rubber edges that prevent doors from closing on passengers, wilson said
over the weekend, 25 doors on 18 cars were vandalized, he said. air hoses either were disconnected or cut cleanly where they connect to a compressor, wilson said monday
on tuesday, crews found 11 new cases of apparent tampering, including five instances of damage to cars that had been repaired since the weekend, he said
there were no passenger injuries linked to the faulty doors
wilson has been very outspoken about the agency's problems since coming to chicago a month ago from a similar post in philadelphia
last fall, the transit authority suspected employee sabotage when fuses necessary for emergency brake systems were missing in 100 cars. an investigation failed to produce any suspects. stand for ams</note>
george bush got the win he so badly needed in new hampshire's republican presidential primary tuesday and proclaimed ``reports of my death are greatly exaggerated.'' bob dole fumed over what he called campaign distortions and told bush, ``quit lying about my record.''
thank you, new hampshire,'' bush said, apt words of gratitude to the state that revived his presidential hopes. ``on to the south, where we're going to rise again.''
dole accused bush's campaign of distorting his record in a flurry of late television commercials aired in new hampshire. the kansas senator said the ads unfairly accused him of backing an oil import fee and trying to raise taxes. after complaining for much of the evening, he was asked if he had anything to say to bush during a live interview with both men on nbc-tv
yeah, quit lying about my record,'' dole said. ``i'm not for raising anybody's taxes and he knows that; i'm not advocating a $10 oil import fee, and he knows that _ but they were on the ads all weekend.''
dole also said he regretted not answering bush more forcefully during the waning days of the new hampshire campaign, saying he had been ``too kind.''
bush led with 38 percent to dole's 29 percent, with all precincts reporting
the remaining three gop candidates lagged far behind _ new york rep. jack kemp at 13 percent, former delaware gov. pete du pont at 10 percent and former television evangelist pat robertson at 10 percent
a sixth candidate, alexander haig, dropped out of the race friday and registered less than 1 percent
kemp claimed he was in third place and sought to make that sound like a victory. ``we won the contest for the conservative wing, and now we're going to contest fo the whole nomination of the republican party,'' kemp said
robertson looked ahead to primaries in the south, saying he had competed in dole's backyard of iowa and bush's in new hampshire. ``tomorrow morning we go into the south and they're going to be playing in my backyard,'' robertson said
he pointed to south carolina, which holds a gop primary three days before the rest of the south votes on super tuesday march 8. ``i'm going to beat you there convincingly,'' he said to his rivals
du pont also contended he was in the running with kemp and robertson for third place. he called it ``a virtual tie'' among those three and said, ``that's got to be good.''
dole said: ``it's better to win, and i congratulate the winner. i can stand here with my head held high.''
dole said bush had distorted his record by accusing him of backing tax increases. dole, who was battling a reputation as a slashing campaigner earned in his 1976 vice presidential race, suggested he may come back at bush as the campaign turns to the south in the coming three weeks
i think we should have answered the charges. i mean, i think you can be too kind to your opponent and we were,'' dole said. ``they kept saying bob dole wants to raise taxes. they know that was not accurate. ... we wanted to keep it positive and see if it worked
it's unfortunate that the vice president of the united states, who knows better, would sink to that level,'' dole said
asked later about dole's accusing remark, bush said: ``i don't know what he's talking about.'' but bush's campaign in washington issued a statement quoting bush four times over the last six months saying he would support the oil tax
dole has said he would consider the oil import fee but would rebate the fee to homeowners who use oil for heat
bush's victory came after his once-strong advantage in the polls had evaporated following his dismal showing in iowa a week ago. dole forces pointed to that comeback, even as it fell short
we were down more than 20 points eight days ago,'' said dole campaign manager william brock. ``to have come this close is a tremendous commentary on bob dole and also ... on the softness of the vice president's supporters
if he is going to have this kind of a problem in the south ... he's got a real problem,'' brock said
earlier in the day, bush said ``things have dramatically turned around'' for him in new hampshire, just as they did for ronald reagan in 1980
bush pointed cheerfully to the traditional first returns that were counted just after midnight in tiny dixville notch in the state's northern mountains. there he was a winner, with 11 votes to dole's 6
bush's once-substantial lead in polls in the state evaporated following dole's two-to-one victory over him in iowa's caucuses a week earlier. but daily polling by the television networks indicated the trend to dole tailed off by the weekend and the race stabilized into a virtual dead heat
bush also found comfort in new hampshire's history of rejecting iowa winners _ including himself in 1980
he did what i did in 1980,'' bush said of dole. ``he won in iowa and came in and talked about momentum. i did what presidnt reagan did. he came in and started talking the issues'' after losing to bush in iowa
bush searched urgently following his iowa debacle for a way to better deliver his message _ that he is the logical heir to reagan's conservative legacy
he was an insulated candidate who rarely made contact with reporters in iowa, a time when he was beset with questions over his role in sales of u.s. missiles to iran. but with his politial future on the line after the iowa defeat, bush began asking for votes with apparent emotion and uncharacteristically climbed into the cab of a big truck and drove a forklift to try to display a common man's touch. stand for ams</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis claimed ``a great victory'' in the new hampshire presidential primary tuesday, moving to the front of the democratic field with the backing of his neighbors
rep. richard gephardt of missouri _ the winner last week in the iowa caucuses _ held onto the no. 2 spot, besting sen. paul simon of illinois for the second time in a row
it's really a great victory in many ways,'' dukakis said, ``because these are the people who know me best and they had to test me, not as neighbor, but as a presidential candidate
it's just a terrific boost. obviously, it's going to be very important as we go into the south and the middle west,'' he said
but the massachusetts governor would not claim the front-runner's crown: ``i'm wary of that label.''
with all precincts reporting, dukakis had 36 percent, gephardt 20 percent and simon 17 percent
further back were jesse jackson at 8 percent, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee at 7 percent, former arizona gov. bruce babbitt at 5 percent and former sen. gary hart of colorado at 4 percent
gephardt said he did well across the state, exaggerating his showing a bit by claiming, ``the only thing we didn't carry was the boston suburbs.''
about a week ago, they said we couldn't compete in new hampshire,'' gephardt said. now, he declared, ``it appears that we've got a dukakis-gephardt race in the rest of the country, but that could change.''
and the missouri congressman said money is not a problem
we're raising money at a good clip,'' he said. ``we are going to be fine for super tuesday.''
that was not the case for simon, whose campaign was alrady $500,000 in debt before the primary
this is not helping,'' simon said. ``from the financial point of view, if i were 3 percentage points ahead instead of 3 points behind, it would make a huge difference in collecting money.''
babbitt was next-to-last and hart last, but both refused to end their campaigns
this nomination is not won in one week or 30 days, it's going to be a six-month campaign,'' said hart, who won new hampshire in 1984
hart, who re-entered the race saying ``let the voters decide,'' admitted he would have to start doing better: ``it will take at least 30 to 60 days to determine whether or not i can put together a viable candidacy.''
asked if he was going to withdraw, babbitt said, ``no way. i'm going to move on to washington in a couple of days and call and talk to my supporters all over the country and ask them this question: how ... can we keep this reform movement alive? should i wage a guerilla campaign or should i withdraw or do something else? ''
jackson said he was satisfied with his showing here. ``our message has won... they outspent me 10-to-1. and yet a poor campaign, a rich message has been successful in new hampshire,'' he said
gore said he did better than anticipated in new hampshire and had no regrets about doing little campaigning there
we made a decision not to spent a million dollars on two or three delegates. we're saving that for the 1,400 delegates here in the super tuesday states,'' gore said in houston. he was the only candidate who wasn't in new hampshire tuesday night
simon and gephardt had been concentrating their fire on each other until the final weekend, when both switched to ads attacking dukakis
i haven't been watching a lot of television lately, but i'm told people have been saying some pretty nasty things about me,'' dukakis said. ``i assume that's going to take its toll.''
dukakis was angered at simon's ad, which suggested he is a technocrat who doesn't care about people. simon ``obviously does not know what he's talking about,'' dukakis said
richard p. feynman, a nobel prize winning physicist who helped shatter nasa's claim that cold weather didn't doom the shuttle challenger, died monday of cancer. he was 69
feynman earned a degree from the massachusetts institute of technology in 1939 and a doctorate at princeton university in 1942. he worked on the manhattan project where he helped develop the atomic bomb during world war ii. he moved to cornell university in 1945, where he did his nobel-winning studies, then moved to caltech in pasadena in 1950
in 1965, feynman shared the nobel prize in physics with julian s. schwinger and shinichero tomonaga for developing an improved theory of quantum electrodynamics. the theory allowed scientists to predict the effects of electrically charged particles on each other in a radiation field
his best-selling autobiography in 1985 was entitled ``surely you're joking, mr. feynman!''
feynman was a member of the presidential commission that investigated the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the shuttle challenger in which all seven crew members died
robert vahey brown, a retired veteran radio announcer and broadcast advertising executive, died sunday at age 82
brown began working in radio in 1925 at wgr in buffalo, n.y. he joined wlw in cincinnati as chief announcer and special events director in 1928. in the 1930s and 1940s, as an announcer for nbc in chicago, brown's voice could be heard on the ``ma perkins'' serial, ``vic and sade'' and ``backstage wife.''
after world war ii, brown became a west coast program manager for nbc-tv in hollywood. he returned to chicago in the 1950s as a commentator, sports announcer, director, writer and producer of television shows and commercials for the leo burnett co., a well-known advertising agency
alvin ``al'' cohn, a jazz saxophonist whose career took off after he joined the big band of woody herman in 1948, died monday of cancer. he was 62
cohn played in bands led by herman, buddy rich and george aulds. he also arranged and wrote for television, including the ernie kovacs and sid caesar shows and ``your hit parade,'' and for the broadway musicals ``raisin'' and ``sophisticated ladies.'' among his arrangements were ``jazz mission to moscow'' for the benny goodman band
leaving the snows of new hampshire behind, the presidential candidates set their sights today on the next big test _ the south, with its high-stakes super tuesday contests looming three weeks away
on to the south, where we're going to rise again,'' said vice president george bush, fresh from his revival in new hampshire
republican rival bob dole threatened to shatter what his campaign called a ``myth of invincibility'' surrounding the vice president's organization in the south
the change in scenery couldn't come too soon for pat robertson after his last-place finish in new hampshire. robertson, a virginian, consoled his followers by saying, ``tomorrow morning we go into the south and they're going to be playing in my backyard.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, coming off a strong first-place finish in his neighboring state, was conceding nothing to democratic rivals albert gore jr., a tennessean who is banking on his native dixie, and jesse jackson, who has a strong base in the region's large black population
some people have been asking how a new englander can hope to do well on super tuesday,'' dukakis said. ``the fact of the matter is, i don't have a southern strategy. i don't have a northern strategy. i have an american strategy.''
gore, in houston, was the only one of the candidates not in new hampshire tuesday night. ``we made a decision not to spend a million dollars on two or three delegates,'' he told supporters
after new hampshire, several candidates were heading to south dakota, minnesota and wyoming, where lower-stakes contests are scheduled between now and march 8. but the big attention-grabber is super tuesday, march 8, when 20 states, most of them in the south, stage primaries or caucuses
the delegate prize: 1,307 democrats, or more than half of the 2,082 needed to win the nomination, and 700 republicans, also more than of the 1,139 needed to nominate
gore has a favorite line about his decision to bypass iowa and run a limited campaign in new hampshire: ``if you're going to go duck hunting, you go where the ducks are. if you're hunting for delegates, you go where the delegates are.''
super tuesday, in a sense, is gore's first stand _ and without a strong showing, it could be his last
we must do well on super tuesday _ there's no ifs, ands or buts about it,'' said his campaign manager, fred martin
jackson, who has solid black backing, has taken the lead in some recent southern surveys. in iowa and new hampshire, both of which have only tiny black populations, jackson notched respectable fourth-place showings, indicating he has broadened his base of support
gore has singled out jackson as his main opponent in the south. ``i think it will essentially become a two-person race,'' he said
he raised the ``electability'' of jackson on tuesday, saying: ``democrats in all parts of the country are really hungry for a victory in 1988 and interested in finding a nominee who can offer the best chance of beating the republicans in the fall.''
gore and jackson are displaying vastly differing campaign styles. gore is racking up endorsements from key political leaders, and kicked off a massive media campaign last week
jackson doesn't have the money for big media buys, but his campaign manager, gerald austin, said that isn't important because jackson is already well-known
as for gore's support from the democratic political establishment, austin retorts: ``we're depending on the endorsement of the people, not the house speakers and the like.''
the well-funded dukakis was spending heavily in delegate-rich florida and texas, and his organization is seen as strong, especially in florida
to mount a serious super tuesday television offensive, a candidate must buy air time in 20 or more separate television markets. that means big expenses _ a major factor for candidates like democrats richard gephardt and paul simon, who are saddled with debt
among republicans, dole was kicking off his southern campaign with a news conference thursday at the georgia capitol
despite bush's strong southern organization _ the best among the gop candidates, in the view of some _ dole was banking on winning over a large undecided vote
it doesn't surprise me when the people with the vice president say they've got an organization that can't be matched down here,'' said clay collins, dole's campaign director for georgia
nonetheless, he said, ``we have the thrust to break through that invincibility myth. i think we are going to make rapid gains.''
bush, however, also was confident
we're going south and fight. it looks good there,'' bush said. he was to campaign in missouri on thursday and in texas through the weekend
robertson, the former television evangelist, has also shown a strong southern organization, and his church-backed following will be a formidable force in the bible belt
but robertson also needs to regain momentum after his disappointing showing in new hampshire, so he's looking to south carolina's gop primary on the saturday before super tuesday. an expected low turnout, combined with robertson's constituency of fundamentalist christian voters, make that state a likely spot for an improved robertson performance heading into super tuesday. neck</head>
when sen. joseph biden experienced a pain in the neck, he was placed in a brace until it felt better. but last week when the pain came back suddenly, doctors found an aneurysm on the brain that required delicate surgery to save his life
the surgery, performed last friday, was so successful that doctors at walter reed army medical center on tuesday transferred the 45-year-old delaware democrat out of intensive care and into a regular hospital room
physicians are pleased with his continued progress and his condition is listed as satisfactory,'' said peter esker, a walter reed spokesman
a neurosurgeon familiar with the biden case said many patients with cerebral aneurysms are not as lucky, particularly if there is rapid and serious bleeding
it can kill you in 10 minutes,'' said the surgeon, who asked not to be named. ``most patients survive,'' he added, but for a serious medical condition, aneurysms on the brain are ``big time.''
the doctor said that biden is in ``the lucky two-thirds'' who live through cerebral aneurysm surgery, and the senator's relatively quick release from intensive care probably means he avoided a long list of problems that can ambush such patients
one third of these patients die,'' said the surgeon, while others may experience some loss of function, such as paralysis or decline of intellectual ability. ``but if everything is perfect and the surgery is within 24 hours (of serious bleeding), they can be out of the hospital within seven days. recovery can be absolutely normal.''
dr. edward laws, chairman of the neurosurgery department at george washington hospital, said he had no details on the biden case but that patients with successful surgery usually are released within a week or 10 days
it sounds like he (biden) is doing better than that, though,'' said laws. ``i think he's probably going to do great.''
an aneurysm is caused by a weakness in the artery wall that allows pressure to force the artery to swell outward, like a blister. the danger is that the aneurysm will burst. but in the brain, even a mild leakage can be dangerous and damaging
a leakage into the brain from a branch of the carotid artery can cause a neck pain, but both laws and the other neurosurgeon said it is ``unusual'' for such a pain to be misdiagnosed
laws suggested that biden, in fact, may have had a neck problem earlier and that development of the aneurysm, which manifests a similar pain, was just coincidental
biden first complained of the neck pain in late january
jane berman, an aide in biden's washington office, said when the senator sought medical care, he was issued a brace
they thought he had a pinched nerve and a viral infection in the neck at the same time,'' she said
biden, chairman of the senate judiciary committee, wore a neck brace in late january during hearings on the nomination of anthony kennedy to the supreme court. a week later, the senator was too ill to vote on the confirmation
but last week, biden felt well enough to take off the brace and accept several speaking engagements at east coast colleges, ms. berman said
in rochester, n.y., the pain returned suddenly and powerfully, and biden also experienced nausea
he went home to wilmington, del., and immediately was admitted to st. francis hospital ``for tests.''
one of these tests was a cat scan, a sophisticated x-ray technique. the aneurysm was spotted and biden quickly was transferred by ambulance early friday morning to walter reed where surgery began only hours later
laws said that typically in such a procedure an incision is made in the temple area of the head. surgeons then cut a small window through the wall of the skull and the brain is raised slightly to gain access to the aneurysm site
to correct the flaw, surgeons use a clip, a small metal device with two tiny jaws that lock together. the clip is placed at the base of the aneurysm, parallel to the flow of blood. left in place permanently, the clip isolates the weak spot and allows the artery to heal
the procedure, said laws, is ``microsurgery'' because the artery, which he described as like ``a piece of wet spaghetti'' is so small
it is very difficult and delicate surgery,'' he said
president reagan is remaining mum on the battle for the republican presidential nomination as he heads back to washington and his regular weekly meeting with vice president george bush
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan watched returns from the new hampshire primary on television on tuesday as he wound up a three-day vacation at his ranch in the santa ynez mountains north of here
we won't have any comment,'' fitzwater said when asked about the new hampshire voting. reagan has maintained a public stance of neutrality in the race for the nomination, although he has repeatedly praised bush's performance as vice president
in response to a question, fitzwater said the bush campaign, facing stiff competition from senate majority leader bob dole, had made no requests that the president step up his commendation of the vice president. he said reagan had not talked with bush in recent days
the two are scheduled to have lunch at the white house on thursday, as they do each week
also on thursday, the president will meet with bipartisan negotiators in congress who worked out the $1.1 trillion budget compromise to be formally unveiled that day. fitzwater said reagan would tell them that ``it is a remarkable budget that ... includes more money for aids research, more money for housing and education, but makes cuts in other areas that will allow us to meet the budget reduction and keep the deficit on a downward path.''
later thursday, the president will attend the swearing in of judge anthony kennedy of the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals as a member of the supreme court. he nominated kennedy after the senate rejected his nomination of robert bork and his second nominee, judge douglas ginsburg, withdrew in the face of reports of his marijuana use in earlier days
on friday, the president will meet with west german chancellor helmut kohl before leaving for camp david to spend the weekend
at his final meeting with reporters in santa barbara, fitzwater was asked about a speech in which edward l. rowny, the president's disarmament adviser, told a group of scientists in boston that the soviet union is ``squandering time'' in arms talks and ``remains a brutal adversary.''
i think ambassador rowny was just giving them a little prod that says, `come on, fellows, let's get down to business here,''' fitzwater said. ``we might not use those words, but we share his concerns.''
the spokesman also announced that the president was signing a bill by sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, rescinding an $8 million appropriation for schools for north african jews in france. inouye was criticized after including the funds in a catch-all appropriations bill
usair and federal officials are investigating the failure of an engine from a boeing 737 jetliner en route from pittsburgh to newark, n.j., according to the airline
usair flight 264 returned to greater pittsburgh international airport monday morning after the jetliner's right engine compressor stalled and oil pressure dropped about 45 miles east of pittsburgh, said usair spokesman david shipley
none of the 80 passengers and crew members aboard were injured, he said
the aircraft was taken out of service and was being checked by usair and federal aviation administration officials, shipley said
the passengers and their luggage went to newark aboard another usair jetliner
vice president george bush said reports of his death had been greatly exaggerated. his comeback may get the same treatment
that's the way it is in the crucial, high-stakes, do-or-die, make-or-break, pick-a-cliche contests that begin the season of competition for presidential nominations. every state leaves an indelible imprint, until the next state votes
that sometimes means as long as a week
the early omens, circa 1988, point to a season of political trench warfare, in which battle cries and claims to momentum yield to a long, hard struggle to collect delegates, one state at a time, then one vote at a time, until they add up to a nominating majority
one week after he became the republicans' leading loser, bush gained a solid comeback victory in the new hampshire presidential primary tuesday
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, third among democrats in iowa, won easily in next-door new hampshire, and said that put him on a winning path that leads south
sen. bob dole claimed satisfaction in second place, but it was way before midnight when he stopped smiling and started snarling at bush
rep. richard gephardt, the democratic victor in the iowa caucuses, said runner up and 20 percent of the vote was a solid showing _ and it was, to the extent that he out paced fellow midwesterner paul simon for the second week running. ``this isn't helping,'' the illinois senator said in bow-tied understatement
sen. simon polled 17 percent, three points and a good many dollars short. simon said if he could have reversed that narrow edge it would have made ``a tremendous difference in raising money,'' which is in dangerously short supply in his campaign
for all of that, nobody was quitting outright, not even former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, who got 5 percent and barely beat gary hart. babbitt said he'd talk with his supporters and figure out what to do next
so, coming out of iowa and new hampshire, both political parties have confirmed what they knew going in _ bush is the man to beat in what looks like a two-way republican contest, with pat robertson looking from the outside in
the democrats have yet to pick a face from the crowd. dukakis has what edge there is because he is the most recent winner, but he is heading into difficult territory in the southern primaries that come up on march 8, super tuesday. a victory next tuesday in minnesota would provide an undeniable boost
to this point, for all the effort and money they have spent, the contestants have succeeded in eliminating alexander haig from the republican running, and pushing democrat babbitt toward the exit. neither of them had a chance in the first place
robertson, who embarrassed bush in iowa, slumped to last place in new hampshire. the former television evangelist acknowledged that he'd come up short of his hopes, but said he wasn't discouraged. ``my natural base is down in the south and that's where we go from here,'' robertson said
rep. jack kemp ran third, with 13 percent. he said that made him the winner in the competition to become the candidate of the conservative wing of the party. or, as he later billed it, the progressive conservative wing. he, too, said the south promised him a better lot
pete du pont ran narrowly ahead of robertson
democrats jesse jackson and sen. albert gore jr. said they, too, were aiming southward. the black vote there is certain to boost jackson's showings. gore decided to wait near his tennessee base for the rest of the field to come there. ``super tuesday is a completely new ball game,'' he said
but it is a game in which there will be enough conflicting messages to enable most of the contestants to claim headway. all 20 contests are not in the south. dukakis' massachusetts, and next door rhode island will be holding primaries on march 8, among the half-dozen outside the southern and border states
editor's note: walter mears, veteran political writer for the associated press, is now ap's executive editor. written document, student spokesman expressing doubt about quick approval, other detail, picking up 10th graf pvs, `hey, ho...'. deletes 21-23rd grafs pvs, bgng `monday night...', to tighten.</note>
student protesters who have held a university of massachusetts building for five days began deliberating a tentative understanding late tuesday hammered out earlier in the day by their negotiators and university officials
the students' meeting was closed, and there were conflicting signals on whether an end to the five-day standoff, which began when some 200 minority students took over the school's new africa house in a protest of campus racial tensions, was near an end
not all (the students') demands have been met, but all have been responded to in good faith,'' chancellor joseph duffey said as he forwarded a written statement to the students. ``there are things i cannot do now, but we've agreed to plan to address general concerns.''
earlier, university officials had said duffey would be putting into writting a tentative understanding reached between him and a nine-member student negotiating committee during a meeting that lasted nearly four hours
it looks like we have a resolution,'' said james langley, a spokesman for duffey, after the meeting broke up
but a student spokesman said late in the evening that the document sent by duffey was received with ``mixed emotions'' by the entire student group and that discussions of what they would do next could last well into the night
the vote is going very slowly,'' spokesman roscoe robinson said. `i'm getting nervous.''
earlier, when the meeting with duffey was still in progress, robinson had also expressed optimism on the way it were going, saying he was ``pleased with the results.''
jeanne hopkins, university spokeswoman, described the tentative understanding as ``an agenda for what we'll do, where we will go from here.''
administrators did not release the document sent to the students, but dwayne warren, another student spokesman, said it contained a promise of further efforts to improve minority students' condititions on the campus, including increased support for minority organizations
the day also saw a rally by more than 500 white umass students who supported the minority students' protest
hey, ho, chancellor joe, racism has got to go'' was chanted by students, who were held back by black students linking arms to clear a path for duffey as he walked toward the building
students and faculty also read letters of support, including a message sent tuesday by democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson. some supporters had traveled from albany and philadelphia and local businesses and residents had sent protesters blankets, pillows and food
i came to see if they needed any help,'' said michelle norman, 21, a senior from pleasanton, calif., who added that she was missing two classes to attend the vigil. ``i think it's a good cause.''
jackson, a democratic presidential contender who was in nearby new hampshire for tuesday's primary balloting, called the protesters at 9:15 a.m. to lend his support
the students occupying the new africa house have taken a principled position on legitimate concerns. the quality of leadership in the state and country can be determined by how it handles such crises as this one,'' jackson said in a statement read by a protester
the protesters had said they would meet with duffey to negotiate on a revised set of demands, which a spokesman for the group declined to detail. they vowed to remain until duffey agrees to their conditions
the six original demands included a written policy against discrimination by the university, prosecution of five white students accused of attacking two black men and a white woman on feb. 7, and the suspension of campus police officers who allegedly formed a line-up of black men when women complained of harassment
sara lennox, a german professor, said 50 faculty members have signed a statement deploring the recent incidents and urging the administration to resolve the dispute
a climate of hostility, danger and racial intolerance must not be allowed to continue,'' said the statement, signed by members of an ad hoc committee to promote racial tolerance. the group was formed in response to a fight between black and white students following the world series in 1986
the university rescheduled classes that usually meet in new africa house to other buildings
we see this as a short-term, temporary thing. we don't want to escalate tensions,'' spokesman langley had said
between 50 and 200 students remained in the building through the long holiday weekend, according to robinson, 24, of boston
associate dean of students rick townes, who is serving as mediator, said the protesters were civil but determined
there has been a resolve that this was going to be the last time they were going to make a stand,'' townes said. ``this is not a movement led by radical students. these are good students tired of dealing with this.''
a session between the protesters and duffy, planned for monday, was canceled because duffey left campus to visit an ailing brother
the protesters sent duffey a sympathy card signed by more than 200 students. duffey responded by sending them a fruit basket and a card that read: ``i send affection and respect.''
about 9 percent of the 25,000 students at the state's largest public university are minorities. there are 641 blacks enrolled at umass and about 500 of them are undergraduates, langley said. total undergraduate enrollment is approximately 19,000 students. to april 10 sted 19.</note>
the latest appearance of a great white shark and norman mailer's film of his own book received the dubious honor wednesday of being at the top of the pack as the golden raspberry award foundation announced its picks for worst pictures of 1987
the 8th annual golden raspberry award nominations also went to bill cosby, madonna, sylvester stallone and the $35 million superflop ``ishtar'' as the foundation took note of what it felt was truly terrible in motion pictures last year
jaws: the revenge'' and ``tough guys don't dance'' received seven razzie nominations each, with the acting considered so bad in the latest ``jaws'' sequel that even bruce the mechanical shark was nominated for worst actor
the razzies are a light-hearted parody of the oscar ceremonies and coincide with the annual academy award nominations, which will be announced wednesday
the razzie ceremony will be held april 10 and will feature dramatic readings of the most ridiculous lyrics from some awful movie songs
the winners, if they dare to show up, will receive a trophy of a golf-ball size raspberry glued atop a film reel and spray-painted with gold
there are three basic theories of what qualifies as a razzie,'' explained john wilson, razzie foundation president
first, hollywood's own measure, how much money did it lose? second, a movie that was not supposed to be a comedy that generated enormous laughs from the audience. `jaws' was one of those and so was norman mailer's `tough guys don't dance,' which was laughed off the screen in cannes
the last is how excruciating it is to actually sit through a film. does someone have to pay you money or bribe you with popcorn? `who's that girl?' fits into that category,'' he said
cosby received three nominations for star, author and producer of ``leonard: part 6,'' a movie that he disavowed and almost no one saw. madonna, last year's worst actress winner, is a contender this year for ``who's that girl?,'' nominated for five razzies
stallone, the all-time razzie champ with four wins, is continuing the tradition with ``the maudlin arm-wrestling melodrama'' ``over the top,'' which got three nominations
the golden raspberry foundation, made up of film professionals and critics as well as frequent film-goers in california and nine other states, believe the worst pictures of 1987 were ``ishtar,'' ``jaws: the revenge,'' ``leonard: part 6,'' ``tough guys don't dance'' and ``who's that girl?''
named for worst performances by an actor, besides bruce the shark, were cosby in ``leonard: part 6''; judd nelson in ``from the hip''; ryan o'neal in ``tough guys don't dance''; and stallone in ``over the top.''
worst actress nominations, in addition to madonna, went to sondra locke in ``ratboy''; lorraine gary in ``jaws''; debra sandlund in ``tough guys don't dance''; and sharon stone in ``allan quatermain and the lost city of gold.''
worst supporting actor nominees are billy barty in ``masters of the universe''; tom bosley, mack dryden and jamie alcroft, all of ``million dollar mystery''; michael caine in ``jaws: the revenge''; and david mendenhall in ``over the top.''
nominated for worst supporting actress are gloria foster, ``leonard: part 6''; daryl hannah, ``wall street''; mariel hemingway, ``superman iv''; grace jones, ``siesta''; and isabella rossellini, for both ``siesta'' and ``tough guys don't dance.''
worst director nominees were james foley for ``who's that girl?''; norman mailer for ``tough guys don't dance''; elaine may for ``ishtar''; joseph sargent for ``jaws: the revenge''; and paul weiland for ``leonard: part 6.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,429.95 points, up 84.29 points, on the tokyo stock exchange wednesday
the agriculture department is looking for state and local business partners to help share the cost of upgrading recreational facilities on national forest lands
f. dale robertson, chief of the department's forest service, said tuesday the move is in response to increasing demands for more recreational areas and service, and to help relieve pressures on federal spending
the squeezed budget is a factor,'' robertson told a news conference
a spokesman for an environmental group, the wilderness society, supported the agency's program but with some reservation
there definitely needs to be greater emphasis on recreation, and i would applaud efforts on the part of the forest service to increase the emphasis on recreation,'' said richard rice, a society economist. ``i would urge them to use caution in opening the door to private development, however.''
robertson said the ``challenge cost-share program'' was authorized by congress on a pilot basis at a level of $500,000 for the fiscal year that began last oct. 1. of that, $100,000 was earmarked for the tonto national forest near phoenix, ariz., with the remainder available to other regions to supplement money put up by local people, companies, state agencies, municipalities or other groups
some 31 recreation projects have been approved and will be under way this spring and summer he said. restoration and improvement of existing facilities, areas and trails are typical goals
the $500,000 of forest service seed money was met with $908,000 from various partners involved in the 31 pilot projects
one of the objectives of the program will be to provide more facilities on national forest land near cities
private investors will be encouraged to develop new campgrounds, marinas, ski areas. no increase in user fees is being proposed at this time, but that eventually will have to be faced, he said
asked if the plan means opening the door for major private development on national forest land, robertson replied:
yes, we are opening that door, but we also need to work with those private sector proposals to see if they fit into the overall scheme'' for recreation development
the forest service administers 191 million acres, or about 8{ percent of the u.s. total land area
robertson said the proposed budget that president reagan is scheduled to send congress on thursday for the 1989 fiscal year that will begin on oct. 1 will include $3 million for the recreation cost-share program, up from the $500,000 in pilot funds this year. one that began in 1986 for fish and wildlife will be requested at $5 million, compared with $1.5 million in fiscal 1988
cattle being fed for the slaughter market as of feb. 1 in the seven major beef states totaled 7.86 million head, up 8 percent from a year ago and 3 percent from two years ago, according to an agriculture department report
marketings of ``fed'' cattle in january totaled 1.76 million head, down 2 percent from a year ago but 1 percent above two years ago, the report said tuesday
the placement of new cattle and calves in fattening pens last month was reported at 1.66 million head, up 4 percent from a year ago and 5 percent more than in january 1986. the report said those were the largest january feedlot placements since 1974
as of feb. 1, feedlot inventories were larger than a year earlier in six states and down in iowa. the states account for about three-fourths of the nation's beef production
state feedlot cattle inventories are listed here for the seven states. the first number is the number of cattle, in thousands, as of feb. 1, and the second number is the percentage of a year earlier
arizona          341  104 california       400  111 colorado         865  107 iowa             655   98 kansas         1,390  107 nebraska       2,000  106 texas          2,205  113
the agriculture department has approved another field test of genetically altered tomato plants that can survive spraying of a chemical herbicide to kill surrounding weeds
james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said tuesday a permit for the field test was issued to e. i. du pont de nemours &amp; co., wilmington, del. the company expects to begin testing this spring near brandenton, fla
the plants were designed to tolerate sulfonylurea, described as a new class of low-risk chemical weed killers
the du pont field trial is the third test approved by the usda agency. previously, permits were issued to calgene inc., davis, calif., for tobacco and tomato plants that tolerate the herbicides bromoxynil and glyphosate
lucille ball passed a harvard university test with a little help from lucy ricardo
miss ball was named woman of the year by the hasty pudding theatricals, harvard's all-male revue, on tuesday
on stage before about 500 wildly appreciative fans, miss ball passed a trivia test about her alter ego in the 1950s sitcom ``i love lucy,'' which lives on in reruns
she couldn't remember the name of little ricky's baby-sitter (mrs. trumbull) but recalled husband ricky ricardo's theme song (``babalou'')
i've waited 20-some years to make this gig, and may i say it was worth it,'' miss ball, 76, told the standing-room-only crowd after a parade through harvard square past hundreds of admirers
she said she would fill the tiny brass pudding pot she received with potpourri and place it in her new york apartment
the hasty pudding club has named a woman of the year since 1951 and a man of the year since 1967. comedian steve martin will be honored feb. 23
star walk now has country singer dolly parton's footprints, handprints and a small rhinestone butterfly _ and that's all it's going to get
several people asked me if i was going to leave the prints of something else. i said, `heavens no!' i'm afraid some little kid might fall in it and get killed,'' the buxom entertainer said with a giggle during ceremonies tuesday attended by about 200 people
star walk, a year-old attraction at a new outdoor shopping complex, honors country artists who have won grammy awards
miss parton and the crew from her variety television show are in nashville this week to tape the season finale of ``dolly.''
madonna, sylvester stallone and bill cosby are among those nominated for an award they won't want to receive: the golden raspberry for complicity in last year's worst movies
norman mailer, who directed the film of his novel, ``tough guys don't dance,'' also took some lumps in nominations announced tuesday by the golden raspberry award foundation
the razzies, a lighthearted parody of the oscars, coincided with today's scheduled annual academy award nominations
stallone, the all-time razzie champ with four wins, continued the tradition with his arm-wrestling flick, ``over the top,'' which got three nominations, including worst actor
cosby received three nominations for star, author and producer of ``leonard: part 6,'' which he disavowed and almost no one saw. madonna, last year's worst actress winner, is a contender this year for ``who's that girl?,'' nominated for five razzies
in addition to worst director, ``tough guys don't dance'' was nominated for worst actress, debra sandlund, and worst supporting actress, isabella rossellini
the razzie ceremony will be held april 10. winners, if they dare to show up, will receive a trophy of a golf ball-size raspberry glued atop a film reel and spray-painted with gold
lillian gish received the national board of review's d.w. griffith career achievement award for acting in 105 movies over 75 years from best friend helen hayes, who praised her as a woman without fear
when miss gish, 91, was acting in the silent film ``way down east,'' she spent two winter days floating down a new england river on a real ice floe, her hand frostbitten as she trailed it in the water and tears frozen on her eyelashes, miss hayes recalled in presenting the award tuesday
the picture came out fine and that's all that mattered to lillian,'' said miss hayes, 91
miss gish, recovering from a fall last month, did not attend the ceremonies
the national board of review, founded in new york in 1909 to fight censorship and reward excellence in motion pictures, has presented d.w. griffith awards since 1917
johnny carson, back at his ``tonight show'' desk after a weeklong bout with the flu, apparently didn't suffer any damage to his funny bone
in his opening monologue tuesday night, carson said he asked a doctor who came to his home, ``how about some chicken soup?''
carson said the doctor replied, ``no, but if you wash your hands, why don't you make me a tuna melt on sourdough?''
carson also asked the studio audience how many had had a similar flu. when hands went up, he jokingly asked that they be moved to the back of the room
carson came in for rehearsal feb. 9 but left before doing the show. a ``best of carson'' rerun was shown that night and comic jay leno rushed back from florida to sit in as guest host
carson spent the week recovering at his malibu home, said nbc-tv spokesman charles barrett
former antitrust chief douglas h. ginsburg dealt with 16 different cable industry matters while holding cable stock but either his role or his chance for personal gain was too small to violate federal conflict-of-interest laws, the justice department says
the department's decision not to request appointment of an independent counsel for further investigation of the former supreme court nominee was detailed in a 116-page report released tuesday
the report by assistant attorney general william f. weld, head of the department's criminal division, summarized the results of a three-month inquiry in which justice and fbi officials interviewed more than 50 people, including ginsburg
ginsburg did not return telephone calls seeking his reaction, but his lawyers had joined the department in asking that the report be released to the public
the report was released by the division of the u.s. circuit court of appeals here that appoints independent counsels to investigate alleged wrongdoing by high federal officials
but the justice department's office of government ethics says it wants to read the report before deciding whether to do or say anything about the case, according to its general counsel, donald campbell
separate from the criminal sanctions, a presidential executive order prohibits actions that might give an appearance of conflict. the penalty for violating this is administrative discipline
but ginsburg has since become a member of the judicial branch, sitting on the u.s. court of appeals here. all the ethics office or any other executive branch agency could do now is issue a letter or reprimand for a former employee
weld said the department conducted a preliminary inquiry into three matters that had been reported in news accounts. in addition, department investigators came up with 13 other instances of ginsburg's involvement in cable issues, but weld said these did not even merit a preliminary inquiry
ginsburg withdrew from consideration as a supreme court justice last november after he acknowledged that he had smoked marijuana while a professor at harvard law school
the investigation covered a period from 1983 to 1986 in which he was either assistant attorney general in charge of justice's antitrust division or a deputy to the chief
during this period, his only substantial stock holding was about $140,000 worth of rogers communications, inc., a canadian-based cable operator which is also among the top 15 u.s. cable operators
the news reports about the cable dealings triggered the justice inquiry that began last november and was concluded with the feb. 6 report released tuesday. the marijuana use was not a subject in the inquiry because no federal laws were violated
in one of the newly disclosed instances, weld concluded that ginsburg's stock in rogers communications, inc. might have risen in value as a result of ginsburg's participation in a copyright infringement case before the supreme court
he said ginsburg's participation, including ordering a brief opposing supreme court review of the case and editing an early draft, was substantial as required by the conflict-of-interest laws
and weld said that case might have relieved rogers of paying some fees for transmitting copyright programs over its cable systems. ``judge ginsburg, through his ownership of class b shares of rci, may have had an interest in rci's no longer paying the transmission fee,'' weld wrote
but weld added that ``any such interest would be remote, direct and infinitesimal.'' in addition, he said, ginsburg did not appear to be aware of his financial interest
in one case in which the department did conduct a preliminary inquiry, weld concluded that ginsburg participated personally and substantially in a friend-of-the-court brief to the supreme court. in that case, the high court for the first time extended first amendment protection to cable operators
but weld said officials questioned by the department differed on whether and how much rogers would be helped or hurt by this ruling
in two previously reported matters involving comments filed by the antitrust division with the federal communications commission, weld concluded that ginsburg's role was ``tangential and unimportant'' in one case and ``insubstantial'' in the other
weld handled the matter as acting attorney general because attorney general edwin meese iii and four other more senior justice department officials decided to take no part in the case
an unsually large soviet pledge of 250,000 tons of grain to famine-plagued ethiopia has generated surprise among u.s. officials but concern over who will pay for delivery
the u.s. agency for international development has officially welcomed the soviet commitment, pointing out that it has encouraged all potential donors to make a contribution to easing ethiopia's plight
as one of the world's largest grain importers, it is somewhat unusual for moscow to play the role of food donor. but ethiopia is a close kremlin ally and has benefited for years from western food conributions
according to agriculture department figures, the soviet union is expected to purchase about 32 million tons of grain during the year ending next june 30. but soviet grain harvests have been comparatively good during 1986-87, surpassing 200 million tons in consecutive years for the first time
the soviet pledge was made three weeks ago, generating surprise here because the largest previous donation by moscow to ethiopia was 10,000 metric tons of rice during the 1984-85 famine
the latest food shortage is primarily the result of a severe drought last summer
the 250,000-ton pledge exceeds the u.s. commitment by about 3,000 tons. an a.i.d. statement said the combined contribution of western nations exceeds half a million tons
the major unanswered question u.s. officials are asking is who will pick up the cost of distributing the soviet deliveries
a.i.d. said it would have no objection if private voluntary organizations working in ethiopia help in distribution of the soviet grains, but no request has been made thus far
we naturally assume that the soviets will fund the cost of distribution as a.i.d. has done for food provided by the u.s. government,'' the agency said, estimating at $25 million the cost of delivering the soviet shipments
a u.s. official said that the soviets have provided transport aircraft to ethiopia for food distribution in the past, as well as trucks and soviet drivers
home prices skyrocketed in many northeastern cities last year, propelled by that region's prosperous economy, while prices were falling in depressed farm and energy regions, according to a survey by a real estate trade group
the national association of realtors said tuesday that prices on existing homes rose 5.1 percent to a national average of $84,300 at the close of last year, slightly ahead of consumer inflation, which was up 4.4 percent in 1987
but the nationwide average masked widespread geographic differences. home prices shot up 32.2 percent in providence, r.i., six times the national average. three other eastern cities, albany, n.y., hartford, conn., and washington, also saw home prices climb by 18 percent or more
but the association said its survey of 53 metropolitan areas found 14 cities where prices fell during the year. this list was dominated by areas dependent on farming and energy industries
houston suffered the biggest price decline, a drop of 7.2 percent, followed by declines of 5.6 percent in oklahoma city and 5.5 percent in des moines. des moines was ranked as the most affordable place to buy a home last year with a median price of $52,000
at the top of the price scale were new york city, with a mid-point price of $180,800, and boston, with a selling price of $178,600 at the end of last year. these two cities have held the top two price positions for the past two years
despite volatile mortgage rates and the october collapse of the stock market, home sales remained near eight-year highs last year. sales totaled 3.885 million units in 1987, down a tiny 0.3 percent from 1986. both years represented the fastest sales pace since 4.05 million homes were sold in 1979
alaska and louisiana, two states which had suffered a big slump in sales because of depressed energy industries, enjoyed a rebound last year, leading the country along with massachusetts with the largest percentage gains
sales in alaska rose 26.2 percent and were up 18.8 percent in louisiana and massachusetts. twenty-two states had sales increases last year
others enjoying big gains were georgia, with an 18.5 percent increase and north dakota and maine, with advances of 17.9 percent and 14.3 percent respectively
the northeast continues as the strongest region but we saw considerable strength in the south and midwest, two areas which had been lagging the rest of the country,'' said john tuccillo, chief economist for the realtors group
twenty-two states suffered sales declines last year, led by a 13.8 percent drop in washington state, a decline which erased a 15.5 percent gain of the previous year. sales fell 13.3 percent in virginia, followed by declines of 9.7 percent in both maryland and oklahoma
analysts said that one factor which pushed up 1986 sales was a last-minute rush to close sales and reap capital gains profits before the new tax law took effect on jan. 1, 1987
tuccillo predicted that price increases nationwide should be lower than the 5.1 percent rise in 1987 with sales expected to decline by around 8 percent, in part because of slower economic growth
tuccillo predicted that the northeast will continue to have the highest home prices of any region, but he said the rate of increase should slow
a leveling off is occurring after a long period of overheated activity,'' he said. ``the losses incurred by those in the new york financial community are still having a lagging effect on home buying in that area.''
the new u.s.-soviet nuclear missile pact is seriously flawed but its defeat in the senate would be a politically unacceptable blow to the unity of the nato alliance, two national security experts say
richard perle, who recently stepped down as assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, is trying to persuade the senate to change the medium-range missile treaty
he told the senate foreign relations committee on tuesday that the pact should permit the united states to deploy medium-range, ground-launched cruise missiles armed with non-nuclear explosives
but perle said that if it became clear such an amendment would have the effect of killing the treaty, ``i would not favor it.''
retired army gen. bernard rogers, until recently the supreme allied commander in europe, told the committee that he believes the treaty overall will have an adverse impact on the military situation in europe. he said u.s. pershing missiles, which are to be destroyed under the treaty, are the one weapon that can strike with assurance deep into soviet territory from western europe
but he said the senate is faced with a no-win situation because it would be almost impossible politically for the united states to keep its medium-range nuclear missile force in europe, even if the treaty were defeated
i would say that failure to ratify might well have a major negative impact on nato and the future viability of the alliance,'' rogers said
he said the alliance must now insist on modernizing its force of short-range nuclear weapons remaining in europe as a hedge against soviet aggression
both perle and rogers questioned whether soviet compliance with the new treaty could be adequately verified
but in closed-door hearings before the senate intelligence committee, a different sort of worry surfaced about the treaty's verifications provisions
the concern centered on the on-site inspection provisions of the treaty, which apply to both sides and permit teams of soviet officials access to certain u.s. missile facilities
i think on-site inspection presents problems,'' said one committee source. ``one of the things we're trying to figure out is how to keep tabs on the soviets who are coming here
it's for sure they're going to be interested in a lot more than looking at disneyland,'' the source said, speaking on condition he not be identified by name
the fbi has responsibility for counter-intelligence, but fbi officials have balked at taking on the job of watching the soviet inspectors, said committee sources
instead, they reported, fbi officials have suggested that the army should be given the task
meanwhile, sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee, reporting on a week-long trip by senate leaders to europe, said he found a european consensus for modernizing short-range nuclear weapons, but no agreement on which weapons to build
majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said european leaders told the senators ``that the inf treaty should be approved without amendments and that following that, nato should proceed with modernizing those ground-based nuclear weapons that are eligible under the treaty.''
attorney general edwin meese iii will decide ``as promptly as he can'' whether two detroit newspapers should be allowed to merge their business and production operations
on tuesday, the last day for filing briefs before the case went to meese, attorneys for the detroit news and the detroit free press said denial of the joint operating agreement application would result in the closure of the 156-year-old free press and the loss of 2,200 newspaper jobs
under a joint operating agreement, the newspapers would split profits and combine their advertising, circulation and production departments, but would retain separate news and editorial departments
the newspapers said a joint operating agreement would result in the elimination of 600 to 1,000 jobs
the application was filed under the newspaper preservation act, designed to prop up newspapers in danger of financial failure as a means of preserving competing editorial voices in cities
the issue is decided in a quasi-judicial process, with the justice department's antitrust division presenting arguments against the proposed agreement and the newspapers arguing for it. the attorney general acts as an impartial judge in making the final ruling on the application
mark sheehan, justice department spokesman, said meese ``will act as promptly as he can,'' but that he probably will want his staff to review and analyze the case first
the news is owned by gannett co. and the free press is owned by knight-ridder inc. the two papers have long been locked in a battle for newspaper dominance in detroit
the news, which is the larger newspaper, has lost $75 million since 1979, and the free press has lost $100 million, according to knight-ridder
final briefs by the newspapers and the antitrust division included discussion of the weight meese should give to a decision in january by directors of knight-ridder to close the free press if a joa is disapproved
the antitrust division contends that when the newspapers announced their application for the joint operating agreement in 1986, knight-ridder was willing to continue subsidizing the free press
whether a newspaper is failing within the meaning of the (newspaper preservation act) should properly be determined as of the time it enters into a joa agreement, not on the basis of decisions made in the face of subsequent failure to win approval under the statute,'' the division said
the newspapers countered that the board's announcement made it clear that ``the choice now is between a joa and the certain closure of the free press.''
local 22 of the newspaper guild, which represents editorial employees, voted 349-84 monday night to continue opposition to the joa
but a brief filed by the newspapers included statements by five other unions representing news and free press employees, withdrawing opposition to the proposed agreement
those unions said ``the joa is the only way to assure the survival of the free press and the preservation of two independent editorial voices in detroit.''
u.s. trade officials have reiterated to japan that they will not extend a four-year agricultural quota agreement beyond its march 31 expiration date
the agreement includes japanese quotas on imports of american beef and citrus fruit, restrictions to which u.s. officials now object
japanese agriculture ministry official hidero maki was informed of the u.s. position during a visit here last week, said gary holmes, a spokesman for the u.s. trade representative's office
u.s. refusal to extend the four-year quota agreement carried the implied threat of taking japanese import barriers against u.s. citrus and beef before the international panel that resolves disputes under the general agreement on tariffs and trade, known as gatt. u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter has said that possibility would be considered
the expiring quotas cover fresh beef and fruit. the united states earlier asked for a gatt ruling on japanese restrictions on the import of 12 categories of processed u.s. foodstuffs. officials said during the visit of prime minister noboru takeshita last month that japan would abide by gatt findings
imports of foreign agricultural products are a sensitive political issue in japan because of resistance from strong rural factions of takeshita's governing liberal-democratic party
although japan is already the best customer for american farm products, u.s. officials maintain that the huge u.s. trade deficit with japan and high consumer prices for home-grown foodstuffs justify a freer japanese market for imports
interest rates on short-term treasury securities edged up in the latest auction to the highest level in two weeks
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills tuesday at an average discount rate of 5.73 percent, up from 5.63 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 6.03 percent, up from 5.85 percent last week
the rates were the highest since feb. 1, when three-month bills sold for 5.74 percent and six-month bills averaged 6.11 percent
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.91 percent for three-month bills, with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,855.20 and 6.32 percent for six-month bills selling for $9,695.20
in a separate report, the federal reserve said tuesday that the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate home mortgages, fell to 6.59 percent last week after averaging 6.65 percent the week before
gardiner c. means, an economist and author whose work influenced much of the economic thinking of the new deal, has died at the age of 91
means died monday of complications from a stroke suffered six months ago
widely regarded as the father of the theory of administered prices, means was the author with adolph a. berle of ``the modern corporation and private property,'' a study of the behavior of major u.s. corporations
he came to washington with the new deal as economics adviser to former secretary of agriculture henry a. wallace. he held a variety of posts before leaving the government in 1943
since 1958 he had been an independent economics consultant, analyst and author specializing in the study of how the corporate economy functions
he first published his theories on administered prices during the 1930s, and they gained wide circulation in the 1950s and 1960s
according to the theory, certain corporate giants in industries such as oil, steel and automobile manufacturing and some labor unions have wide discretion over prices they set on their products and their members' labor
they are able to set and hold _ or ``administer'' _ prices without regard to fluctuations in demand. he observed that profit levels were maintained simply by decreasing production and thereby reducing costs when demand fell
he is survived by his wife, caroline f. ware
former television evangelist pat robertson showed his strength in statewide precinct meetings that drew a record turnout, republican officials said
the precinct meetings are the first step in the process leading up to the republican national convention in august. those participating in the meetings will choose the delegates to go to county conventions and discuss what should be in the state's platform
although the delegates eventually chosen to go to the national convention will be bound by the result of the gop primary march 8, the campaigns want good showings for their candidates at the precinct meetings
robertson had a good night around the state,'' said tom cole, state gop chairman. ``in rural areas, in the south and east, robertson clearly was the winner
he probably got 60 to 70 percent. that's not large numbers but it's more than we have had in previous years.''
cole said tuesday night that party officials didn't know exactly how many people attended the meetings, but the figure could be as high as 28,000, compared with between 12,000 and 13,000 last time
one republican official said monday that robertson supporters had been told to ``flood the precinct meetings.''
we want as many delegates as possible at the convention,'' said tommy garrett, who is working for robertson in oklahoma city. ``we've been burned in conventions before. we always have trouble when we hit the convention floor with the party establishment.''
those attending the precinct meetings selected delegates to the county conventions, where delegates to the district and state conventions are chosen
each district will elect three delegates and three alternates to the national convention
the state convention will pick 18 delegates-at-large and 18 alternates to the national convention
republican county conventions are scheduled for march 5, with congressional district meetings march 26 and the party's state convention april 16. the national convention is aug. 15-18
reports of my death were greatly exaggerated.'' _ george bush, who racked up a sound win in the republican primary after a third-place finish in iowa
we went for the gold and we won it.'' _ massachusetts gov. michael dukakis on his first-place finish in new hampshire's democratic primary
we'll live to fight another day.'' _ bob dole, who beat bush 2-1 in iowa last week but lost to him in new hampshire
the only thing we didn't carry was the boston suburbs.'' _ democrat richard gephardt, who finished a distant second to dukakis, barely edging out paul simon
this is not helping.'' _ paul simon, on the difference his slim loss to gephardt will make in his fund-raising efforts
we finished third in new hampshire. we're going to finish first in new orleans.'' _ jack kemp, saying he would continue his gop campaign
tomorrow morning we go into the south and they're going to be playing in my backyard.'' _ pat robertson, the former television evangelist from virginia
as far ahead in the future as i can see.'' _ gary hart, who garnered little support in new hampshire, asked how long he would stay in the race
how ... can we keep this reform movement alive? should i wage a guerrilla campaign or should i withdraw or do something else? '' _ bruce babbitt, another low democratic finisher, on whether he'll quit
we're talking about that.'' _ jesse jackson, suggesting that bruce babbitt might endorse him if the former arizona governor decides to withdraw
the fact of the matter is, i don't have a southern strategy. i don't have a northern strategy or a western strategy. i have an american strategy.'' _ dukakis, on the next battle in the super tuesday states
people think of bush as someone just representing whatever reagan does, and they like that,'' lewis said. _ los angeles times polling chief i.a. lewis, on the reasons for the vice president's win
this has been a terrific evening for us here in new hampshire.'' _ republican pete du pont, who picked up 10 percent in new hampshire, putting him roughly in a tie for last with pat robertson among republicans
i don't think he was the winner. dole won by coming within 10 points. there was no question that george bush should have done at least 20 points better than any other candidate.'' _ alexander haig, who dropped out of the gop race last week and threw his support to dole
on to the south, where we're going to rise again.'' _ bush
thank you, new hampshire.'' _ bush again
it's better to win, and i congratulate the winner.'' _ bob dole
yeah, quit lying about my record.'' _ dole, asked if he had anything to say to bush. detail on how standoff was ended, other detail. corrects spelling of hospital spokeswoman to freyer, sted fryer, in 4th graf pvs, `the social...'. no pickup.</note>
a woman seeking psychiatric help in a hospital emergency room suddenly shot a social worker to death with a handgun and held three people hostage before surrendering tuesday night, police said
edith anderson, 31, of suburban rankin was arrested on homicide and related charges in st. francis medical center in the city's bloomfield neighborhood at about 10:15 p.m., according to police cmdr. ron freeman
ms. anderson apparently was sitting with hospital caseworker linda rosen, 27, of pittsburgh in the psychiatric waiting area of the emergency room at about 8:55 p.m. when she shot miss rosen without warning, according to police and to hospital spokeswoman shirley freyer
the social worker was talking to this woman and ... there didn't seem to be any conflict, and a security guard turned around and heard four gunshots,'' mrs. freyer said. ``they were sitting, i assume, side by side.''
after the shooting, ms. anderson took two women and a man hostage and held them for more than an hour before they were released unharmed, police said. the hostages, who were not identified, were waiting at the emergency room for a relative who was being treated, police said
everyone else in the emergency room was evacuated. the people who were being seen in treatment rooms were taken out,'' mrs. freyer said
freeman said ms. anderson came to the hospital by herself seeking psychiatric care
police chief ralph pampena said four to six shots were fired
after that, he said, ms. anderson went into a restroom and pointed a handgun through a slightly opened door at the people seated nearby, ordering them not to move
police entered the emergency room and began talking to ms. anderson in the bathroom, who allowed them to remove the wounded caseworker, pampena said. miss rosen died before getting medical treatment, he said
pampena said ms. anderson first let one of the three hostages go free, then asked to talk to eddie edwards, a popular local television talk show host. when edwards arrived, the woman freed the other two hostages, police said. officers then managed to distract her enough to be able to close the restroom door on her, and eventually persuaded her to surrender
police said the woman was being questioned by homicide detectives during the night. no time had been set for an arraignment and bail hearing
late-deciding republican voters confounded the polls and boosted george bush to his convincing victory over sen. bob dole in the new hampshire presidential primary, analysts say
voters who made their choice in the race's final days went strongly for bush, in part because of his superior campaign organization, his ties to the reagan administration and his experience in office, exit polls indicated tuesday
the result was a 9-point victory for the vice president, after some polls had shown him leading dole just barely, by 4 points in a cbs news-new york times poll and 2 points in an abc news-washington post survey
the voters of new hampshire have a well-deserved reputation of upsetting poll results, and tonight was a good example of that,'' said nbc news pollster laurily epstein. ``people change their minds, and you can't poll for that.''
an nbc news-wall street journal exit poll found that 14 percent of the gop voters in new hampshire made up their minds on primary day, with 36 percent going for bush and 29 percent for dole. another 11 percent decided during the weekend, breaking 44 percent for bush to 31 percent for dole
it was the undecideds. the undecideds went for bush,'' said john berrigan, a poll analyst for abc news. a key reason: bush's identification with president reagan, who is very popular among new hampshire republicans
the reagan coattails were there,'' said jerry strom, an nbc news poll consultant. ``people who like reagan were going strongly for bush.''
nbc's exit poll supported that contention. three-quarters of republicans said they wanted the nation to stay on the course set by reagan; 88 percent of bush's supporters held that view, compared with 66 percent of dole's
there were fewer reagan backers in iowa, and more of them went for dole than for bush, albeit narrowly, in the precinct caucuses feb. 8. dole won big there while bush suffered a third-place embarrassment
berrigan said new hampshire's economic vitality could explain reagan's popularity in that state, and its benefit for bush. ``you may have a kind of status quo phenomenon going on here, a belief that there may be a threat if i don't go with someone who's following the same line,'' he said
perhaps for similar reasons, a third of republicans said experience was the chief factor in their vote, and 54 percent of them voted for bush, to 37 percent for dole, the cbs-times poll said. dole won among republicans looking chiefly for a strong leader, with 48 percent to 21 percent for bush, but that group made up just 19 percent of the gop total
another key for bush was his extensive campaign organization in new hampshire. the cbs-times poll found that 47 percent of bush's backers said they had been asked to vote for him by someone in his organization, while just 26 percent of dole's supporters reported contact by the dole campaign
i think the thing that won it for bush was his organization,'' said warren mitofsky, polling chief at cbs news
while the polls did not anticipate the extent of bush's victory, mitofsky said they did identify trends in the race: bush way ahead before the iowa caucuses, dropping sharply after losing to dole and pat robertson in iowa, then halting his slide and rebounding during the weekend
speaking on cbs, bush credited his victory to a surge of support in the last 48 hours. ``i learned from that, fight back. fight on,'' he said. ``it's taught me a good lesson: do not be discouraged by the polling numbers.''
the exit poll results were less remarkable on the democratic side, where michael dukakis won handily, as expected. abc had him winning all ideological groups and beating his opponents soundly in organization
the poll results also indicated dukakis' backyard advantage. abc said 55 percent of democrats rated dukakis above average as governor of neighboring massachusetts, and 59 percent of them voted for him. moreover, the cbs-times poll found that 20 percent of new hampshire's democratic voters moved there from massachusetts, and four in 10 of them went for dukakis
rep. richard gephardt's second-place finish appeared to be aided by his first-place showing in iowa. of the voters who made up their minds after iowa, 27 percent went to gephardt, 26 percent to dukakis and 20 percent to sen. paul simon, who finished second in iowa and third in new hampshire
george bush, the formal, patrician republican whose presidential bid had been thrown into sudden peril with a trouncing in iowa, stood in the lot at cuzzin richie's truckstop
this is the real me,'' he insisted, climbing into the cab of an 18-wheeler. ``this is my home turf.''
it was three days after the vice president had been crushed in an embarrassing third-place finish in last week's iowa caucuses. bob dole, riding the wave out of iowa, was surging here in new hampshire
but then came the new george bush and his new campaign. with a u-turn in style and approach, bush came back and blunted dole's surge with a big victory in tuesday's new hampshire primary
bush's formidable organization swung into high gear. the vice president's association with president reagan, which had hurt him in iowa, proved a big plus here _ one that bush milked for all it was worth
and an eleventh-hour advertising campaign, attacking dole and touting the support of barry goldwater, helped bring him back from the edge of the abyss
the vice president went from a 20-point edge over dole before iowa to as much as 8 points behind. but the tracking polls said dole peaked about friday, the day the bush campaign hit the airwaves with a new ad accusing dole of ``straddling'' major issues
in nearly final returns tuesday, bush held a 9-point margin over bush: 38-29
on the night of his big defeat in iowa, bush seemed stunned. asked if his big entourage, secret service protection and arms-length style were getting in the way of reaching the people, bush answered that he wasn't sure
still shaky the next day, bush started before dawn to greet workers at a factory gate. but few workers used that entrance and bush spent a good portion of the time talking to reporters
then bush tried out a new slogan: ``i'm one of you.'' born in new england and with a home in neighboring maine, bush appealed to granite state voters as his neighbors. but he drifted away from the slogan, which was too close to the ``he's one of us'' theme dole had used in iowa
then, 36 hours after iowa, new hampshire voters saw the new george bush
canceling a swing through the south, bush flew back in from his weekly lunch in washington with president reagan and went to the giant pheasant lane shopping mall in nashua to shake hands late wednesday
munching a chocolate-chip cookie, bush shook hands with dozens of voters and heard some of them say he had their vote
that's good to hear,'' he told one supporter. ``it's a good morale booster.''
with that, gone were the formal events, the speeches, the ``town meetings'' with the carefully orchestrated crowds
now it was the informal george and ``impromptu campaign stops.''
the first came at the east coast lumberyard in east hampstead, n.h. there, in a casual coat and a cap, bush shook hands with customers and staff and drove a giant forklift around the yard. it was all for the benefit of the media, so the voters could see bush mixing with people and doing everyday tasks
then it was onto cuzzin richie's, near portsmouth on the seacoast. he talked to truckers and drove a semi-rig around the block _ with a secret service man hanging off the mirror and the armored limousine right behind
to go with the new freewheeling style were tough new ads hitting at dole
one labeled dole as a man who had straddled the issues of taxes, the inf treaty and an oil import fee
another _ a five-minute election-eve buy _ featured barry goldwater, known as mr. conservative, backing bush. still another hit at dole for backing a national economic commission
that ``exists to provide political cover for a tax hike. if it doesn't recommend a tax increase, i'll not only eat my hat, i'll eat bob dole's hat,'' bush said in the ad
bush continued to campaign in malls and stores and nursing homes, reaching out to people directly, in the retail campaigning style that the state once insisted upon. he brought baseball great ted williams to the state to add a celebrity touch to the final days
all the while, his well-respected organization was cranking away at high speed, focused on getting its 40,000 potential supporters to the polls
the final piece of the puzzle was bush himself
a private man in a public job, bush was forced to begin talking about himself _ not as a public official, but as a person
mostly these days, i think of lincoln _ `here i stand, warts and all,'' he told a group of senior citizens in portsmouth
i have a tendency _ and i will confess to it _ to avoid going on and on with great eloquent statements of belief. there may be better orators out there, but nobody believes more strongly. ... maybe in some ways, i'm a little more taciturn than i could be,'' he said
i care too much to quit now. ... so can you help me?''
new hampshire republicans heard and heeded that plea. and women killed, man carrying handguns, details on woman's shooting; picks up 9th graf, `at least ...'; subs grafs 14-15, `one of ...' with 1 graf to conform to editing changes; picks up penulimate graf, ``it was ...</note>
a former employee of a silicon valley defense contractor fatally shot seven people and wounded five others at the company's offices tuesday, including a woman who had spurned him, authorities said
the man, identified by police as richard wade farley, 39, surrendered after barricading himself inside the building for about six hours. three officers grabbed him as he walked out with his hands in the air and he was taken to the santa clara county jail in nearby san jose
employees dove under desks and inside closets as the gunman shot his way into the two-story esl corp. buiding, witnesses said
as the siege continued into the evening, police negotiators talked by telephone with the man, who at times was tearful and ``expressed a little remorse'' for his actions, said lt. tom moore of the sunnyvale public safety department
two women and five men were killed, said alex michaelis, commander of the safety department. they were not immediately identified
the gunman, who was fired from the company three years ago, had called police and said he shot three people on the first floor ``and as many on the second floor,'' said capt. al scott of the safety department. he was armed with a rifle, shotgun and two handguns, scott said
one woman was listed in critical condition; two others were in good condition. the condition of two other victims was not immediately available
the gunman said he entered the building planning to destroy equipment but began shooting employees because ``he felt threatened by them,'' according to lt. rueben grijalva, the chief police negotiator
on the second floor, he saw laura black, the woman who had rejected his advances, grijalva said. she slammed an office door in his face and he shot her through the door, wounding her in the shoulder
at least three people had been reported holed up in a computer room and making telephone calls to police, while others were able to escape
the shooting began about 2:30 p.m. at the subsidiary of trw, about 40 miles south of san francisco, near san jose
i saw a man walk up and i didn't really pay attention and then just shortly later i heard bang, large bangs, and i realized it must be shots,'' said witness norma kessler, who hid in her office
i was in the office by myself and i closed the door and it locked and i got underneath my desk and i must have heard about 50 different shots over a period of time. i must have been in there maybe 20 minutes, something like that.''
nearby, police found a motor home they believe was driven by the gunman. inside, officers found a quantity of ammunition, full cans of gasoline and other explosive material, scott said
black had been a target of farley's affections for about four years, moore said. farley, who worked at esl as a computer software technician, reportedly followed black and black had tried to obtain a restraining order to keep him away, he said. the two were never believed to have dated, he said
it was described to me a situation that had turned into harassment. he had, according to him, had given her a warning and she didn't heed the warning and he said this was his way of making a point,'' scott said
esl, or electro-magnetic science lab, was established in 1964 and specializes in electronic warfare systems for the navy, most of them highly classified. products include recognizance systems, data-communications systems, computer simulation and image processing
the reagan administration says withdrawal of some warships in the persian gulf represents a ``fine-tuning'' of the u.s. presence, but it also is voicing concern over the conduct of iraqi forces in the region
there are currently 28 ships in the region, but the helicopter carrier okinawa, the battleship iowa and two escorts are coming home without being replaced, assistant secretary of defense richard armitage said tuesday
our mission of protecting u.s. flag ships in the gulf remains unchanged,'' armitage said. ``we don't think the (overall) threat has abated. however, we think we've learned a lot of lessons in the mine-sweeping area and this allows us primarily to pull out (some of the ships).''
armitage said the pentagon no longer thinks it needs mine-sweeping helicopters along with mine-sweeping ships, clearing the way for the okinawa's departure
armitage, in charge of international security affairs, also said the united states already had protested to baghdad an incident saturday in which an iraqi jet fired a missile near a u.s. destroyer
he said the administration planned to send a team of military officials to iraq later this week to discuss the matter further
armitage also said that the administration had no plans to offer military protection to u.s.-owned ships flying foreign flags
in santa barbara, calif., white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``this represents a fine-tuning of our position in the gulf and not a policy change that would be reflected in overall forces or in other countries' actions.''
the remarks by armitage were the first reflecting official administration concern about iraqi military operations near u.s. ships. the united states thought it had won iraqi agreement after the deadly attack on the uss stark last may to keep jet fighters roughly 40 miles away from american warships
in saturday's incident, an iraqi jet failed to respond to navy radio calls and fired a missile that passed close to the destroyer chandler during a convoy operation
armitage announced other moves that had been previously outlined jan. 26:
_the aircraft carrier enterprise has just replaced the carrier midway in the northern arabian sea, making it easier to order the iowa home. the enterprise is a much larger, nuclear-powered carrier with a larger air wing than that aboard the midway
_the command ship of the middle east force, the lasalle, will soon be replaced in a routine rotation by the coronado
_the amphibious landing ship portland is being replaced by the amphibious landing ship trenton, which will be carrying marine cobra attack copters. 4th graf pvs bgng, trading volume ...</note>
the u.s. dollar closed lower against the japanese yen in tokyo wednesday, while stock prices posted moderate gains
the dollar closed at 130.11 yen, down 0.09 yen from tuesday's close of 130.50, after beginning the day's trading at 130.30 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-issue nikkei stock average, which rose 138.19 points tuesday, gained 84.29 points or 0.35 percent to close at 24,429.95
trading volume in the morning session was estimated at 400 million shares, up from the 340 million shares traded in tuesday's morning session
currency trading was dull because there are no new developments to move the market, said shigeki kawano, a senior currency trader at mitsubishi bank
following the release last friday of favorable u.s. trade figures for december, export-oriented shares like electronics posted gains in morning trading. investors also purchased supermarket and department store stocks, reflecting a positive trend in retail issues, dealers said
late-deciding republican voters confounded the polls and boosted george bush to his convincing victory over sen. bob dole in the new hampshire presidential primary, analysts say
voters who made their choice in the race's final days went strongly for bush, in part because of his superior campaign organization, his ties to the reagan administration and his experience in office, exit polls indicated tuesday
the result was a 9-point victory for the vice president, after some polls had shown him leading dole just barely, by 4 points in a cbs news-new york times poll and 2 points in an abc news-washington post survey
the voters of new hampshire have a well-deserved reputation of upsetting poll results, and tonight was a good example of that,'' said nbc news pollster laurily epstein. ``people change their minds, and you can't poll for that.''
an nbc news-wall street journal exit poll found that 14 percent of the gop voters in new hampshire made up their minds on primary day, with 36 percent going for bush and 29 percent for dole. another 11 percent decided during the weekend, breaking 44 percent for bush to 31 percent for dole
it was the undecideds. the undecideds went for bush,'' said john berrigan, a poll analyst for abc news. a key reason: bush's identification with president reagan, who is very popular among new hampshire republicans
the reagan coattails were there,'' said jerry strom, an nbc news poll consultant. ``people who like reagan were going strongly for bush.''
nbc's exit poll supported that contention. three-quarters of republicans said they wanted the nation to stay on the course set by reagan; 88 percent of bush's supporters held that view, compared with 66 percent of dole's
there were fewer reagan backers in iowa, and more of them went for dole than for bush, albeit narrowly, in the precinct caucuses feb. 8. dole won big there while bush suffered a third-place embarrassment
berrigan said new hampshire's economic vitality could explain reagan's popularity in that state, and its benefit for bush. ``you may have a kind of status quo phenomenon going on here, a belief that there may be a threat if i don't go with someone who's following the same line,'' he said
perhaps for similar reasons, a third of republicans said experience was the chief factor in their vote, and 54 percent of them voted for bush, to 37 percent for dole, the cbs-times poll said. dole won among republicans looking chiefly for a strong leader, with 48 percent to 21 percent for bush, but that group made up just 19 percent of the gop total
another key for bush was his extensive campaign organization in new hampshire. the cbs-times poll found that 47 percent of bush's backers said they had been asked to vote for him by someone in his organization, while just 26 percent of dole's supporters reported contact by the dole campaign
i think the thing that won it for bush was his organization,'' said warren mitofsky, polling chief at cbs news
while the polls did not anticipate the extent of bush's victory, mitofsky said they did identify trends in the race: bush way ahead before the iowa caucuses, dropping sharply after losing to dole and pat robertson in iowa, then halting his slide and rebounding during the weekend
speaking on cbs, bush credited his victory to a surge of support in the last 48 hours. ``i learned from that, fight back. fight on,'' he said. ``it's taught me a good lesson: do not be discouraged by the polling numbers.''
the exit poll results were less remarkable on the democratic side, where michael dukakis won handily, as expected. abc had him winning all ideological groups and beating his opponents soundly in organization
the poll results also indicated dukakis' backyard advantage. abc said 55 percent of democrats rated dukakis above average as governor of neighboring massachusetts, and 59 percent of them voted for him. moreover, the cbs-times poll found that 20 percent of new hampshire's democratic voters moved there from massachusetts, and four in 10 of them went for dukakis
rep. richard gephardt's second-place finish appeared to be aided by his first-place showing in iowa. of the voters who made up their minds after iowa, 27 percent went to gephardt, 26 percent to dukakis and 20 percent to sen. paul simon, who finished second in iowa and third in new hampshire. delegates</head>
republican george bush and democrat michael dukakis leave new hampshire today with a slight bump in their delegate totals that keeps them both on top in the race for their parties' presidential nominations
but the lift from the early primaries and caucuses is more psychological than tangible as the candidates pursue the 1,139 delegates needed to win the republican presidential nomination or the 2,082 delegates for the democratic nomination
vice president bush, who picked up 38 percent of the republican vote in tuesday's primary, gained 11 of new hampshire's 23 delegates to the gop national convention. in all, bush now has 61 delegates
dukakis, who got 36 percent of the democratic vote in the primary, won 9 of the state's 18 pledged delegates to that national convention. the massachusetts governor has 44.5 delegates
senate republican leader bob dole of kansas gained 7 delegates in new hampshire to bring his national total to 42, while rep. jack kemp of new york won 3 delegates to raise his total to 35
rep. richard gephardt of missouri, the winner of last week's iowa democratic caucuses, gained 6 national convention delegates for his second-place showing in new hampshire, and sen. paul simon of illinois followed with 3 delegates. in the popular vote in new hampshire, gephardt won 20 percent while simon had 17 percent
gephardt now has 39 delegates, while simon has 33
under democratic party rules, the national convention delegates were awarded proportionally to candidates who receive at least 15 percent of the vote. in effect, that disqualified jesse jackson, sen. albert gore of tennessee, former arizona gov. bruce babbitt and former colorado sen. gary hart from receiving any delegates from new hampshire
jackson won 8 percent of the vote, gore 7 percent, babbitt 5 percent and hart 4 percent
new hampshire republicans have a similar rule, but the threshold is 10 percent. that meant former delaware gov. pete du pont, who had 10.1 percent, picked up 2 delegates, but former television evangelist pat robertson, who was within 1,100 votes of du pont, received no delegates because he had just 9.5 percent of the vote
robertson already had 8 delegates, while du pont had none before tuesday's primary
among the democrats, gore already had 10.55 delegates, jackson had 9.8 and babbitt had 4
the delegate totals for the republicans include results from michigan, kansas, pennsylvania, new hampshire and guam. although iowa and hawaii both have held gop caucuses, precise delegate figures cannot be calculated until later because of the way the selection process is structured
the democratic totals include results from iowa and new hampshire, as well as an associated press survey of democratic governors and democratic national committee members who will serve automatically as delegates to their party's convention. some of the democratic delegates cast fractions of votes at the convention. today.</note>
anti-castro militant orlando bosch returned here confident he will have freedom after his third acquittal in venezuela on charges he planned the 1976 explosion of a cuban jetliner that killed 73 people, his lawyer said
bosch immediately was taken into custody by u.s. marshals upon his arrival tuesday from caracas. he faces charges of violating parole on his 1972 conviction in a bazooka attack on a polish ship here
bosch, 61, made a brief appearance before u.s. magistrate linnea johnson, who scheduled a preliminary parole hearing for today. no decision was expected
bosch's attorney, hank adorno, said his client should be released because he voluntarily returned to face the charges. adorno said bosch fled the united states in 1974 only because his life was in danger
he served 11 or 11{ years in a venezuelan prison for a crime he didn't commit,'' adorno said. ``he should be allowed to live as a productive member of the cuban-american community.''
but adorno said legal technicalities made a quick release for bosch unlikely
he knew when he came here what he was getting into,'' said bosch's wife, adriana. ``we are confident when it is all over he will be free.''
the news of bosch's arrival took miami's closely knit cuban community by surprise, but initial reactions were positive
at last the man is free,'' said jorge mas canosa, head of the influential cuban american national foundation, adding that the community's reaction ``is one of rejoicing.''
he said he recently received a letter from bosch indicating an embracing of the foundation's more peaceful approach to democratizing cuba
bosch was found innocent in venezuela of the bombing charges for a third time aug. 7 and was held in a secret location by venezuelan police for security reasons while awaiting an appeal by the prosecution. but no appeal was filed within a 90-day limit and the acquittal held
after bosch fled to venezuela, he was charged with planning the cuban airliner explosion. most of those killed in the blast were cuban athletes who had competed in a central american and caribbean games competition in venezuela
venezuelans hernan ricardo and freddy lugo were sentenced to 20 years for the bombing. a fourth defendant, cuban-born luis posada carriles, escaped from jail in 1986 and reportedly was fighting with the contra rebels in nicaragua
bosch contended he was framed by pro-castro forces for the 1968 attack on the polish freighter, which was engaged in trade with cuba. the ship was dented and there were no injuries, but the united states formally apologized to poland and the fbi cracked down on militant anti-castro groups
the u.s. dollar continued its decline against the japanese yen in tokyo today after hitting a two-month closing high monday, while stocks rose for the fifth consecutive day
the dollar closed at 130.11 yen, down 0.09 yen from tuesday's close of 130.50 yen, after starting the day at 130.30 yen. the u.s. currency, which hit a two-month closing high of 131.00 monday, ranged from 130.25 yen to 130.48 yen in dealings today
most dealers, up to 90 percent, are waiting for a new trend to develop following the release of u.s. trade figures last friday, said a foreign exchange dealer at a major japanese commercial bank
no one really believes there will be a solid improvement in the u.s. fiscal deficit, but there are a lot of supportive elements in the form of trust banks and other japanese institutional buyers backing the dollar,'' said the dealer. he spoke on condition of anonymity
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which rose 138.19 points tuesday, posted a 84.29-point gain to close at 24,429.95. a relatively heavy 700 million shares were traded in the first section
retailers, trading houses and other import-related shares sold well as buyers concentrated on firms expected to benefit from growing domestic demand
nobuo ono of nomura securities, japan's largest security house, said the biggest factor now influencing the market was the dollar's relative stability against the yen, combined with favorable market conditions
the exchange rate is stable at around 130 yen and, while it's not ideal, it's a far cry from the doomsday forecasts of 100 yen to the dollar,'' ono said
he also said the five-day rally on the stock exchange showed the market was attracting investors
jobeth williams will portray surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould in an abc television movie about the landmark court battle over custody of ``baby m,'' a network spokeswoman said
the two-part movie, to air at an undetermined date this spring, will also feature john shea, dabney coleman and bruce weitz, abc spokeswoman laurel whitcomb said tuesday
the goal of the movie ``is to tell the story without adopting any one point of view,'' ms. whitcomb said in a telephone interview from los angeles
the movie will include an update at the end because the case is still unfolding, ms. whitcomb said
the latest developments involve legal proceedings to determine the visitation schedule for mrs. whitehead-gould, whose parental rights to the 22-month old child were restored in a new jersey supreme court decision earlier this month
the state's highest court overturned a lower court decision that upheld a $10,000 contract under which mrs. whitehead-gould was artificially inseminated with william stern's sperm and bore the child for him and his wife, elizabeth
in addition to stripping mrs. whitehead-gould of her parental rights, the lower court last march 31 awarded custody to the sterns
the supreme court maintained custody for the sterns but voided the contract and ruled that mrs. whitehead-gould was entitled to a hearing on visiting the child
attorneys for mrs. whitehead-gould and the sterns have agreed to try to reach an out-of-court settlement on visitation rights
mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney, harold cassidy, said tuesday that his client would be seeking more visitation time than the current two hours a week
mrs. whitehead-gould, who originally called the child sara, ``has agreed to call the child melissa and do whatever it takes to achieve harmony,'' the attorney said
williams starred in ``the big chill,'' ``poltergeist'' and ``kramer vs. kramer,'' and received an emmy nomination for her part in the tv movie ``adam.''
shea, who starred in ``witness'' and ``windy city,'' will portray stern. coleman, star of television's ``the slap maxwell story'' will star as gary skoloff, the attorney representing the sterns
weitz will portray mrs. whitehead-gould's former husband, richard, whom she divorced last year
robin strasser will portray elizabeth stern and anne jackson will star as lorraine abraham, baby m's court-appointed guardian. pms lead planned.</note>
gov. evan mecham's right to a fair trial in criminal court will be severely harmed if his impeachment trial starts monday as scheduled, his lawyer told the arizona senate
mecham attorney murray miller said tuesday that conducting the impeachment trial first would subject the criminal trial to prejudicial publicity
in my judgment he will be convicted in the criminal trial if this matter (the impeachment trial) is going to proceed and he is convicted here,'' miller said. ``it just is in the cards ... and i fear for his liberty.''
the senate was expected to decide late today whether to delay the impeachment trial. senate president carl kunasek, a republican, said he expected the senate to approve some type of delay but he would not predict how long it would be
miller said that if the senate decides to go ahead with the trial next week, he will ask a court to halt it. however, some senators have questioned whether the courts have the authority to order the legislature to delay an impeachment trial
the senate also decided to wait until today to reconsider a policy that allows all 30 senators to meet in closed conference during the impeachment trial
the house approved 23 articles of impeachment against the republican governor feb. 5, accusing him of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
mecham is scheduled to stand trial march 9 on six felony charges contained in an indictment that accuse him of fraud, perjury and filing false documents in connection with the $350,000 loan. he also faces a march 17 recall election
miller said the senate trial should be delayed until after the criminal trial, or at least delayed 90 days to give him more time to prepare his case
the house impeachment board of managers, which is overseeing the prosecution in the senate trial, said in a written response that the arizona constitution does not require the senate to await the outcome of mecham's criminal trial
the five-member house board said a delay would leave the state government ``in limbo.'' mecham has asked secretary of state rose mofford, who is acting governor, not to accept resignations from his staff and not to approve any tax increases, which he opposes
house counsel william french said the criminal trial would not be over until mid- to late may at the earliest. ``i think that's too long for the state of arizona to remain in a flux,'' he said
senate majority leader bob usdane, a republican, said he had examined the records of other impeachment trials and did not find that they had been delayed until after related criminal trials
the senate met briefly tuesday in a closed session to discuss whether it should change its rule on closed conferences during the trial. the conferences would be intended to let senators meet with their lawyers, discuss possible questions to be asked and possibly to hold final deliberations
the policy has been criticized by the media, and 11 senators boycotted tuesday's closed meeting
a federal appeals court says japanese salmon fishermen who accidentally catch seals, killer whales and other mammals are violating an animal protection law
the u.s. circuit court of appeals tuesday upheld a preliminary injunction issued by a federal district judge last june that revoked a permit and halted gillnet fishing for salmon by japanese fleets in the bering sea off the coast of alaska
in a 2-1 decision, a three-judge panel rejected an appeal by the federation of japan fisheries cooperative association to overturn the preliminary injunction issued by u.s. district judge norma holloway johnson
the injunction was obtained by an environmental group and a native alaskan fisherman's organization to stop the accidental taking of sea lions, fur seals, white porpoises and killer whales that could be ensnared in the nine-mile-long gillnets
as issued by the secretary of commerce, the three-year permit would have allowed the japanese fleet to accidentally catch 5,250 dall's porpoises in the northern pacific ocean _ including 789 in the bering sea
the court ruled that the permit, which allowed the japanese fishing fleet to pay fines for the fur seals it accidentally took, violated the marine mammal protection act
supreme court justice antonin scalia says there isn't enough give and take at the private conferences the justices hold to review appeals and vote on pending cases
scalia, the newest sitting justice, in an address at the george washington university law school, said calling what the justices do a ``conference'' is ``a misnomer.''
not very much conferencing goes on,'' scalia said. ``i don't like that. maybe it's because i'm new or an ex-academic, maybe because i am right.''
scalia said the primary purposes of the conferences are to provide an opportunity for the justices to state their views on cases and to tally up their votes
the conferences are held weekly when the court is in session. only the members of the court attend the closed-door meetings in which they decide whether to hear particular appeals and make final decisions on cases in which they have heard arguments
scalia became a justice in 1986 and will be joined by on the court by anthony m. kennedy, who will be sworn in thursday as the ninth member, filling a vacancy created when justice lewis f. powell retired last june
a federal appeals court has ruled the humane society has legal standing to challenge the expansion of hunting on federal wildlife preserves
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals tuesday overturned a district judge's finding that the humane society of the united states lacked the requisite legal standing to sue the interior department to stop hunting on nine federal wildlife preserves
the gist of this grievance is that the existence of hunting on wildlife refuges forces society members to witness animal corpses and environmental degradation, in addition to depleting the supply of animals and birds that refuge visitors seek to view,'' the court said in an opinion written by chief judge patricia wald
david j. hayes, a washington attorney who represented the humane society, called the decision significant because ``it confirms that environmental groups like the humane society have the right to bring actions based on their members' concerns about harms to their aesthetic interests.''
while ruling the society had a legal right to sue, the court upheld the interior department's decision to allow waterfowl hunting on chincoteague island, va
the appeals court decision sends a district court case back to district judge thomas a. flanneryfor a ruling on the merits of the humane society's claims that the interior department had not properly evaluated the wildlife populations of other preserves before allowing hunting
former defense secretary caspar weinberger questions whether fundamental policy changes are taking place in the soviet union and whether mikhail gorbachev can keep his post as top leader
i think we have to be very careful if we assume there are major policy changes,'' weinberger said. ``i don't know ... how firmly seated is the present regime. i don't think any of us really know that.''
i'm not sure anybody would be allowed to be general secretary of the communist party of the soviet union who is very different,'' from the past, weinberger told the washington foreign correspondents association tuesday
weinberger, who was succeeded by defense secetary frank carlucci late last year, described as ``surface changes,'' the new look at the kremlin. ``gorbachev smiles from time to time, he wears much better clothes, and he's younger and apparently in better health'' than past leaders, he said
the principal change i see in the soviet union is that they are now actively courting world public opinion, campaigning for a favorable world press and this is so new and so novel that they are getting it,'' he said
democrat gary hart, who finished dead last in the primary he won in 1984, vowed to remain in the race despite his poor showing
we're going to take this fight all the way across this nation _ into the south, into the industrial midwest and then we're going to head west, where i live,'' hart told a roomful of supporters after finishing at the bottom of the democratic field in the new hampshire primary
in nearly complete returns, the former colorado senator had just 4 percent of the vote, but put the best face on it
his showing, he said, was ``500 percent better than iowa,'' where he won barely 1 percent of the vote in last week's caucuses
hart dropped out of the race last may after questions surfaced about his relationship with model donna rice. he returned to new hampshire to re-enter the race in december, soared for a time in the polls, then slumped to the back of the pack
four years ago, hart stunned the political establishment by upsetting front-runner walter mondale in the new hampshire primary, gaining status as a credible candidate. he said he never expected to do that well again this year
we have just begun. we are committed,'' said hart
earlier, hart said his faltering campaign had enough money to last until delegate-rich super tuesday on march 8
i've always mentally prepared for a long-term gain, not a break-through early on,'' hart said
campaign manager sue casey said the candidate had $400,000 in his campaign treasury _ enough, she said for three weeks of campaigning prior to the caucuses and primaries in the 20 super tuesday states
i don't have to do what other candidates have to do,'' hart said during a campaign stop in portland, maine, before the votes were tallied. ``other candidates have to make a certain showing to get money and get support. we have support in 50 states.''
a group of leading israeli writers called on the government to withdraw from the occupied territories and conduct direct negotiations with palestinian leaders
i am in favor of a palestinian state alongside israel as early as tomorrow morning,'' author amos oz told more than 500 people who gathered to protest israeli policy in the occupied lands
i am in favor of a palestinian state ... because that is the way to life. other ways lead to death.''
the association of israeli playwrights organized tuesday's gathering, which drew widely known actors, singers and poets, including several who had not previously expressed their views publicly on the unrest in the occupied lands
one of them, poet erez biton, said that the riots in the occupied territories made it clear to him that through 20 years of israeli occupation the palestinians had become a nation
i think this is the first time i'm not too mad at the palestinians,'' biton said. ``from their point of view, their behavior is absolutely one of honor.''
the disturbances, which broke out dec. 8, have intensified the controversy among israelis about what to do with the territories captured during the 1967 middle east war
prime minister yitzhak shamir, head of the right-wing likud bloc, is against yielding any part of the occupied west bank and gaza strip in return for peace. foreign minister shimon peres, head of the left-leaning labor party, favors compromise
both israeli leaders advocate peace talks with jordan and refuse to negotiate with the palestine liberation organization, which is outlawed in israel as a terrorist group
according to u.n. figures, the unrest has left 54 palestinians dead, most by israeli gunfire
the army has used live bullets, then rubber ones and finally beatings to quell the protests. israeli troops have wounded or severely beaten hundreds of palestinians and more than 1,000 others been detained or jailed
oz said the israeli crackdown on palestinian demonstrators was increasing hatred between arabs and israelis. he predicted israel's occupation would eventually collapse whether the two sides reach agreement or not
yehoshafat harkabi, a lecturer at the hebrew university, said israelis and arabs were beginning to realize they have no choice but to accept one another
the arabs have learned that if the conflict continues it will become hell for both israel and the arab countries,'' said harkabi, a former army intelligence chief. ``both the palestinians and the israelis will suffer because both are in the same boat.''
harkabi said israel must start negotiating right away
the longer we wait, the worse the conditions will be,'' he said. ``i realized long ago that if israel adopts a moderate policy we will achieve the best possible terms.''
oz said peace advocates must persuade likud voters to vote for left-wing parties in elections scheduled for the fall
we must try to talk seriously with the many people in israel who are afraid to give (the west bank towns of) nablus, hebron and ramallah back to the arabs because they are afraid the arabs will chase us out of haifa as well,'' oz said
the feelings are complicated. they include an element of genuine fear, historical trauma, many years of palestinian threats and an element of right-wing demagogy,'' he said
two more people died today of injuries sustained in a grenade attack on a hindu temple a day earlier, raising the death toll to seven, state-run sri lankan radio said
the radio quoted hospital sources as saying two people succumbed to their injuries early this morning. all the victims were tamil hindus who were at the temple in southern colombo to celebrate the mahashivaratri festival
mahashivaratri day is celebrated as the birthday of lord shiva, one of the three major gods in the hindu pantheon
more than 60 people were in the sri kathiresan temple when two hand grenades were thrown into its inner chamber, witnesses said. five people were killed on the spot. at least eight others remain hospitaized
members of the main tamil rebel group, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, are suspected of being behind the attack, a police officer connected with investigations said
the officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the tigers attacked the temple because members of a rival militant group, the people's liberation organization of tamil eelam, had sought refuge there
the tigers, who have spearheaded a separatist guerrilla war for a tamil homeland since 1983, often have been blamed for attacks on rival groups considered to be more moderate in their demands
meanwhile, president junius r. jayewardene condemned the assassination tuesday of popular movie star and major politician vijaya kumaranatunga
i have no doubt the whole island would consider this act of terrorism with horror and condemnation,'' jayewardene said in a statement published by local newspapers today
kumaranatunga, son-in-law of former prime minister sirimavo bandaranaike, was shot at his colombo residence by gunmen believed to belong to an outlawed sinhalese group. another person injured in the gunfire later died in hospital
state-run radio blamed the killings on the outlawed people's liberation front, which has vowed to attack supporters of a peace accord aimed at ending the tamil separatist war. more than 150 killings have been blamed on the front
india sponsored the peace accord last summer to bring the civil war to an end
kumaranatunga, secretary-general of the sri lanka people's liberation party, was a vocal supporter of the july 29 accord
the front claims the accord gives too many concessions to the tamils and has compromised the sovereignty of sri lanka. more than 42,000 indian soldiers have been deployed on the island under the terms of the accord to disarm tamil rebels
kumaranatunga acted in more than 100 sinhalese films, mostly as the leading man
tamils, who comprise 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, say they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese, who form 75 percent of the population. more than 8,000 people have been killed in the year separatist war
it was a ballgame, a prize fight, a poker game and the always popular footrace. it was high stakes, make or break, a snowslide, the shoe on the other foot, popcorn in a microwave
amid a muddle of metaphors, the networks struggled tuesday night to impress viewers with the importance of the new hampshire primary, occasionally noting with belated cynicism that if they weren't all there, it wouldn't really mean much
abc anchor peter jennings opened his newscast tuesday by noting, ``new hampshire can't make a candidate, but it certainly can break one.''
he was seconded by jeff greenfield, who described the press attention on the nation's first presidential primary as smothering rather than covering and suggested ``one of the most interesting aspects of the new hampshire primary is not what we will know when it's over, but what we won't know.''
vice president george bush's surprisingly strong comeback was the obvious lead. on the democratic side, losers were news. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won as expected, so the question became who among the remaining candidates would stay the course
for also-rans as well as front-runners, the task tuesday night was putting on the best face for the national television audience. former colorado sen. gary hart, who finished out of the money, told cnn's mary alice williams he had managed to find his finish in the low one-digits ``disappointing but not discouraging.''
later on nbc, illinois sen. paul simon noted more candidly of his third-place finish, ``this isn't helping.''
dole, whose alleged ``mean-spiritedness'' became an issue in the campaign, didn't help his image. in greenfield's piece on abc, he was heard during a campaign stop muttering to an interloping bush supporter, ``go back to your cave.''
nbc's tom brokaw orchestrated the liveliest moment in the night's coverage, with bush in the studio and dole live on a monitor. brokaw asked bush what he would like to say to his opponent
i wish him well and will see him in the south,'' said a cheerful bush. but when brokaw asked dole the same question, he snapped, ``stop lying about my record.''
there were milder rematches between anchors and politicians
rather interviewed bush live for the first time since their interview-turned-debate during the ``cbs evening news'' last month that sparked a flurry of complaints about rather's aggressive questioning. this time, rather sat quietly and let bush talk, then happily characterized the new hampshire win as ``a joy and a jubilation'' for bush
brokaw again introduced pat robertson as a ``former television evangelist,'' a term that last week in iowa prompted robertson to suggest brokaw was engaging in ``religious bigotry.'' robertson let it slide tuesday night
cnn devoted most prime time to politics, but among the other three networks, nbc was the only one to pre-empt prime-time programming for election coverage with an hour-long special at 10 p.m. est
abc wrapped up at midnight in lieu of airing ``nightline.'' all the networks were set up in manchester, n.h., and the candidates made the rounds all night, but abc bagged the idea of candidate interviews due to the late hour of its special. its brief prime-time coverage no doubt had the biggest audience, however, since it interrupted olympics coverage
cbs wrapped up at 11:30 after devoting its regular weekly news documentary ``48 hours'' to the campaign trail
in a week when the show's format _ 48 hours of intense coverage _ should have been eminently adaptable to a breaking news story, ``48 hours'' fell flat, except for lesley stahl's poignant coverage of high-class loser bruce babbitt. after his poor iowa showing, cameras caught two campaign workers embracing tearfully
we were the best,'' one said. ``no one will ever know it,'' added the other
the rest of the hour was about as exciting as watching political placards flapping in the breeze
other moments worth noting:
most meaningful background report: stahl's examination of the money issue and how it will determine who stays in the race
most entertaining graphic: those little straw hats on nbc
most finely crafted simile: rather's ``things are popping like the popcorn in one of those microwaves.''
most eloquent comment: jennings noting, ``gary hart, who said let the people decide. the people decided. he came in absolutely last.''
most timely promo: nbc's commercial for its 10 p.m. special, at 11 p.m. balloting</head>
a grenade exploded outside a building housing the israeli embassy, and the death toll in bloody regional elections in the southern philippines climbed to at least 25, officials said today
the military reported that communist rebels were suspected in the ambush of a philippine constabulary patrol tuesday in northern luzon's mountain province. eight troopers were killed and another 10 wounded
a constabulary report said one rebel was believed killed but his body was carried away by his comrades
the military also reported that a rebel ammunition dump was discovered in luzon's nueva ecija province. it said troops recovered more than 4,000 rounds of ammunition, 132 pounds of explosives and 125 blasting caps
police sgt. danilo donato said an m-2 grenade, rigged with a timer, exploded about 9 p.m. tuesday outside the philippine savings bank in suburban makati, shattering windows but causing no injuries
another grenade was found on the ground floor but failed to explode, he said. the building houses the israeli embassy, but ambassador meir gavesh told the associated press he did not believe the embassy was the target
we don't have any clues as to who could have possibly done it,'' gavesh said
communist rebels this month threatened to attack israeli targets here because of israel's alleged support of the philippines government's anti-insurgency campaign
israeli diplomats deny the jewish state is involved in the campaign against the rebels. philippine and western intelligence sources say there are thousands of palestinians and other arabs living in the philippines
in january, gunmen opened fire at the french ambassador as he was leaving his office but he escaped injury. no one has claimed responsibility for the attack
meanwhile, the government-run philippine information agency said at least 25 people had been killed and 50 others injured during clashes between rival political factions in sulu province, which erupted three days before last monday's regional elections
the military sent 4,000 troops backed by helicopters and warships to the largely moslem province to guard against election violence. sulu was the last province to hold regional elections, which began jan. 18
in other developments, an underground organization of pro-rebel priests and nuns today accused the roman catholic hierarchy of abandoning its mission to serve the poor by supporting president corazon aquino's ``total war policy.''
by giving blessings to the total war policy of the u.s.-aquino regime, the reactionary church leadership betrayed us all whom they are supposed to serve,'' the christians for national liberation group said in an advertisement in the philippine daily inquirer
due to their fear of anything red, they virtually abandoned their flock to be fed to the hungry wolves and modern day neros,'' the group said, referring to the roman emperor who persecuted christians
the cnl is a branch of the communist-dominated national democratic front. the statement followed recent charges by cardinal jaime l. sin, archbishop of manila, that communists had infiltrated the church's social welfare agency
on tuesday, defense secretary fidel ramos said harsher laws are needed to combat the 19-year-old communist insurrection and restore law and order in this turbulent country
but he said the rebellion was not at the stage where a state of national emergency was needed
during his press conference, ramos noted that 18 months ago, he recommended that the government enact tougher laws to help the military fight the new people's army
his recommendations included lengthening the time suspected rebels could be held without charge and restoring the death penalty for ``heinous crimes'' such as treason and rebellion
after months of debate, the u.s. energy department has decided not to restart the flawed and aging n reactor, one of four reactors supplying the u.s. nuclear arsenal with bomb-grade plutonium
the n reactor has been closed since january 1987 for about $70 million worth of safety improvements prompted by the nuclear disaster that killed 31 people at the similarly designed soviet nuclear plant at chernobyl
energy secretary john herrington announced tuesday the reactor at the hanford nuclear reservation will be placed on ``cold standby'' status, forcing about 2,600 workers to be laid off in the next two years
this decision signals the end of the plutonium production mission at the hanford site,'' said mike lawrence, hanford operations manager for the energy department
plans for the mothballing of the reactor will be included in the reagan administration's proposed budget that will be sent to congress thursday
a report prepared last year for the energy department projected that a gradual phase-out of plutonium-producing operations at hanford by 1996 would result in the loss of more than 13,800 jobs in the state
gov. booth gardner and members of the state's congressional delegation pledged to seek a way to cushion the economic shock
but sen. dan evans, r-wash., said, ``frankly, the most likely type of aid to come will be unemployment benefits.''
herrington said the decision to mothball the reactor was based on a secret department of defense review of the nation's future need for plutonium, a key ingredient in nuclear weapons
the energy department said demand for plutonium could be met by three reactors at the savannah river plant near aiken, s.c., and through plutonium recovery from nuclear weapons retired as a result of the recent u.s.-soviet treaty
the savannah river reactors are running at 50 percent power because of safety concerns
the n reactor, operated for the energy department by westinghouse inc., shares several design characteristics with the chernobyl plant, including graphite in the reactor core to moderate nuclear fission and lack of a containment dome
u.s. officials say the n reactor, operated for the energy department by westinghouse inc., was considerably safer than the one at chernobyl
the fate of the reactor, the last of nine plutonium producers that have operated at hanford since 1944, had been mired in controversy. proponents said the nation needed the plutonium while opponents contended it did not, and that the reactor was unsafe
the ``cold standby'' status will begin next year shortly after the safety improvements are completed and tested. the reactor could be restarted, but that would take up to three years, lawrence said
the n reactor employs 3,300 of hanford's 14,000 workers. the site is the biggest employer in the nearby cities of richland, kennewick and pasco, which have a combined population of about 130,000
state agencies will do everything they can to help those who will be affected by the shutdown,'' gardner said
rep. don bonker said he and sen. brock adams, both democrats, planned to introduce a ``military waste cleanup bill that we hope will provide thousands of high-skilled jobs.''
over 40 years of defense wastes are temporarily stored in tanks at the site. under cold standby status, fuel will be removed from the reactor and inspection and maintenance programs continued, the energy department said
related plutonium processing plants, which employ more than 3,000 hanford workers, will be gradually phased out in the 1990s as the stockpiled plutonium is exhausted, lawrence said
the decision to close the reactor ended a period of uncertainty for local officials and plant workers
i'm just glad that we finally know what the decision is,'' said richland mayor john poynor. ``we'll survive this and come out stronger for it.''
the reality of it hasn't hit home yet,'' said stan waggoner, an n reactor technician who learned of the decision as he came off the afternoon shift tuesday
hanford was built in 1943 as part of the manhattan project to produce atomic bombs. the n reactor began operations in 1963
at more than 4,000 megawatts of thermal power, the n reactor has the highest operating power of any u.s. reactor
good morning vietnam'' greeted disney studios with another victory in the weekend box-office horse race while newcomer ``shoot to kill'' took second and ``action jackson'' debuted in third place
good morning vietnam,'' starring robin williams as an outrageous armed forces radio disc jockey in saigon, earned $7.9 million in the national weekend box office tally
shoot to kill,'' featuring sidney poitier as an fbi agent chasing a maniac in the pacific northwest, sold $4.8 million in tickets
action jackson,'' starring carl weathers and vanity, grossed $4.6 million. weathers stars as a tough policeman who takes on a corrupt auto tycoon
three men and a baby,'' which had been following ``good morning vietnam'' for several weeks, was fourth with $4.3 million, followed by ``moonstruck'' with $3.7 million
the serpent and the rainbow'' fell from second place last week to sixth place, but wasn't dead yet with $3.5 million in ticket sales
she's having a baby,'' starring kevin bacon and elizabeth mcgovern, was in seventh place with $2.7 million. ``satisfaction,'' starring justine bateman as a member of a garage rock band that goes on the road, was in eighth place with $2.3 million
ironweed,'' the hector babenco-directed movie starring jack nicholson and meryl streep as characters from the third william kennedy ``albany novel,'' was in ninth place after expanding to 599 screens
tri-star reported $2.2 million for ``ironweed,'' a figure that reflected four days' worth of ticket sales, while other companies reported sales for three days, noted exhibitor relations co. president john krier
rounding out the top 10 was director spike lee's ``school daze,'' a musical comedy looking at life and social divisions inside a mythical all-black university in the south. the movie earned $1.49 million in its first week
studios use the weekend box office to determine how well a movie is doing. here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations, with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, number of weeks in release and estimated production costs
1. ``good morning vietnam'' disney-touchstone, $7.9 million, 1,588 screens, $4,987 per screen, $62.8 million, eight weeks, $21 million
2. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $4.8 million, 1,503 screens, $3,317 per screen, $5.7 million, one week, n-a
3. ``action jackson,'' lorimar, $4.6 million, 1,249 screens, $3,755 per screen, $5.4 million, one week, n-a
4. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $4.3 million, 1,728 screens, $2,464 per screen, $131.9 million, 12 weeks, $18 million
5. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $3.7 million, 1,000 screens, $3,734 per screen, $30.7 million, nine weeks, $17 million
6. ``the serpent and the rainbow,'' universal, $3.5 million, 1,431 screens, $2,470 per screen, $11.4 million, two weeks, n-a
7. ``she's having a baby,'' paramount, $2.7 million, 1,133 screens, $2,430 per screen, $7.8 million, two weeks, n-a
8. ``satisfaction,'' 20th century fox, $2.3 million, 1,015 screens, $2,341 per screen, one week, n-a
9. ``ironweed,'' tri-star, $2.2 million, 599 screens, n-a, $2.6 million, nine weeks, n-a
10. ``school daze,'' columbia, $1.49 million, 220 screens, $6,787 per screen, $1.49 million, one week, n-a
iran's president told a visiting soviet official the united states and its allies may try to gain influence in afghanistan after the soviet union withdraws its troops, a news agency reported today
tehran's islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said president ali khamenei met tuesday night with the soviet union's deputy foreign minister, vladimir petrovsky
during the meeting, petrovsky handed khamenei a letter from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev which touched on afghanistan and other issues, the report said. petrovsky left for home today, ending a six-day visit to tehran
khamenei, irna reported, told petrovsky that iran was pleased with gorbachev's policy on afghanistan and renewed a call for the speedy withdrawal of soviet forces from that country, nine years after their intervention
gorbachev issued a statement feb. 8 saying the soviet union would begin withdrawing its 115,000 troops may 15 if indirect talks between the pakistan and afghan governments produce an accord at least 60 days before that
gorbachev also stated for the first time that a pullout would not be contingent on a separate agreement on the makeup of a transitional afghan regime which would oversee such a pullout
irna quoted khamenei as telling petrovsky that iran was ``higly pessimistic about the u.s. concern over afghanistan and sees no sincerity in its (u.s.) stance. therefore, any plan for the country's (afghanistan's) future must prevent influence of the united states and its western allies.'' the united states supports the moslem rebels fighting the afghan government
irna said the two officials also discussed bilateral relations
soviet-iranian relations have been improving steadily, especially since moscow torpedoed u.s. efforts to impose an international arms embargo on iran to force it into a settlement of the 7-year-old war with iraq
moscow, however, has backed u.n. security council resolution 598, which was adopted unanimously last july. the cease-fire resolution was accepted by iraq, but iran insisted the baghdad government should be condemned as the aggressor and punished before any settlement of the conflict is achieved
share prices opened slightly firmer in london today as traders reacted to news of a possible settlement of the strike at ford motor co.'s british plants and to a rise on wall street
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index opened up 3.1 points at 1,737.7 and by 9:45 a.m. it was up 6.9 points at 1,741.5, or 0.39 percent
traders said 36 of the index's shares were showing gains in quiet trading, 20 were showing losses and the rest were unchanged
the ford strike had worried the market as traders feared it heralded a round of higher private-sector pay claims in britain. a settlement reached by negotiators will be voted on thursday by striking workers
in new york on tuesday, the dow jones industrial average advanced 22.71 points, or 1.15 percent, to 2,005.97
the army ousted seven officers accused of involvement in revolts that occurred last month at six army camps and the buenos aires metropolitan airport
in a related development, president raul alfonsin on tuesday told a federal judge that the rebels who briefly took over jorge newberry airport in downtown buenos aires on jan. 18 had plans to assassinate him
alfonsin, in a written account to judge juan fegoli reported by local news agencies, said investigators told him the mutineers that occupied the airport control tower had plans to kill him after they had assassinated brig. gen. ernesto crespo, air force chief of staff
crespo was en route on an airplane to the metropolitan airport when the group of 18 air force rebels and rightist civilians took over the airport. crespo landed elsewhere, the plan unraveled and the rebels surrendered without incident four hours later, authorities say
those ousted tuesday included lt. cols. luis polo and dario fernandez maguer, who sided in buenos aires and tucuman with rebel leader aldo rico against troops commanded by gen. jose caridi, army chief of staff
rico, who is being held in a military prison, faces rebellion charges
others ousted by the defense ministry and caridi since the three-day uprisings shook camps from monte caseros in the northeast to southern patagonia include gen. heriberto auel, chief of operations under caridi
auel on tuesday asked for the formation of the tribunal to put caridi on trial because, auel charged, the military has ``little confidence'' in the abilities of the 56-year-old army chief of staff
only 44 of the 328 rebels taken into custody last month for their roles in the uprisings remain in prison awaiting charges
attorneys for relatives of a murdered woman will try to convince a federal jury that an ad in the military magazine soldier of fortune led to her death and that the magazine should pay them $22.5 million
robert black of bryan was sent to the texas death row for paying $10,000 to a hitman to kill his wife, sandra, in 1985. the alleged triggerman, john wayne hearn, is serving life terms in florida for other killings
marjorie einmann, mrs. black's mother, and gary black, the victim's 18-year-old son, contend in their civil suit that an ad hearn placed in the denver-based publication brought him to the attention of robert black
they are seeking $2.5 million in actual damages and $20 million in punitive damages from the magazine, which calls itself a publication for professional adventurers
our case is there was another party in this crime _ soldier of fortune,'' ron franklin, attorney for the plaintiffs, said at the start of the trial tuesday. he accused the magazine of giving black the means to accomplish the murder
magazine attorney larry thompson defended the publication of the ad
no one at soldier of fortune suspected anything criminal in that ad or any other ad in soldier of fortune. we think the evidence will clearly show soldier of fortune was not negligent,'' he said
among questions asked prospective jurors earlier tuesday before a panel was selected was whether they owned a gun or had watched ``rambo'' and john wayne movies
the trial could last through next week, u.s. district judge david hittner said
the ad in question appeared in four issues of the magazine in late 1984, and sought former marine and vietnam veterans and weapons specialists with jungle warfare expertise for ``high risk assignments'' in the united states or overseas
cbs news reported tuesday that hearn said in a court deposition that he had received 10 to 20 calls a day in response to the ad. most of the callers wanted to hire him for illegal acts, including kidnappings, bombings and murder, the network said
hearn claimed he was contacted by one group to murder canadian prime minister brian mulroney
from a defense perspective, there's no doubt hearn and black met as a result of the ad,'' thompson said. ``but that is the only thin thread with regard to soldier of fortune. with that ad, there was no way for anyone to determine he was seeking criminal conduct.''
you bet we're going to win,'' publisher robert brown said. ``i have no doubt about it.''
brown, wearing a pin-striped suit and cowboy boots, flipped through the pages of one his magazines while hittner took about an hour to review motions filed by attorneys in the case
the suit, filed 13 months ago, originally sought about $100 million in damages. glenn einmann, mrs. black's father, recently and without explanation removed himself as a plaintiff
franklin, in arguments over pretrial motions, said brown has published and run ads in the magazine for books on learning how to be a commando
robert k. brown says that never in his wildest dreams would he think that the ad would result in criminal conduct,'' franklin said. ``yet in the same issue of the magazine he has an ad for `how to be a hitman.'''
the wild abandon of mardi gras gave way to the sobriety of ash wednesday today as police cleared the french quarter of revelers hoping to forestall the end of the annual street party
two fatal accidents involving parade floats marred the feverish excitement of the carnival season, police said
officially, the day concluded at midnight with the meetings of the courts of rex and comus, the signal that mardi gras has given way to 40 days of lenten penance
i enjoy it to the max, but it's ash wednesday. mardi gras is over. the normal standards of behavior now apply,'' carl seyler jr., a resident of the french quarter, said early today
nearly a million people immersed themselves this year in new orleans' naughty exhibition of drinking, dancing and parading, said new orleans police spokesman john bryson
revelers not ready to give up the fat tuesday ghost were shooed into bars and clubs as uniformed officers and mounted police announced on bullhorns that streets were being reopened and cleanup crews were on their way
mardi gras 1988 is now over,'' police announced. ``please clear the streets and get off the sidewalks.''
an 11-year-old boy was killed tuesday afternoon when he was run over by a truck float in suburban new orleans, and an unidentified man was killed when he leaped onto a tractor-trailer rig hauling a float in city traffic, police said
the last float-related death was in 1984, bryson said
this does not happen every year,'' he said. ``the safety conscious individuals on the parade routes do not approach floats that are moving.''
despite the accidents, which also included two incidents in which people were injured badly enough to be hospitalized, police described the crowds as generally well-behaved
police spokesman john marie said the canal street crowd was the biggest he had seen in 18 years
i'm ready for it to be over, that's for sure. it's all good and fun but i'm glad it's over with,'' said carl chosa of new orleans. ``i hope everybody comes back next year.''
but ray mattingly of memphis, tenn., wasn't quite willing for the bacchanalia to end
i think it should wind down of its own accord,'' he said. ``if they don't close the bars, you should be allowed to be here as long as you want to.''
teamsters union leader jackie presser should be well enough to stand trial on labor racketeering and embezzlement charges by july 12, his lawyer says
u.s. district judge george w. white on tuesday scheduled that day for the start of the trial, marking the third time white has set a trial date in the case
presser, 60, is accused of creating a $700,000 scheme to pay people who did no union work at teamsters local 507, where he is secretary-treasurer. he was charged in 1986 with two counts of labor racketeering, one of embezzlement and two of filing false reports with the government
last year, presser underwent surgery for removal of a lung tumor, but his doctors have since declared him free of cancer. chemotherapy and radiation treatments, however, have caused health problems, and he is recuperating in phoenix, said john r. climaco, presser's lead defense lawyer
climaco told the judge at an informal hearing tuesday that presser ``should be able to stand trial'' by july. presser was not at the hearing
climaco said presser would agree to undergo a physical examination next week at georgetown university medical school with an endocrinologist the justice department has selected
jutice department lawyer william lynch said the government wants presser examined as soon as possible. he said, ``we may even be in here with a motion to move up the trial date.''
after the hearing, climaco said presser works a maximum of two hours on union business each day. the limit on his work load was set by doctors, he said
two co-defendants, harold friedman and anthony hughes, are also scheduled to stand trial july 12. friedman is a teamsters vice president and local 507 president, and hughes is the local's recording secretary
presser took over leadership of the 1.6-million member union april 21, 1983, when a teamsters' executive board allowed him to complete the five-year term of roy williams, who was imprisoned on a federal bribery conviction. presser was re-elected in may 1986, a few days after he was indicted
voters in a primary election set up a runoff between former acting gov. martin j. schreiber and state sen. john o. norquist in the race to succeed henry w. maier, the nation's longest-serving big-city mayor
schreiber and norquist topped a field of seven in tuesday's primary election and will meet in the april 5 runoff for the post held by maier for the past 28 years
maier, 70, announced last year he was retiring because he felt he was too old to seek another four-year term
though tuesday's election was non-partisan, both schreiber and norquist have served in the past as democratic officeholders
each had stressed goals of economic development and job creation in a campaign marked by few clashes, but their rhetoric showed signs of heating up tuesday night
schreiber promised he would tell voters how norquist's campaign statements differed from past votes in the wisconsin senate on issues affecting milwaukee
norquist, asked how he differed from his opponent, replied: ``i'd be the kind of mayor that would make a decision and stick with it. i think the city wants a strong leader.''
complete, unofficial returns, with all 324 wards reporting, gave schreiber 44,984 votes, or just over 44 percent, and norquist 40,575 votes, or just over 40 percent
next were businessman and black community leader lee e. holloway with 7,885 votes, or just under 8 percent, and community activist donna horowitz richards with 5,983 votes, or just under 6 percent. trailing with less than 1 percent of the vote each were: willie g. lovelace, kevin j. robinson and sandra sherman
schreiber, 48, joined the wisconsin senate in 1962. he served as lieutenant governor from 1970 until 1977, when he took over as acting governor after gov. patrick j. lucey resigned to become u.s. ambassador to mexico
he lost to republican lee s. dreyfus in the 1978 election, lost again when he sought the democratic nomination for governor in 1982 and has worked in private business since then
norquist, 38, served in the state assembly from 1974-80 and was elected in 1982 to the senate, where he has served as assistant democratic majority leader
maier was first elected mayor in 1960, scoring an upset over u.s. rep. henry reuss. he has has served as president of the u.s. conference of mayors and president of the national league of cities
black activists said they will expect the next mayor to do more than maier has done to help minorities
statistics released last fall by the milwaukee urban league show milwaukee is the most segregated major metropolitan area in the country, and more than 40 percent of the city's black children live in poverty. year</head>
for the sixth straight year, a british woman has defeated her american counterpart in the shrove tuesday international pancake race
marcia strieff, who sprinted 415 yards carrying and flipping a pancake in a frying pan, crossed the finish line tuesday in 67.7 seconds to lead the field of 13 american women here
but it wasn't good enough _ leslie byrne covered a similar course in olney, england, in 62.9 seconds
mrs. strieff, 30, has won the liberal leg of the trans-atlantic race all three times she entered it. the rules prevent her from participating again
it's time for someone else to take a turn,'' mrs. strieff said. ``... it would have been nice to have beat them at least once.''
according to legend, the race has been run in olney since 1445, when a forgetful housewife left for church on shrove tuesday with her frying pan still in her hand. liberal made it an international event in 1950 by adding its own race after seeing reports of the english competition
shrove tuesday, the day before ash wednesday, is the day english women traditionally make pancakes to use up cooking fat before lent
the teams have 19 victories apiece. they tied once
i didn't think of the pancake, i just ran,'' said mrs. byrne, a physical education teacher. ``i haven't done any training, though sometimes when i take the dog out for a walk, i have a little trot.''
at olney, about 700 spectators lined the twisting route as mrs. byrne outpaced 19 other women in the dash from the market square to the 14th century church in the town of 3,300 about 40 miles northwest of london
a crowd estimated at 3,000, including gov. mike hayden and his wife, patti, lined the route in liberal, a community of about 17,000 just north of oklahoma. even more spectators turned out later for the pancake day parade, said rosalee phillips, the secretary for the annual event
mrs. byrne received her prize of 100 pounds, or $175, in cash, various gifts from town merchants, an inscribed silver tray from the town of liberal and a kiss from clive coverley, a ceremonial official known as the town verger
at liberal, mrs. strieff got the kiss of peace from s. norman lee, british consul from chicago, along with roses, a crown, a $500 savings bond and other prizes
the u.s. dollar eased slightly against most major foreign currencies in early european trading today. gold dropped slightly in london and held steady in zurich
currency dealers said trading was thin because of holidays in asia and the lack of market-moving news
in west germany, it was the first business day following a holiday in most parts of the country, and the first opportunity for many dealers to react to friday's u.s. trade figures
the figures showed the trade deficit shrank in december to $12.2 billion from $13.2 billion in november
for some people, it's the first opportunity to take a position or take profits,'' said a dealer with an american bank in frankfurt
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar continued its decline against the japanese yen, closing at 130.50 yen, down 0.99 yen from tuesday. later, in london, it was quoted at 130.45 yen
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late tuesday:
_1.7103 west german marks, down from 1.7120
_1.4050 swiss francs, up from 1.4038
_5.7795 french francs, down from 5.7815
_1.9194 dutch guilders, down from 1.9200
_1,258.50 italian lire, down from 1,260.00
_1.2690 canadian dollars, up from 1.2687
in london, one british pound cost $1.7449, slightly more expensive than tuesday's $1.7446
london's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price for gold of $444 a troy ounce at mid-morning today, unchanged from the opening bid, but down from late tuesday's $445.50
in zurich, the bid price was $444.50, unchanged from tuesday
hong kong markets were closed for the chinese new year
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.36 a troy ounce, down from tuesday's $6.39
on to the south, where we're going to rise again.'' _ vice president george bush, looking ahead to the super tuesday primaries in the south following his victory in new hampshire's republican primary after last week's third-place finish in the iowa caucuses
i don't have a southern strategy. i don't have a northern strategy or a western strategy. i have an american strategy.'' _ massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, winner of the new hampshire democratic primary, looking ahead to super tuesday primaries in dixie
yes. i think i'll compete in men's.'' _ soviet skater ekaterina gordeeva, who won the gold medal in pairs figure skating with partner sergei grinkov, joking after being asked if she would ever consider singles competition
heavy snow blanketed sections of colorado today as light snow was scattered over four states in the northeast and the midwest
the storm swept through southeastern and east central colorado, blanketing pueblo with 4 inches in two hours tuesday night. the denver and boulder areas received 2 to 5 inches and colorado springs and rye got 4 to 6
a heavy snow warning was issued for the southeastern foothills and east slopes of the sangre de cristo mountains, where 4 to 8 inches of snow were expected. a snow advisory was in effect for the plains in the southeast
the storm was expected to spread in northern new mexico, much of which was under an advisory for 1 to 3 inches of snow
light snow was scattered over northern minnesota, upper michigan, central and upstate new york and northern maine. light rain fell along the coast of washington state, while rain and a few thundershowers dampened sections of the texas and louisiana coasts
santa ana winds up to 50 mph blew through southern california. a high wind warning was posted in the mountains and below canyons from ontario to san bernardino, and a wind advisory was in effect elsewhere below canyons of southwest california
today's forecast called for rain, with snow in higher elevations, from the pacific coast through northwest montana; scattered rain from southern and eastern texas across the lower mississippi valley; scattered snow showers over the southern rockies, southeast colorado and northeast new mexico and flurries lingering over upstate new york and northern new england
temperatures were expected to climb into the 40s and 50s in much of the nation; the upper 20s and 30s in the northern and central rockies, and from the eastern dakotas across the great lakes to northern new england; and the 60s and 70s across california and southern arizona and from the southern two-thirds of texas to the southern atlantic coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 2 below zero at warroad, minn., to 67 degrees at brownsville, texas, and santa ana, calif
other reports:
_east: atlanta 35 fair; boston 29 fair; buffalo 30 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 35 fair; cincinnati 32 fair; cleveland 30 fair; detroit 31 fair; miami 56 fair; new york 32 fair; philadelphia 29 fair; pittsburgh 30 cloudy; portland, maine 25 fair; washington 31 fair
_central: bismarck 22 fair; chicago 29 fair; dallas-fort worth 57 fair; denver 25 snow; des moines 30 partly cloudy; indianapolis 32 fair; kansas city 34 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 22 partly cloudy; nashville 33 fair; new orleans 50 cloudy; st. louis 35 fair
_west: albuquerque 37 fair; anchorage 23 cloudy; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 64 fair; phoenix 54 partly cloudy; salt lake city 24 fair; san diego 53 fair; san francisco 57 windy; seattle 43 cloudy
_canada: toronto 30 cloudy. ^in new hampshire, a change of gop minds</head>
late-deciding republican voters confounded the polls and boosted george bush to his convincing victory over sen. bob dole in the new hampshire presidential primary, analysts say
voters who made their choice in the race's final days went strongly for bush, in part because of his superior campaign organization, his ties to the reagan administration and his experience in office, exit polls indicated tuesday
the result was a 9-point victory for the vice president, after some polls had shown him leading dole just barely, by 4 points in a cbs news-new york times poll and 2 points in an abc news-washington post survey
the voters of new hampshire have a well-deserved reputation of upsetting poll results, and tonight was a good example of that,'' said nbc news pollster laurily epstein. ``people change their minds, and you can't poll for that.''
an nbc news-wall street journal exit poll found that 14 percent of the gop voters in new hampshire made up their minds on primary day, with 36 percent going for bush and 29 percent for dole. another 11 percent decided during the weekend, breaking 44 percent for bush to 31 percent for dole
it was the undecideds. the undecideds went for bush,'' said john berrigan, a poll analyst for abc news. a key reason: bush's identification with president reagan, who is very popular among new hampshire republicans
the reagan coattails were there,'' said jerry strom, an nbc news poll consultant. ``people who like reagan were going strongly for bush.''
nbc's exit poll supported that contention. three-quarters of republicans said they wanted the nation to stay on the course set by reagan; 88 percent of bush's supporters held that view, compared with 66 percent of dole's
there were fewer reagan backers in iowa, and more of them went for dole than for bush, albeit narrowly, in the precinct caucuses feb. 8. dole won big there while bush suffered a third-place embarrassment
berrigan said new hampshire's economic vitality could explain reagan's popularity in that state, and its benefit for bush. ``you may have a kind of status quo phenomenon going on here, a belief that there may be a threat if i don't go with someone who's following the same line,'' he said
perhaps for similar reasons, a third of republicans said experience was the chief factor in their vote, and 54 percent of them voted for bush, to 37 percent for dole, the cbs-times poll said. dole won among republicans looking chiefly for a strong leader, with 48 percent to 21 percent for bush, but that group made up just 19 percent of the gop total
another key for bush was his extensive campaign organization in new hampshire. the cbs-times poll found that 47 percent of bush's backers said they had been asked to vote for him by someone in his organization, while just 26 percent of dole's supporters reported contact by the dole campaign
i think the thing that won it for bush was his organization,'' said warren mitofsky, polling chief at cbs news
while the polls did not anticipate the extent of bush's victory, mitofsky said they did identify trends in the race: bush way ahead before the iowa caucuses, dropping sharply after losing to dole and pat robertson in iowa, then halting his slide and rebounding during the weekend
speaking on cbs, bush credited his victory to a surge of support in the last 48 hours. ``i learned from that, fight back. fight on,'' he said. ``it's taught me a good lesson: do not be discouraged by the polling numbers.''
the exit poll results were less remarkable on the democratic side, where michael dukakis won handily, as expected. abc had him winning all ideological groups and beating his opponents soundly in organization
the poll results also indicated dukakis' backyard advantage. abc said 55 percent of democrats rated dukakis above average as governor of neighboring massachusetts, and 59 percent of them voted for him. moreover, the cbs-times poll found that 20 percent of new hampshire's democratic voters moved there from massachusetts, and four in 10 of them went for dukakis
rep. richard gephardt's second-place finish appeared to be aided by his first-place showing in iowa. of the voters who made up their minds after iowa, 27 percent went to gephardt, 26 percent to dukakis and 20 percent to sen. paul simon, who finished second in iowa and third in new hampshire
a sailor who struck, spared and guttered his way through 14 days of bowling hopes to regain the world marathon record and raise some money for a good cause, his spokeswoman said
chief petty officer richard c. king's scores for only the first 13 days, which ended at noon sunday, will be submitted to the ``guinness book of world records,'' pat lewis said tuesday
king suffered from blistered, bloodied and swollen hands and feet but was pronounced in good condition at a hospital monday and then went to a hotel that donated a suite for his use in recuperating, ms. lewis said
he's feeling real well,'' she said
the 39-year-old pensacola naval air station sailor's 312 hours of knocking pins down would easily top the existing record of 217 hours, 55 minutes, she said
king was allowed five minutes off for each hour bowled but went the first four days without a break to accumulate time later used to get about two hours of sleep a night
the current record-holder bowled 2,028 games for an average of 9.3 games per hour, compared with king's 2,863 games and 9.2 hourly average, ms. lewis said
petty officer donnie moore of the jacksonville naval air station, set the present record, breaking a mark of 168 hours, 25 minutes that king set in 1984. king is using the marathon attempt to raise money for pensacola's ninety and nine boy's ranch for abused children and children's america, a missing-child registry and assistance group based in largo
ms. lewis said more than $6,000 had been collected, and she is hoping the figure will increase to $10,000 by the time all the checks are mailed. she said pledges will be accepted for the next couple of days
a document purporting to announce a new state holiday honoring an indian chief was a forgery, and state employees should plan to show up for work friday, a spokesman for gov. booth gardner said
there will be no state holiday to honor indian chief leschi, the governor's press secretary, dick milne, said tuesday
it's a fairly elaborate scam someone is pulling here,'' milne said of the bogus proclamation, which bore a slightly off-center state seal. the governor's signature is ``an obvious forgery,'' he said
and it's ``definitely not true'' that state employees, local government workers and school children have the day off, he stressed
the forged memo praises the nisqually chief, ``the wise and generous leschi who was treated most unjustly. to honor this distinguished orator and arbiter is an essential cornerstone of our state's history.''
the memo says friday is a state holiday and that when feb. 19 is on a weekend day, it will be celebrated on a friday or monday
we haven't even been asked (about designating the holiday) or even to issue a proclamation'' in commemoration of the day,'' milne said
besides, milne said, only the legislature has the authority to proclaim a state holiday
the governor's office has no idea who forged the document, milne said, adding that the culprit had a good knowledge of indian history
when susan lamb drove up to her house and saw her father sitting at the curb in his police squad car, she knew she was in trouble
i knew he was kind of mad,'' susan said. ``he just said, `did you forget something?' i said, `yeah, my seat belt.' ''
susan's father, richard lamb, is police chief in the tri-cities of raymond, elk run heights and evansdale
susan was given an option: a $21.50 ticket or not driving her car for two weeks. the choice was simple
i wanted to go out with my friends, my boyfriend. i just decided to pay it,'' she said in a recent interview. ``my own dad. but i don't know, it's his job and i can't expect him to give me favoritism.''
my daughter thinks i am fair,'' lamb said. ``of course ... all her friends are kidding her about it.''
minority students occupying a university of massachusetts building remained today after they failed to agree on an understanding reached by their negotiators and college officials
i'm not disappointed. i'm tired. we've been going at this a long time,'' dwayne warren, a spokesman for the group, said at a 4 a.m. news conference announcing the deadlock
two women wept in the halls of the new africa house after about 100 protesters debated for five hours on the administration's response to their eight demands
the demands included suspending five white students accused of beating two blacks feb. 7 and suspending campus police officers accused of forming a lineup of blacks the same night in their search for men who allegedly harassed women on campus
the students want immediate action, but the way the structure is set up, you can't get that,'' said a student negotiator, david moore
moore said the protesters planned to continue the debate at noon today in the building they have closed to whites since friday
all but one of the nine student negotiators were pleased with the understanding reached with university chancellor joseph duffey after four hours of talks tuesday
not all the demands have been met, but all have been responded to in good faith,'' duffey said as he forwarded a written statement to the students at 10:30 p.m tuesday. ``there are things i cannot do now, but we've agreed to plan to address general concerns.''
but the mood quickly changed when the demands and duffey's response went before the 100 students occupying the building late tuesday
the vote is going very slowly and is being met with mixed emotions,'' roscoe robinson, another spokesman for the protesters, reported as the debate wore on
warren had said the students were prepared to take over another building if they failed to reach an agreement with university officials
after the deadlock, however, he ruled it out. ``at this point it's too radical an approach,'' he said
he declined to give details about the debate except to say that students felt duffey's response to their demands was vague
administrators did not release the document sent to the students, but warren said it contained a promise of efforts to improve minority students' conditions and increase financing of minority programs
more than 500 white umass students rallied tuesday to support the occupation
hey, ho, chancellor joe, racism has got to go,'' white supporters chanted as duffey made his way to the building
students and faculty members also read letters of support at the rally, including a message from democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson
the students occupying the new africa house have taken a principled position on legitimate concerns,'' jackson said in his statement. ``the quality of leadership in the state and country can be determined by how it handles such crises as this one.''
the university moved classes that usually meet in new africa house, and officials have said they do not intend to force the students out of the building
about 9 percent of the 25,000 students at the state's largest public university are minorities, including 641 blacks
last year, the university disciplined six white students who pleaded no contest to charges stemming from a campus racial clash in which a black student was beaten after the final 1986 world series game between the boston red sox and the new york mets
a convicted member of the red brigades terrorist organization was freed from prison after the government overturned a court decision to extradite him to italy
justice minister agamemnon koutsogiorgas told reporters that maurizio folini, 34, had been convicted ``on charges that were mainly of a political character.''
koutsogiorgas added that a request by folini for political asylum in greece would be considered ``as a separate matter.'' the minister spoke to reporters after the government issued its decision tuesday
folini, convicted in absentia by an italian court in 1986 on terrorism charges, was arrested in athens on june 22, 1987, after entering greece on a false passport 12 days earlier
italian authorities immediately requested his extradition
last september, the greek supreme court upheld a lower court ruling that folini should be extradited, but he remained in prison pending justice ministry confirmation of the decision
premier andreas papandreou's socialist government had come under fire from radical left-wingers seeking folini's release
one group started a hunger strike two weeks ago outside athens university in the city center to press for his release. says</head> dismantling of soviet missiles; give more exact location of missiles. adds byline. picks up 4th graf pvs, ``president reagan ...'' ^by frieder reimold</note>
the soviet union has started dismantling some of its missiles in east germany although a superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range nuclear missiles has not been ratified, a news agency reported
adn, east germany's state-run news agency, said missiles stationed in waren, 20 miles west of neubrandenburg, have been taken apart, put in crates and are ready for transport back to the soviet union
with this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the united states and the soviet union is ratified,'' adn said tuesday night
the communist party daily newspaper neues deutschland today printed a front-page report on the preparations for early removal of the missiles. neubrandenburg is north of berlin
soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from the ddr (east germany). troops in waren dismantle ... rockets earlier than expected,'' neues deutschland (new germany) said in a headline to its story
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the treaty in washington last december, agreeing to eliminate all land-based, medium- and shorter-range missiles
the agreement stipulates that the soviets' shorter-range missiles in east germany and in czechoslovakia are to be removed within 18 months and medium-range u.s. and soviet missiles within three years
the senate has not ratified the treaty. the supreme soviet, the soviet union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord
in washington, the state department had no immediate reaction to the report
a u.s. official, however, said the soviets were free to take down their missiles before the treaty takes effect. the official, who demanded anonymity, said u.s. inspectors will go to east germany and all other soviet missile sites to verify the soviets were complying with the treaty, if it is ratified
although there was no comment in moscow on the reported dismantling, gorbachev on tuesday criticized western european countries for what he called a lack of enthusiasm for the superpower treaty
the official tass news agency quoted gorbachev as criticizing western european governments for ``the latest wave of praise for the `nuclear deterrence' strategy ... all manner of projects for the joint manufacture of newest weapons, the franco-west german military rapprochement, and so forth.''
west german government officials declined comment on the report tuesday night. ``it is too early for us to comment at this time,'' a government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told the associated press
adn did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the soviet union, only that soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets.''
the rockets are shorter-range weapons included in the intermediate-range missile treaty, which bans weapons with a range of 300 miles to 3,000 miles
east german television late tuesday showed soldiers loading missile crates onto transport vehicles
adn quoted a soviet military officer as saying the ``troops are very proud that nuclear disarmament is beginning in our unit.'' the rockets are to be sent back to the soviet union by train, adn said
it said east german journalists who toured the missile base were allowed to interview soviet soldiers
erich honecker, the east german leader, indicated in january that soviet intermediate-range rockets stationed in east germany could be removed ahead of schedule, but he gave no specific timetable
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the neubrandenburg site, which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany. there are three other ss-12 rocket sites in east germany
in all, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany, according to those figures
the soviet union also has 53 ss-23 shorter-range nuclear rockets in east germany
former mayor john v. lindsay, who underwent heart surgery last month, has been discharged from columbia-presbyterian medical center and hopes to return to his law practice soon, his spokesman said
lindsay, 67, underwent a 4{-hour operation jan. 27 to repair a leaky heart valve. he was discharged from the hospital monday and is ``doing well,'' according to his spokesman, warren wechsler
lindsay was a republican congressman before being elected mayor in 1965. he won his second term as an independent and later switched to the democratic party
wechsler said the former mayor would spend the next few weeks at home recuperating before returning to his practice at the manhattan law firm of webster and sheffield
american labor leaders are breaking a four-decade tradition of unqualified support for israel, condemning its use of ''unneccessary force'' against palestinians on the west bank and in gaza
the 14.3-million-member labor federation's executive council approved the first-ever rebuke of israel tuesday after meeting with secretary of state george shultz, who is scheduled to begin a tour of the middle east next week
the afl-cio's winter meeting was shultz' last stop of an extended weekend in southern florida to gain support from traditional friends of israel for his effort to soften israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir's opposition to entering new peace negotiations
shultz is seeking to promote a resumption of negotiations on palestinian self-rule in the israeli-occupied territories
shultz addressed a meeting of the b'nai b'rith anti-defamation league in palm beach last friday, seeking help from u.s. jewish leaders in pressing shamir to show more flexibility
there's been so much emphasis on the process ... direct negotiations on the one hand, an international conference or some kind of international vehicle on the other ... that the discussion has become a little sterile,'' he told reporters tuesday. ``if we are going to get going, we need to talk a little bit more about the substance of what might happen.''
shamir has opposed a resumption of negotiations if they are based on a premise that israel will have to give up state control of some of the occupied territories as a condition for peace
shultz said the united states is ``not trying to stake out a position of one kind or another'' on that issue. however, he said getting ``to the substance in terms of things ... that would be talked about when people address ultimate resolutions of the arab-israeli conflict'' is needed to get the negotiations going again
the afl-cio, while blaming islamic fundamentalists for ``fueling the flames of violence in the occupied territories,'' said the palestinian demonstrations did not warrant the ``unnecessary force'' used by israeli defense forces on occasion
no doubt such incidents can be attributed to the inexperience of the israeli army in riot control and other police functions, and to the frustrations of israeli soldiers as they confront young palestinians hurling stones and petrol bombs,'' the federation said. ``these factors may explain, but they cannot excuse, and the afl-cio cannot condone, the use of excessive force against civilians.''
the federation, however, rejected what it called a ``notion that israel must now redeem itself by turning the west bank and gaza strip over to the palestine liberation organization.''
the somber young man refused to walk alone from the building in which he had hid atop a steam pipe for six hours while a gunman below shot seven people to death and wounded five others
i was there, above him, the whole time he was shooting,'' said the employee of the esl corp. as he left the defense plant tuesday in the company of a friend he had called to drive him home
refusing to give his name, the man threw up his hands to indicate he could no longer talk to reporters about the six-hour ordeal
about 90 minutes earlier, richard farley, 39, of san jose surrendered to police after the shooting rampage at the company that fired him two years ago for harassing female coworkers, police said
shocked employees consoled each other before they slowly left for home
several broke into sobs while others cried hysterically after the ordeal, said daryl anderson, a business analyst who hid beneath her desk during farley's six-hour standoff with police
anderson said several employees watched in horror as co-workers were slain
dr. luther cobb at santa clara valley medical center said one man who was shot four times told him he had looked out the door of his office to find out what the commotion was about and found several wounded people
he dragged one wounded man into his office and shut the door, but the gunman shot through the door, killing the man he was trying to save and wounding him, cobb said
anderson was in her second-floor office when she said she heard the gunshots. ``i was under my desk in the fetal position for six hours, '' she said
heather scott, the 13-year-old daughter of esl computer analyst gregory scott, said she visited her wounded father in the hospital, where he was reported in stable condition today after being shot in the face and hand
he looked pretty good. he said he didn't want to talk about it and i didn't really want to hear about it,'' she said
david vossbrink, community relations officer for the city of sunnyvale, said farley recently had lost another job and was deeply in debt
this guy's life was falling apart,'' said vossbrink
two landscapers, charged with stealing a 35-foot magnolia tree, admitted that uprooting the tree and hauling it away was a bad idea, police said
they said ... that they were really sorry they did it,'' said fulton county police officer mark smith. ``they said they were going to put the tree back, but they were afraid they would be caught.''
rick howard brown and herbert david bowles, both 27, might avoid legal trouble if they're willing to pay for the tree and fill in the hole where it stood
frann faulkner layton, owner of the vacant house where the tree stood, said tuesday she would consider dropping charges if they make amends
the tree was plucked jan. 30 by two men using a hydraulic shovel and truck, police said. smith said the tree was replanted at a home several miles away
he said brown and bowles were charged monday with theft and ordered to appear in court next week
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz's forthcoming middle east tour will fail to advance arab-israeli peace efforts because of washington's ``flirtation'' with israel, a leading columnist said today
moussa sabry also blamed ``american influence and zionist (israeli) terrorism'' for wrecking a plan by the palestine liberation organization to send a ship on a protest voyage from nicosia to israel this week
shultz is to make the regional tour late this month to discuss a reported u.s. peace plan
the blueprint, according to reports from washington and jerusalem, calls for an international forum to launch arab-israeli talks in april on interim palestinian self-rule in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza. negotiations on a final settlement for the two territories would open in december
the plan was reported to have been outlined in a recent area tour by assistant secretary of state richard murphy
i am not convinced that the u.s. administration under ronald reagan will move effectively as a partner in the peace process,'' sabry wrote. ``it's all very well to make tours of capitals in the area. it's all very well for murphy or shultz to come to the region. but these trips will bring no results.''
sabry, one of a group of egyptian journalists known to be close to president hosni mubarak, was writing in his periodic column on the front page of the state-owned newspaper al-akhbar. he often is critical of israel, but his comments about the united states were harsher than usual
citing next november's u.s. presidential election, he wrote: ``this is the year when democratic and republican candidates vie for the jewish vote. this is when the flirtation with israel heats up. i even venture the belief that the object of the u.s. administration's flirtation is (israeli prime minister yitzhak) shamir, the leader of extremism.''
sabry appeared to imply that washington prefers shamir to his moderate coalition cabinet partner, foreign minister shimon peres, whose labor party favors territorial concessions to the arabs
on the plo ship, sabry said, ``american influence and zionist terrorism that tried to destroy the vessel'' were the reason why the planned protest voyage to israel has been stalled
the plo charged that israeli agents planted a mine that blew a hole and crippled the cypriot ferry sol phryne on monday as it was being readied to carry palestinian deportees, international observers and reporters to israel
israel vowed to prevent the ship from entering its waters. apology of norwegian ambassador. edits to trims. no pickup.</note>
israeli soldiers opened fire on palestinian demonstrators in a west bank village today, killing one with a shot through the heart and wounding four others, arab reports and hospital officials said
the army confirmed that soldiers fatally shot one arab and wounded four in clashes in the village of shuyukh, northeast of the city of hebron
two officers opened fire after more than 100 shuyukh residents attacked an army patrol with stones and bottles, said an officer in shuyukh. he spoke on condition of anonymity
also today, the norwegian ambassador apologized to israeli officials for saying the conduct of israeli troops in the occupied territories was worse than that of german troops who occupied norway during world war ii
ambassador torleiv anda apologized after he was summoned to the foreign ministry and met with the ministry's political director-general, yossi beilin
doctors at alia hospital in hebron said a 25-year-old shuyukh resident was killed by a shot that pierced the heart. the palestine press service identified him as ismail mohammed hussein
alia doctors also said they treated four shuyukh residents for gunshot wounds in the legs and arms and four women for beating injuries
one of the wounded, khaled abu rumei, told the associated press from his hospital bed that soldiers had entered the village at about 5 a.m. to round up suspected agitators
they started breaking into houses and taking people away,'' said rumei's mother, who would not give her first name. she said soldiers clubbed her when she tried to stop them from detaining one of her sons
the army declared the village a closed military area, and soldiers turned back reporters who went to the scene in early afternoon
the army, meanwhile, clamped a curfew on the nearby village of sair, the site of frequent anti-israeli protests, the army official said. he said soldiers detained several residents, but did not have further details
during the meeting with the norwegian ambssador, beilin expressed his ``sharp protest'' to anda, said foreign ministry spokesman ehud gol
the ambassador expressed regret that his words were understood in a way which has caused embarrassment,'' gol said
anda told israel radio after the meeting that ``there was a misunderstanding that i wanted to compare these two regimes, and i'm very happy to have the opportunity to clarify.''
anda told reporters tuesday that many norwegians were comparing the conduct of the israeli army to the behavior of nazi troops who occupied norway for five years during world war ii
what the germans did, including beating and torturing prisoners and suspects, was very bad,'' the jerusalem post newspaper quoted anda as saying. ``but we do not remember them going out into the streets to break people's arms and legs or pulling children out of their homes at night.''
the army today said seven palestinians were wounded late tuesday in clashes at the fawwar refugee camp south of hebron. aliya hospital officials said that, in addition to gunshot victims, they treated 12 arabs who were injured by rubber bullets or beatings
also tuesday, soldiers shot and wounded two palestinians in the west bank village of kabatiyeh and a third in the nearby city of jenin, hospital officials said. the army confirmed one protester was wounded in kabatiyeh
in another development, transport minister chaim corfu hinted israel was involved in bombing the ferry that was to carry 130 deported palestinians back to israel. the palestine liberation organization, which sponsored the voyage, has accused israel of responsibility for the bombing monday at the port of limassol, cyprus
corfu warned that if the plo bought another ship for the trip, ``its fate will be the same.''
speaking on israel radio tuesday, corfu said: ``we knew we wouldn't allow the boat to reach israel. if we could prevent its departure, that was obviously the right thing to do.''
in parliament tuesday, defense minister yitzhak rabin was questioned about his policy of beating palestinians to stop riots. he said the beating orders were necessary and ``to the best of my knowledge and judgment, are legal.''
rabin said soldiers have exceeded orders ``in many cases'' and confirmed troops used a bulldozer earlier this month to bury alive four arabs near nablus. the arabs were saved by other palestinians
maj. gen. ehud barak, deputy chief of staff, said a sergeant-major and a non-commissioned officer were detained in connection with the incident
barak said soldiers had no choice but to use beatings to try to curb nearly 2{ months of riots in the occupied lands
he said more than 200 israelis had been injured, most of them lightly, and that 53 arabs had been killed since disturbances began dec. 8. the united nations puts the death toll at 54. no, absolutely.</note>
sen. paul simon said today that unless he wins in either minnesota or south dakota next tuesday, he will drop out of the race for president
i'm having a press conference ... where i'm going to say i have to win in either minnesota or south dakota, receive additional funding from small donors ... or i'm going to have to withdraw from the race,'' simon said on abc's ``good morning america.''
simon said his third-place finish in new hampshire was ``strong,'' but added that he ``can't indefinitely come in second and third.''
we have a good base in minnesota and south dakota. ...i think we have a real shot at one or both of those states,'' he said. minnesota holds caucuses next tuesday while south dakotans go to the polls in a primary election
simon said earlier that while finishing behind new hampshire democratic winner michael dukakis and second-place richard gephardt wasn't what he had hoped for, he will not change the focus of his campaign
no, absolutely not,'' the illinois democrat said as he edged out of his election night headquarters amid a swarm of reporters and cameras. ``the message has to be the same. that's what i believe.''
speaking earlier to supporters gathered at a restaurant, he vowed to be the advocate for ``a nation that once more cares for working men and women, that fights for the less fortunate, that stands up for middle-class americans who want to send their children to college, that reaches out to build a world that is safer for our children and generations to come.''
simon's national campaign spokesman attempted to put the best face on the third-place showing, maintaining that the candidate ``turned conventional wisdom topsy-turvy'' even before the new hampshire vote
spokesman terry michael said simon was able to blunt gephardt's momentum coming out of iowa, and that new hampshire was a lock for dukakis
simon has acknowledged that finances are a problem for his campaign, and he had hoped for a second-place showing in new hampshire to aid in fundraising
michael said the simon campaign had debts of about $500,000, with about $200,000 on hand, but expected to raise another $300,000 to $400,000 this week
simon, after congratulating his backers for their efforts, urged them not to give up
you have not been campaigning just for some fellow wearing a bow tie,'' he said. ``you have been campaigning for a cause.''
simon was accompanied on a makeshift stage by his wife, jeanne, and other supporters when it partially collapsed as he began his remarks
recovering quickly, simon joked, ``believe it or not, the platform i stand on is a bit `solider'.'' graf pvs, ``dukakis, the ...''</note>
michael dukakis and richard gephardt, looking south after their one-two finish in new hampshire's democratic primary, said today that campaign themes should not change with the region. paul simon said he would withdraw from the race unless he wins one of two contests next week
people in the south aren't voting for a zip code. they're voting for the president of the united states,'' dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said on abc's ``good morning america.''
gephardt, appearing on the same program, characterized his second place finish in new hampshire as a victory. ``the reason we won,'' he said, ``is because we got off the plane last week and began saying the same thing in new hampshire that we said in iowa.''
dukakis said the race still was ``wide open.'' gephardt said it had now come down to him and dukakis
meanwhile, simon, who came in third, said, ``i have to win either in south dakota or minnesota. otherwise i'm going to have to withdraw.''
dukakis, the three-term governor of next-door massachusetts, won tuesday's primary with a strong 17-percentage point margin over the missouri congressman. he was leaving today for the next major battleground, the south
even as he did, however, dukakis acknowledged that his victory didn't decide the race but drew the battle lines more clearly. ``i think it's going to go all the way to the last primary,'' he said
gephardt, whose victory in iowa's caucuses eight days earlier was largely overshadowed by the brawl on the republican side, accomplished his chief aim _ finishing ahead of fellow midwesterner simon
i love new hampshire,'' gephardt said
it's a result that we needed here,'' gephardt said. ``it appears to be that we've got a dukakis-gephardt race in the rest of the country, but that could change.''
dukakis won 37 percent of the vote and said the victory gives him momentum heading into the delegate-rich primaries on march 8, when contests are set in every state of the south but one
the massachusetts governor won nearly as many votes as his next two closest challengers combined, and he was leaving immediately for the next round of campaigning in atlanta and florida
last week in iowa our message started to shine through, and we won a bronze,'' he said, a reference to his third-place finish in that state's caucuses. ``tonight here in new hampshire, our message came through loud and clear. we went for the gold and we won it.''
gephardt had 20 percent and simon, the illinois senator, had 17 percent
jesse jackson's 8 percent put him in fourth place, ahead of tennessean albert gore jr.'s 7 percent. bruce babbitt finished with just 5 percent and headed for washington to meet with advisers and wrestle with the question of whether to withdraw
finishing last with 4 percent was gary hart, the prohibitive front-runner a year ago who saw his presidential hopes wrecked with embarrassing disclosures about his personal life
when he re-entered the race in mid-december, hart said, ``let the people decide,'' and in new hampshire their decision wasn't the one he wanted. he said it would take 30 to 60 days ``to determine if i can put together a viable candidacy,'' and suggested he may scale back the scope of his effort
it's a disappointing showing but we're not discouraged,'' hart said
gephardt was leaving new hampshire before dawn for stops in south dakota and wyoming, both of which have contests in the next three weeks
gephardt was betting on gaining a boost in south dakota and planned to be in that small state six out of the next seven days _ even though its primary next tuesday is a beauty contest where voters express a preference but don't award nominating delegates
he came into new hampshire saddled with debt, as was simon. both face the prospect of a three-week campaign where the costs of buying television airtime across the south are enormous, and where they may be forced to select states to contest while bypassing others
we're not badly in debt,'' gephardt said. ``we're in good shape. money is coming in.''
gore's fifth-place finish wasn't good enough to give him any boost going into the south, as he had hoped. gore spent a lot of money in new hampshire but not a lot of time, and he departed the state for much of the final week while his competitors dominated the airwaves
simon was heading to minnesota, which like south dakota has its contest next tuesday and where he must do well to stay in the race
simon had predicted he would beat gephardt and challenge dukakis in new hampshire, but he insisted ``we're moving on.''
jackson and gore, both of whom have an enormous stake in the super tuesday primaries across the south, were campaigning there today. jackson was heading to florida and gore watched the returns from texas
all the candidates were converging on texas, where the first of a series of southern debates is set for thursday night in dallas. the republicans debate there on friday
although the first primary of the 1988 campaign was likely to winnow the field, none of the losers displayed a willingness to leave the race right away. the most likely candidate appeared to be babbitt, and jackson said he talked with babbitt about gaining an endorsement if the former arizona governor quits the race
no way,'' babbitt insisted when asked if he would withdraw. but he said he planned meetings with supporters to ask, ``should i wage a guerrilla campaign or should i withdraw and do something else?''
although far more was at stake in new hampshire, 18 nominating delegates were awarded by the primary results. dukakis collected 9, gephardt 6 and simon 3
the rest got none
police escorted licio gelli into a northern italian prison today after he was extradited from switzerland to face charges in the collapse of italy's largest private bank, italian media reported
gelli, 69, was taken to a prison on the outskirts of parma, where high-security precautions include television monitoring of his cell and testing of his food for possible poisoning, according to state-run rai radio
gelli faces fraud charges related to the 1982 collapse of banco ambrosiano, the country's biggest private bank, which has close ties to the vatican
the swiss supreme court rejected italian extradition requests for alleged political crimes, including charges that gelli was involved in the aug. 2, 1980, bombing of thee bologna train station that killed 85 people and wounded 200
under the terms of the extradition, gell, also will be exempt from an eight-year jail sentence imposed by an italian court that found him guilty of financing arms and explosives purchases by right-wing terrorists
gelli surrendered to swiss officials on sept. 21, 1987, after being a fugitive for more than four years
he escaped from champ-dollon prison on aug. 10, 1983, after serving only three days of a two-month sentence for entering switzerland on false papers. he also was awaiting extradition to italy at the time
swiss police originally arrested gelli in september 1982 when he tried to withdraw funds from a frozen geneva bank account linked to a south american branch of banco ambrosiano
the metro council has killed a bill to ban sex in city-owned or operated buildings, rejecting a councilman's argument that the measure was needed to stop harassment of female workers
there are already laws that take care of this matter,'' said councilman tom sharp, who moved to table the bill tuesday night
the council killed the bill by voice vote on first reading, before it could be considered by a council committee
george darden, the measure's sponsor, said he was disappointed
i thought the council would give me the courtesy to pass my bill onto second reading and i could refer it to the attorney general for a ruling to see if it did have merit to it.''
i've got many people in my area who complain of harassment on the job,'' he said. ``they say they can't be promoted without being available to the boss man.''
darden said he would look for some other way to address the problem
a policeman trying to rescue a woman who fell into the mississippi river from a ferry slipped off the boat himself and disappeared, authorities said
the mississippi river bridge authority policeman, whose name was not released, was assigned to the ferry tuesday because of mardi gras crowds, said mrba cpl. george eberhardt
eberhardt said the officer and a deckhand went to the woman's rescue about 7:30 p.m
they were trying to pull her up when they fell in,'' he said
others on board grabbed the deckhand and the woman and pulled them aboard, eberhardt said
a coast guard helicopter and boat searched for the officer but found no sign of him, said coast guard spokesman glenn lamont. the officer was not wearing a life jacket, he said. say</head> missile removal. pick up 6th pvs, `president reagan...'</note>
east german newspapers today printed pictures of dismantled missiles and hailed soviet preparations for removing ss-12 nuclear missiles before a superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range weapons is ratified
in the name of reason. a historic moment awaits,'' said a banner headline in the junge welt (young world), the communist party's youth newspaper
soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from the ddr (east germany). troops in waren dismantle medium-range rockets earlier than expected,'' neues deutschland (new germany) said in a headline
waren is 20 miles west of neubrandenburg and about 90 miles north of berlin
removal of missile troops ... starts earlier than expected. transfer to the soviet union and destruction of their type ss-12 armaments in the u.s.s.r.,'' the east berlin daily berliner zeitung said
east germany's state-run news agency adn said tuesday night that missiles in waren had been taken apart, put in crates and were ready for transport back to the soviet union
with this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the united states and the soviet union is ratified,'' adn said
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the treaty in washington last december, agreeing to eliminate all land-based, medium- and shorter-range missiles
the agreement stipulates that the soviets' shorter-range missiles in east germany and in czechoslovakia are to be removed within 18 months and medium-range u.s. and soviet missiles within three years
the senate has not ratified the treaty. the supreme soviet, the soviet union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord
in washington, the state department had no immediate reaction to the report
a u.s. official, however, said the soviets were free to take down their missiles before the treaty takes effect. the official, who demanded anonymity, said u.s. inspectors will go to east germany and all other soviet missile sites to verify the soviets were complying with the treaty, if it is ratified
although there was no comment in moscow on the reported dismantling, gorbachev on tuesday criticized western european countries for what he called a lack of enthusiasm for the superpower treaty
the official tass news agency quoted gorbachev as criticizing western european governments for ``the latest wave of praise for the `nuclear deterrence' strategy ... all manner of projects for the joint manufacture of newest weapons, the franco-west german military rapprochement, and so forth.''
west german government officials declined comment on the report tuesday night. ``it is too early for us to comment at this time,'' a government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told the associated press
adn did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the soviet union, only that soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets.''
the rockets are shorter-range weapons included in the intermediate-range missile treaty, which bans weapons with a range of 300 miles to 3,000 miles
east german television late tuesday showed soldiers loading missile crates onto transport vehicles
adn quoted a soviet military officer as saying the ``troops are very proud that nuclear disarmament is beginning in our unit.'' the rockets are to be sent back to the soviet union by train, adn said
it said east german journalists who toured the missile base were allowed to interview soviet soldiers
erich honecker, the east german leader, indicated in january that soviet intermediate-range rockets stationed in east germany could be removed ahead of schedule, but he gave no specific timetable
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the neubrandenburg site, which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany. there are three other ss-12 rocket sites in east germany
in all, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany, according to those figures
the soviet union also has 53 ss-23 shorter-range nuclear rockets in east germany. restriction...'</note>
legislation prohibiting local governments from promoting homosexuality is virtually certain to become law after the house of lords defeated an amendment that would have limited the measure to state-owned schools
the lords, the unelected upper chamber of parliament, voted 90-48 on tuesday night to defeat the amendment
the restriction on promoting homosexuality is included in a legislative package proposed by prime minister margaret thatcher's conservative administration
the vote represented the legislation's last parliamentary hurdle and the package has been penciled in for entry onto the statute books on june 1. the package only needs to complete a formal final reading in parliament for it to become law
the bill stipulate that local authorities _ which run public libraries, some theaters and most state schools _ must not ``intentionally promote homosexuality.'' authorities that defy the ban can be sued by individuals or penalized by auditors for misusing funds, according to the legislation
the amendment defeated by the house of lords sought to limit the ban on promoting homosexuality to one area only _ state-owned schools
a labor party member, lord willis, also tried to include wording saying the proposed law is not a license to discriminate against homosexuals, but his effort failed when the time allotted for debate ran out
arguing for the measure, home office minister lord caithness said ``gay pride'' programs and the promotion of gay rights in youth clubs run by some local authorities sought to glamorize homosexuality
young people are susceptible to these intolerable influences . .. activities such as a lesbian gay strength and pride week are, in the government's view, at least as likely to glamorize homosexuality in the minds of impressionable young people as anything a teacher might do,'' he said
lord longford of the socialist opposition labor party told the house of lords the measure smacked of a ``general queer-bashing campaign.''
mrs. thatcher complained last fall that children were being taught ``they have an inalienable right to be gay.'' her government has accused some left-wing local authorities of using state funds to promote homosexuality
leftist local governments, including those running inner city london and the northern cities of manchester and sheffield, have been criticized by conservative newspapers in britain for giving grants to gay and lesbian community groups
the government also has acted to curb spending by local authorities and plans shortly to introduce controls on what is taught in state-owned schools, whose day-to-day running is in the hands of local government
critics said the homosexuality measure, known as clause 28, was a setback for gay rights in britain and a swing toward authoritanian rule by mrs. thatcher and her government. walls in london and other cities were covered with slogans attacking clause 28 as repressive legislation
some critics of the measure also said the word ``promote'' is so vague it could allow local authorities to censor works by e.m. forster and other famous homosexual writers in public libraries and theaters
the government has denied prejudice and dismissed that criticism
homosexual acts in private between consenting civilian males who are at least 21 years old were legalized by the sexual offenses act in 1967, although the age limit is widely ignored by britain's gay community
homosexuality between males in the armed forces is outlawed
for centuries until 1836, the death penalty was used to deter sodomy in britain. until 1967, it was punishable by imprisonment
oscar wilde, the homosexual irish-born playwright, was sentenced to two years imprisonment with hard labor in 1895, and, until the passing of the 1967 act, male homosexuals lived in constant fear of blackmail. the 1967 act referred only to males, as british law has never banned lesbianism
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, rejoicing that ``we went for the gold and won it'' in new hampshire's presidential primary, sought today to parlay that glitter into solid southern support
people in the south aren't voting for a zip code; they're voting for the president. ... the next president of the united states has got to be somebody who can bring this country together,'' he said on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
while polls show him in the middle of the pack in the south, where most states hold primaries or caucuses on march 8, dukakis hopes what worked in next-door new hampshire will play in dixie as well
dukakis was flying today to atlanta and tampa for rallies
i had to prove to them that i was a viable candidate for the presidency,'' dukakis said. ``the south is very much a part of this country. the goals, dreams, the values of the south are very much the same as the northeast.''
dukakis scored a convincing win over missouri rep. richard gephardt, who in turn edged sen. paul simon of illinois, who has financial worries. dukakis said ``i would think it's going to be difficult'' for simon to continue in the race
but the massachusetts governor faces strong southern competition from two democrats who finished behind the front-runners in new hampshire _ jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore. gephardt is also expected to do well in the south
dukakis was looking ahead to the southern battle even as he made his victory speech in new hampshire
some people have been asking how a new englander can hope to do well on super tuesday,'' dukakis said. ``they want to know what my `southern strategy' is. the fact of the matter is, i don't have a southern strategy. i don't have a northern strategy or a western strategy. i have an american strategy
i believe in the kind of politics where you say the same thing, wherever you go in our country. a campaign that unites america and doesn't divide it. the people of texas and florida aren't asking where candidates are from. they're asking where they'll take us.''
overall, the speech focused on principles and general ideas, for the most part, and stayed clear of specifics and political details
thank you, the people of new hampshire, for starting us off on the road to the white house,'' dukakis told a gathering of about 1,000 supporters in manchester
dukakis consultant michael goldman said the governor plans to spend nearly $4 million in the south. gore, for his part, has launched a $1 million media campaign
dukakis was confident enough about tuesday's outcome to talk about his plans for super tuesday before the polls closed. the march 8 presidential extravaganza involves primaries and caucuses in 20 states, including 14 southern and border states
we're going to contest every one of those states,'' dukakis said. ``i think we're going to surprise some people in the south.'' saving</note>
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee said today that while he was concentrating on the south his presidential rivals picked up harmful ``political baggage'' by taking narrow positions while campaigning in other parts of the nation
they all came out for mandatory controls on agricultural products ... that would be a disaster in the south,'' gore said on ``cbs this morning.''
overall, gore says, he has no regrets about skipping the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary because there was no point in spending ``$1 million on two or three delegates.''
we're saving that for the 1,400 delegates here in the super tuesday states,'' gore said tuesday night after meeting with a group of about 20 houston businessmen including former texas gov. mark white
gore maintained his focus on southern states involved in next month's super tuesday primaries while most presidential candidates were in new hampshire awaiting results of that state's leadoff primary
we made a decision not to spend $1 million on two or three delegates,'' gore said
gore campaigned little in new hampshire and finished fifth in the democratic race there with about 7 percent of the votes. he said that was better than he expected but the big test is yet to come
super tuesday changes all the rules,'' gore said. ``i think what we've seen were some rather inconclusive results in iowa, and the fact that the iowa momentum did not have much of an impact on new hampshire indicates that super tuesday is a completely new ball game.''
he said the candidates involved in iowa and new hampshire are bringing to texas and other super tuesday states a set of positions on issues that are not in touch with mainstream voters
gore's campaign already has started television commercials in major markets in texas as well as national advertisements on cable network news and cable-distributed wtbs in chicago
augsburg college officials have changed their minds about naming part of a new building after a major donor because they learned he had mailed thousands of hostile letters to interracial families
the college will, however, keep the $500,000 elroy stock donated last year, as well as other contributions made over 20 years
the positions and actions of mr. elroy stock, as reported in the media, have disturbed, angered and saddened hundreds of individuals and families, including members of the augsburg community,'' college president charles anderson said tuesday after a regents committee meeting
for some persons, to have the name of mr. stock on a wing of our new building would be misunderstood to mean the college agrees with his stance,'' anderson said
anderson, who is white and has a black daughter-in-law, said he received three anonymous letters himself from stock
stock, a 65-year-old retired executive of west publishing co. who lives in woodbury, gave the lutheren college $500,000 for a new worship, drama and communication building. it was the largest single gift last year to the college, which has 2,100 students
mr. stock's way of acquiring the funds is through honest work,'' anderson said. ``whatever mr. stock has done, he has had an opportunity to use his means to do some good for a lot of people. i see no reason why he should be denied that opportunity.''
stock, a 1949 augsburg graduate, told wcco-tv on tuesday that he was disappointed by the decision not to name the building wing after him
it's all over,'' he said. ``i don't want to even think about it. if they want to take it off, i'm not going to care.''
wcco-tv reported last week that stock had been sending unsigned letters to interracial couples for 14 years. the station said the letters included such comments as, ``a dog breeder would not think of producing mongrel dogs, so why should the human race be mongrel?''
anderson said he was convinced after meeting with stock over the weekend that stock is sorry he hurt people with the mailings
after a five-year investigation, postal officials linked the letters to stock in early 1987, said sterling mckusick, a retired u.s. postal service inspector. mckusick had received about 1,000 complaints, the earliest dating to about 1982
but stock could not be prosecuted because he had not broken any laws. complaints ceased shortly after stock was confronted by authorities in march 1987, mckusick said
anderson said no one at the college was aware of the situation until school officials were contacted by wcco. graf pvs, ``in the ...''</note>
bob dole, beaten back by george bush in the new hampshire republican primary, today renewed his allegations that the vice president had distorted his record and promised to counterattack, while jack kemp said he could unite the gop's conservative wing
from top to bottom, the 1988 republican presidential race was as hot and furious after the new hampshire primary as it had been before. no one talked of withdrawal and all looked south for new battles
for his part, bush denied that his campaign had distorted dole's record
i'm sorry he feels that way,'' the vice president said in an interview aired today on cbs
interviewed on abc's ``good morning america,'' dole said the bush camp first tried ``character assassination'' in iowa
that didn't work,'' he said, ``so they start on distorting your record. ... unless they want to get back on the straight and narrow and withdraw some of their attacks, we're going to have to counterattack.''
kemp said that although he finished third overall in new hampshire's gop contest, he was first among the conservatives. and he said he could ``bridge the gap'' between the conservative wing and pat robertson's ``evangelical christian'' wing
kemp was crowing because he finished ahead of former delaware gov. pete du pont and robertson, a former television evangelist. a week ago, he finished a weak fourth in iowa, while robertson was second
in the first-in-the-nation balloting, here were the numbers at the end of the counting: bush, 39 percent and dole, 29 percent
kemp had 13 percent; du pont, 10 percent; and robertson, 10 percent
alexander haig, who dropped out of the race friday, got less than 1 percent
bush, dole and kemp were slated to be in washington today, while du pont headed for wilmington, del
robertson was campaigning in south carolina and florida, two southern states where he hopes to win a few primaries early next month
tomorrow morning we go into the south and they're going to be playing in my backyard,'' robertson said. ``i'm throwing the gauntlet down to bob dole and george bush: south carolina is the first super tuesday state and i'm going to beat you there convincingly.''
south carolina holds a republican primary on march 5, three days before the super tuesday mega-primary on march 8
du pont, who won the endorsement of the union leader of manchester but did not turn that into a victory, vowed to press on
i'm going south...without question,'' he said. ``we did much better in new hampshire than we did in iowa. we'll do much better in the south than we did in new hampshire...the point is, we've all finished together, probably within a half point of each other.''
bush expressed heartfelt thanks to new hampshire republicans, whom he told a week ago ``i'm one of you.''
thank you, new hampshire,'' bush said. ``on to the south, where we're going to rise again.''
the battling to get into place for super tuesday _ when 16 states will hold republican events _ began even before the tally was finished in the granite state
dole was being interviewed by nbc's tom brokaw, when the anchorman turned and asked if dole had anything to say to bush
yeah, quit lying about my record,'' dole said testily
dole said bush's ads that claimed dole wants to raise taxes just aren't true
i don't mind being attacked on my record when we have a difference, but to just right out, flat out, distort the record, then i think we need to call attention to that,'' dole said. ``it's unfortunate that the vice president of the united states, who knows better, would sink to that level.''
asked later about the dole remark, bush said, ``i don't know what he's talking about.''
if it hadn't been for the distortion of my positions on tax increases and an oil import fee, i'd be 10 points ahead,'' dole added
dole had been riding a wave out of his iowa win a week ago monday, rising to as much as an eight-point lead over bush in some overnight polls
but bush and his campaign did an about-face in the middle of the week _ dropping the formal campaign style, launching the attacks on dole's record and talking a lot about himself and his own feelings
bush was also helped by president reagan's popularity in new hampshire. in iowa, where the administration is blamed for economic woes, his white house tie was a liability
and at the end of the week, bush brought in conservative hero barry goldwater to polish his conservative credentials. and he stood on the stage with baseball hero ted williams, adding a celebrity sheen in a state that watched williams perform miracles for the boston red sox
iranian-backed shiite moslem guerrillas and pro-israeli militiamen fought for six hours in south lebanon today, leaving at least 17 fighters dead and four wounded
a police spokesman said the two sides used rockets, mortars, and automatic rifles in the clash south of the christian town of jezzine, 10 miles east of the port city of sidon
he said seven fighters of the israeli-backed south lebanon army militia were killed and four wounded when shiite moslem guerillas of the pro-iranian hezbollah, or party of god, ambushed their patrol at 6 a.m. outside jezzine
the south lebanon army ``sent reinforcements to the area and fought a six-hour battle killing 10 attackers,'' said the spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity according to regulations
he said that after the killing of its fighters, hezbollah pounded the battle scene, two miles southeast of jezzine, with mortar fire. it later recovered the bodies of six of its men
the south lebanon army is based in a six-mile deep israeli-occupied border strip in south lebanon and carries out frequent patrols into jezzine, a christian town outside the zone
israel established the so-called security zone along the border after the withdrawal of the bulk of its occupation army from south lebanon in 1985, three years after it invaded the country
hezbollah comprises shiite zealots, who are backed by iran's islamic revolution
a man who first said strong winds blew his bride off a cruise ship now claims israeli secret agents killed his wife in retribution for a book he wrote about human rights abuses
scott robin roston, 36, who is being held for investigation of murdering his wife, 26-year-old karen waltz roston, made the allegation tuesday in a statement released by his lawyer after an appearance in federal court
meanwhile, the san diego county coroner's office said mrs. roston died from ``strangulation associated with drowning, which was determined to be a homicide.''
doctors performing the autopsy found contusions on mrs. roston's neck as well as other signs she had been in a struggle, according to an fbi affidavit filed in u.s. district court
roston initially had said his wife had been blown overboard by wind while jogging saturday aboard the star dancer as it returned to los angeles from their honeymoon cruise
the ship's captain, thomas wildung, said winds were light
in his new statement, roston claimed the agents drugged him, leaving him with no memory of that night
he said israeli agents had tried unsuccessfully to kidnap him in the past and that u.s. agents also had pursued him because he held documents showing u.s. government involvement in what he called israel's ``gross violation of human rights.''
he feels that this murder is the result of a book he published last year in new york city in which he exposed the numerous human rights abuses which he perceived in israel,'' said roston's attorney, paul potter
potter said he would seek a psychiatric examination of his client and added that roston may have received a psychiatric discharge from the navy
calls to the israeli consulate in los angeles were referred to an official who was out of town and unavailable for comment
at a detention hearing tuesday, roston was ordered by u.s. magistrate john r. kronenberg to remain in custody at terminal island federal prison without bail, said mary mcmenimen, spokeswoman for the u.s. attorney's office. his next court date was scheduled for march 8
mrs. roston's body was found saturday floating in the pacific ocean 44 miles southwest of san diego. it was taken to san diego while the star dancer, owned by admiral cruises of miami continued on to los angeles
roston, who had moved to santa monica in june from lantana, fla., was questioned by fbi agents upon arrival in los angeles and later arrested
books in print lists scott robin roston as the author of ``nightmare in israel,'' published in 1987 by vantage press, a vanity publishing house in which authors pay for the publication of their works
the rostons were married feb. 4 in las vegas, nev., and shortly afterward embarked on the mexican cruise they won in a contest, roston's father said
meanwhile, the head of the california chiropractors association said roston, who has been identified as a chiropractor by his mother and roommate, is not licensed to practice either in california or florida. transponders</head>
the federal aviation administration wants all aircraft operating near 254 of the nation's airports to have devices that automatically inform air traffic controllers of a plane's altitude
the devices, called mode c transponders, are already required on commercial aircraft. the regulation, proposed tuesday, would affect private planes operating within 40 miles of the designated airports
the regulation would also require all aircraft operating at 6,000 feet or move above the surface in controlled airspace to carry the transponders
faa administrator allan mcartor said increased use of the devices would ease the burden on controllers and reduce the potential for collisions and close encounters between planes
by taking advantage of the existing aviation technology, this rule, if adopted, will provide a significant enhancement to the safety of our nation's flying public,'' mcartor said
the proposed rule would implement legislation passed by congress to require expanded use of the transponders
the faa now requires the transponders for aircraft operating at 12,500 feet or more above sea level and in so-called terminal control areas around the nation's 23-busiest airports. last june, the agency proposed a rule requiring mode c transponders for aircraft operating within 30 miles of such airports
the faa said increased use of the transponders allows the display of altitude information on an air traffic controller's radar screen, can warn controllers of possible conflicts, provide low-altitude warnings, and activate a collision-avoidance system in aircraft that have such a system
the proposed rule will be open to public comment through march 28. south</head> graf pvs, the new</note>
republican jack kemp, armed with a third-place new hampshire finish ahead of pat robertson, predicted today that he would continue to do well against his fellow conservative in the southern primaries
robertson is ``certainly a conservative but a rather negative conservative,'' kemp said. ``i don't think pat robertson can ultimately be the candidate of the conservative south.''
kemp, interviewed on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' celebrated his finish ahead of former delaware gov. pete du pont and robertson as a victory in a ``race for the conservatives'' in the republican party
he said that race was separate from the ``race for the traditional, moderate wing of the party'' between vice president george bush and senate republican leader bob dole
i'd like george and bob to withdraw,'' he added wryly
final unofficial results from tuesday's first-in-the-nation primary gave kemp 13 percent of the vote, placing him behind bush, who had 38 percent, and dole at 29 percent. du pont and robertson each received 10 percent, with du pont slightly ahead
the new york congressman called the results a victory, particularly after robertson's surprise second-place finish in the iowa caucuses
there's two contests in this party,'' kemp, his family at his side, told about 400 supporters at a hotel ballroom bedecked with red, white and blue balloons
there's the contest for the establishment wing of the republican party, and there is a contest for the conservative wing. we won the contest for the conservative wing...
and the thing that's happening now _ and you can feel it right here in new hampshire _ finally we've dragged bush and dole out of discussing their resumes and their tax returns and where they're born and into discussing issues.''
with you and the type of folks that you represent around this country, ladies and gentlemen, the growth, hope and opportunity wing of the republican party is going to prevail over the orthodox, status-quo wing of our party,'' kemp said
kemp campaign adviser roger stone said the third-place finish would help kemp substantially in the south
as the agenda moves south, it's the most conservative part of the country, and we think his message will be well accepted there,'' stone said
a former pro football player who's a strong anti-communist and is strong on defense issues is better for the south than a connecticut yankee son of a wall street banker,'' he said, referring to bush
stone said the campaign has about $100,000 on hand and a list of 100,000 donors nationwide. he predicted that tuesday's results will increase kemp's ability to raise funds. graf pvs, ``i've worked ...''</note>
jesse jackson said today that his fourth place finish in new hampshire's democratic primary ``proved we could broaden our base'' and that he expects to win as the presidential campaign moves south
our message of end economic violence and stop drugs from coming into our country hit at the heart of the families of working people,'' he said in an interview on cbs ``this morning.''
he said that in both iowa and new hampshire, ``we proved that we could broaden our base, appeal to voters across the country.''
jackson finished ahead of rivals albert gore, bruce babbitt and gary hart in tuesday night's new hampshire primary and last week's iowa caucuses. he already has met with babbitt to ask for his support
in many ways, he has been a part of the heart and soul of this campaign,'' jackson said of babbitt. ``we have an awful lot in common.''
jackson had campaign appearances scheduled today in tallahassee, fla., and mobile, ala
i'm a son of the south. i know its ways,'' jackson, a south carolina native, said after the returns were counted tuesday night
i've worked harder and longer to make the new south new than anyone in this campaign,'' jackson said, citing his work for voting rights and open housing
jackson was particularly jubilant about his new hampshire showing. he said his campaign spent only $45,000 in the state, far less than opponents michael dukakis, paul simon and richard gephardt, yet it gathered enough support to give him momemtum going into super tuesday
we defied the odds. ...they outspent us 10-to-one, and yet we keep getting stronger and stronger and stronger,'' jackson said
gore, who also eschewed a strong new hampshire effort in favor of southern campaigning, will not pose a problem for jackson, the civil rights leader said
i'm not worried about anybody,'' he said
jackson also jabbed at primary winner dukakis. ``we cannot just take the uncollected taxes of the reagan revolution,'' he said, referring to dukakis' plan to cut federal budget deficits by collecting $110 billion in overdue income taxes
supporters, who munched on cold fried chicken and clustered around televisions to check on network projections, said fourth place was more than satisfactory
it's real acceptable. fourth is about what we'd like to do here, so we're happy,'' said state rep. robert cushing, jackson's state campaign co-chairman
fountains of pink and green sparks shot up from alleys and bangs and crackles filled the air as china today welcomed the year of the dragon with the traditional fireworks greeting
the government decreed a cutback this year in firecracker sales in beijing due to the high toll in injuries and property damage. but when midnight struck, residents brought out their firepower in force
the lunar new year, renamed spring festival after the 1949 communist takeover, traditionally is china's most important holiday. it has been welcomed with more than usual fanfare because this is the year of the dragon, the most auspicious of the 12 animals in chinese astrology
the symbol of china is considered lucky for business, marriage and the ``dragon babies'' born before it ends
vietnam ushered in the lunar new year with an official remembrance of its historic tet offensive 20 years ago
the official voice of vietnam radio recounted myths of the dragon. but much of the broadcast, punctuated by the sounds of battle, was devoted to recalling the offensive that began jan. 30, 1968
communist forces then attacked more than 100 cities and towns throughout south vietnam, suffering enormous casualties as u.s. and south vietnamese forces drove them back
the offensive convinced some americans the war was unwinnable and fueled the u.s. anti-war movement instrumental in achieving an american withdrawal in late 1973. the communists went on to win in 1975
the attacks sent shock waves across the world and shook the white house,'' said the broadcast monitored in bangkok. ``the u.s. ruling circles were forced to think of a withdrawal and to sit down at the negotiating table in paris.''
in south korea, millions of people crowded trains and buses to join their families for the new year's celebration, which begins on thursday in korea. as many as 7 million people were expected to travel cross-country to spend the holiday feasting, playing traditional games and enjoying other festivities
nearly everyone in hong kong _ wealthy businessmen, factory workers, maids, restaurant waiters _ left their jobs to welcome the lunar new year with feasts, gambling and visits to relatives with gifts of candy and ``lai see'' (lucky money) for children
top chinese leader deng xiaoping welcomed the new year at a party in shanghai, the official xinhua news agency reported. it was the 83-year-old deng's first reported public appearance since jan. 20
xinhua said deng received an ovation from the more than 700 people attending the party at the shanghai exhibition center, and that he waved back, ``all smiles.''
markets in china were crammed with festival foods, railroad stations were full of holiday travelers and signs emblazoned with dragons heralded the start of the year 4686
thousands of people from taiwan, where chiang kai-shek's nationalists fled after the communist victory of 1949, were expected to visit the mainland. last year, taiwan's government lifted a ban on visits to allow family reunions
government statistics indicate about 400,000 of hong kong's 5.7 million people had left by tuesday for holidays abroad, and many more were expected to go
the pro-beijing china travel service estimated 1.8 million people from hong kong would spend the holiday in china, primarily in the neighboring province of guangdong, where many have their ancestral roots
a company official said about 6,000 people from taiwan were expected to visit the mainland
during the new year festivities, normally thrifty chinese throw financial caution to the winds and blow several months' pay on good cheer, gifts and games of chance
about $2.7 million worth of fireworks were sold in beijing last year and some families spent as much as $54, the equivalent of two months' pay
this year, the government reduced the supply by 30 percent. fireworks were blamed last year for 3,040 fires that killed 17 people and caused nearly $1 million in damage. opposition party comments. picks up 2nd graf pvs, `in recent...</note>
key defense issues such as short-range nuclear missiles and chemical weapons are likely to be on the agenda when chancellor helmut kohl meets with president reagan in washington this week
kohl left for washington today for the three-day visit that will include talks with president reagan, secretary of state george p. shultz and leading members of congress
the opposition social democratic party called on the chancellor to press for a reduction in short-range nuclear missiles in central europe during the washington talks
the chancellor should work toward a concept for the withdrawal of short-range missiles,'' the party's arms control expert, karsten voigt, was quoted by the neuen osnabruecker newspaper as saying
in recent days, west german government officials have pointed out differences of opinion on these topics and urged the nato alliance to develop an overall arms control strategy before pursuing new talks with the soviet union
before we sit at the table with the soviets on new (disarmament) proposals, we need to have agreement within the (nato) alliance on overall strategy,'' a top-ranking west german official told reporters tuesday
officials said kohl is likely to press for a worldwide ban on chemical weapons
u.s. officials have said it would be difficult to verify such a ban, but west german experts contend that verification problems can be worked out
we think the (east-west) chemical weapons talks have reached a point where it is possible to reach an agreement this year,'' said the west german official, who spoke on condition that he not be further identified
the official said west germans are aware that u.s. arms control negotiators are emphasizing working out reductions in strategic nuclear weapons and don't feel that the geneva-based chemical weapons talks are on the brink of agreement
but it is important for us to represent our european interests within the (nato) alliance,'' he added
short-range nuclear missiles, or those with a range of less than 300 miles, are expected to be a main point of kohl's talks in washington. u.s. officials in recent weeks have emphasized the importance of implementing a 1983 nato decision to upgrade the short-range nuclear weapons in central europe
u.s. and other nato officials have said the short-range missiles are now more important to the alliance because of last december's superpower arms treaty which, if ratified, will scrap all land-based, medium-range missiles
but the west german government says nato must first develop overall arms control strategies and insists on reductions in soviet superiority in conventional arms before upgrading the alliance's short-range missiles
the federal republic (of germany) sees no need for an isolated decision on modernizing or not modernizing particular nuclear weapon systems at this point,'' friedhelm ost, chief government spokesman, said monday
such decisions should be taken only after new overall (disarmament) concepts are worked out,'' he added
a woman who police say gave birth to premature twin boys in her apartment and then smoked cocaine while they died in her bathroom has been charged with two counts of murder
the charges were filed tuesday against deborah stewart, 36
stewart's ``behavior during the pregnancy and after the births caused the deaths,'' by aaron payne, senior deputy alameda county district attorney
sgt. c.d. williams said the woman told him ``when you're smoking cocaine, your reasoning goes out the window.''
she said she gave birth to the first baby thursday morning and left him squalling on the bathroom floor while she returned to her bedroom to continue using cocaine, officers said
she gave birth to the second infant in the afternoon, leaving it wrapped in a towel in the bathroom
it was not until thursday night, when she thought she was going to pass out from blood loss, that stewart called an ambulance, she told authorities. she did not mention the births until she was en route to the hospital, police said
police found the infants' bodies after being notified by a paramedic who had taken stewart to merritt hospital
nasa says it will choose in april between two crew escape systems for the space shuttle, in time to install the system in the shuttle discovery for the restart of the manned flight program
discovery now is scheduled to lift off from the kennedy space center on aug. 4. it already is outfitted with an escape hatch that can be jettisoned with explosives, a change from previous flights, in which opening the hatch was a laborious, time-consuming effort
one of the emergency systems would have crew members, one at a time, hook on to small tractor rockets stored in the cabin. the astronauts would be pulled clear of the spacecraft and would parachute to the ocean
the second system, first tested in wind tunnels and now by military volunteers in c-141 aircraft at edwards air force base in california, involves a telescoping pole that would extend down and to the rear of the shuttle. astronauts would attach themselves to rings on the pole, slide clear of the shuttle and then parachute
the two systems, the pole and the rocket, both provide the capability for us to get away from the wing should we have to jump out the side,'' rick hauck, commander of the five-man crew on the first mission, told a senate hearing tuesday
if both those tests turn out to be adequate to do the job, i think it would be common sense that we would prefer to have the system that is the simplest, that involves the least amount of potential hazard.''
the escape system would be useful only on a controlled, level flight, not while the shuttle's booster rockets are firing, as was the case in the challenger accident in 1986. government</head>
an afghan guerrilla leader today urged pakistan not to sign an agreement to end the civil war in afghanistan unless an opposition government is established there first
it will be a historic blunder if pakistan signs the geneva peace agreements in their present forms,'' gulbaddin hekmatyar, chief of the islamic party guerrillas, told a news conference
meanwhile, a soviet foreign ministry official accused pakistan of trying to delay the pullout by demanding an agreement on the makeup of a new interim afghan government
a final round of the u.n.-sponsored talks between islamabad and kabul is to open in geneva on march 2. negotiators are expected to try to reach peace agreements to end the eight-year war, which has pitted the moslem guerrillas against an estimated 115,000 soviet troops and a small afghan army
pakistan, the united states, china and other countries support the guerrillas and are represented by islamabad at the geneva talks. soviet views are represented by officials from kabul
hekmatyar, who heads the largest group in the seven-party guerrilla alliance headquartered in pakistan, said islamabad should retain its present demand for a government dominated by the guerrillas and shared by other afghans to be installed in kabul before a peace accord is signed
in a statement feb. 8, soviet leader mikhail gorbachev offered to start withdrawing his troops on may 15, provided the peace agreements are signed by march 15
he said that a pullout would not be contingent on a separate agreement on the makeup of a transitional afghan government
hekmatyar said the proposal implied that the moscow-backed government of president najib would remain in power and the insurgents would play no role
gorbachev's proposal will cunningly leave the najib government in power when the soviets withdraw, and afghan refugees will be allowed to return home. but it will not lead to peace,'' said hekmatyar, considered among the most hardline of the guerrilla leaders
hekmatyar renewed the guerrillas' call for moscow to begin direct talks with the guerillas. the soviets and the insurgents, he said, are the only parties involved in the afghan fighting
such negotiations could lead to the formation of an interim government which will organize elections to establish a permanent elected government and a parliament, he said
hekmatyar said the seven guerrilla parties would draw up a list of people acceptable for the proposed government. the names would include guerrillas, afghan refugees and afghan moslems and exclude communists, he said
in moscow, foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said that pakistan has been trying to delay the pullout by urging the soviet union to find a formula for a future afghan government
a domestic afghan settlement is a cause for the afghans themselves. and it depends only on them which ways to choose for the purpose,'' gerasimov said
outside parties can assist the process, but not at the expense of the withdrawal talks, gerasimov said in remarks reported by the tass news agency
he said ``the pakistani side's attempts to keep away from concluding the geneva process are tantamount to an intention to frustrate the entire afghan settlement.''
the pakistani foreign ministry said in a statement feb. 16 that only by linking its withdrawal to an agreement on an interim government could the soviet union assure an end to the fighting
iranian president ali khamenei told the soviet deputy foreign minister vladimir petrovsky that any pullout accord must prevent the united states and its allies from wielding influence in afghanistan, according to a report broadcast tuesday by tehran's islamic republic news agency
soviet soldiers entered afghanistan in december 1979, replaced one pro-soviet government with another, and remained to fight the insurgents. many of the guerrilla groups fight from bases across the border in neighboring pakistan. governor</head>
a leader of the polygamist family that held off police for 13 days says he's sorry a corrections officer was killed in the shootout that ended the siege, but that authorities had been warned not to go onto the property
and addam swapp, 26, who was wounded in the gunfight, said he learned in a divine revelation that his life was spared because of his willingness to risk all for god
swapp is being held in the salt lake county jail pending trial on attempted murder and bombing charges. the bombing charges stem from an explosion at a mormon chapel a half-mile from the polygamists' farm at marion, 50 miles east of salt lake city. the explosion led authorities to stake out the compound and to the 13-day standoff
another family member is suspected in the fatal shooting of lt. fred house, a dog handler with the state corrections department
the bombing allegedly was in revenge for the death of polygamist patriarch john singer, who was killed in a confrontation with authorities nine years ago. swapp is married to two of singer's daughters, and was a leader of the family along with singer's widow, vickie. they blame the mormon church, of which their group is an offshoot, and police in singer's death
swapp, in a telephone call to the salt lake tribune from jail, brought up singer's death, saying, ``two people died in all of this, just remember that,'' and singer's ``blood still lies on the ground there, too.'' his comments were published in today's tribune
swapp noted that he had warned of possible violence in a letter to the governor. his note said in part, ``take a warning _ any man of yours which attempts to cross the boundaries of this place, without our permission, will be treated as an aggressive act on your part and we will defend ourselves in any matter we see fit.''
and that's what happened,'' swapp said
asked if he felt bad about the death, he said, ``very. yes i do. ... of course, i do.''
swapp said he was surprised to find himself in jail but believes god wants him there for a new mission
the siege is over,'' he said. ``that price has been paid. now the lord has a different mission and a different way, and he wants to continue ... bringing forth this kingdom of god.''
i do think the lord is going to use the courts, and a lot of stuff is going to come out,'' he said
the motion picture industry's most coveted award, oscar, was created 60 years ago and 1,816 of the statuettes have been produced so far
weighing 8{ pounds and standing 13{ inches tall, oscar was created by metro-goldwyn-mayer studios art director cedric gibbons, who went on to win 11 of the trophies
oscar, manufactured by the r.s. owens co., chicago, is made of britannia metal, copper plate, nickel plate and gold plate. from 1942 to 1944, the trophy was made of plaster, but winners were later presented with the real thing
according to the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences, the only engraving mistake was in 1938 when the best actor trophy given to spencer tracy for ``boy's town'' read: ``best actor: dick tracy.''
the academy holds all the rights on the statue and ``reserves the right to buy back an oscar before someone takes it to a pawn shop,'' said academy spokesman bob werden
the most-nominated film was ``all about eve'' in 1950. it got 14 nominations. ``ben-hur'' in 1959 was the most-awarded film with 11, and walt disney was the most-awarded person with 32. tough</head> update with more simon quotes; picks up 6th graf pvs, ``babbitt, who ... deleting grafs 10-11 pvs, now redundant, ``another democrat ...'' subs 17th graf to update with robertson getting 9 percent of vote,with</note>
jesse jackson said today he hopes to get support from bruce babbitt if babbitt drops out of the democratic presidential race as expected, while paul simon set the stage for his withdrawal if he doesn't ``win somewhere'' next week
jackson, who finished fourth, said he and babbitt discussed the former arizona governor's political future as voters were casting the ballots that left babbitt in sixth place tuesday night
he wanted to discuss what his options were, which he is still wrestling with with his wife hattie,'' jackson said on ``cbs this morning.'' ``he's not made a final judgment.''
jackson quickly added, ``i hope i get his support.''
simon, who finished third in the democratic race behind michael dukakis and richard gephardt, said the balloting next week would determine his political future
i have to win either in south dakota or minnesota, and we have to get additional campaign contributions,'' he said on nbc. ``those two things have to be there, otherwise, i'm going to have to withdraw. ... you have to win somewhere.''
after iowa's caucuses last week, alexander m. haig jr. withdrew from the republican presidential race
babbitt, who also appeared on the cbs program, indicated today that he would like to continue his campaign, saying, ``i've devoted a year to talking to the american people.''
his wife, who joined him in the interview, added: ``i think we'll keep going with the message of this campaign.''
babbitt said tuesday it was premature for jackson and former colorado sen. gary hart to be wooing his backers, saying he would spend a few days in washington and ``call and talk to my supporters all over the country and ask them this question: `how ... can we keep this reform movement alive?'''
he had said prior to the new hampshire primary that the state's voters had the power of life and death over his candidacy
republican rep. jack kemp of new york got 13 percent of the gop vote and voiced optimism today over his third-place showing behind vice president george bush and dole
we're going to do well in minnesota,'' kemp said on the abc program
the new york congressman added that ``people recognize we are viable, we are confident that we will be able to raise money.''
pete du pont, who got 10 percent of the gop vote, found cause to cheer in that fourth-place showing just ahead of pat robertson in the five-man republican race
point is, we've all finished together,'' du pont said of the trio on the gop's bottom rung. and on his prospects in the days ahead: ``we did much better in new hampshire than we did in iowa. we'll do much better in the south than we did in new hampshire.''
robertson, who finished with 9 percent, said the south would be a welcome change after iowa, which was dole's neighborhood, and new hampshire, which was claimed by bush: ``tomorrow morning, i go into the south, and they're going to be playing in my backyard.''
for the democrats, though neither jackson nor gore got a new england boost to take south, both were sure to find friendlier territory in dixie
we've already been saving our resources for super tuesday,'' said gore in an interview from houston on cbs. ``i've spent more time here than other candidates.''
both hart and jackson, who happened upon babbitt at cable news network's studio in manchester as the votes rolled in tuesday night, huddled with the former arizona governor to ask his support should he withdraw
our message has tremendous overlap. ... i hope that in time we will work out some common ground in terms of our politics,'' said jackson, who finished with 8 percent, ahead of gore's 7 percent, babbitt's 5 percent and hart's 4 percent
hart said he expects to be a candidate ``as far ahead in the future as i can see.'' but he added, ``i understand that there are standards that have to be met in terms of delegates and votes,'' he said. ``it will take at least 30 to 60 days to determine if i can put together a viable candidacy.'' bgng ``it appears...</note>
democrat richard gephardt, cheered by his second-place showing in new hampshire's primary, said today that voters will buy his ideas because ``this is not a candidacy, this is a cause.''
gephardt continued his campaign theme of change, as he left new hampshire for south dakota, which holds a primary next tuesday
this is not a candidacy, this is a cause. and the cause is changing america _ a new trade policy, a new agriculture and energy policy, inspiring and motivating our corporate leaders to stop the paper profits and to start looking at how we do the business of america again to make good products,'' he told cbs' ``this morning.''
gephardt said his showing in the new hampshire democratic presidential primary leaves him positioned ``to do great in the south.''
it appears to me that we've got a dukakis-gephardt race through the rest of the country,'' gephardt said tuesday night. final but unofficial results gave massachusetts gov. michael dukakis 37 percent, gephardt, the congressman from missouri, 20 percent and sen. paul simon of illinois, 18 percent
at his campaign headquarters in manchester, gephardt began a jubilant victory statement by saying, ``i love new hampshire.''
everybody said the gephardt campaign couldn't do it in new hampshire,'' he told cheering supporters
well, we said that this is one nation, one people ... and we proved that the people of new hampshire are a part of this country and care about this country and about this cause.''
gephardt insisted that his campaign's finances were in good shape for the move south. he said loans to the campaign were made against federal matching funds, which he will receive later
it's a cash-flow situation,'' he said. ``we didn't borrow money that we didn't have coming. so we're in good shape. we're going to do fine for super tuesday.''
gephardt pointed to a recent usa today poll that put him first in the south in front of dukakis, simon, al gore and jesse jackson
asked whether simon's third-place showing would put him out of the race, gephardt said he didn't know
paul has run a good campaign, he's a fine man and that's his decision,'' he said
simon and gephardt had been concentrating their fire on each other until the weekend, when both switched to advertisements attacking dukakis
jim demers, co-chairman of gephardt's new hampshire campaign, noted that dukakis now has ``a gold (medal) and a bronze'' after his third-place iowa showing and tuesday's victory. gephardt picked up the metaphor later, saying, ``i've got a gold and a silver.''
gephardt said he was especially happy to have won in manchester, which is the state's largest city. there he beat dukakis 29 percent to 27 percent
gephardt planned to leave the state early this morning for south dakota, where he will spend six of the seven days before the state's primary feb. 23
mayor dick crawford easily defeated his challenger in the republican primary for city hall, and will face a state senator in the april general election
we've been looking to get this out of the way so we can get to the main event,'' crawford said after his victory tuesday night over businessman tom quinn
crawford, 54, who waged a minimal primary campaign, won the republican nomination with 14,952 votes, or 61 percent, according to unofficial results from all 188 precincts. quinn received 38 percent of the vote, or 9,327 votes
crawford's opponent in the april 5 race is democratic state sen. rodger randle, who contended quinn's relatively strong showing against an incumbent indicates voters are not pleased with crawford
quinn only recently joined the gop to stop crawford from running unopposed, randle also noted. quinn, a sign company president, had defeated democratic mayor terry young in the 1986 primary
it certainly would have to be a disappointment to mr. crawford to have mr. quinn run so well against him,'' randle said
randle won the democratic nomination with 57 percent of the ballots cast, or 20,507 votes. former tulsa water and sewer commissioner patty eaton came in second with 13,361 votes, or 37 percent
the other four candidates in the democratic primary received a little more than 5 percent of the votes cast
tuesday's election had a record turnout, with more than 70,000 of the 250,000 registered voters casting ballots, tulsa county election board secretary scott orbison said
randle, 44, has been a member of the oklahoma legislature for 17 years and served as senate president pro tempore. he lost his first race for mayor in 1978 to republican jim inhofe, now a congressman from oklahoma's 1st district. picks up 7th graf pvs: `the diplomats...' adds eight grafs on effects on shultz visit and additional embassy background.</note>
a fire broke out today in an unoccupied fifth-floor room of the u.s. embassy in moscow, forcing about 150 people to flee the building to a snowstorm outside
flames leaped from windows on the fifth floor of the aging, 10-story building, and smoke continued to pour out for an hour after it was evacuated
soviet firefighters were summoned to the scene in midafternoon and were escorted by u.s. marine guards into the embassy compound. the blaze apparently began in an unoccupied room in an area undergoing renovation
philip brown, a senior embassy spokesman, said the cause of the fire had not been determined. no injuries were reported
the building, leased to the united states by the soviet government since the 1950s, was to have been replaced by a new diplomatic complex. but the embassy building at the center of that complex remains vacant and unfinished following discovery that it was riddled with soviet eavesdropping devices
about 150 embassy employees were in the building when the fire broke out. ambassador jack matlock was not at the embassy at the time but returned after the evacuation, press attache richard gilbert said
gilbert said the fire ``might be construction related, but it has not been determined.'' the spokesman said there was no serious damage to the main working areas of the embassy, which are located on the sixth floor and above
most of the 40 apartments once used by guards and diplomats have been vacated in recent months as officials have moved into the modern brick townhouses that surround the new embassy building
the diplomats and embassy workers were ordered out of their offices and stood on the sidewalk in a snowstorm to watch firemen combat the fire
the blaze occurred in a section of the building that had been used to house navy seabees _ members of construction battalions _ and workers brought to moscow on temporary assignment. but a spokesman said the corner room where the fire broke out was not being occupied at the time
much of the building, which is in poor repair, is under renovation while officials in washington ponder what to do with their new embassy building less than a block away
a soviet fire official said the blaze was confined to one room and that no injuries were reported. embassy employees were told to take the rest of the day off because the building could not be occupied for at least several hours
brown said embassy officials decided about 30 minutes after the blaze was discovered that they couldn't contain it without assistance, and moscow fire trucks were called to the scene
marine guards, who are responsible for security inside the compound, escorted the firemen and their vehicles into the courtyard of the pre-revolutionary mansion and accompanied the firefighters as they trained hoses on the blaze and entered the main embassy building with gas masks and extinguishers
u.s. reps. dan mica, d-fla., and olympia snowe, r-maine, during an inspection of the embassy last april, pronounced it ``a firetrap and unsafe by accepted standards for general working conditions.''
a more serious fire ravaged the top floors of the embassy building in august 1977. officials said afterward the damage was particularly severe because ambassador malcolm toon refused to permit soviet firefighters to enter the top-security embassy communications center and some of its most sensitive work areas to combat the blaze
in washington, a senior official said the fire was contained to an unclassified area and was unrelated to talks that secretary of state george p. shultz will open sunday with soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
the fire was a fire,'' said assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway. ``it would be totally wrong, it would be fiction, to try to have it have anything to do with the upcoming visit.''
shultz will hold talks with shevardnadze on arms control negotiations, human rights and a prospective withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan. they also will make preparations for a summit meeting in moscow next spring between president reagan and general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev
ms. ridgway, who is in charge of the european bureau at the state department and will accompany shultz, said the fire ``affected our communications somewhat'' with the embassy and that she did not have all the details
the embassy and its operations in moscow have been the center of controversy for more than a year
a scandal exploded around accusations that marine guards, influenced by soviet women with whom they were illicitly associating, had permitted soviet agents inside secret areas of the embassy when no diplomats were present. those charges were never proved, but a marine was convicted in august of espionage
officials disclosed in 1986 that the new $191 million embassy, already five years behind schedule, would not be finished or occupied until they decided whether it could be made secure from electronic bugs
proposals include razing part or all of the new building or building a new structure in the complex to house communications facilities and secret operations
narcotics agents mistakenly raided a minister's house after counting from the wrong end of the block, officials said
i thought they were robbers,'' said hector sanchez, whose daughter, noemi, woke him up early sunday to say three men were in the backyard with crowbars and guns
sanchez, a minister at the spanish assembly of god church, says he asked the men what they wanted and they told him to stop or be shot. they then followed him into the house, sanchez said
when he (one of the officers) told me he was from the state police, i was relieved,'' sanchez said. ``but i was still frightened.''
his wife and two daughters sat in the living room while the men went through the house and out front, where they ran into the rest of the raiding party _ and learned of their mistake
sgt. don bush blames of the department of public safety narcotics division blames ``human error.''
the department had assigned men to two groups, bush said. one group was supposed to enter the targeted home from the front, and the other _ the group that raided the sanchez home _ was supposed to guard the rear
because the houses don't have numbers on the back, the group in the rear was instructed to count houses from the corner, bush said. the problem, he said, was that they started counting at the wrong end of the block
later sunday, public safety officers and the abilene police department's special services bureau arrested seven people down the block
the journal of the american medical association says it will not comply with an order to name an essayist who claimed in a recent issue to have committed a mercy killing
a subpoena was served tuesday by the cook county state's attorney's office regarding a jan. 8 essay titled ``it's over, debbie,'' said kirk johnson, general counsel for the nation's largest organization of doctors
although the ama ``strongly condemns'' mercy killing, its journal will not comply with the subpoena, he said in a statement
dr. george lundberg, the editor in chief of jama, has invoked the privilege protecting information obtained by reporters in the course of their work as provided in the illinois reporter's privilege act,'' johnson said
the act says a person seeking privileged, or protected, information must apply in writing to the circuit court to set aside the protection, he said
the act also says the court may overrule the privilege only when, after a hearing, it finds all other sources have been exhausted and disclosure of the information ``is essential to protection of the public interest,'' said johnson
because the state's attorney's office has not complied with these requirements of the act, jama will not comply with the subpoena,'' the attorney said
terry levin, a spokesman for the prosecutor's office, said tuesday, ``we have no comment, and in fact, are not confirming we are even looking into this.''
in the article, a doctor described injecting a fatal dose of morphine into a terminally ill young woman he had never seen before who suffered from ovarian cancer
ama officials have said they did not verify the purported mercy killing but believe it was based on fact. they said the author requested anonymity
handing over information would ``inhibit jama and other media from publishing information from sources who wish to remain anonymous,'' johnson's statement said. ``thus, disclosure would strike at the heart of the reporters privilege act and the first amendment interests which it seeks to protect.''
the ama and its journal are based in chicago. the essay did not indicate where the author lived or where the purported incident took place. reax. pickup 5th graf pvs, `two-time...' corrects spelling to enfants, sted infants in grafs 16-17, `as expected...'</note>
the last emperor,'' bernardo bertolucci's tragic saga of china's boy emperor, captured top honors today with nine nominations, including best picture, for the 60th motion picture academy awards
it was followed by seven nominations for ``broadcast news,'' the romantic comedy of life in a network news bureau. among the nominees were newcomer holly hunter, cited in the best actress category for her portrayal of a frenetic producer
following those two films, with six nominations each, were: ``empire of sun,'' the japanese invasion of china as seen through a boy's eyes; ``fatal attraction,'' the chiller of a woman's revenge against a spurning lover, and ``moonstruck,'' the comedy of love in a volatile italian-american family
all four except steven spielberg's ``empire of the sun,'' were nominated as best picture. the fifth nominee was john boorman's ``hope and glory.'' and spielberg once again was denied a director's nomination, as he was in 1983 for ``the color purple.''
i think it's extraordinary that a picture like this that's so completely english should get this kind of acclaim,'' boorman, said in a telephone interview from his paris apartment
two-time winner jack nicholson won his ninth nomination as the 1930s bum in ``ironweed,'' and robin williams was nominated for best actor with his role as the antic disc jockey in ``good morning vietnam.''
also nominated: michael douglas, ``wall street''; william hurt, ``broadcast news''; and marcello mastroianni, ``dark eyes.''
it made me not only proud for our film `wall street,' but it reminded me what a wonderful part (writer-director) oliver stone had created,'' said douglas, son of actor kirk douglas, from new york
another double oscar winner, meryl streep, won her seventh nomination for ``ironweed.'' also in the best actress race: cher, for ``moonstruck''; glenn close, ``fatal attraction''; miss hunter; and sally kirkland for ``anna.''
nominees for supporting actor were albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; sean connery, ``the untouchables''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; and denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
all are first-time nominees except gardenia, named for ``bang the drum slowly,'' in 1973
all the supporting actresses were nominated for the first time: norma aleandro, ``gaby - a true story''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw momma from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
the nominees for best direction were adrian lyne for ``fatal attraction''; boorman for ``hope and glory''; bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; norman jewison, ``moonstruck''; lasse hallstrom, ``my life as a dog.''
a surprise omission was james l. brooks for his direction of ``broadcast news.'' his only previous film as director, ``terms of endearment,'' won him the award in 1983
brooks was at the berlin film festival and was told of the film's seven nominations by telephone
he was quite thrilled with seven nominations. yes, i'm sure he was somewaht disappointed about not getting that (nomination for best director),'' said publicist pat kingsley. ``but he was so thrilled for the actors. he was also thrilled with the screenplay nomination.''
as expected, louis malle's remembrance of his wartime childhood, ``au revoir les enfants,'' was nominated as france's entry for best foreign language film. the other nominees: ``babette's feast'' (denmark); ``course completed'' (spain); ``the family'' (italy); ``pathfinder'' (norway)
best original screenplay nominations went to malle for ``au revoir les enfants''; brooks, ``broadcast news''; john patrick shanley, ``moonstruck''; woody allen, ``radio days''; and boorman for ``hope and glory.''
for best screenplay adaptation, nominees included tony huston for ``the dead''; james dearden, ``fatal attraction''; stanley kubrick, michael herr, and gustav hasford, ``full metal jacket''; mark peploe and bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; and lasse hallstrom, reidar jonsson, brasse brannstrom and per berglund, ``my life as a dog.''
the popular ``dirty dancing,'' scored its only nomination for its song: ``(i've had) the time of my life.'' also nominated in that category: ``nothing's gonna stop us now'' from ``mannequin''; ``shakedown'' from ``beverly hills cop ii''; ``storybook love'' from ``the princess bride''; and the title tune from ``cry freedom.''
the academy could not be accused of chauvinism in the director's category; for the first time, all five nominees are foreigners. lyne and boorman are english, bertolucci is italian, jewison is canadian and hallstrom is swedish
some of the highly advertised films came up short. the prestigious ``cry freedom'' was mentioned only for supporting actor, score and song
miss streep seems headed for the record book. so far, she has been nominated seven times for her 14 films. also impressive is miss close with four nominations in seven movies
the nominees were announced at dawn by actress shirley maclaine and academy president robert wise
the academy has already announced one winner: billy wilder for the irving g. thalberg award, presented for ``consistently high quality of motion picture production.'' the director-writer-producer of ``the lost weekend,'' ``sunset boulevard,'' ``stalag 17,'' ``some like it hot,'' ``the apartment'' and other films has won six oscars
with one exception, nominations for the academy awards are made by the individual branches: actors nominate for acting, directors for directing. all of the 4,400 voting members nominate the best picture of the year
the awards are voted by all members, with a few exceptions. for short subjects, documentaries and foreign-language films, voters must attend screenings or certify that they have seen the nominees
one category is missing this year: best original song score. the requirements are five original songs by one writer or team of writers for a single film, and no film qualified
after the announcements, publicists traditionally return to their offices to plot campaigns for their nominees, ncluding trade advertising, special screenings, media tours and promotional mailings to academy voters
the awards will be televised by abc on april 11 from the shrine auditorium. among the stars scheduled to appear onstage: audrey hepburn, robin williams, chevy chase, gregory peck, marlee matlin, john candy, glenn close, anjelica huston and paul newman. advance</head>
the late roy cohn says in his autobiography that the judge in the famous rosenberg spy case decided before the trial that he would put julius rosenberg to death
cohn was a member of the prosecution team. excerpts from his yet-to-be published autobiography, written with journalist sidney zion, were published tuesday in new york magazine
cohn, who was 24 at the time of the 1951 spy trial, also asserted that u.s. district judge irving r. kaufman telephoned him during the trial to seek his advice on a penalty for ethel rosenberg
cohn said he recommended the death penalty
the rosenbergs were convicted of selling atomic secrets to the soviet union and were executed in 1953
a law clerk for kaufman, who is still on the bench, said, ``the judge is not available, and it's the policy of the chambers not to comment on press reports.''
cohn, who became chief counsel to sen. joseph mccarthy during the ``red scare'' hearings of the 1950s, died of heart failure and aids-related illnesses in august 1986
during a stormy career that included bitter run-ins with the internal revenue service and many public figures, cohn's veracity was frequently challenged
in the book, cohn recalled that kaufman said he sought divine guidance before deciding on the rosenbergs' sentences
i can't confirm or deny this. so far as i know, the closest he got to prayer was the phone booth next to the park avenue synagogue. he called from that booth to a phone behind the bench in the courtroom, to ask my advice on whether he ought to give the death penalty to ethel rosenberg. ... there was never any question about julius: kaufman had told me before the trial started that he was going to sentence julius rosenberg to death.''
cohn said kaufman was concerned about public reaction to a woman being executed
cohn said he told kaufman ``that she's worse than julius ... so unless you're willing to say that a woman is immune from the death penalty, i don't see how you can justify sparing her.''
a mysterious blast ripped through the side of a japanese auto carrier in the southern persian gulf today, but divers later determined that the ship had only ran aground, salvage executives said
salvage tugboats with divers aboard had rushed to help the 4,842-ton ton motor vehicle carrier prosper world after the explosion was reported
when asked about damage, the captain reported that a tank was leaking, said the executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the captain was identified as a korean
after the divers went into action, monitors heard them telling the captain by radio that ``he had just ran aground, and the whole bottom plate (of the vessel) was wrinkled.''
they also told him he had a 15-by-9-inch hole in the keel which they could patch up, but he needed to head to a dry dock for repairs
the vessel flies the liberian flag and is operated by the hyogo-based masumoto shipping co., they said. it was leaving the gulf after delivering a cargo of cars
the incident occurred about 11 miles off the southern gulf emirate of dubai at 2:30 p.m
people on shore reported hearing the explosion and thinking it was thunder
iranian gunboats are active in the southern gulf, where they attack neutral commercial shipping in retaliation for iraqi raids on iranian oil tanker lanes
iraq and iran have been
a passenger's throat was slashed by another traveler on a flight from panama city to miami, authorities said
eduardo a. noel, 35, was in critical condition today at jackson memorial hospital, a hospital spokewoman said
noel was sitting near the rear of the eastern airlines l-1011 when a man attacked him tuesday with a pocketknife, eastern spokeswoman paula musto said. passengers are allowed to carry pocketknives with blades of less than 4 inches
there really was not any sort of struggle, and not many passengers were involved,'' ms. musto said
authorities said they did not know the motive for the attack
a doctor on the flight, steve fortus, of st. augustine, used his hand to stanch the bleeding and held an oxygen mask over the victim's face, officials said
he was already slipping out of consciousness, and he was bleeding very heavily from his neck,'' fortus said. ``he probably would have died in a couple of minutes if we didn't stop the bleeding.''
the jet, carrying 143 passengers and 23 crew members, was flying over cuba when noel, who is from panama, was stabbed. the flight received landing priority, and touched down at miami international airport about 45 minutes later, officials said
robert dean clark was arrested when the plane landed. the fbi charged him with crime aboard aircraft-attempted murder
clark, a former resident of austin, texas, and corona del mar, calif., reportedly has lived in panama city for the last seven months and worked at financial institutions there, the fbi said. he was scheduled to appear before a u.s. magistrate later today
fbi spokesman paul miller said noel, an aviation inspector, was traveling to miami to examine a plane that his employer, copa airlines, was considering buying. ...''</note>
pat robertson said today that the south is ``a different ball game'' as he seeks to regain momentum after finishing last in new hampshire's leadoff republican presidential primary
robertson, appearing on nbc's ``today'' show, played down the controversy over his statement sunday that the soviets had placed nuclear missiles in cuba. ``i was not hurt by more than 400 or 500 votes,'' he said
he said his biggest problem in new hampshire was organization. ``i'm not an issues person, i'm an organizational person,'' he said
but he said the south was ``a different ball game.''
we're going to have the finances and the people to do the job down there,'' he said
robertson finished a surprising second in the iowa caucuses feb. 8, behind senate gop leader bob dole and ahead of vice president george bush. in new hampshire, he was last among the five remaining gop contenders
aide marc nuttle said robertson had a larger base to work from in iowa, partly because the religious program he was formerly with, 700 club, had a wider viewership there
but the south will be a different story, robertson told several hundred cheering supporters. dole had claimed iowa as his backyard, while bush had said the same of new hampshire, but in the south, ``they're going to be playing in my backyard,'' said robertson, a native of virginia
i'm throwing the gauntlet down to bob dole and george bush: south carolina is the first super tuesday state, and i'm going to beat you there convincingly,'' robertson said to cheering, stomping and chants of ``we want pat!''
the crowd cheered again when one supporter yelled out, ``you've got the biggest backyard, pat!''
robertson aides, meanwhile, accused other campaigns of ``dirty tricks,'' including the cutting of telephone lines to robertson's manchester headquarters sometime monday night. robertson political strategist richard pinsky would not say which campaign he suspected
robertson planned to fly this morning to greer, s.c., where a rally and news conference was scheduled at the airport. robertson then planned to fly to orlando, fla., and later to miami, where he was to attend a cuban-american rally. three addresses, none of them rankin, as they originally reported. pickup 3rd graf pvs, `she was ...'</note>
detectives today questioned a woman charged with fatally shooting a caseworker in a hospital emergency room while waiting for psychiatric help, authorities said
edith anderson, 31, briefly held three people hostage after the shooting tuesday night before she surrendered, police said. detective jack bauer said today authorities had three addresses for her _ pittsburgh and nearby north braddock and mckeesport
she was arraigned early today on a charge of criminal homicide, but will not enter a plea until a preliminary hearing, yet to be scheduled
ms. anderson and the hostages were being questioned by homicide detectives this morning
she came seeking psychiatric help,'' police cmdr. ron freeman said. ``the hospital caseworker was helping her at the time. for some reason, she pulled out a gun and started shooting.''
ms. anderson apparently was sitting with hospital caseworker linda rosen, 27, of pittsburgh, in the psychiatric waiting area of the emergency room at st. francis medical center when she pulled out a gun, he said. miss rosen was shot in the back as she turned to flee, he said
freeman said ms. anderson then ran into a bathroom within the glass-enclosed waiting room and, holding the door ajar, pointed a handgun at an unidentified man and two women who were waiting for a relative
they just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time,'' he said
everyone else in the emergency room was evacuated,'' hospital spokeswoman shirley freyer said
paramedics heard the shots and radioed for police, said margaret rizza, spokeswoman for the public safety department
police talked with ms. anderson, who allowed them to remove the wounded caseworker, said police chief ralph pampena said. miss rosen died before getting treatment, he said
freeman said ms. anderson asked to speak to detective robert white, with whom she went to high school. when he arrived, ms. anderson released one hostage, he said
freeman said she then asked to talk to eddie edwards, operations manager and a talk show host on wptt-tv. when edwards arrived, the woman freed the remaining hostages and then asked for cigarettes, he said
white slid the cigarettes across the floor. as she reached down to pick up the pack, white's partner, lou conova, slammed the bathroom door closed and shoved a row of chairs up against the door, said lt. jim dickerson
police held a bulletproof shield against the door, and minutes later another detective persuaded ms. anderson to surrender, police said
rebels bombed a high school theater during a performance marking the anniversary of burma's independence, killing 11 students and a villager and wounding 133 people, a newspaper said today
the state-run working peoples' daily said five students were killed instantly when the time bomb, put under a seat, exploded last friday at momouk state high school in momouk. the school is in kachin state, about 500 miles north of rangoon
six other students and a villager later died at a hospital, the report said. it said most of the wounded were students
the attack was blamed on kachin rebels. a number of groups, including the kachin independence army, have been fighting the rangoon government for greater autonomy. the kachins are the strongest anti-government group after the communists
the high school bombing occurred on union day, which commemorates the feb. 12, 1947 signing of an agreement by various burmese national groups to jointly receive independence from britain
five days before the attack, 17 people were wounded in an explosion at an open-air theater where a show marking union day festivities was under way, the paper said. that blast occurred in shan state, 380 miles north of rangoon
military officers who took journalists and foreign diplomats on a tour of kachin state last month alleged that rebels not only bombed railway lines and public buildings but also private homes and places where festivities are held
government forces last year were reported to have overrun two kachin strongholds near the chinese border after a series of battles
santa ana winds gusting to 60 mph whipped across southern california today, overturning small planes and tractor trailers, closing a freeway and fanning fires. one man was electrocuted when he stepped on a power line
the stoplights are swaying,'' said frank donadee, a pomona resident. ``i've never seen them sway before ... there's a lot of debris that's blowing very, very fast in the streets.''
julio mendoza, 39, of azusa was killed as he stepped on a live wire, apparently downed by the wind, while helping to douse a fire on a neighbor's lawn, said los angeles county sheriff's deputy detta roberts
we've got a lot of problems. we've got a lot of wires down. we've had a structure fire. we've had two brush fires, and we have probably around a 55 percent to 65 percent power outage in our precinct area,'' said sgt. joe oblek at the sheriff's altadena station
at john wayne airport, four small aircraft were flipped over by the winds. two planes were reported overturned at el toro marine air station, and two more were tossed about at van nuys airport, officials said
ten miles of the foothill freeway between duarte in the san gabriel valley and pomona were closed at 4:30 a.m. when fierce gusts made driving dangerous, said california highway patrol officer shirley gaines
in the glendora area of the san gabriel valley, three big rigs were toppled by the wind, said chp officer monty keifer. two more big rigs had overturned in the ontario and riverside areas
a six-mile stretch of pacific coast highway in malibu was without power this morning as wind blacked out the homes of actors sean penn and bruce willis and oil magnate marvin davis, among others
more than 5,000 southern california edison customers in the altadena, sierra madre, torrance and monrovia areas _ where winds were estimated at 50 mph to 60 mph _ lost power shortly before midnight, spokesman bob krauch said. about 1,000 to 2,000 were still in the dark hours later, he added
brief outages also were reported in the hollywood, venice and west los angeles areas, she said
the santa ana winds were expected to diminish by tonight, giving way to clear skies and lower temperatures in most areas thursday, the national weather service said. ^eds: picks up 6th graf pvs, ``although, bush's ...''</head>
bob dole said today that he made a mistake in not responding to charges from george bush in the closing hours of the new hampshire primary campaign, but aides promised dole would react ``very, very forcefully'' to future attacks
the senate republican leader, looking to recover from a big loss in the granite state tuesday, vowed to correct what he said are the lies in bush's campaign ads
i'm going to try to go out and straighten it out. i'm not going to run from it. i'm not known for running from a fight,'' dole said at the manchester airport before flying to washington. ``i never said i was going to raise your taxes. i didn't say i was advocating a $10-a-barrel import fee. but that's what bush's ads say and they are not true.''
flying back to take part in the senate debate on campaign financing, dole was asked if he had been too soft on bush
probably,'' dole told reporters on the plane
and queried on whether he should have not let bush's charges go unanswered, dole said, ``yes, that's my guess.''
dole said in manchester that he thought he had done well to finish second against bush in a state the vice president says is his neighbor. but he said the boost he got out of his iowa victory on feb. 8 was overrated
i think our expectations got out of hand,'' dole said. ``i think we sat on our hands for three days.''
dole brushed aside suggestions that he would now return to the style of the ``mean old bob dole'' saying the nation is seeing a ``mean george bush.''
they've got the axes and they seem to be swinging them in every state,'' dole said
william brock, dole's campaign manager, underscored the new forcefulness the campaign plans against bush attacks
when he does it from now on, we're going to respond very, very forcefully,'' brock said on the plane. ``we're tired of it. we're sick to the gills of this type of tactic.''
but brock said the campaign would not respond ``in kind, negative against negative.''
we're not going to play their game. we're not going to put up with the effort to distort the record,'' brock told reporters. ``we don't have to wallow in the mud with them to answer their charges. ... when they are wrong, we are going to point it out.''
although bush's convincing victory tuesday night blunted dole's post-iowa momentum, dole and his aides forced a positive face on the new hampshire results
but the frustration was apparent when dole and bush were interviewed from different locations by tom brokaw of nbc
after bush wished dole well as the campaigns moved south, dole made his sharp comment, referring to last-day television ads by the bush campaign that claimed dole supports tax increases and social security cuts
you shouldn't distort someone's record,'' dole said. ``i could do that to him, but i won't.''
he vowed to ``straighten out my record. it won't take long.''
for the campaign of a sitting republican vice president to engage in the kind of base distortions of this weekend is demeaning to that office and demeaning to our party,'' said sen. warren rudman of new hampshire, a key dole backer
dole's own big win in iowa last week had helped boost his standing in new hampshire polls. once 20 points behind, he pulled even a few days before the voting
but the drive faltered, and tuesday nights results left the senate minority leader at 29 percent, nine points behind bush
dole was still 16 points ahead of the next gop contender, rep. jack kemp, and dole and his aides insisted tuesday night that bush's victory was nothing to crow about
obviously we would have liked to have won here,'' dole said. ``we didn't quite do that, but we did a lot.''
brock said: ``we were down more than 20 points eight days ago, and to have come this close _ that is a tremendous commentary on bob dole. it's also a commentary on the softness of the vice president's supporters.''
but he also indicated that the tone of the campaign is likely to change, saying bush has ``21 days to start telling the truth and dealing with issues, and we're going to give him a countdown, day by day.''
a ground crew chief in the illinois air national guard was sucked into an engine intake of an f-4d phantom jet and was killed, authorities said
sgt. martin gaither, 28, of williamsville died tuesday in surgery at memorial medical center, sangamon county deputy coroner bruce martin said
gaither was involved in a series of engine checks on the flight line, where aircraft are prepared for takeoff, said air national guard capt. bob lael
gaither walked in front of a running engine and was drawn into the intake chute, lael said
initial reports indicated the engine was running at 80 percent of its maximum power, but an investigation will be required to determine its exact speed at the time of the accident, lael said
gaither was a full-time employee of the guard's 183rd tactical fighter group for four years, lael said
a new york state law forbidding loitering in subway, train or bus stations is unconstitutional because it puts people too much at the mercy of police, the state's top court ruled today
the law forbids people from sleeping in transportation facilities or staying there without giving authorities a ``satisfactory explanation'' of what they're doing
in a decision written by judge vito titone, the court of appeals said the statute failed to give a ``person of ordinary intelligence'' notice that his conduct is against the law
such a generalized law fails to distinguish between conduct calculated to cause harm and conduct that is essentially innocent, thereby failing to give adequate notice of what conduct is prohibited,'' titone wrote in the 7-0 ruling
the court ruled unanimously in favor of two new york city men who were arrested in 1985 for loitering in incidents at penn station and the port authority bus terminal
paul bright was arrested after showing an open satchel to passersby at penn station. when bright failed to produce identification to a policeman, he was told he was being arrested for loitering. he was also charged with possessing stolen credit cards, according to court records
alfred clark was arrested at the port authority after he failed to give police an explanation of what he was doing there. an officer searching clark had found cocaine and a pipe in his jacket
the manhattan district attorney's office argued that the requirement that police give a ``satisfactory explanation'' why the conduct is illegal was enough to make the law stand
but the court said the law leaves it up to the police officer to decide whether an explanation is satisfactory. that, vitone wrote, makes the law unconstitutional
requiring a person to explain his actions also violates a person's right to remain silent when questioned by police, the court said
he is faced with the choice of either foregoing his constitutional right to remain silent in the hope that his explanation will satisfy that particular law enforcement official, or invoking his constitutional right to remain silent and being arrested,'' vitone wrote
barbara sheehan, who argued the case for the district attorney's office, said she would withhold comment until she has a chance to read the ruling
an anti-loitering law was first enacted by the legislature in 1939. the law then noted that subways and railroad stations had become attractive for ``fakers, perverts, pickpockets, loiterers, sleepers, flimflam men, etc. who infested these properties night and day.''
after being amended in 1953, the law was passed in its current form in 1965. say</head> removal of rockets. picks up 6th graf pvs, `east germany's...</note>
east german newspapers today printed pictures of dismantled missiles and hailed soviet preparations for removing ss-12 nuclear missiles before a superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range weapons is ratified
in the name of reason. a historic moment awaits,'' said a banner headline in the junge welt (young world), the communist party's youth newspaper
soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from the ddr (east germany). troops in waren dismantle medium-range rockets earlier than expected,'' neues deutschland (new germany) said in a headline
waren is 20 miles west of neubrandenburg and about 90 miles north of berlin
removal of missile troops ... starts earlier than expected. transfer to the soviet union and destruction of their type ss-12 armaments in the u.s.s.r.,'' the east berlin daily berliner zeitung said
west germany's main opposition party, the social democrats, called on the west german government to follow east germany's lead in getting rid of nuclear weapons early
the party's disarmament expert in parliament, hermann scheer, told reporters in bonn today that chancellor helmut kohl's government should respond with early scrapping west germany's 72 pershing 1a missiles
east germany's state-run news agency adn said tuesday night that missiles in waren had been taken apart, put in crates and were ready for transport back to the soviet union
with this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the united states and the soviet union is ratified,'' adn said
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the treaty in washington last december, agreeing to eliminate all land-based, medium- and shorter-range missiles
the agreement stipulates that the soviets' shorter-range missiles in east germany and in czechoslovakia are to be removed within 18 months and medium-range u.s. and soviet missiles within three years
the senate has not ratified the treaty. the supreme soviet, the soviet union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord
in washington, the state department had no immediate reaction to the report
a u.s. official, however, said the soviets were free to take down their missiles before the treaty takes effect. the official, who demanded anonymity, said u.s. inspectors will go to east germany and all other soviet missile sites to verify the soviets were complying with the treaty, if it is ratified
although there was no comment in moscow on the reported dismantling, gorbachev on tuesday criticized western european countries for what he called a lack of enthusiasm for the superpower treaty
the official tass news agency quoted gorbachev as criticizing western european governments for ``the latest wave of praise for the `nuclear deterrence' strategy ... all manner of projects for the joint manufacture of newest weapons, the franco-west german military rapprochement, and so forth.''
west german government officials declined comment on the report tuesday night. ``it is too early for us to comment at this time,'' a government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told the associated press
adn did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the soviet union, only that soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets.''
the rockets are shorter-range weapons included in the intermediate-range missile treaty, which bans weapons with a range of 300 miles to 3,000 miles
east german television late tuesday showed soldiers loading missile crates onto transport vehicles
adn quoted a soviet military officer as saying the ``troops are very proud that nuclear disarmament is beginning in our unit.'' the rockets are to be sent back to the soviet union by train, adn said
it said east german journalists who toured the missile base were allowed to interview soviet soldiers
erich honecker, the east german leader, indicated in january that soviet intermediate-range rockets stationed in east germany could be removed ahead of schedule, but he gave no specific timetable
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the neubrandenburg site, which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany. there are three other ss-12 rocket sites in east germany
in all, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany, according to those figures
the soviet union also has 53 ss-23 shorter-range nuclear rockets in east germany
alain savary, the education minister whose policies sent millions protesting in the streets and threatened to bring down the government, has died, the socialist party announced today. he was 69
according to the statement, savary had been hospitalized for several weeks with a serious infection. it did not say when he died or state the cause of death
a member of the french resistance during world war ii, savary had a reputation for being soft-spoken but stubborn
he was one of the leaders of the post-liberation french government, a member of the national assembly and first held ministerial positions under president charles de gaulle
as education minister, savary proposed a bill in 1984 that attempted to institute president francois mitterrand's campaign promise to revamp the nation's private education system
among other things, the reform bill gave local authorities more control over management and financing of private schools, where nearly 16 percent of france's 12 million children are educated
the savary law inflamed passions for months. opponents felt it threatened the basic right to choose how to educate their children. supporters wished to hold mitterrand to his election promise of creating ``a unified, secular public education service.''
a daylong demonstration against the bill drew at least 1.5 million people to the capital on june 24, 1984
organizers compared the crowds to those that thronged the champs elysee in 1968 after student riots and in 1944 after the liberation of paris
pierre mauroy, the premier at the time of the savary law controversy, said the reforms had been ``totally misunderstood,'' but the socialists, who long opposed private schools, withdrew the bill
the controversy caused a government reshuffle in which savary resigned. he was replaced by jean pierre chevenment, and mauroy was replaced by laurent fabius
lionel jospin, secretary of the socialist party, expressed his ``very sincere condolences'' to the family and friends of savary, who served as education minister from 1981 until 1984
courageous, lucid, discrete, alain savary put loyalty and honor behind his convictions. he will remain one of the great names of socialism,'' said jospin
savary was party secretary from 1969 to 1971 and ``was one of the moving forces behind the (party's) renaissance,'' jospin said
he represented socialism, with his strong sense of morality, his sense of justice and his commitment to the decolonization'' of africa, jospin said
born april 25, 1918, in the french colony of algiers, algeria, savary was a strong advocate of decolonization. he served as secretary of state for moroccan and tunisian affairs in 1956, but quit to protest french actions during the french-algerian war
three soviet technicians will take a look at the town of magna to get a general feeling for the community where their countrymen could be stationed if the intermediate nuclear forces treaty is ratified
dave porter, a spokesman for sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said state department officials had confirmed the soviet team was expected in utah today for a two-day review. an american contingent was to conduct a similar tour in the soviet union
porter said the soviet technicians planned to tour magna, about 25 miles southwest of salt lake city, this afternoon. he said specific details were not available
magna, population 8,500, is a few miles from the hercules bacchus west plant. up to 30 soviet inspectors may establish a compound near the plant if the senate ratifies the inf treaty, signed dec. 7 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
the treaty would eliminate intermediate-range nuclear weaponry in both countries' arsenals
the countries' inspection teams could be in place within 60 days of the treaty's ratifications, officials say
the soviets would monitor hercules, which developed motors for the pershing ii missiles, banned under the treaty, from 1979 to 1987
the soviet technicians will be accompanied by four members of the state department's on-site inspection agency, porter said
today, the soviets will make a ``very general visit to (magna). it will just be the town, the stores, just to get a feeling for the area,'' he said
on thursday, the three technicians will conduct a similar tour of salt lake city and then leave friday, porter said. he said no news conferences or statements were planned
the soviet and american advance teams will meet in moscow a week after the tours to discuss housing, travel and other arrangements, hatch's office said
pershing ii missile motors no longer are built at hercules, but the company has a contract for third-stage motors for the intercontinental mx missile
the state parole board today ordered convicted rapist gary dotson, who was freed by the governor when his accuser recanted in 1985, to return to prison for at least six months for violating his parole
the illinois prisoner review board said it had declared dotson a parole violator for failing to report to his parole officer on dec. 24
dotson was convicted of rape in 1979. in 1985, cathleen crowell webb, now a new hampshire homemaker, recanted her testimony that dotson had raped her when she was a teen-ager
after three days of hearings in 1985, gov. james r. thompson commuted dotson's 25- to 50-year sentence to time served. the governor did not pardon dotson, saying he did not believe the recantation
after several subsequent brushes with the law, dotson was again threatened with prison
today's decision involved dotson's failure to check in with a parole officer and a confrontation he had at a suburban bar
the board ordered dotson held in state prison until aug. 16, when he will be eligible for parole again, said nic howell, a spokesman for the state department of corrections
during the six months he is in prison, dotson was ordered by the board to join a substance-abuse program. dotson told the board during a hearing tuesday at the joliet correctional center that he is an alcoholic and needed treatment
he's going to remain in prison for six months and then he'd be transferred into some sort of a community-based rehabilitation program at that time (aug. 16) as a condition of his parole,'' howell said today by telephone from springfield
at tuesday's hearing, dotson, 30, said, ``i plan on seeking full-time treatment.''
earlier last year, he was convicted on drunken driving charges, and was later returned to prison for violating terms of parole after that conviction
he was paroled christmas eve in what thompson called a ``last-chance'' deal. but dotson failed to check in with his parole officer and, two days later, was involved in a confrontation at a bar that landed him back behind bars
prosecutors have dropped battery charges against dotson in the incident in which, officials said, he had argued with bar employees over a sandwich and stabbed a cook in the hand. guidelines</head>
the iowa supreme court today said lower courts may authorize sterilization of mentally retarded people but refused to spell out guidelines under which the procedure is appropriate
in a narrowly drawn opinion, the justices agreed that courts can act on a request that mentally retarded people be sterilized even though a state law providing for such action was repealed in 1977
we conclude that our district courts possess subject matter jurisdiction over, and accordingly may hear and determine, applications seeking authorization for sterilization of a mentally incapacitated ward,'' the high court said
a stinging dissent said the court was wandering into a subject ``shot through with searching social and ethical questions.''
in taking this first wide leap the majority commits itself to the eventual resolution of a twisted conglomeration of attendant social and ethical issues,'' said justice k. david harris. ``future litigants, faced with unanswered questions of great social and ethical dimensions, or with missing ingredients of a vague application process, will continue to press us for determinations we are singularly unfit to reach.''
but the majority rejected that reasoning
stated another way, we do not believe our courts lack jurisdiction over a case merely because the case is important or unavoidably includes a constitutional dimension,'' the court said
the 7-1 decision came in a polk county case in which jan and tekla matejski are the legal guardians of their 33-year-old mentally retarded daughter, court records said
the couple filed an application with a lower court seeking authorization to have their daughter sterilized, but a lawyer appointed by the court to guard the woman's rights objected, claiming there's no provision in iowa law allowing sterilization
polk county judge glenn e. pille agreed and dismissed the application
both sides appealed, arguing over whether courts have the power to order sterilization, but going one step further and asking the high court to set groundrules
lawyers for the woman noted that in 1977 the legislature repealed a law providing for sterilization of people ``who are mentally ill or retarded, syphilitic, habitual criminals, moral degenerates, or sexual perverts and who are a menace to society.''
but while agreeing that lower courts can decide such requests, the high court refused to spell out guidelines
we are not persuaded that such action is appropriate given the posture of the present case,'' the court said. ``the excursion suggested by the parties would be in the nature of an advisory opinion.''
harris said the decision would haunt the justices
at what level of mental retardation can sterilization be compelled?'' harris asked. ``what board or body, if any, will suggest statewide standards?
nine-year-old kendall smith, smiling and carrying a new musical keyboard under his arm, walked out of the hospital today, more than a month after he fell into a pond and was trapped 40 minutes under the ice
he's a normal kid and he's going to go back to doing the normal things,'' dr. karen powers told reporters at a news conference
we're all humbled as caretakers to see what many of us would consider _ if not miraculous _ a near-miraculous recovery,'' added fred tecklenburg, another of kendall's attending physicians at the medical university of south carolina hospital
he said kendall, who lives in dillon, is one of about five children in the medical literature to have recovered after having been under water for more than 30 minutes
kendall, wearing black jeans with suspenders, a blue striped shirt and a white hat, was asked how he felt. ``good,'' he said and smiled shyly. he said he knew he would have to go back to school but said he wasn't quite ready for that
in addition to the keyboard, donated by a electronics store, kendall also received a bicycle from a store
ms. powers said kendall might need more therapy to build his strength and endurance and might start back at school on a half-day schedule. tecklenburg added kendall tested at his age level on standardized tests administered about 10 days ago
kendall and two other children were playing on the frozen surface of a pond jan. 12 when the ice gave way. his companions were rescued quickly but it was almost 40 minutes before rescuers pulled kendall out with grappling hooks
doctors have said the time he spent under the water is as long as has been recored for anyone who has survived a near-drowning. in icy water, the body's metabolism slows and the brain doesn't need as much oxygen
the reflex is particularly powerful in children, doctors say
kendall was in a coma for two weeks, but, when he regained consciousness, made dramatic improvement
many firefighters and other rescue workers deserve commendations for their ``heroic behavior'' during london's worst subway fire, the chairman of a public inquiry into the fatal blaze said wednesday
the nov. 18 fire at the king's cross subway station killed 31 people
it is apparent a number of firemen and other members of the emergency services behaved with exemplary conduct and displayed heroic behavior on the night of the disaster at king's cross,'' said chairman desmond fennell
at the end of the investigation, i hope it will be possible to commend them individually.''
fennell did not specify what sort of commendation he anticipated
london's chief fire officer, gerald clarkson, told the inquiry that officials have visited subway systems in moscow, tokyo, singapore and brussels to study their firefighting methods
previous testimony at the inquiry has indicated the fire was probably started by a lighted match dropped under a wooden escalator
the u.s.-led united nations command said wednesday it has proposed that a korean military armistice commission meeting be held at the truce village of panmunjom on feb. 23
command officials said the move was in response to a north korean proposal that sought to convene the meeting feb. 15
if held, it would be the 441st meeting since the korean armistice agreement was signed in 1953
north korea gave no reason for calling the meeting but observers here believe the communist state hopes to discuss joint u.s.-south korea military exercises scheduled to start next month
the united states has accepted for resettlement 604 more amerasians and their relatives but is still waiting to discuss its proposal to resettle all amerasians within two years, a u.s. official said wednesday
ross petzing, spokesman for the u.s. embassy in bangkok, said a team of u.s. officials held interviews with the latest group of half-american children and family members in ho chi minh city on feb. 4-15
u.s. officials have approved the applications of 1,672 amerasians and family members since hanoi broke a long deadlock and resumed the resettlement program in september, petzing said
but he said there was no word on when the two sides would discuss the two-year program proposed by the united states
we are still awaiting a date from the vietnamese for this meeting to take place,'' petzing said
two u.s. congressmen said after visiting hanoi last month that nguyen co thach, vietnam's deputy premier and foreign minister, had agreed in principle to the proposal. reps. robert j. mrazek, d-n.y., and thomas j. ridge, r-pa., had said there soon would be talks to work out a formal agreement
mrazek and ridge co-sponsored a bill, signed into law on dec. 22, that requires that all amerasians be resettled in the united states within two years. it also created a new category of immigrants, amerasians, who have been leaving vietnam as refugees
u.s. officials estimate there are about 10,000 amerasians _ and twice that number of relatives _ still in vietnam. they were fathered by u.s. servicemen and civilians during america's military involvement in vietnam, which ended with a pullout in 1973
a human rights activist detained a year ago after accusing government troops of torturing and killing civilians has appealed to president yoweri museveni for his release, according to reports wednesday
lance sera muwanga, secretary-general of the sweden-based uganda human rights activists, issued the appeal from mulaga hospital where he was transfered under guard 10 days ago from the maximum security luzira prison
i have never been an enemy of museveni's government and had i been one i would have preferred to work from outside rather than within,'' muwanga told government-owned new vision newspaper
the government did not respond immediately to muwanga's request
muwanga returned to uganda in 1985 from sweden where he fled in the 1970s to escape idi amin's military dictatorship. he formed his human rights monitoring group in sweden
he has been held without charge since feb. 25, 1987, two weeks after he accused museveni's national resistance army soldiers of torturing and killing civilians in northern uganda
museveni, a former guerrilla leader, took power in january 1986 following a five-year insurgency and vowed to end human rights abuses committed by soldiers under amin, who ruled from 1971-79, and during civilian president milton obote's 1980-85 rule
new vision said muwanga was transfered to the hospital feb. 7 for treatment of pinched nerves and high blood pressure. an official for the uganda-based africa human rights organization, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said muwanga was in ``appalling condition'' and paralyzed on his left side
about 1,500 construction workers marched through this slovenian capital wednesday chanting ``we want bread!'' and ``down with bureaucracy!'' to protest low pay and falling living standards, witnesses said
the workers of the grosuplje building enterprise stopped work on tuesday to demand a 50 percent wage hike and better quality of food in their canteen, the state tanjug news agency reported
on tuesday and wednesday they marched to the republic's assembly building, carrying communist party, slovenian and yugoslav flags, a witness told the associated press
yugoslavia, faced with its worst-ever economic and social crisis, was hit last year by an unprecedented 1,570 strikes involving more than 365,000 workers
most of the strikes have been confined to factory premises, but the grosuplje strike marks the third major instance in three months of worker dissatisfaction in the streets
on nov. 17, about 5,000 steelworkers in skoplje, the capital of the southern republic of macedonia, protested low pay
on dec. 10, some 1,500 workers of a machine-tool factory in ljubljana also marched to protest low wages
tanjug said an average january salary at the grosuplje enterprise amounted to the equivalent of $280. average salaries in slovenia, yugoslavia's most developed republic, are the equivalent of $250, significantly higher than the yugoslav average of about $150
inflation runs at an annual rate of 170 percent and living standards have officially fallen by at least a third since 1981
a group of 45 u.s. rabbis have ended a three-day visit to jewish sites in czechoslovakia, it was reported wednesday
the group has twice attended services in prague's medieval synagogue, visited the state jewish museum and were guests at a dinner given by representatives of prague's jewish community in the baroque jewish town hall, the communist party daily rude pravo said
the group visited also the world war ii jewish ghetto of terezin (theresienstadt) about 32 miles north of prague and paid tribute to 22,ooo jews killed by the nazis during the war. their ashes were cast into the nearby ohre river by the nazis
prague rabbi daniel meyer said the group traveled privately to czechoslovakia and was not invited by any official authority. it was the largest such group to visit czechoslovakia since the end of world war ii. statement. picks up 14th graf pvs, `besides those ....'</note>
leaders of white supremacist groups discussed poisoning the water of new york and washington to undermine the government, a prosecutor said today in his opening statement at the trial of 14 supremacists
authorities contend the defendants sought to establish an aryan nation, and robbed, bombed, killed, counterfeited and committed other crimes from july 1983 to april 1985 to reach their goal
ten defendants are accused of conspiracy to overthrow the government by force. five are accused of a conspiracy to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent and two are accused of transporting across state lines money stolen from an armored truck in california in 1984
the defendants have been identified by the government as members of right-wing racist groups, such as the ku klux klan and the order
in his opening argument in u.s. district court, assistant u.s. attorney steve snyder told the all-white jury that the poisoning scheme was discussed by defendants james ellison and robert miles on one occasion in 1983, and ellison and richard butler on another. ellison had about 200 pounds of sodium cyanide in his possession at that time, snyder said
miles, 63, of cohoctah, mich., and butler, 69, of hayden lake, idaho, are considered two of the top three supremacist leaders. the third, louis ray beam jr., 41, of houston, also is on trial
snyder told the jury that beam, in a speech at a 1983 white supremacist gathering, called for war against the government and said, ``if you don't help me kill them ..., you're going to have to beg for your own child's life and the answer will be `no.'''
snyder said miles made a speech urging the use of robberies to finance supremacist activities. over the next 18 months six robberies by supremacists netted more than $4 million, the prosecutor said
the library at butler's church of jesus christ christian (aryan nations) contained books with titles like these, snyder said: ``how to kill vols. 1-6,'' ``unconventional war,'' ``the anarchist's handbook.''
several of the defendants are serving prison sentences and are representing themselves, although they also have court-appointed attorneys
during selection of 12 jurors and six alternates tuesday, the three blacks among the 64 potential jurors were eliminated through the use of peremptory challenges, in which lawyers can strike a limited number of people from the panel without showing cause
the judge declined a defense attorney's request tuesday to ask black prospective jurors whether they would be fair to defendants who believe in separation of the races and in white supremacy
beam is a former grand dragon of the knights of the ku klux klan in texas. texas authorities said beam led a campaign of violent intimidation of vietnamese fishermen in the galveston area. in a letter obtained by government agents beam said the united states was under the control of a zionist occupation government
butler leads a church that has attracted some white supremacists, including some who formed the order, whose members turned to violence to bring about the downfall of the national government, say government investigators
miles is head of the mountain church of jesus christ the savior at cohoctah. a former grand dragon of the kkk in michigan, miles was convicted in 1973 in the bombing of empty school buses in pontiac, mich., then under a court order to desegregate its schools
besides those three, others charged with conspiracy are robert neil smalley, 31, fort smith, ark.; and six men already in prison: david eden lane, 48; bruce carroll pierce, 32; ardie mcbrearty, 59; richard joseph scutari, 39; andrew virgil barnhill, 30; and richard wayne snell, 56
snell received a death sentence for the 1983 murder of a texarkana, ark., pawn shop operator and life in prison without parole for the 1984 murder of an arkansas state police trooper
snell and four others were also charged with conspiring to murder a federal judge and an fbi agent. the other four were william h. wade, 68, and his son, ivan ray wade, 34, both of smithville, ark.; lambert miller, 36, springfield, mo.; and david michael mcguire, 24, st. louis
snell, mcguire and miller also were charged with attempting to murder the judge and the fbi agent
pierce and lane were convicted in denver last year of civil rights charges stemming from the slaying of jewish radio talk show host alan berg
conspiracy carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $20,000 fine. interfering with a federally protected right resulting in death carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment, as do the charges of conspiracy to murder or attempt to murder federal officials
the israeli national tourist bureau has canceled an advertisement it was running in dutch newspapers that said tel aviv and jerusalem were only ``a stone's throw'' apart, a bureau spokesman said wednesday
the bureau withdrew the ad because of the ongoing unrest in the israeli-occupied territories, where palestinian youths frequently hurl rocks and other objects at troops, said spokesman albert kooistra
the ad, which ran last week in two newspapers and in three tv program guides, was meant to emphasize the short distances between israel's cities and other tourist sites, kooistra said
the distance between tel aviv and jerusalem? about a stone's throw,'' kooistra quoted the ad as saying
speaking figuratively, that's true, only i think the text must have caused something of a shock in the current context,'' he said
jerusalem, another frequent venue for recent protests, and tel aviv are about 37 miles apart
kooistra said the bureau had received about a dozen protest calls and letters and decided to drop the ad this week ``because of the emotions it triggered.''
the ad had been written in august, well before the unrest erupted, kooistra said
we found out too late that the slogan is unfit,'' he said
scores of religious protesters converged on the british defense ministry on wednesday and daubed anti-nuclear slogans on the building with ashes
police said 57 people were arrested, mostly for criminal damage, but defense ministry business was not disrupted
the demonstration was organized by christian cnd, an interdenominational faction of the campaign for nuclear disarmament, to coincide with ash wednesday, the first day of lent, when ashes are put on the forehead as a sign of pentinence
the rev. paul bayes, chairman of the group, said all 63 people who took part in the demonstration had intended to get arrested. case</head>
a judge in the nazi war crimes trial of john demjanjuk today reprimanded a defense attorney for comparing the proceedings to the dreyfus case, in which a jewish officer in the french army was falsely convicted of treason
presiding judge dov levine ordered defense attorney paul chumak to retract the statement and said, ``no court in the world would allow such unfair claims to be made.''
chumak refused repeatedly, but when levine threatened to cite him for contempt of court, both sides agreed to take the issue up at thursday's session
chumak told the court during closing arguments that ``capt. (alfred) dreyfus was convicted at the beginning of the century on the basis of false documents in a wave of anti-semitism. paralleling this with anti-ukrainianism, this trial has all the earmarks of the dreyfus trial.''
the ukrainian-born demjanjuk is accused of being ``ivan the terrible,'' a sadistic guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland in 1942 and 1943
demjanjuk, 67, a retired ohio autoworker, claims he is a victim of mistaken identity. he says he served in the soviet army, was captured by the germans in 1941 and remained in prisoner of war camps until 1943
earlier, chumak alleged that the soviet secret police forged a key piece of prosecution evidence as part of an elaborate conspiracy to discredit the israeli court and create a rift between ukrainians and jews in the soviet union
chumak said the kgb forged the document _ demjanjuk's alleged nazi identity card _ so it could accuse the court of injustice if demjanjuk were convicted
levine responded sharply, calling the theory ``distasteful.''
the soviet-supplied document is the so-called trawniki card. the prosecution alleged it was issued to demjanjuk at trawniki, a nazi training camp for death camp guards near treblinka
chumak also sought to discredit prosecution witness patricia smith, one of several experts who testified to the authenticity of the card
ms. smith, an anthropologist, authenticated demjanjuk's picture on the trawniki card by superimposing it on video footage of the defendant taken two years ago
chumak called ms. smith's method an ``unexplored field'' and said it was not accepted by the scientific community
the defense is to wrap up its case thursday, and a verdict from the three-judge panel is expected by april. if convicted, demjanjuk could face the death penalty
a federal court jury began deliberations today on whether six men and two women are members of the westies, a gang of thugs that allegedly terrorized manhattan's westside for two decades
u.s. district judge whitman knapp turned the case over to the jury following last-minute instructions on how to conduct their deliberations. the trial began last october
a 17-count racketeering indictment charged the eight defendants were members of a criminal enterprise that seized control of the manhattan neighborhood once known as hell's kitchen 20 years ago and held sway there through a series of murders and other crimes
among the crimes allegedly committed to further the westies's goals were eight murders, three attempted murders and five murder plots, according to the indictment
the indictment also listed 10 alleged co-conspirators who had been killed before the charges were brought in march
prosecutors mary lee warren and david brodsky claimed the westies had dismembered some victims' bodies to enhance their reputation and eliminate competitors
the government also claimed the westies forged an alliance with the gambino organized crime family, said to be the nation's most powerful, and even shot a labor leader as a favor to reputed gambino boss john gotti
but lawyers for reputed westies boss james coonan and his seven co-defendants have denied the existence of the westies as an organization
even government witnesses have conceded the name westies was created by the police and news media to describe a group of mainly irish-american hoodlums
the defense also attacked the credibility of those prosecution witnesses, admitted former gang members who turned informants in a bid for leniency. coonan's attorney, gerald shargel, claimed all were unreliable because they were criminals seeking to cut a deal with the government. in 6th graf, tuesday night; cuts last 5 grafs</note>
george bush and michael dukakis today pointed their campaigns southward after decisive new hampshire victories, and bob dole promised to counterattack unless the vice president stops ``distorting the dole record.'' bush denied he had done anything wrong
richard gephardt, who finished second to dukakis, said he was in the race to stay. however, sen. paul simon of illinois, third among democrats in new hampshire after finishing second in iowa, said he will have to drop out unless he can win next week in either south dakota or minnesota. former arizona gov. bruce babbitt said he had ``a divided mind'' about whether to continue but that jesse jackson had already asked for his support if he should drop out
dole, the big republican winner in iowa last week, said bush's comeback victory in new hampshire was at least partly due to bush tv commercials that dole said distorted his record
i'm going to try to go out and straighten it out,'' he said at the manchester, n.h., airport before flying back to washington. ``i'm not going to run from it. i'm not known for running from a fight.''
bush, who returned to washington tuesday night, was reluctant to talk about dole's accusation. however, when questioned during a brief exchange with reporters today, he replied, ``i think i said it wasn't true, but i'll be glad to say that.''
you all want me to talk about sen. dole. i want to talk about the issues,'' bush said. ``i'm not going to dwell on it, you see, i don't want to be drawn into something like that.''
bush added, ``people in new hampshire like clean campaigns, and they endorsed me overwhelmingly.''
tuesday night, dole had accused bush of ``lying about my record.''
bush, asked about that in an interview taped for cbs-tv today, said, ``i'm sorry he feels that way.''
were you lying? bush was asked
no,'' he answered quietly
bush won 38 percent of the republican vote _ and 11 delegates to the gop convention _ in complete returns. dole had 29 percent of the vote and seven delegates. they were followed by rep. jack kemp of new york, former delaware gov. pete du pont and former television evangelist pat robertson
dukakis lived up to expectations by carrying his neighboring state by 16 percentage points over rep. gephardt of missouri, last week's winner in iowa
the turnout was a record _ 154,012 republican voters and 119,041 democrats for a total of 273,053 compared with 261,243 in 1980. this year's figure was estimated to represent a bit less than half the state's registered voters
in other comments today:
_dukakis, who won by a big margin in a state bordering massachusetts where he is the governor, said on abc-tv that he can also do well in the south, which dominates the super tuesday primaries on march 8. ``people in the south aren't voting for a zip code; they're voting for the president of the united states,'' he said
_simon said on nbc-tv he would have to win next week, ``otherwise, i'm going to have to withdraw. ... you just can't continue to run second and third.''
_gephardt said on abc that whoever remains in the race, he himself will ``do well because we're connecting with the voters on my ideas.''
_rep. jack kemp of new york, who beat out former television evangelist pat robertson and former delaware gov. pete du pont for third place among the republicans, said his showing proved his standing among the conservatives who form the base for himself, du pont and robertson
_robertson, on the other hand, said, ``this was a small spread between jack and me.'' he added, ``new england is not my natural constituency. ... going into the south, it's a different ball game.''
on to the south, where we're going to rise again,'' exclaimed a euphoric bush late tuesday night. he won a solid victory after seeing his earlier 20-point lead in the polls melt in new hampshire after his embarrassing third-place finish in iowa behind dole and robertson
for all the attention they got, granite state voters managed to keep the presidential races in both parties in turmoil, offering just enough support to also-rans to give them an excuse to struggle on toward super tuesday, with its enormous 20-state risks and rewards
among the republicans, kemp finished third with 13 percent, and three delegates. du pont edged out robertson, 10 percent to 9 percent. du pont's total was high enough to win two delegates; robertson got none
in the delegate totals, after bush's 61 came dole with 42, kemp with 35 and du pont with two. the winning republican needs 1,139 delegates
among the democrats, after dukakis, with 36 percent of the vote and nine delegates, came gephardt with 20 percent and six delegates and simon with 17 percent and three delegates
the other democratic finishers _ jackson with 8 percent, sen. albert gore jr. 7 percent, babbitt 5 percent and gary hart 4 percent _ didn't do well enough to pick up any delegates
in the delegate totals, after dukakis' 44.5 came gephardt with 39 and simon with 33. the victorious democrat needs 2,082 delegates for the nomination
though he got no delegates, jackson said he was ``happy because in iowa and new hampshire we proved we could broaden our base.'' asked how he expected to do in the south, he said, ``i expect to win.''
bush was exultant at his showing. quoting mark twain, he said, ``reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated.''
dukakis belittled gore's regional strategy
tomorrow, we head south,'' said the massachusetts governor. ``i don't have a southern strategy,'' he said. ``i don't have a northern strategy or a western strategy. i have an american strategy.''
six states will vote before super tuesday, but it was clear tuesday night that the campaigns were looking ahead to march 8 when 20 states on the democratic side and 16 on the republican will offer the biggest one-day delegate prize of the campaign
minnesota and south dakota take the spotlight next. republicans and democrats hold caucuses in minnesota and primaries in south dakota next tuesday
in the new hampshire democratic primary, gephardt and simon, fighting for democratic runner-up, were also in a battle for money. both campaigns are in financial trouble and needed a second-place finish to keep contributions coming in
with a first in iowa and a second in new hampshire, gephardt was able to claim, ``i'm in good shape.''
south carolina's republican primary is saturday, march 5, three days before super tuesday
gore, the tennessee senator who passed up iowa and spent less time than his rivals in new hampshire, watched the returns from houston, texas, where he said ``super tuesday changes all the rules. it's a completely new ballgame.'' 6th graf pvs, ``we're moving ...''</note>
vice president george bush said today he will take ``nothing for granted'' as turns his attention to the south after his victory over chief rival bob dole in new hampshire's republican presidential primary
bush, thanking campaign workers at his national headquarters here, also denied that he had distorted dole's record in the waning days of the new hampshire campaign _ as dole had charged tuesday night. ``i think i said it wasn't true, but i'll be glad to say that,'' he told reporters
after spending today in washington, bush heads thursday to south carolina, missouri and texas, three states among 20 that are holding presidential contests on super tuesday, march 8
the vice president's strong new hampshire showing tuesday followed his third place finish in iowa, behind dole and pat robertson
bush today steadfastly refused to discuss dole's charge that the vice president had made false statements about the kansas senator's record on such issues as the budget deficit and taxes
you all want me to talk about sen. dole. i want to talk about the issues,'' bush said. ``you want to talk about history. i want to talk about the future. ..
i'm not going to dwell on it, you see, i don't want to be drawn into something like that,'' the vice president said
bush added, ``people in new hampshire like clean campaigns, and they endorsed me overwhelmingly.''
the system worked. you can take them in the chin, you can get up and you can fight again,'' he said. ``so now, go on to super tuesday. we're going to fight hard. we're going to take nothing for granted. we're going to take a positive message _ a message that was good in new hampshire and is just as good (elsewhere).''
we're moving into a new dimension now,'' said lee atwater, bush's national campaign manager. ``the next big contest is super tuesday. seventy percent of the delegates you need to get the nomination are going to be chosen that one night.''
atwater said that whoever walks out of the super tuesday contests with the lion's share of the delegates will win the republican nomination
george bush has got a 3-1 lead on delegates now,'' atwater said. ``he's going to keep a 3-1 lead in delegates.''
bush told several hundred supporters jammed into a hotel ballroom that ``you haven't chosen a man, you've chosen a course, to expand our prosperity, to see that it touches every hamlet.''
you've chosen to back a strong america, an america strong enough to bring peace to the entire world,'' he added
bush said things had dramatically turned around in the last two days of the campaign and that he did a better job in getting his message out. he also flew in a conservative hero, former sen. barry goldwater of arizona, to help him gain votes
elections hinge on two things, the candidates and the issues,'' said atwater. ``we had the best candidate. we had the only candidate talking about issues. this leaves dole as a loser here, but i certainly wouldn't get overconfident. we've got a long campaign ahead of us.''
michael douglas watched today's televised oscar nominations announcement from his den, actress holly hunter slept through the broadcast, and writer tony huston and director steven spielberg weren't talking
actress olympia dukakis' reaction to her ``moonstruck'' nomination was captured by tv cameras and ``broadcast news'' writer-director james brooks was dressing in a berlin hotel when he learned of the film's seven nominations
nominees were announced at dawn in beverly hills by actress shirley maclaine and robert wise, president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. the timing is designed for live east coast network coverage
many of the nominees watched the tv anouncement, while others were notified by publicists
huston was awakened at his beverly hills home by publicist sheila barr and told about his best screenplay nomination for ``the dead.'' his father, director john huston, died last year
tony huston recalled his late father's advice years ago to another oscar nominee who didn't know what to say to reporters about the nomination. the senior huston said: ``don't say _ listen.''
tony said he's gotten this far collaborating with dad, and he thinks now he should take heed of his advice,'' said miss barr
once again, the academy snubbed spielberg as director, although his ``empire of the sun'' earned six nominations
spielberg was out of town, unavailable and presumably ``has no reaction,'' said chris kelly, his spokeswoman at amblin productions
the moment wasn't private for miss dukakis, nominated as best-supporting actress in ``moonstruck.'' about 30 people, including an ``entertainment tonight'' tv crew, were in her montclair, n.j., home to monitor her reaction
the cousin of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who won the democratic new hampshire primary hours earlier, said she was grateful, then added: ``like my cousin, i'm in the running and now i'm waiting for `super monday' in april.''
broadcast news'' writer-director brooks was at the berlin film festival and was told of the seven nominations in a telephone call from publicist pat kingsley. brooks also was overlooked in the director category
he was quite thrilled with seven nominations. yes, i'm sure he was somewaht disappointed about not getting that (nomination for best director),'' she said
the publicist said nominees actor albert brooks and miss hunter still were asleep an hour after their nominations were announced
douglas, best actor nominee for ``wall street,'' sat in the den of his new york apartment to watch the announcement of his first acting nomination on television
i watched this morning and i looked at the names and photographs of my fellow nominees and it made me not only proud for our film `wall street' but it reminded me what a wonderful part (writer-director) oliver stone had created,'' douglas said
i'm ecstatic,'' said glenn close, nominated for her role as a vengeful, psychotic woman in ``fatal attraction,'' which she said ``represents the work of an extraordinary team of people.''
miss close was at her new york country home when informed about her nomination by telephone from friends
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
feb. 10
the knoxville (tenn.) news-sentinel on navy mothers:
call it outmoded thinking if you will, but we find it disturbing that a large percentage of women in the u.s. navy who have babies are unmarried
of 789 active-duty women who used the san diego naval hospital for childbirth from july 1986 through may 1987, 323 were unmarried. of the latter, 69 percent elected to stay in the navy
a four-out-of-10 illegitimacy rate may not be considered astonishing for some, but the navy surely ought to hew to a higher standard
this also is more than a moral issue. pentagon officials ought to wonder what effect this situation might have on national security. unwed pregnant sailors and mothers surely have more on their minds than defense of the nation
feb. 16
hannibal (mo.) courier-post on the court ruling against the army's ban on homosexuals:
the court has the power and the authority _ at least until the ruling is appealed or overturned _ to direct the armed forces to admit homosexuals
but the court would be hard-pressed to enforce compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the law
it's far too early to tell how the court ruling will affect the armed forces
but we can say with reasonable certainty that if the armed forces do not want homosexuals, they will find ways of forcing them out, court order or no court order. ..
the great majority of americans still regard homosexuality with contempt, and it takes more than a judicial order to change attitudes
feb. 15
the orange county (calif.) register on postal service cutbacks:
in most businesses, if one company announces it will shorten hours and cut back service, its competitors leap into action, trying to win over dissatisfied customers
not so in the mail biz, a legally protected monopoly for the u.s. postal service. who loses? the letter writers, as usual
with the postal service starting ... to cut back hours and eliminate saturday window service and sunday mail pick-ups, the time is right for congress to allow some semblance of competition for mail delivery. ..
the latest cutbacks in service are being blamed on budget cuts. congress in december trimmed $1.25 billion from the postal service's appropriation for 1988 and 1989
the postal service, which should not be dependent on the taxpayers at all, is woefully unprepared for that reality
forcing post office officials to sink or swim in competitive waters is the surest way to reform an otherwise highly inefficient monopoly
feb. 16
palm beach (fla.) post on soviet withdrawal from afghanistan:
officials in washington are treating as ``a positive step'' the announcement of a tentative timetable for withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan. it is, and they should
ever since he came to power in 1985, soviet party boss mikhail gorbachev has been sending signals that he would like to end his nation's bloody and unsuccessful attempt to impose a puppet government on the afghans
what makes the most recent statement important is that it contains dates: full withdrawal over a 10-month period beginning may 15
the mood in washington was that while the administration would prefer to see all soviet troops withdrawn by the end of the year, it should not throw up any roadblocks
that is a sound decision
feb. 10
the asbury park (n.j.) press on pat robertson:
(pat) robertson has a long road ahead of him. the dual nature of his background and candidacy can never be overlooked
and while skeptics call him ``a preacher in politician's clothing,'' his career suggests that he may be more like ``a politican in preacher's clothing.''
robertson's real challenge is to convince the mass of voters who are not christian fundamentalists that he would not allow his religious views to interfere with affairs of state, while at the same time holding on to his ``invisible army.''
but is america ready for a president with a ``pipeline'' to god, as robertson boasts? perhaps it is
ronald reagan proved there's political capital to be mined on the religious right. and, like the president, robertson does have a way with tv cameras
feb. 11
the spokesman-review, spokane, wash., on kurt waldheim:
austrian president kurt waldheim hopes to wipe away the past and trust that the world will forgive and forget his part in the dark history of world war ii germany
his reasoning is threadbare: that everyone who served in the war knew what was happening _ the deportations, mass murders, torture; that he merely followed, rather than gave, orders
to deduce that knowledge constitutes some kind of crime is simply not correct,'' waldheim claims
and he is right. but while not a crime, that knowledge coupled with his failure to act against those atrocities is a moral outrage
after a five-month investigation, an international panel of six historians decided to put aside a conclusion on waldheim's moral responsibility for war crimes he had knowledge of as a lieutenant in the german army from 1942 to 1945; instead, the historians let the facts speak for themselves, with the world and history to pass judgment
the facts speak loudly, but waldheim's lies cry out. if his past is not something of which he is ashamed and afraid, why is he weaving such a web of deceit? ..
if waldheim has his way, the chapter on his involvement in world war ii atrocities is closed now. he says he will not step down as austria's president _ and he shouldn't have to
austria ought to pull the rug out from under him
feb. 12
the oregonian, portland, ore., on presidential candidates and ethanol:
it has been popular for presidential candidates to go into iowa, heart of the corn belt and a state heavily damaged by the farm recession, and advocate greater use of ethanol. ..
what happens to ethanol after iowa? the pacific northwest and all other grain-growing regions have a stake in the answer because of the wisdom of finding uses for grain now grown in excess. ..
(the issue) ought to continue to have attention in new hampshire, super tuesday, the nominating conventions, next fall's debates, and the inaugural address in january
ethanol is not just an iowa issue
feb. 16
lewiston (maine) daily sun on privatization of the postal service:
the push is on for privatizing the u.s. postal service. every time the postal service requests a hike in the price of stamps, privatization proponents crawl out of the woodwork with renewed vigor. ..
sure the current operation has its drawbacks and the service is slow and unreliable at times. the post office is a traditional favorite whipping boy for people carrying a grudge. ..
despite several well publicized success stories of the public sector saving money, there are obvious limitations to privatization and the contracting out of public services
some examples of gross abuse have occurred with defense contractors, construction projects and in the health care industry as well
moreover, removing essential services such as the mail delivery from the public sector could decrease accountability
with an annual budget of more than $30 billion, the u.s. postal service affects much of the nation's business and is crucial to the economy as a whole. ..
free enterprise is great when applied correctly. but it is not a panacea to provide the answers to all siutuations
feb. 12
port arthur (texas) news on u.s.-soviet relations in the bering sea:
it's still not clear whether soviet military personnel have been sneaking on to st. lawrence island, a desolate chunk of u.s. soil in the bering sea, but the possibility of these surreptitious visits cannot be discounted either
st. lawrence island is about 50 miles off the coast of mainland alaska, but it's only 37 miles off the mainland of the soviet union
it is inhabited by 650 eskimos, and recently some islanders have been finding soviet-made items on the island such as beer cans, batteries, a gas mask, buoys with explosive charges, pieces of soviet uniforms, etc
island residents also report seeing mysterious strangers _ some clad in wet suits and scuba gear _ who run off when encountered
the ``official'' pentagon response is that the material is flotsam and jetsam washed ashore by ocean currents, but that doesn't explain how some of it was found far inland or why it included items which don't float, such as batteries
the reagan administration should send a firm note to the soviet union stating that such adventures _ if they are occurring _ should cease immediately
feb. 15
the wichita (kan.) eagle-beacon on paraguay's election:
what do you do if you hold an election and nobody participates _ nobody, that is, but the person in power and a couple of toadies?
what you do is proclaim a great victory afterwards, and say how democratic you are for letting people vote like that
this is what happened in paraguay on sunday (feb. 14) when dictator gen. alfredo stroessner swept to an eighth five-year term as president by a margin of more than 88 percent
the free nations of the hemisphere should react to sunday's fraudulent vote by declaring it to be just that, and by reaching out _ as the united states already has done _ to the democratic opposition
it is there that paraguay's future lies, not with an aged dictator so unsure of his own rule and so fearful of dissent that he must fix his periodic re-election
feb. 11
the woonsocket (r.i.) call on the iowa caucuses:
it's remarkable that over 3,000 newsmen and women spent hundreds of thousands of hours covering the iowa caucus and ended up shocked and surprised when pat robertson received substantially more support than vice president groege bush. how can that be? ..
if there is a lesson in all of this, it may be that robertson actually talked in detail about programs to deal with america's problems while other candidates merely said they were capable of waving magic wands. we don't think voters believe in magic wands anymore
perhaps others will now be forced to spell out their programs. that would be refreshing. we would like to know, for example, how they will solve the deficit question, what they will do about the foreign trade imbalance, how they will guarantee continued health for social security. ..
win or lose, robertson may have forced this kind of approach on all candidates. if so, we owe him a considerable debt of gratitude
feb. 13
charleston (w.va.) daily mail on the presidential primaries:
robert dole and richard gephardt won iowa. judging from the accompany hoopla, one would think that these two are now ready to face off as the presidential nominees in the general election
unfortunately, that is not the case. the numbing 1988 presidential selection process, which actually began years ago, has not even reached its peak. ..
the american presidential selection process is threatening to turn off the people it was designed to serve. the grueling caucus and primary ordeal now stretches from february into summer. it is too expensive, too long and too arcane
feb. 12
the sun herald, biloxi-gulport, miss., on pat roberson:
when is a former television evangelist not a former television evangelist? apparently, when he runs for president
pat robertson is upset that some people ... persist in calling him a ``former television evangelist.'' he calls it a ``bigoted slur,'' saying he was a ``religious broacaster.''
robertson _ he also doesn't want to be called ``the rev.'' pat robertson anymore _ established his national reputation engaging in christian evangelism, mixed with political commentary, on a tv talk show, albeit on a network he owned
how odd that he suddenly seems self-conscious about that
feb. 14
the argus leader, sioux falls, s.d., on south dakota's feb. 23 primary:
any one of several candidates would make a good nominee, but we believe michael dukakis would be the best candidate for the democratic party
dukakis lacks national experience, but he is an intelligent, pragmatic and forceful governor. he has effectively presided over massachusetts' good economic fortune. he is the top democratic candidate
we believe the republican race comes down to bob dole and george bush. as we compare the two, however, there is one key difference: leadership potential
in that regard, dole stands out. we believe dole would be the best nominee for the republican party. he has government experience, leadership ability and a broad understanding of rural america and the rest of the nation
determined never to play a ``nice girl'' again, mary tyler moore says her new television series ``will be a more reality-based comedy.''
the actress, who's still trying to put the perky mary richards character from her ``mary tyler moore show'' days behind her, begins shooting a new half-hour comedy-drama next month that will air on cbs in the fall
ms. moore, 50, promises the new show, in which she plays a divorcee who inherits two children with a new marriage, will fare better than her short-lived comeback series, ``mary,'' in 1986
i didn't like that show at all,'' she says in the march issue of ladies' home journal. ``it wasn't fun, it wasn't believable.''
still, she says she doesn't understand the vengeance with which critics attacked the show. ``it was like drop-kicking a puppy,'' she said
former film star brigitte bardot, france's most famous sex symbol, said that when she encountered marilyn monroe by chance in a ladies room, she was too awed to say a word
miss bardot, 54, in a rare interview published wednesday in the daily liberation, recalled that when she accidentally bumped into miss monroe in london, the two just looked at each other ``with a little complicity.''
she was powdering her nose and i was putting on black mascara. it (the encounter) was short. what stage fright; like meeting queen elizabeth. marilyn was beautiful,'' she said
miss bardot, who retired from movie-making at age 39, lives in st. tropez, making rare public appearences to protest animal cruelty
director john waters' new film is hair curling, to say the least. it's also combed, tinted, teased, sprayed and beehived
hairspray'' had its premiere tuesday night at the senator theater in baltimore, which the filmmaker dubbed ``the hairdo capital of the world.''
film star divine and singer ric ocasek of the cars were on hand as 900 people paid $25 for the screening and the hairhopper ball at the baltimore museum of art. approximately $15,000 was raised to benefit the organization aids action baltimore
hairspray,'' filmed in baltimore last summer, tells the story of star-struck teen-agers in 1962 whose lives revolve around the dance floor and their dreams of a better society
waters was honored tuesday with a special award for 20 years of contributions to the maryland film industry
rugs, furniture and clothes from a manhattan residence once kept by deposed philippine president ferdinand marcos were auctioned off for more than $70,000 in a sale that drew gawkers and bidders alike
this is basically the dregs of the apartment,'' said christie's east assistant vice president linda waters of the gowns, paintings and assorted bric-a-brac that were sold
among the most popular items, not surprisingly, were shoes owned by marcos' wife, imelda, whose footwear fixation was well-publicized in the days following the fall of the marcos regime
virginia bell, who came to tuesday's auction from martin's river, nova scotia, bought four pairs of gold and silver evening shoes to add to her collection of 600 pairs
i'm the imelda marcos of martin's river,'' said mrs. bell, who paid from $60 to $90 for each size 9aa pair
the items, including lime-green satin pillows and purple quartz bookends, were left in the seven-bedroom fifth avenue apartment. proceeds of the sale, part of more than $1.2 million in marcos property christie's has sold in the past year, will go toward land reform in the philippines, ms. waters said
the residents of this western massachusetts community will have a say in whether actress jane fonda should be welcomed or shunned if she comes to town to film scenes for a new movie
chicopee aldermen agreed tuesday night to hold a public hearing on the issue at a date to be set later
under consideration by the aldermen is a proposed resolution saying that ms. fonda, who became controversial for her outspoken statements and actions during the vietnam war, would not be welcome in chicopee. aldermen in holyoke passed a similar resolution, 11-4, two weeks ago
she has all the right in the world to come to chicopee. but i do believe the veterans have a constitutional right to protest her visit,'' said mayor joseph h. chessey jr
chicopee and holyoke have been chosen as backdrop for a few scenes in the movie ``union street'' because of their 19th-century mills and canals. fonda will play a woman who teaches a struggling mill worker to read
most of the film is to be shot in waterbury, conn
former mayor john v. lindsay, who had surgery last month for a leaky heart valve, will spend the next few weeks at home recuperating, a spokesman said
lindsay, 67, was discharged from columbia-presbyterian medical center monday and is doing well, according to his spokesman, warren wechsler
lindsay was a republican congressman before being elected mayor in 1965. he won his second term as an independent and later switched to the democratic party. he now practices at a manhattan law firm
dorothy helms, the wife of republican sen. jesse helms of north carolina, was released from a hospital wednesday after undergoing surgery for colon cancer two weeks ago, hospital officials said
mrs. helms was admitted to rex hospital on feb. 2 for surgery after her condition was diagnosed as colon cancer
among the well-wishers calling last week was president reagan, who also has had surgery for colon cancer, hospital officials said. a tegucigalpa, honduras dateline, are asked to use the following story:</note>
the associated press on tuesday erroneously attributed to the miami herald a report that honduran gen. humberto regalado hernandez was suspected by u.s. officials of protecting colombian traffickers who use honduras as a base to ship drugs to the united states. the alleged regalado hernandez link was reported by the los angeles times
the error appeared in a story quoting the u.s. ambassador to honduras, everett briggs, as denying american newspaper reports linking high-ranking honduran military officers to colombian cocaine traffickers. reflecting change from police, update with quote from gunman, correct full name of company to electro-magnetic systems laboratories, sted electro-magnetic science lab. picks up 10th graf, `police said...' subs 15th graf, `farley, who...' to delete now-redundant first reference to moore. subs grafs 21, `a 39-year-old...' to end to update injured people's conditions and tighten.</note>
a man fired from a defense plant for harassing women stalked the company for six hours, fatally shooting seven people and wounding four others as terrified employees hid under desks and in offices until he surrendered, authorities said
among the injured was a woman who spurned his attentions, police said
richard wade farley, 39, of nearby san jose walked from the sprawling two-story esl corp. building about 8:30 p.m. tuesday with his hands in the air. he was quickly surrounded by three officers and taken to the santa clara county jail
i'm not crazy _ i know i will die as a result of this,'' the chief negotiator, sunnyvale public safety lt. rueben grijalva, quoted the gunman as saying before the surrender
daryl anderson, an esl business analyst, said she was in her second-floor office about 2:30 p.m. when the gunman came down the hall firing shots. she said bullets punctured her office door
i was under my desk in the fetal position for six hours,'' she said. ``i figured there was a sniper in the building. the worst part of all was being there all by myself in the dark. all the time i thought he was right out there in the hall.''
the bodies of two women and five men were found when police swept through the silicon valley building after the arrest, said commander alex michaelis of the sunnyvale department of public safety
after the incident, police said five people were wounded. but this morning, lt. tom moore reduced the number of injured to four, adding he could not immediately explain the discrepancy
police seized a rifle, a shotgun, 9mm and .380-caliber handguns and two bandoliers of ammunition after the gunman left his hiding place in a second-floor room
grijalva said farley told him he invaded the building to wreck equipment
esl, or electro-magnetic systems laboratories, a subsidiary of trw inc., was established in 1964 and specializes in electronic warfare systems for the navy, most of them highly classified. products include reconnaissance systems, data-communications systems, computer simulation and image processing. it employs about 2,200 people
police said the gunman took no hostages, but that many employees had to hide under desks or in locked rooms
on the second floor, the gunman met the woman who had spurned him, 26-year-old engineer laura black. when she slammed an office door in his face, he shot her through the door, grijalva said. he said farley told police he shot the others because ``he felt threatened by them.''
at one point, farley began crying when talking about his mother, the lieutenant said
black was wounded in the shoulder, police said. she was listed in stable condition at stanford university medical center after surgery
farley had worked at esl as a computer software technician before he was fired two years ago after complaints that he sexually harassed black and other female employees, said jean tuffley, of the company's personnel department
farley, who lived by himself in a dilapidated bungalow, allegedly followed black over four years, and black had tried to obtain a restraining order to keep him away, moore said
it was described to me as a situation that had turned into harassment. he had, according to him, given her a warning (to return his attentions) and she didn't heed the warning and he said this was his way of making a point,'' said capt. al scott
near the esl building, which is about 40 miles south of san francisco, police found a motor home they believe was driven by the gunman. inside, officers found ammunition, full cans of gasoline and other explosive material, said scott
at one point during the negotiations, the gunman ``expressed a little remorse'' for his actions, said moore
it was not clear how many of his victims the gunman knew
one of those killed was identified by company officials as lawrence j. kane of san jose. the rest were not identified this morning
authorities today identified the injured, in addition to black, as: richard townsley, 44, in stable condition with a gunshot wound to the chest; greg scott, 39, in good condition with gunshot wounds to the forehead and body; and pattie marcotte, 41, was in surgery this morning to repair a broken elbow suffered as she fled
leftist guerrillas launched simultaneous attacks at dawn today on army bases in the eastern part of the country and claimed to have killed or wounded scores of government troops
but armed forces chief gen. adolfo blandon told reporters in the eastern city of usulutan that six army troops, two guerrillas and six civilians were killed during the attack
the strikes, the largest guerrilla action in nearly a year, occurred only hours before the foreign ministers of the five central american nations met in san salvador to evaluate implementation of a regional peace plan
guerrillas of the farabundo marti national liberation front, or fmln, attacked the 6th infantry brigade base in usulutan, 68 miles southeast of san salvador, the clandestine rebel radio venceremos said
it claimed the rebels inflicted 190 casualties, but did not break down the dead and injured
army helicopters combed the area in search of the guerrillas, and more than a dozen houses near the base were totally or partially destroyed, blandon said
a police spokesman in usulutan said that a family of five, including three children, was killed when their house was destroyed during the rebel strike
the coordinated attacks were the largest in scale since the fmln attacked the 4th infantry brigade in the northern province of chalatenango last march 31, causing 70 deaths, including that of a u.s. military adviser, and more than 100 wounded
radio venceremos said another 25 army troops were killed or wounded today in other dawn attacks in the eastern provinces of san miguel and morazan. guerrillas destroyed a cotton cooperative, 70 utility poles, one electrical substation, two bridges and a telephone transmission station, rebel and police reports said.
dubbed,``death to the killers of herbert anaya sanabria,'' today's operation launched a new rebel offenbsive to disrupt legislative and municipal elections slated for march 20, the broadcast said
anaya was coordinator of the independent salvadoran human rights commission when he was gunned down oct. 26
rebel-aligned political parties have boycotted previous elections, saying the security of their prospective candidates could not be guarateed
the fmln warned last month it would not permit elections in areas under its control or in dispute
the regional peace plan, signed by the presidents of el salvador, nicaragua, honduras, guatemala and costa rica, calls for cease-fires, democratic reforms and an end to aid to insurgencies in central america
lisbeth schlueter, the wife of prime minister poul schlueter, died wednesday at the age of 43
mrs. schlueter died at the rigshospitaled hospital in copenhagen, where she was admitted a few days ago, danish radio reported. the cause of her death was not released
the ekstra bladet newspaper had reported that mrs. schlueter's illness might lead to her husband's resignation, but he told the state radio that he had no plans to step down
mrs. schlueter was a high school teacher of danish and classical civilization
she was not politically active and became a member of the conservative party only after her husband became prime minister in 1982. schlueter was re-elected in september and heads a minority coalition
the couple had no children. schlueter has two sons from a previous marriage
the new hampshire primary was a great triumph for two disparate groups, the republican establishment and lovers of political chaos
george bush, the quintessential establishment candidate, emerged from the ashes of iowa to regain the mantle of republican front-runner but his victory brightened the hopes of those who cherish rousing political brawls and hope for at least one this year that goes all the way to the convention floor
of course it is the democrats, with their looser rules and lack of a clear leader, who really provide hope for an open convention. michael dukakis' triumph put him temporarily atop the democratic field, but none of the seven candidates has demonstrated national appeal
and so it's ``on to the south.'' the candidates are all taking dead aim on the march 8 election day when most of the south and some key states outside will select enough delegates to settle the races in both parties
but don't bet on a super tuesday resolution. the big stakes _ 1,307 democratic delegates in 20 states and 700 republican in 16 states may only confuse the contests rather than settle them
you have to like bush's chances, but both parties offer scenarios that argue for long hard fights
two democrats without obvious appeal in dixie _ rep. richard gephardt of missouri and dukakis _ split the two early events and now are confronted by sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and jesse jackson on their own turf
jackson finished fourth in iowa and new hampshire, solid showings in two states which have very few minority voters who provide his base of support. there is no reason to think that any of the other democrats can compete with jackson for the large black vote in the south
as a tennessean who has positioned himself to the right of the rest of the democratic field, gore has run a super tuesday strategy that will test a generation-old political assumption _ that you can't win the nomination without competing in the early events
i think super tuesday changes all the rules,'' said gore. ``it's a completely new ball game.''
it's a dicey strategy, but even if it falls short gore may get enough support on march 8 to establish his candidacy and perhaps leave jackson as the biggest winner of delegates that day
then it would be on to the midwest for four democrats _ jackson, dukakis, gephardt and gore
that prospect would delight republicans. but they could be in a muddle of their own
if the southern contest were bush versus sen. bob dole, the outcome would appear tilted in favor of the vice president, who has a strong organization throughout the region, a strong identification with president reagan, and roots in the biggest plum of all, texas
but it won't be a two-man fight for the republicans; rep. jack kemp lives to fight on in the south and pat robertson will be battling on his home turf
bush and dole are battling for the same voters, while robertson has a constituency all his own, many of them people activated politically by a desire to support the former evangelist
republican rules make it almost impossible for the presidential race to go all the way to the convention in new orleans next august. chances are better that two candidates _ or maybe even three _ will fight for the 175 delegates at stake in california's winner-take-all republican primary on june 7. but if there are three republicans battling for that delegation, the field may be so split that even a california win would not put someone over the top
all in all, it's a volatile mix on both sides. on the morning after new hampshire, a good bet is that super tuesday will settle nothing _ certainly among the democrats _ and the cry that night will be, ``on to california, by way of illinois, new york...''
editor's note: donald m. rothberg is the chief political writer of the associated press
pope john paul ii celebrated an ash wednesday mass in a 5th century church on rome's aventine hill overlooking the city
during the two-hour ceremony marking the beginning of lent, the 45-day period leading up to easter, the pontiff recalled the phrase, ``we are ashes,'' as he urged listeners to remember their mortality
as he led a procession to the church of saint sabina, the late afternoon sun, unseasonably warm for mid-february, brightened the touches of gold in his vestments and those of accompanying clergy
under the muted half-light that entered the church through the filigree-traced windows, the pontiff smudged a mixture of ash and holy water on the foreheads of cardinals. other clergy administered to the crowds of people who surged forward to receive the benediction
the period of lent, observed by fasting and penitence, commemorates jesus' fasting in the desert
the chiefs of the republican and democratic national parties told congress wednesday that they support increasing the amount of federal money spent on presidential transitions
the bill would increase to $3.5 million the government assistance that goes to a president-elect to begin making arrangements for a new administration. the original 1963 law provided $900,000, which was increased to $2 million in 1976. advocates have complained that 12 years of inflation have made that insufficient
the scope and complexity of activity required for an efficient transition has increased significantly over the years,'' paul kirk, chairman of the democratic national committee, told the senate governmental affairs committee
he said new presidents must immediately begin filling more than 3,000 executive appointments and preparing a federal budget for presentation to congress within three months
under the legislation, the federal money would go to the major parties, which would be reimbursed for transition tasks they perform. both party leaders voiced approval of this mechanism
frank fahrenkopf, chairman of the republican national committee, said the national parties have the facilities and equipment to do transition work efficiently, and that the job would ``reinforce their traditional role of providing personnel and support for their candidates.''
sen. john glenn, d-ohio, chairman of the committee, said that even if the financing increase is approved, the money provided might still be too low
i wish we could say it will cover this thing,'' he said. ``i doubt that it will.''
the legislation would require public disclosure of the sources and use of privately donated transition money, and provide for reimbursement to each political party of up to $200,000 for transition work performed before the general election. graf pvs, eban, a</note>
former israeli foreign minister abba eban met today with secretary of state george p. shultz to discuss a new u.s. initiative for mideast peace talks, but cautioned against expecting too much from the american mediation effort
eban told reporters after his 30-minute meeting with shultz that ``one must not see too distant horizons'' for the plan shultz is taking to israeli, jordanian and egyptian leaders later this month
eban, an ally of foreign minister shimon peres, said he hoped shultz can overcome reservations expressed by prime minister yitzhak shamir about the u.s. plan
shamir is concerned that the proposals, which reportedly call for talks to begin in april between israel and its arab neighbors on palestinian autonomy, will force israel to cede land to the arabs
the u.s. plan, which has not been made public, envisions that negotiations on a final settlement for the territories that israel captured in the 1967 middle east war would begin in december
the reagan administration ``is trying to set the basis for continued efforts'' by the next administration to advance the arab-israeli talks, eban said
as part of his efforts to obtain continuity and congressional approval for his ideas, shultz will be meeting later in the day with members of the senate. he held a similar meeting tuesday night with some 25 members of the house to outline his views
shultz's activity came in response to two months of israeli-palestinian violence in which at least 53 palestinians have been killed
eban, a former israeli ambassador to washington and head of the israeli parliament's foreign affairs and defense committee, follows on the heels of ehud olmert, another parliament member, who met with shultz on sunday. olmert is a close, trusted friend of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who faces opposition from shimon peres in the fractious coalition government
olmert told shultz that shamir was concerned over the u.s. proposal to set december as the date for talks on the future of the occupied territories. shamir, leader of the right-wing likud bloc, is concerned that such talks would lead to demands for land concessions to the arabs
likud is opposed to giving back any of the captured territories, which it views as a biblical heritage and a strategic buffer zone between israel and its arab neighbors. peres' labor party is willing to relinquish some land for peace and supports an international conference to sponsor peace talks
egypt and jordan said monday the united states should not advance interim solutions to the palestinian problem
president hosni mubarak of egypt said ``we have taken the position that any plan must clearly include: first, an overall settlement of the problem and, second, an international conference as a framework without any attempt to outflank it.''
prime minister zaid rifai of jordan, who met in cairo on monday with mubarak, said that jordan opposed ``partial solutions or projects for self-rule'' in the west bank and gaza. jordan wants a final settlement through an international conference, he added
rifai reiterated jordan's demand for a united nations-sponsored international conference with the participation of the security council's five permanent members and all concerned parties, including the palestine liberation organization
shultz will visit israel, jordan and egypt starting about feb. 25, some 24 hours after returning to washington from meetings in moscow
while in moscow, shultz is expected to sound out the soviets on their position regarding mideast peace talks
privately, israeli officials have suggested shultz might suggest to his counterpart edouard shevardnadze that the united states would do all it can to ease a soviet pullout from afghanistan, in return for which the kremlin would ensure the support of its arab allies in the mideast for shultz's plan
the senate labor and human resources committee on wednesday approved a controversial bill that would require employers to provide health coverage to more than 20 million uninsured people
the 10-6 vote came after nearly two hours of discussion ranging from denunciations of the insurance industry to a spirited debate over socialism and senators' own health coverage
nevertheless, when it was all over, sen. edward kennedy, the committee chairman, was pleased
we've got a very positive attitude here,'' he said. ``the health issue's on the national agenda. ... it's going to be difficult for people to oppose this program.''
the so-called ``minimum health'' bill sponsored by kennedy, d-mass., would require employers to offer a minimum package that includes hospital care, doctor care, diagnostic and screening tests, pre-natal and well-baby care, and limited mental health treatment. the policies would cap out-of-pocket catastrophic costs at $3,000
coverage would have to be offered to employees working 17.5 hours a week or more, and their dependents. small family farms would be temporarily exempted from coverage requirements
new businesses would be able to phase in coverage over two years. and, under an amendment adopted wednesday, firms of five or fewer people would have five years to phase in benefits
the congressional budget office estimates the bill would cover up to 23 million of an estimated 37 million people without insurance. the new coverage would cost about $27 billion, cbo said, but it would be offset by about $12 billion in savings on administrative costs, charity care and other outlays
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said the kennedy plan taxes americans indirectly through businesses and called it ``socialism, pure and simple.''
a frustrated sen. tom harkin, d-iowa, responded that congressional medical services, all free and conveniently located in the capitol, are ``the most socialized medicine in america.''
his voice rising, harkin continued, ``every senator takes part in it. every house member takes part in it. but will they vote it for everyone else in america? no.''
hatch, equally frustrated, said he would vote to end the free care for members of congress _ but declined to stop his own visits immediately on principle
we're a bunch of hypocrites,'' hatch conceded. he added a moment later, ``i have to admit i use it, but i don't use it as much as most people, i think.''
hatch called the kennedy bill a $30 billion solution to an $8 billion problem and likened it to ``using a sledge hammer to crack an egg.''
health and human services secretary otis bowen, in a letter tuesday to kennedy, also criticized the scope of the proposal. he said it would ``impose an unduly intrusive and centralist solution, one wholly disproportionate to the dimensions of the problem being addressed.''
bowen said the problem is ``limited in scope'' and could be resolved with sharply focused plans at the state level
the only state with compulsory employer-sponsored health insurance is hawaii. sen. spark matsunaga, d-hawaii, said 13 percent of hawaiians were uninsured before the plan, compared to 5 percent now. coverage requirements are more extensive than the kennedy bill, he said
none of the businesses are complaining. businesses are prospering as usual,'' matsunaga said. ``it's working beautifully. i think it can work nationally.''
several senators criticized the insurance industry and small business groups for failing to help develop a consensus approach to closing the health insurance gap
if the (insurance) industry refuses to participate, it'll be the government that does the job. then they'll come along and say, `let us in, let us in,''' said sen. lowell weicker, r-conn. as for small business, ``they don't want any bill. period. over and out.''
attorney general edwin meese iii on wednesday made his seventh appearance before the grand jury investigating the iran-contra affair, presumably for more questioning about his 1986 weekend probe of the arms-for-hostages deals
among other things, the grand jury impaneled early last year by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh is believed to be focusing on meese's nov. 22-23, 1986 investigation that uncovered the diversion of arms-sale profits to the nicraguan rebels
in recent weeks, the grand jury has heard testimony by assistant attorney general william bradford reynolds, who found a memo revealing the diversion in national security council files, and assistant attorney general charles j. cooper, another member of the team
former white house chief of staff donald t. regan, who was present when president reagan ordered meese to conduct the investigation and also when the attorney general reported his findings, has testified recently
meese also has testified six other times before a different grand jury investigating his financial dealings with a former officer of the scandal-plagued wedtech corp
the attorney general has refused to comment on his grand jury appearances, but the justice department says he is cooperating with the investigation and is not a target of walsh's probe
meese's investigation was criticized by congressional committees that held hearings last summer on the iran-contra affair. the panels faulted meese for not recruiting justice department lawyers with more experience investigating criminal cases and for failing to take notes during interviews with top administration officials after he learned about the diversion
the congressional committees said meese's failure to secure national security council files allowed documents to be shredded by then-national security adviser john m. poindexter, nsc aide lt. col. oliver l. north and others
poindexter resigned and north was fired after meese announced that arms-sale profits had been diverted to the contra rebels
poindexter and north are targets of the walsh's investigation. indictments are expected to be returned in the coming weeks. comment, background on higgins. no pickup.</note>
gunmen today kidnapped a u.s. marine officer who headed an observer group assigned to a united nations peacekeeping force in south lebanon
the pentagon identified the victim as lt. col. william r. higgins, chief of the 75-man observer group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon. unifil sources originally identified him as lt. col. richard higgins
a pentagon official said higgins was on temporary detail serving as the chief of the u.n. truce supervision organization's lebanon observer group. higgins, 43, is a native of danville, ky., the official said
u.n. sources said higgins was kidnapped in the late afternoon on the coastal highway between lebanon's southernmost port of tyre and the border town of naqoura, site of unifil's headquarters
no group claimed responsibility for the abduction, which brings to 25 the number of foreigners missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon. one source said higgins was returning from talks with shiite moslem militia officials
higgins was driving in a u.n. jeep station wagon from tyre to naqoura behind a similar vehicle in which two other observers were traveling,'' unifil spokesman timur goksel said
he said the first vehicle went around a bend in the road, ``and when the two observers noticed that higgins' car was not following them, they stopped and drove back, only to find higgins' station wagon abandoned,'' goksel said
israel radio monitor mickey gurdus, who monitors radio stations in lebanon, said higgins was kidnapped by three gunmen driving a mercedes car. gurdus did not give the source of his information
the gunmen stopped higgins' vehicle, forced him to board their car and speeded off toward the village of shabrikha, gurdus said on israel radio
goksel denied an earlier report that higgins had an escort of fijian troops from unifil, and said the american officer was in his station wagon alone
goksel said unifil helicopters and ground troops were seaching for higgins
in washington, a defense department official who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed that higgins had been kidnapped and gave a similar account of the kidnapping
he said 16 americans are assigned to the observer group, although not all might be inside lebanon at the same time. goskel had said there were six americans assigned to the group
goksel said said members of the group do not carry weapons
white house spokesman roman popadiuk said president reagan was informed of the incident at his california ranch before he left on a flight to washington
we are still investigating, trying to learn more about it,'' reagan said as he boarded air force one
higgins was returning from a meeting in tyre with abdel majid saleh, a political leader of the mainstream amal shiite moslem militia, a unifil official told the the associated press in jerusalem. the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the meeting took place in a friendly atmosphere
the unifil command declined to answer questions about the abduction. but one u.n. source in naqoura said the area of the abduction is close to the shiite moslem villages of ras el-ein and deir qanoun
the two villages are controlled by justice minister nabih berri's amal militia. but the influence of extremist shiite factions loyal to iran has been steadily growing in both villages, tyre-based reporters said
unifil was set up in 1978 on a mission to restore peace and security and assist the lebanese government in ensuring the return of its effective authority in southern lebanon
in june 1982, after israel's invasion of lebanon, unifil also was given the interim task of extending protection and humanitarian assistance to the people in the area
untso was organized to observe and maintain the cease-fire ordered by the u.n. security council in july 1948 and supervise the general armistice agreements between jordan, syria, egypt, lebanon and israel, the pentagon said. it serves as the focal point for all united nations middle east peacekeeping operations and monitors cease-fire violations on the border
higgins is married to marine maj. robin higgins, who works at the pentagon. she declined comment. he has a 17-year-old daughter by a previous marriage
twenty-four other foreigners, including eight americans, are missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon
the longest held hostage is terry anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. anderson was seized in west beirut march 16, 1985
two scandinavians were kidnapped feb. 5 as they were driving just outside the southern port of sidon
jan stening of sweden and william jorgensen of norway worked for the u.n. relief and works agency. no group claimed responsiblity for their abduction, but u.n. officials said their abductors were palestinians acting without a political motive
col. jean-claude paul, whom a miami businessman called the main cocaine trafficker in haiti, runs an army unit that is quartered at the national palace and known as the country's most brutal
a western diplomat said: ``paul is very popular with his troops. he likes to spread money around to them, and commands them directly. there is no normal chain of command.''
the palace's latest occupant, president leslie manigat, promised in his inaugural speech feb. 7 to stop drug trafficking in his impoverished caribbean nation
manigat mentioned no names and was escorted into the palace after the address by military guards, including paul, who carried an uzi submachine gun. his dessalines battalion barracks are attached to the rear of the palace
before the inauguration, paul often served as unofficial bodyguard to lt. gen. henri namphy and gen. williams regala. they were the military members on of the three-man provisional junta that ruled for two years after dictator jean-claude duvalier fled the country feb. 7, 1986
paul is a stocky man of medium height, about 40, who customarily wears a ring, necklace and heavy bracelet of gold. except for his role as informal bodyguard, for which he equips himself with an uzi and holstered colt .45, he seldom appears in public
osvaldo quintana, a 35-year-old businessman, told reporters monday in miami that he arranged a cocaine shipment with paul, using an airstrip on the colonel's ranch to smuggle the drugs to florida via the bahamas
he said he knew of involvement by higher haitian officials extending up to the junta, but would not give names
his lawyer, ellis rubin, said he wanted quintana to testify before the senate committee investigating alleged drug smuggling by gen. manuel antonio noriega, panama's military commander and the power behind his country's government
rubin said his client had testified before a federal grand jury in miami investigating illegal drug activity in haiti
quintana said he ran a seafood operation until becoming involved in smuggling in august 1986. he met paul in december of that year and arranged for 220 pounds of cocaine to be shipped to the united states, the miami man said
we flew out of his own personal ranch in haiti,'' quintana told the news conference
no one in haiti has publicly accused paul of drug trafficking, although rumors of his involvement are rife in diplomatic circles and among retired military officers
a u.s. diplomat would not confirm or deny reports of paul's connection with drug trafficking but acknowledged the airstrip existed. he described it as ``a funny-looking highway that starts nowhere and ends nowhere, near the border'' with the dominican republic, which shares the island of hispaniola with haiti
another western diplomat said paul owns a ranch equipped with an asphalt landing strip near thomazeau, about 20 miles east of port-au-prince. he said it is believed the ranch, on the cul-de-sac plain near the frontier, once belonged to duvalier
all the diplomats spoke on the condition of anonymity
the 700-man dessalines battalion, largest unit in haiti's 6,000-man army, is also known as the most violent. men wearing the blue dessalines shoulder patch killed most of the nearly 40 civilians shot by soldiers during anti-government strikes and protests in 1987
on the day of the aborted election nov. 29, when thugs with guns and machetes killed at least 34 people and wounded 75, western reporters and election observers saw truckloads of dessalines soldiers stand by without intervening
gen. carl nicolas, the army chief of staff, refused a request by the associated press for an interview with paul
anaise chavenet, spokeswoman for the information ministry, said tuesday: ``the government will not give an opinion on this affair as long as it is not officially informed (by u.s. officials) through the ministry of foreign affairs.''
on monday, ms. chavenet said of paul: ``i personally think that he is being singled out for attack, like noriega in panama. president manigat has pledged to fight drug trafficking. i don't know how he feels about col. paul.''
asked during a recent interview at his home about reports of drug smuggling by the army, manigat said: ``i can't base my judgment on rumors.''
the western diplomat who mentioned paul's popularity with his men said the dessalines battalion ``is the only unit really feared here.''
he said duvalier created the elite, 300-man leopards battalion in the early 1980s to check the power of paul's unit. the leopards, the 100-man navy, the 100-man air force and the 1,000-man presidential guard have the reputation of being more humane and professional
after duvalier fled, the diplomat said, paul recruited about 100 members of the dictator's tonton macoute private militia, which terrorized haiti during 29 years of duvalier family rule. ``joining `broadcast' and corrects beverly hills cop to beverly hills cop ii in 5th pvs bgng ``of the''</note>
the last emperor,'' a panoramic drama of modern china, scored top honors with nine nominations wednesday in an oscar race that included cher, robin williams and michael douglas but overlooked directors steven spielberg and james l. brooks
broadcast news,'' the comedy-romance set in a television news bureau, followed with seven nominations including those for stars william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks. james brooks was nominated as producer and writer, but surprisingly, not as director
spielberg's ``empire of the sun'' tied ``fatal attraction'' and ``moonstruck'' with six nominations, but spielberg was not mentioned for his direction, nor did the film make the best movie list. in 1985, spielberg's ``the color purple'' collected 11 nominations, but none for the director
joining ``broadcast news'' and ``the last emperor,'' the life story of china's last monarch, as contenders for best picture were ``fatal attraction,'' ``hope and glory'' and ``moonstruck.''
bernardo bertolucci, the italian director of ``the last emperor,'' said in rome that ``even if i've been making films for 25 years, today for the first time i feel like i passed my exams with flying colors, the sensation of becoming an adult.''
of the best picture nominees, ``fatal attraction'' was the only one to place among the top ten money makers of 1987., it was third with a gross of $129,358,990, behind ``beverly hills cop ii'' and ``platoon,'' which won the oscar for best picture last year. but most of the nominated films opened near the end of the year and are still selling tickets
two-time winners jack nicholson and meryl streep were nominated as best actor and actress for their roles as depression-era low-lifers in ``ironweed.''
best actor nominees also included douglas for ``wall street''; hurt, ``broadcast news''; marcello mastroianni, ``dark eyes''; williams, ``good morning, vietnam.''
douglas learned the news watching television at his new york apartment. he said, ``it made me not only proud of our film `wall street,' but it reminded me of what a wonderful part oliver stone created.''
joining streep on the best actress list: cher, ``moonstruck''; glenn close, ``fatal attraction''; miss hunter, ``broadcast news;'' and sally kirkland, ``anna.''
i'm ecstatic to be nominated,'' said miss close at her country home in new york. ``i'm especially thrilled that so many connected with the film have been nominated.''
sean connery, who never was nominated as james bond, placed among the nominees for supporting actor with his role as the steely chicago cop in ``the untouchables.'' others in the race: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
all of the supporting actresses were first-time nominees: norma aleandro, ``gaby _ a true story''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw momma from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
the directors branch of the academy neglected spielberg and brooks to reward five foreigners: britons adrian lyne, ``fatal attraction,'' and john boorman, ``hope and glory''; bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; canadian norman jewison, ``moonstruck''; and swede lasse hallstrom, ``my life as a dog.''
james brooks was reached at the berlin film festival by his publicist, pat kingsley, who reported: ``i'm sure that he was disappointed at not getting the nomination (for his direction). but he was so thrilled for the actors, and he was thrilled for the screenplay nomination.''
brooks was nominated for best original screenplay, along with louis malle, ``au revoir les enfants''; boorman, ``hope and glory''; john patrick shanley, ``moonstruck''; woody allen, ``radio days.'' both malle and boorman based their scripts on their boyhood experiences in world war ii
a fourth huston entered the academy ranks. tony huston was nominated for his adaptation of james joyce's ``the dead.'' if he wins an oscar, he would be following in the footsteps of grandfather walter, father john and sister anjelica
tony huston was awakened with the news by his publicist sheila barr. he told her of his late father's advice when an academy nominee once asked what he should say to the press. ``don't say _ listen,'' instructed john
tony said he had gotten this far collaborating with his dad, and he thinks he should take heed of his advice,'' said miss barr
also nominated for screenplay adaptation: james dearden, ``fatal attraction''; stanley kubrick, michael herr, gustav hasford, ``full metal jacket''; mark peploe and bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; hallstrom, reidar jonnson, brasse brannstrom, per berglund, ``my life as a dog.''
all of the foreign language film nominees come from europe: ``au revoir les enfants'' (france); babette's feast'' (denmark); ``course completed'' (spain); ``the family'' (italy); ``pathfinder'' (norway)
the nominees for best song: ``cry freedom'' (title song); ``(i've had) the time of my life'' from ``dirty dancing''; ``nothing's gonna stop us now'' from ``mannequin''; ``shakedown'' from ``beverly hills cop ii''; ``storybook love'' from ``the princess bride.''
nominations for the 60th academy awards included other notable omissions besides those of spielberg and brooks. pioneering star lillian gish was overlooked for ``the whales of august,'' but the acting branch saluted miss sothern, who started her film career in 1929 in ``the show of shows,'' for her role as a compassionate neighbor in ``whales.''
steve martin received critics' raves for his cyrano in ``roxanne,'' but neither his performance nor the script he wrote won an academy mention. but the manic williams won a nomination _ rare for a flat-out comedy performance _ for ``good morning, vietnam.''
academy voters resisted the high-pressure campaign for ``nuts.'' stars barbra streisand and richard dreyfus were not among the nominees. also among the missing: john lone, ``the last emperor''; elaine stritch, ``september''; maggie smith, ``the secret passion of judith hearne''; faye dunaway, ``barfly''; director hector babenco, ``ironweed.''
the academy awards return to the shrine auditorium on april 11 after a 40-year absence. the ceremonies will be televised on the abc network
riots in the occupied lands are only an hour's drive from tel aviv, but there are no outward signs that the unrest is dampening spirits in israel's entertainment capital
on a recent saturday night, young couples crowded into the popular cherry's cafe, and the decibels were as deadly as ever at the cafe dan discotheque, which caters to the punk rock crowd
people's day-to-day life is not affected unless they have arabs working for them. i think a lot of people ignore the trouble, because it seems far away,'' said rickie gal, a rock singer whose blond hair was streaked with a slash of red
but, sitting in a cafe on dizengoff street, the center of tel aviv's night life, ms. gal said she was recording her first political song to protest the violence. ``it says `yes, enough war,' and `no' to hate and the use of force.''
because israel is about the size of rhode island, little happens that is geographically remote. tel aviv is only 50 miles from the gaza strip and 30 miles from nablus, the west bank's largest city
the psychological distance is much greater because a large percentage of israelis rarely, if ever, visit the occupied lands unless they are forced to by an army call-up
in contrast, jeruslem-area houses have had picture windows and windshields smashed by rioters, and several private cars have been torched
in neighborhood meetings, jewish residents have warned they will use guns if necessary to defend their homes if police are unable to do so
israelis in the tel aviv metropolitan area, which has 1.5 million jews and about 10,000 arabs, say they feel much less threatened than israelis who live 45 minutes away in jerusalem, which borders the west bank and has a one-third arab population
in tel aviv, being so fully jewish, you never really feel events like this the way you do in jerusalem. there is a different feeling in the air. people go on with their life as usual,'' said benny cohen, a spokesman for the city
he said the mood was summed up in a current pop song by army singers from the southern command band titled ``tel aviv is not worried.''
people are very aware of the situation and caught up in it, but jerusalem is a more political city. by nature, the ratio of politics to barroom conversations is lower in tel aviv than in jerusalem,'' said zeev chavets, an israeli author and immigrant from pontiac, mich
tel aviv residents have been called to reserve duty in the occupied areas just like other israelis. they employ some of the 40,000 arabs who provide menial labor for tel aviv hotels, restaurants, construction sites and factories
frequent arab strikes have affected city garbage collection. more than half the 350 arabs stayed home and several hundred arab restaurant workers fled tel aviv's restaurant district this week after being threatened
shaptai bahar, owner of the hippopotame restaurant, said six arabs, including both cooks, went home after two arab militants came to the kitchen and threatened to harm the workers' families if they did not observe a boycott of israeli businesses
tel aviv is israel's intellectual capital, and the uprising by palestinian nationalists has spurred many to urge peace negotiations and an end to the use of force against the 1.5 million residents of the west bank and gaza strip
the association of israeli playwrights organized a gathering in the tzavta theater tuesday that drew widely known actors, singers and authors, including several who had not previously expressed their views publicly on the unrest
the most difficult struggle is taking place in the minds of israelis. it's a struggle between emotions and reason,'' ely sarid, 33, said during a debate with a group of young intellectuals and artists who gathered in his apartment
sarid, a teacher of filmmaking who was a tank commander in the 1973 middle east war and has done reserve duty in the west bank, said the unrest has made him ready to challenge the authorities
if i am called up, i will go. but i won't beat anyone or do anything to support the occupation,'' he said. ``if they put me in a tank, i will aim the cannon outside the borders.''
west germany's main opposition party pressured the government wednesday to follow moscow's lead and scrap some nuclear missiles before a u.s.-soviet missile treaty goes into effect
hermann scheer, disarmament expert for the opposition social democrats, said chancellor helmut kohl should respond to the early soviet missile reductions by dismantling west germany's 72 pershing 1a missiles
such a reaction would be equal to developing trust in disarmament which the leadership in east berlin has been working toward with the soviets,'' scheer, speaking on behalf of the party, told reporters
east germany's state-run news agency, adn, reported tuesday that the soviet union had dismantled ss-12 nuclear missiles in waren, an east german site about 90 miles northwest of berlin
the ss-12s are included in a u.s.-soviet agreement to eliminate the superpowers' medium- and shorter-range missiles
kohl announced before the superpower pact was signed that west germany would scrap its pershing 1a missiles as part of a new treaty. the pershing 1a missiles are owned by west germany, but the united states controls the rockets' nuclear warheads
on wednesday, east german newspapers printed photos of dismantled missiles and hailed the soviet preparations for removing the ss-12s before the treaty is ratified
soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from (east germany),'' the communist party's official newspaper new germany said in a banner headline
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the treaty in washington last december. the agreement stipulates that the soviets' shorter-range missiles in east germany and in czechoslovakia are to be removed within 18 months and medium-range u.s. and soviet missiles within three years
three senate committees are debating the treaty and ratification may come during the summer. the supreme soviet, the soviet union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord
in washington, the state department had no immediate reaction to the report. but a u.s. official who demanded anonymity said the soviets were free to remove their missiles before the treaty takes effect
the official said u.s. inspectors will go to east germany and all other soviet missile sites to verify compliance with the treaty if it is ratified
adn did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the soviet union, only that soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets
with this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the united states and the soviet union is ratified,'' adn wrote
east german leader erich honecker said in january that soviet intermediate-range rockets based in his country could be removed ahead of schedule, but at the time gave no specific timetable
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at waren, which has the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany. there are three other ss-12 sites in the country
the soviet union also has shorter-range ss-23 nuclear missiles based in east germany
the president and four other officials of an engineering firm have resigned in the wake of allegations that one of the executives improperly tried to influence a federal safety agency
the allegations stem from a letter written in december by fred w. graham, rust engineering co.'s manager of safety and security, to an official of the occupational safety and health administration, in which graham offered to testify favorably about the agency before a congressional committee
in return, graham wrote, he sought osha's agreement to ``reasonable'' penalties against rust engineering, based in birmingham, ala., for safety violations at bridgeport's garbage-to-energy plant
graham was one of the five who resigned tuesday, said company spokeswoman sherry cook
rust is building the $200 million plant in bridgeport. last week, osha proposed $54,000 in penalties against the company for alleged safety violations at the site
cook confirmed that the resignations were the result of a letter written by graham to osha in december. she said company president joseph de la campa had reviewed and approved graham's letter before it was sent to osha
earlier this month, the company retracted the letter and said it was unauthorized. cook on tuesday reaffirmed that statement, saying that the letter had been unauthorized despite de la campa's approval
rust officials said in a statement, ``the actions taken (sending the letter to osha) were not in keeping with the high professional standards of the company.''
the department of labor's inspector general's office and the connecticut u.s. attorney's office are investigating whether rust officials sought to improperly influence osha
also resigning tuesday were nicholas bouler, an attorney; ronald luster, manager of construction; and l.g. wright, rust engineering's bridgeport project manager
more than 800 telephone calls and letters from national rifle association members have flooded a new york county executive's office opposing the candidacy of police chief tony bouza for a post there
bouza is one of four finalists for police commissioner in suffolk county, n.y., east of new york city on long island
he has been a outspoken critic of the nra and its stand on gun control, and is a leading critic of a proposed ``right-to-bear-arms'' amendment to the minnesota constitution, which is supported by the nra
we have no feeling one way or the other as far as the other candidates are concerned,'' said dick sorrentino, an nra field representative for new york and new jersey. ``suffolk county has problems to begin with as far as pistol licensing goes. it's very restrictive. we certainly don't need someone with (bouza's) feelings on gun ownership in charge of pistol licensing
bouza's made his stand very publicly and we couldn't ignore it,'' sorrentino said. ``we had to make our feelings known.''
other finalists are anthony voelker, a 35-year veteran on the new york city police department; daniel guido, chief of police in stamford, conn.; and martin o'connor, chief of long island's nassau county police support division
the nra has more than 25,000 members in suffolk county. but brad o'hearn, a spokesman for suffolk county executive patrick halpin, said the nra's telephone and letter-writing campaign is unlikely to influence halpin's decision on a new police commissioner. that decision is expected next week
bouza's third term as minneapolis police chief expires at the end of the year
americans have never been healthier, but they feel worse and worse, a doctor says
dr. arthur j. barsky calls this ``the paradox of health.'' the nation's collective health has improved dramatically over the past 30 years, yet people report increasingly high rates of disability and a general dissatisfaction with their health
barsky, a psychiatrist at massachusetts general hospital, blames this on several factors, including people's obsession with diet and exercise and their unrealistic expectations of what medicine can do for them
writing in thursday's new england journal of medicine, barsky noted that the life expectancy of a child born in 1984 was 75 years. in 1900, it was 47. since 1970 alone, the life expectancy has increased by four years
however, surveys show that people report twice as many episodes of disabling illness now than they did in the 1920s, before the introduction of antibiotics. in the 1970s, 61 percent of americans said they were satisfied with their health. a decade later, this had fallen to 55 percent
our subjective feeling of healthiness and physical well-being has decreased, even though there have been major advances in our actual, objective health status,'' barsky wrote
one reason is medicine's conquest of diseases that kill quickly. it lets people grow old so they die with diseases that linger. people who are saved from pneumonia and tuberculosis live long enough to be afflicted with arthritis and diabetes
thus, we live longer, but a greater proportion of our life is spent in ill health,'' he wrote
among other factors cited by barsky:
_people's fascination with diet, exercise and healthy living means they spend more time thinking about their bodies. this erodes their sense of well-being, because they are more negative about their health when they dwell on it
_the proliferation of do-it-yourself diagnostic kits, health magazines, fat farms and other health products makes people more conscious of trivial symptoms. every twinge and ache becomes the sign of a horrifying disease. this, along with news media exaggeration of such rare health problems as toxic shock syndrome, ``induces a cultural climate of alarm and hypochondria, undermining feelings of well-being.''
_people go to the doctor twice as often as they did 50 years ago. frequently they seek help for such minor complaints as sore muscles, colds and upset stomaches. this ``medicalization of daily life'' leads people to think that all of their discomforts are curable, and they are disappointed when they are not
the biltmore theater, one of the largest houses on broadway, has been sold for $5.35 million, and the new owner says he'll try to use it as a cabaret theater
morris gluck, who bought the theater at auction tuesday, said through a spokesman that he plans to keep the 948-seat house as a theater. but other theater owners said the high price could force gluck to develop the site's air rights
the auction started with a base price of $4 million. the sale was tentative, pending the working out of final details
gary waskow, a spokesman for properties at auction, which managed the sale, said gluck was negotiating with an unidentified producer interested in becoming a new tenant in the building
the proposed tenant has in mind to use the biltmore as a cabaret theater,'' said rene frank, president of properties at auction. ``they want to try something that has never been done in new york.''
the interior of the theater, which opened in 1925 at on west 47th street, was given landmark status late last year, so any changes would have to be approved by the city. the building comes with 136,000 square feet of air rights on broadway
the last long-running hit in the theater was the musical ``hair,'' which closed in 1972 after more than four years
northern ireland police wednesday announced a disciplinary inquiry against officers involved in the killing of six unarmed men in the province in three incidents in late 1982
the investigation, headed by charles kelly, chief constable of the staffordshire force, will delve into a controversy that has resurfaced this year to embarrass the british government and seriously damage its relations with ireland
the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, said the inquiry was ordered by its chief constable, sir john hermon. it did not say how many officers would be investigated or what penalties they might face
the announcement came three weeks after the government disclosed that evidence had emerged of perjury and subversion of justice in an alleged cover-up of the circumstances of the shootings
on jan. 25, the government said it would not prosecute the police officers involved, provoking angry reactions from dublin as well as british opposition politicians
the decision to take disciplinary action was seen as an attempt to placate the irish government, while the opposition labor party said it confirmed longstanding allegations of police misconduct in northern ireland
this is perhaps one of the most serious and grave statements we have heard about the british security forces in northern ireland,'' said kevin mcnamara, labor's spokesman on northern ireland, in a house of commons debate
northern ireland secretary tom king told parliament: ``undoubtedly serious mistakes were made which have damaged the reputation of the ruc.''
he said the issues ``go to the heart of the problems faced by a police force using the normal processes of law while fighting a ruthless and vicious terrorist enemy.''
the shootings were investigated for two years by john stalker, then assistant chief constable of manchester
he found that five deaths occurred when police, in separate incidents, fired on moving cars. the occupants were unarmed but were acknowledged by their organizations as guerrillas. the sixth victim was a teen-ager who stumbled on a guerrilla explosives hideout that was under police surveillance and was shot in still-unexplained circumstances
stalker this month published a book claiming he was dumped from the inquiry because his findings threatened to implicate senior ruc officers in murder
king said the inquiry would determine whether to bring disciplinary action against officers up to the rank of chief superintendent. the northern ireland police authority, a police-civilian watchdog body, would have to decide whether more senior officers should be disciplined, he said
king also outlined structural changes in the ruc prompted by the lessons of the 1982 shootings
in dublin, in a parliamentary debate on the worsening state of anglo-irish relations, irish prime minister charles haughey said recent controversies concerning northern ireland had aroused ``strong feelings of irish public opinion.''
besides the 1982 shootings, he cited:
_ the british appeals court's refusal jan. 28 to grant a retrial to six irishmen serving life sentences for twin bomb attacks that killed 21 people in 1974. the six claim they are innocent and were convicted on faulty forensic evidence and confessions they say were beaten out of them
_ britain's refusal to fulfill conditions set down by ireland for the extradition of irish terrorist suspects to british police under a new extradition treaty that took effect dec. 1
_ the british government's announcement tuesday that it will make its controversial prevention of terrorism act a permanent law, rather than requiring annual parliamentary renewal
the 13-year-old act empowers police to hold terrorism suspects for up to seven days without charging them or giving them access to a lawyer
bob dole on wednesday portrayed george bush and his aides as the hatchetmen of the gop presidential campaign with ``all the axes in town ... swinging them in every state.''
dole promised to swing back if attacked again
you're seeing a mean george bush. you ought to take a look at some of the things they have been doing and saying,'' dole declared as he tried to rebound from his stinging defeat at bush's hands in new hampshire on tuesday
the kansas senator said he had been too soft on bush and had erred in the final days of the campaign by not responding to negative ads run by the vice president's campaign
bush, meanwhile, denied he had done anything wrong
i'm not going to dwell on it, you see, i don't want to be drawn into something like that,'' the vice president said to reporters. ``people in new hampshire like clean campaigns, and they endorsed me overwhelmingly.''
sticking with his contention that the bush ads were false, dole said he would not make the same mistake again. he was careful to say that his aides would do the heavy lifting in the counterattacks, which were already under way
the problem with george bush is that he hasn't got a record,'' dole campaign manager bill brock told reporters on the campaign plane from new hampshire. ``if somebody can tell me what he has done in the last seven years, i'll buy somebody a steak.''
brock, however, said dole officials would not distort the record as they said bush had done. ``we don't have to wallow in the mud with them to answer their charges,'' he said
dole himself did try to stay away from a role in the counterattacking, which is a sensitive subject in light of his reputation as once the toughest hatchetman of the gop. asked if the new tactics threaten to revive that old image, dole said it is the bush campaign that faces the image problem
they have all the axes in town. they seem to be swinging them in every state,'' he said
dole pointed to an ad run by the bush campaign in new hampshire that accused him of straddling the issues of taxes, an oil import fee and the medium-range missile treaty. and brock reminded reporters that bush's iowa campaign manager had attacked dole for ``cronyism'' and ``mean-spiritedness'' and raised questions about his wife's blind trust
dole blamed part of his new hampshire problem on the surge of expectations that built after he trounced bush in the iowa caucuses on feb. 8
if expectations hadn't gotten so good, it would have been a victory today,'' dole told reporters at the airport in washington. ``we didn't win. but that's only one step along the way. we're going to south dakota and minnesota.''
dole talked with reporters on the campaign plane as it flew from manchester to washington, where dole spent the day in meetings and in a senate debate on campaign financing. he was asked if he had been too soft on bush
probably,'' dole replied
should he have fired back at bush?
yes, that's my guess,'' he said. ``i think we sat on our hands for three days.''
as for the dispute distorted ads, dole said at the manchester airport, ``i'm not going to run from it. i'm not known for running from a fight.''
i never said i was going to raise your taxes. i didn't say i was advocating a $10-a-barrel import fee. but that's what bush's ads say and they are not true.''
it was brock who laid out the new tactics for the dole campaign against possible future bush attacks
when he does it from now on, we're going to respond very, very forcefully,'' brock said on the plane. ``we're tired of it. we're sick to the gills of this type of tactic.''
george, campaign on your own,'' brock lectured bush via the media. ``earn it on your own. don't try to put somebody else down.''
gary dotson, the convicted rapist who was freed from prison in 1985 after his alleged victim recanted, on wednesday was ordered behind bars for at least six months for violating the conditions of his parole
the illinois prisoner review board rejected dotson's plea for another chance and ruled that he had violated the terms of parole for failing to report to his parole officer last dec. 24
the board ordered dotson held in state prison until aug. 16, when he will be eligible for parole again and may be released from prison if he complies with conditions set by the board, said nic howell, a spokesman for the state department of corrections
dotson was ordered by the board to undergo a substance abuse treatment program while in prison
dotson's case drew national attention when cathleen crowell webb, now a new hampshire homemaker, recanted her testimony that dotson had raped her when she was a suburban teen-ager
after three days of hearings in 1985, gov. james r. thompson commuted dotson's sentence of 25 to 50 years to the six years he had served. the governor did not pardon dotson, saying he did not believe the recantation
since then, dotson has had numerous scrapes with the law, which under the good-conduct terms of his commutation could result in him being ordered to serve out the remainder of his sentence
dotson was imprisoned last year for violating his parole terms by being convicted on drunken driving charges. thompson freed dotson a second time when he modified his 1985 commutation order to allow dotson out on dec. 24 in what the governor called ``a last-chance deal.''
two days later, dotson was arrested after a bar fight in suburban calumet city. prosecutors later dropped battery charges in that incident, but dotson remained in jail on a ``parole hold.''
dotson told the review board during a hearing tuesday that he is an alcoholic and needed treatment
the ruling disappointed dotson's family
i just don't understand why they've got to keep him in jail,'' said laura dotson, one of his five sisters. ``why can't they just put him in a halfway house or something? he's been in jail long enough for something he didn't do. we want him in a rehab _ but not in jail.''
southern political leaders from both parties on wednesday outlined a series of issues they want the presidential candidates to address as they shift their attention to super tuesday
a report, prepared for the candidates by the sunbelt institute and the congressional sunbelt caucus, detailed issues ranging from rural development to welfare reform to energy and environmental policy
former virginia gov. chuck robb told a news conference that the report lists problems that need attention in the south, but does not outline a list of acceptable solutions that might be interpreted as a ``southern litmus test'' for the presidential candidates
rep. michael a. andrews, d-texas, chairman of the sunbelt caucus, said the report will ``help define and clarify some of the issues that confront the nation and our region.''
the candidates have got to change their focus and address issues of concern to our region,'' he said. ``for the first time, the south's political voice (through super tuesday) will match the south's number of voters.''
andrews said, for example, that none of the candidates have explained their goals and plans for the space program, which is vital to the economies of alabama, texas and florida
he said the south also is facing a social crisis, with one out of every five southerns on welfare, and the presidential candidates will be expected to respond with meaningful welfare reform proposals
rep. jim cooper, d-tenn., said the level of illiteracy in the south is a major problem that southern voters want the presidential candidates to address as they head toward super tuesday
a total of 20 states, 14 of them in the south, will hold primaries or caucuses on super tuesday, march 8. the democrats will be vying for 1,307 delegates in 20 states while the republicans battle for 700 delegates in 16 states
nine out of 10 american hospitals have policies restricting smoking, and a growing number are banning smoking from their premises entirely, according to a study released wednesday
more than half the surveyed hospitals that restrict or ban smoking said they had a moral responsibility to do so, according to stuart a. wesbury jr., president of the chicago-based american college of healthcare executives
health-care executives are taking seriously their role in promoting wellness,'' wesbury said at a news conference where he released results of the college's survey of 770 hospitals
the number of respondents who report they have banned smoking is extremely impressive when one considers the nature of a hospital,'' wesbury said. ``it's not easy to simply say `no smoking' with the number of people, many of them under tremendous stress, who use the facility each day as patients or visitors.''
of the 90 percent of respondents with smoking policies in effect last year, 8 percent had outright bans on smoking by employees, physicians, patients and visitors, the college found
in 1981, a survey of more than 3,000 hospitals by the american hospital association found ``maybe one or two in the country'' with outright bans on smoking, said lynn jones, manager of worksite-health promotion for that chicago-based organization
typical of those with smoking bans is st. cloud hospital of st. cloud, minn., a 489-bed hospital that banned smoking last november
sister paul revier, organizer of its smoke-free policy, said exceptions are made for patients in the hospital's chemical-dependency and psychiatric wards and for patients who obtain written permission to smoke from a doctor
fewer than 10 such physician orders have been written since the policy went into effect, she said
there had been no problems with employee smoking, sister paul said, adding she did not expect any to arise. the hospital offered its employees educational programs and stop-smoking classes for a year before the ban began, she said
people are in a sense embarrassed to smoke among other employees,'' she said
john frobenius, the hospital president, said st. cloud's smoke-free policy had created less of a stir than he had expected, although he said one woman chose to have her baby at another hospital rather than give up smoking during her stay
the university of chicago medical center will go smoke-free on april 1, said kenneth bloem, executive vice president of the 654-bed complex, which includes three hospitals and 100 outpatient clinics
this is the second phase of a long-term policy to eliminate smoking (from the center) altogether,'' bloem said
we have looked at smoking as a major public-health problem and see this as an opportunity for our institutions to promote the health of patients, staff and visitors as well as maintaining the health of our patients,'' he said
federal authorities are seeking a fugitive who fled to greece after allegedly stealing three valuable paintings from a wealthy family and arranging to have them sold by a new york auction house
the paintings were recovered after they were auctioned but before they were shipped to the buyers
a federal grand jury last week indicted john zentefis, a former foreman at a chicago storage warehouse, in the thefts from heiress mary bates harrington
the paintings _ ``summer, montclair'' by george inness, ``end of day'' by jean c. cazin, and ``river landscape'' by alexander h. wyant _ were once owned by chicago coal magnate george bates harrington and his wife, sophia
harrington died in 1960 and his wife died in 1963. the paintings were inherited by ms. harrington, who placed them in storage at a federal moving and storage co. warehouse in chicago
zentefis worked at warehouse, according to the indictment. in 1979, federal moving and storage went bankrupt and the boxes were supposed to be transferred to the warehouse of a different company
in 1984, a friend of the harrington family noticed that ``summer, montclair,'' a 100-year-old landscape painting, had been listed in a circular sent out by sotheby's, the well-known auction house. the fbi was notified, and agent robert spiel was dispatched to new york, according to the indictment
spiel found that ``summer, montclair' had been auctioned to an unidentified london man for $90,750. the other two paintings had been sold to other buyers for a total of $4,375
zentefis received $76,000 and fled to greece, the indictment alleged, while sotheby's kept the rest of the money as a commission
spiel confiscated the still unshipped art works and brought them back to chicago, where the paintings are now being held in storage by the art institute of chicago
assistant u.s. attorney alex vesselinovitch began a grand jury investigation and the family hired attorney gordon nash to sort out the affair
eventually, sotheby's paid back the disgruntled purchasers of the works, which a cook county judge said belong to ms. harrington
it's amazing we found them,'' she said
an air national guard ground crew chief who was sucked into an engine intake of an f-4d phantom jet died from massive internal injuries, authorities said wednesday
sgt. martin gaither, 28, of williamsville died tuesday during surgery at memorial medical center, sangamon county deputy coroner bruce martin said
gaither was inspecting engines on the flight line, where aircraft are prepared for takeoff, when the accident happened, said capt. bob lael, spokesman for the illinois air national guard
he walked in front of an engine that was running and was drawn into the intake chute, lael said
gaither was coherent and conscious when he was pulled from the engine intake, lael said. but the guardsman suffered a ruptured spleen and other internal injuries that caused his death, according to the coroner's office
gaither had worked for four years for the guard's 183rd tactical fighter group, lael said. recession</head>
housing construction suffered a second consecutive monthly decline in january, dipping to the weakest pace since the end of the last recession, the government reported wednesday
the 1.9 percent january decline in construction of single-family homes and apartments, reported by the commerce department, raised new concerns among some economists about the possibility of a recession this year
however, other analysts pointed to a second government report showing that industrial production rose for the fourth consecutive month in january. the 0.2 percent rise in industrial output followed larger gains of 0.4 percent in both november and december
economists are looking for continued strength in manufacturing, bolstered by rising export sales, to offset expected weakness in the consumer sector
the january decline in housing construction followed an even larger 15.5 percent december plunge and pushed building activity down to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.38 million units, the slowest pace since a rate of 1.30 million units in december 1982, just as the last recession was ending
housing is being watched very closely in the aftermath of the record 508-point drop in the stock market last october because it is often one of the first sectors to weaken at the onset of a new recession
economists said the two consecutive monthly declines in housing construction did not guarantee a recession, especially since other economic sectors have been showing strength. but analysts said further weakness in this important industry would be troubling
if housing continues to weaken, it would obviously increase the chances of a recession,'' said lawrence chimerine, head of the wefa group, formerly wharton econometrics. ``the rise in exports would not be enough to offset a big drop in housing and consumer spending. a lot will depend on what happens in the next few months.''
the weakness suggests that people have been scared by the stock market crash and are unwilling to take on the commitment of a home mortgage,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc. of lexington, mass
other analysts said that unusually severe january weather had contributed to the decline in starts last month and they predicted better figures in coming months, particularly in view of the fact that mortgage rates have been dropping in recent weeks
fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages have fallen to a nationwide average of 9.84 percent, down almost a full percentage point since jan. 1 and the first time they have been in single-digits since last april
we expect housing starts will pick up in february and march. interest rates are lower and consumer confidence and employment have both strengthened,'' said warren lasko, executive vice president of the mortgage bankers association
the weakness last month came from a 2.9 percent decline in construction of single-family homes, which fell to an annual rate of 1.01 million units
this drop offset a 0.8 percent increase in construction of multi-family housing, which edged up to an annual rate of 366,000 units. that was still 35 percent below the level of activity in the apartment sector a year ago. activity in the apartment sector reflects a slump that followed enactment of the new tax law, which removed many of the tax shelter benefits of investing in real estate
david seiders, chief economist of the national association of home builders, said that a rate of single-family starts above 1 million still reflected strength in that sector, but he said the overall industry was being held back by the prolonged slump in apartment activity
he said multi-family construction is likely to fall further, especially in the south, where vacancy rates are high
in january, construction starts fell 17.1 percent in the south to an annual rate of 469,000 units. starts were down an even larger 21.8 percent in the midwest to an annual rate of 223,000 units
two other regions showed strength, however. starts rose 27.6 percent in the northeast to an annual rate of 291,000 units and were up 21.2 percent in the west to a rate of 394,000 units
building permits, considered a good sign of future activity, fell 8.2 percent in january to an annual rate of 1.25 million units, the lowest level for permits since january 1985. permits had fallen 7.4 percent in december
the federal reserve board's report on industrial production showed the january strength came from production of non-durable goods, which rose 0.4 percent. production of durable goods, items expected to last three years, showed no increase last month as a big drop in auto and steel production offset increases in the output of light trucks and defense equipment
sen. albert gore jr. dismissed his poor showing in new hampshire and sought support wednesday in southern states, saying too much emphasis had been put on early presidential contests
he also criticized fellow democratic candidates, accusing them of being out of touch and saying, ``i see all of the other candidates as peas in the same pod.''
this is the kickoff of the main event in this election year,'' gore said at a conference for supporters telecast from houston. ``this is the time we kick our campaign into high gear.''
he made his comment about ``peas in the same pod'' earlier, in an interview on ``cbs this morning.'' in that same interview, he said his rivals picked up some harmful ``political baggage in the form of positions they adopted'' in iowa and new hampshire
in houston, gore said he had no regrets about skipping the new hampshire primary and iowa caucuses and turning his money and attention to the south, where more than a dozen states have contests on march 8, known as super tuesday
the tennessee senator, who finished fifth in the new hampshire primary tuesday with about 7 percent of the vote, had campaigned little there and in iowa, where he also did poorly
the importance of super tuesday is not simply in the fact that almost half the delegates will be selected on march 8,'' gore said. ``the importance of super tuesday is also in the fact that there are people all over the united states who have been waiting to see more power given to democrats at the grass-roots level in the selection of a democratic nominee.''
the conference was telecast to an estimated 52 locations in more than 30 cities. about 40 supporters attended at the site of the telecast in houston
gore said three democratic rivals _ he later identified them as jesse jackson, richard gephardt and michael dukakis _ ``have taken positions on foreign policy and defense policy that are completely out of touch with the mainstream voters in this country.''
gephardt, who finished second in new hampshire and won the iowa caucuses, has flip-flopped on issues in his campaign, gore said
it is now very widely known that dick gephardt's positions adopted for the iowa caucuses are just completely at odds with what he's done in the last 12 years in the house and senate,'' he said. ``there's a very long list; it's not just one or two positions.''
gore had other scheduled stops in beaumont, texas; shreveport, la., and dallas on wednesday as he continued his campaign in the south and other super tuesday states
we're going to win it because we've conserved our resources to aim right at the super tuesday states,'' he said
florida's first million-dollar lottery winner has already changed his telephone number because people keep calling to suggest ways of sharing or investing his fortune
thomas sawyer's hands were still shaking after winning the grand prize saturday when a woman in the crowd handed him a pamphlet for a charity and walked away without saying a word
that was just the beginning of the hassles of being a new millionaire, sawyer said
actually, he isn't quite a millionaire. his after-tax winnings of $800,000 were transferred into his bank account tuesday
sawyer's win was the more astounding because he never bought a ticket, something he says he'll never do because he's opposed to all lotteries
instead, he found a ticket that had been discarded in front of his store and sent it in to the million-dollar drawing, which included about 460,000 other entries
proceeds from the lottery are earmarked for education, and on wednesday, florida's assistant commissioner of education received a check for $46.2 million, representing the first installment. the game has generated sales of about 300 million $1 tickets in five weeks
it's a red-letter day for us,'' said lottery secretary rebecca paul. ``we're extremely proud and pleased.''
the money will be used to pay for such items as student financial aid, dropout prevention programs, equipment, library books and training programs for february and march
lt. gov. bobby brantley, who presented the check to laurey stryker, assistant commissioner of education, said he wanted to emphasize that the lottery won't generate enough money to take care of all education needs and that gov. bob martinez wants the proceeds to be used for one-time expenses to enhance education, rather than for operating costs
since the drawing, sawyer said his telephone hasn't stopped ringing
i've got a few calls from charities,'' he said. ``but they're not as big a hassle as the various investment companies. ... everybody says they want to help.''
sawyer said he had his telephone number changed monday to an unlisted number. but that didn't stop aggressive fortune-seekers who somehow learned his new number
at home, his wife and daughters screen the calls. several employees do the same at his st. petersburg paint store
there are undoubtedly a million charities worth giving to,'' sawyer said. ``i don't question that. everyone can't support everything. even the government can't do that, and they've got a lot more money than i do.''
sawyer already has pledged 10 percent of the money to his church and does not know whether he will give any of the remaining money away
sawyer said he will take advice from the accountant who has handled his business finances for the last several years. there will be no special consultants or high-priced investment firms, he said
the plo said wednesday it had shelved plans for a ``ship of return'' to take 130 deported palestinians to israel, two days after the vessel was bombed in a cyprus harbor
plo officials said a last attempt to charter another ship had failed
we have now decided to temporarily postpone the date of sailing,'' said sheik abdul-hamid al-sayeh, president of the palestine national council, the plo legislature. he was the first person israel deported after capturing arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war
he told a news conference the voyage would take place ``in the near future,'' but organizers would not mention a date. they sent home the hundreds of people, including observers and journalists scheduled to make the trip, who had been in athens for nine days
those involved said it may have been the largest non-violent protest ever attempted by the palestine liberation organization
hanna nasser, a member of the organizing committee and interpreter for sayeh, called the effort a success because ``it has shown the world the amount of terrorism that is directed by israel
it is ready to blow up a ship simply because it has palestinian people going on a peaceful mission,'' said nasser, who was president of bir zeit university in the israeli-occupied west bank before he was deported
the sol phryne, a ferry obtained for the voyage, was damaged monday by a mine attached below the waterline at limassol, cyprus
plo officials accused israel of planting the mine, which ripped a six-foot hole in the ferry's hull
israeli officials did not deny it and transport minister chaim corfu said that, if the plo gets another ship, ``its fate will be the same.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir called the voyage ``a declaration of war.'' bassan abu sharif, plo spokesman, claimed earlier that israel made the search for a ship difficult by threatening owners and crew members. the voyage initially had been scheduled to begin feb. 9 at piraeus, the port of athens
the voyage was intended to focus attention on israel's policy of deporting palestinians from the occupied west bank and gaza strip. the u.n. security council declared last month that such expulsions are illegal
jordanian and palestinian figures say up to 3,000 palestinians have been deported since 1967
on sunday, the day before the ship was mined, three plo officers were killed in limassol by a bomb planted in their car
thousands of palestinians and jordanians attended a funeral wednesday in amman, jordan, for two of the victims, mohammad bassam al-tamimi and mohammad hassan bheis. the body of the third man, marwan kayyali, was taken to lebanon for burial. political trail</head>
a few leftovers from the new hampshire primary campaign, tales of food and love, laughs and life along the political trail:
first, the food. presidential candidates have such tight schedules they often don't get a chance to eat
sen. paul simon of illinois detoured through a burger king drive-in for a hamburger on one swing. former gov. bruce babbitt of arizona dined on finger sandwiches at a head start center
but vice president george bush ate three breakfasts within an hour one morning _ not because he was hungry, but because the polls had him running behind sen. bob dole of kansas
bush had switched his campaign style to one of more informality, sliding into booths with voters for pancakes at bickford's family restaurant, coffee at dunkin' donuts and anegg mcmuffin at mcdonald's
the next morning, on voting day in the new hampshire primary, a woman at the polls told bush she had skipped breakfast to see him
i'm not having breakfast today,'' he said. ``i had three of them yesterday.''
now, some love notes:
bush's son, neil, met a young woman from nashua named sharon while campaigning for his father in the new hampshire primary eight years ago. george bush lost that one to ronald reagan, but neil bush won sharon. they were married and came back to campaign for bush this time
after simon had telephoned soviet refusenik elena keis-kuna in leningrad to offer his support and best wishes, she sent him a kiss. on that same day, sunday, valentine's day, simon campaigned in the streets of manchester. one of his stops was a florist's shop where he presented his wife, jeanne, with red roses. she gave him a real kiss
babbitt may not have won the hearts and minds of the voters in new hampshire, finishing sixth among the seven democratic candidates, but he's a winner to hattie, his wife. often at his side, she would reassure him, ``you're my candidate.''
it helps to be able to laugh a little, especially when you're hurting a lot
while babbitt came up a loser when the votes were counted, he wins an award for best self-depreciating humor
example: ``you know a guy came up to me in des moines and shook his head and said to me, `babbitt, you were in it right up to the very beginning.'''
and, you know, a candidate's gotta do what a candidate's gotta do
when alexander haig announced his candidacy for the republican presidential nomination in manchester, he praised new hampshire voters for being intelligent and for not falling for campaign imagery
then he got caught up in it himself, flying to the far north country to remote but politically famous dixville notch where the few residents grab a lot of attention in the media every primary year by casting the nation's first votes
by the time those ballots went in the box this time, though, haig had given up his campaign
and it's nice to get a little help from your friends, especially if they are heavy hitters
bush brought in some for his campaign. he had ted williams, the boston red sox baseball hall of fame slugger, on his side. he also had the gop's mr. conservative, barry goldwater, the former arizona senator and the party's 1964 presidential nominee, in his corner
and jazz artist lionel hampton performed at house parties. his vibes turned out to be good ones for bush, who found in new hampshire just the note he wanted: victory over dole
australian craig logan picked a crisp, cloudless day for his first trip to the top of the empire state building wednesday. but he did it the hard way _ he ran
logan led a field of 79 men and 27 women who thundered up the stairwell to the top of the 102-story landmark for glory, fitness and the first-place prize of a macintosh computer in the 11th annual empire state building run-up. his winning time was 11 minutes, 29 seconds
it wasn't too bad, really,'' logan, a 26-year-old pastry chef from melbourne, said modestly. still, he admitted, ``it gets a bit boring, going around and around and around.''
the top women's finisher was olympic hopeful janine aiello, of san francisco, whose time of 13 minutes, 43 seconds, was 28 seconds off her women's record in the event, set in 1985
ms. aiello, a native of suffern, n.y., interrupted her training for the olympic marathon to compete for the fifth time in the event. ``it feels great,'' she said after her victory. ``my mom was here, my aunts from new york. it was just so great to see their faces.''
logan said he won the opportunity to compete in the empire state building run-up by winning a similar event last august in a 56-story hotel in melbourne. ``that one felt harder,'' he said
he attributed his victory in part to being the first man into the stairwell _ no small advantage, considering the crunch of bodies that followed him
naked as the day she was poured, a nude woman on display with 22 other sculptures in a tony art gallery is attracting more than passing glances
you can tell she's real; look at the dirt on the soles of her feet. it's a dead giveaway,'' one spectator said tuesday as he viewed the kneeling polyvinylid sculpture titled ``the sphinx'' by californian john de andrea
the eye-catching work is part of an exhibit showing through march 8 at the helander gallery in this posh island resort
the $86,000 sculpture, with blue eyes, ashen hair pulled into a loose bun and pearl earrings, ``was chosen as the window piece because she is an exemplary of the exhibit and an excellent work of figure,'' said gallery curator wendy cohen. ``also, because we knew the effect she would have.''
the only drawback is that we have to clean the windows five times a day because of the hand prints and noses pressed to the glass,'' said helander owner bruce helander
it took five painstaking months for de andrea to cover the figure with layers of transluscent flesh-toned paint, and add veins, freckles and beauty marks, ms. cohen said
buck bundy'' cleared the hurdles and pulled ahead of the pack with determination in his beady eyes. when he crossed the finish line first, the men in business suits cheered
the race over, the victorious mouse and 49 other racing rodents like him are loaded into an aquarium until the next gig
buck bundy'' and his friends are on the fast track for success, judging from the way the mouse-racing business has been going for ron penland, of kansas city, mo
penland, 38, has been taking his mice on the road to entertain at parties and conventions for 11 years. he was in springfield tuesday for a meeting of the illinois grain and feed association
penland, known as ``the mouse man,'' makes a good living calling the mouse races. the going rate to set up the 16-foot track adorned with cat photos in kansas city is a minimum of $350
the creatures need very little training before hitting the track, he said
their colors _ gray, white, black, spotted or two-tone _ help distinguish them during the heat of competition. look-alike mice get their tails colored with felt-tip markers
penland says he doesn't encourage gambling, but just in case, he posts the career winnings of the mice in each race on a posterboard
the entrepreneur says he has never been bitten by the mice, but did acknowledge one job hazard: the smell, which can be as bad as that of racing pigs. pickering.</note>
president reagan is planning to name william a. brown, a leading expert on soviet affairs, as the new u.s. ambassador to israel, a senior u.s. official said today
brown, 57, now the u.s. envoy to thailand, will replace thomas r. pickering, a career foreign service officer who has served in tel aviv since 1985 and is being considered for another post in the state department
assuming he is confirmed by the senate, brown will play an important role in the growing u.s. drive to promote peace talks between israel and jordan
his job would entail trying to persuade a reluctant prime minister yitzhak shamir to yield territory on the west bank in exchange for a settlement
shamir's resistance to a concession opposed by the likud coalition could test the diplomatic skill of the 32-year veteran of the foreign service
brown served as deputy ambassador to tel aviv _ the united states does not recognize jerusalem as israel's capital _ from 1979 to 1981. he is known primarily as an expert in soviet and asian affairs, and as a linguist
brown, a harvard graduate and ex-marine, speaks russian, chinese, french, japanese, mongolian and malay. he was a leading contender for the ambssador's post in moscow, probably the most important in the foreign service, before jack matlock was selected by reagan in january 1987
one of the touchy angles in u.s. diplomacy in the middle east is the role to be played by the soviet union. jordan insists on moscow's taking an active part, while shamir is opposed to its participation in consideration of an arab-israeli settlement
shamir's two main reasons are that the soviets generally support arab positions and moscow does not have diplomatic relations with israel. ties were broken by the soviets in 1967, when israel defeated egypt, jordan and syria in the six-day war
last year, however, the soviets sent a diplomatic delegation to israel, and a small israeli group is likely to go to the soviet union this year
a coalition of members of congress announced wednesday that they plan to sue the census bureau in an effort to force the agency to delete illegal aliens from its count in 1990
some 40 members of the house joined the federation for american immigration reform in announcing that the suit would be filed thursday in u.s. district court in pittsburgh, spokesmen said at a news conference here
the group contends that including the estimated 2 million or more illegal aliens in the national head count, which is used to distribute seats in the house of representatives, will cause unfair shifts of seats from one state to another
census officials say they are required to count everyone by the u.s. constitution, which does not mention citizenship but only instructs that the house apportionment be based on the ``whole number of persons'' residing in the various states. that approach was upheld by a federal court in a similar suit, brought by the same immigration reform group, before the 1980 census
nonetheless, dan stein of the immigration reform federation contended that illegal aliens should not be allowed to be part of determining the political structure of the united states
rep. tom ridge, r-pa., said the census bureau should actually count everyone but that it should develop a method to determine how many people are illegally in the country, and them deduct that number from the figures used for reapportioning congress
rep. jan meyers, r-kan., suggested including a question on the census form asking whether respondents are u.s. citizerns
south and north korea accused each other tuesday of planting a bomb on a south korean jetliner that crashed in november, killing all 115 people aboard
choi kwang-soo, south korea's foreign minister, told the 15-member security council two north korean agents put a bomb on the plane to sabotage the 1988 summer olympics in seoul. it crashed into the sea nov. 29 off burma
he cited the public confession in january of a korean woman who said she planted the bomb on orders of kim jong il, son of north korean leader kim il sung. she and a man, traveling with forged passports, left the plane and were arrested in bahrain, where the man committed suicide
communist north korea's ambassador, pak gil yon, claimed south korean agents carried out the bombing on the eve of presidential elections to rally support for government candidate roh tae-woo. roh won the election
the council met at the request of japan and south korea for an airing of complaints about alleged state terrorism by north korea. the two koreas are non-voting observers at the united nations
western diplomats said they did not expect a resolution to be presented because it probably would be vetoed by the soviet union, an ally of north korea
the senate foreign relations committee gave unanimous approval wednesday to legislation ratifying an international agreement to control ozone-destroying chemicals
the legislation, endorsed on a voice vote, is tied to last september's agreement by industrialized nations to cut production of widely used chlorofluorocarbons or cfcs, by up to 50 percent by 1999
cfcs, used as refrigerants, aerosol can propellants and industrial solvents, migrate into the stratosphere, where they destroy the ozone molecules that help screen the earth from the sun's cancer-causing ultraviolet rays
the montreal protocol on cfcs is slated to take effect once it has been ratified by 11 nations representing at least two-thirds of the world's 1986 consumption of the cfc compounds covered under the pact
the united states was a driving force behind the landmark environmental protection agreement. supporters are pushing for prompt u.s. ratification as an example to other nations
mega-hit moviemaker steven spielberg was snubbed again wednesday by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences as a nominee best director, although his ``empire of the sun'' earned six nominations
spielberg, the top moneymaking director of all time but never a winner for best director, was out of town and presumably ``has no reaction,'' said chris kelly, his spokeswoman at amblin productions
spielberg was nominated for direction in ``jaws,'' ``raiders of the lost ark'' and ``e.t. _ the extra-terrestrial.''
five years ago ``e.t. _ the extra-terrestrial,'' the biggest-grossing movie in history, did not win either for best picture or for spielberg's direction
then, two years ago, and after such smashes as ``jaws,'' ``close encounters of the third kind,'' ``e.t.'' and the ``indiana jones'' adventures, it seemed hollywood's establishment would embrace ``the color purple,'' a drama fraught with social significance
however, spielberg was not nominated for his direction, though the directors guild of america voted its 1985 best-directed film prize to spielberg and ``the color purple.''
this year, spielberg was in distinguished company among the overlooked
james l. brooks was nominated for producing the best-picture nominee ``broadcast news'' and for writing it, but not as director
the directors branch of the academy neglected spielberg and brooks to reward five foreigners: britishers adrian lyne (``fatal attraction'') and john boorman (``hope and glory''); italian bernardo bertolucci (``the last emperor''); canadian norman jewison (``moonstruck''); and swede lasse hallstrom (``my life as a dog'')
nominations for the 60th academy awards included other notable omissions besides those of spielberg and brooks. pioneering star lillian gish was overlooked for ``the whales of august.''
steve martin won critical raves for his performance in ``roxanne,'' but neither his performance nor the script he adapted from the play ``cyrano de bergerac'' won an academy mention. the manic robin williams, won a nomination _ rare for a flat-out comedy performance _ for ``good morning, vietnam.''
academy voters also resisted the high-pressure campaign for ``nuts.'' stars barbra streisand and richard dreyfus weren't among the nominees. also among the missing: john lone (``the last emperor''); elaine stritch (``september''); maggie smith (``the secret passion of judith hearne''); faye dunaway (``barfly''); and director hector babenco (``ironweed'')
the academy awards return to the shrine auditorium on april 11 after a 40-year absence. the ceremonies will be televised on the abc network
all eyes turn toward texas this week as democratic and republican presidential candidates converge on dallas for the first major event of the super tuesday campaign _ the texas debates
the 12 candidates who survived the new hampshire primary have set their sights on the 20 states holding primaries on super tuesday, march 8, focusing much of their attention on texas, which leads the states with 183 democratic and 111 republican delegates
texas is the crown jewel in this because we are the largest,'' said state democratic party chairman bob slagle
the debates, which will be aired nationally on the public broadcasting system from southern methodist university, begin thursday at 9 p.m. est with the democratic candidates. the gop hopefuls debate the following night
sen. albert gore jr., a tennessee democrat who calls southern states key to a presidential win, and vice president george bush, a republican candidate who maintains a houston address, say they welcome the chance to debate in dallas
topics likely to take center stage in the debates include economic issues in the southwest, including unemployment and the energy industry
bush, a former congressman from houston who still claims it as his home, is all too familiar with texas issues such as energy, immigration policy and the business climate, said kevin moomaw, his texas political director in austin
certainly, with a 40-year association in this state, and with george jr. from midland, he understands what's going on down here,'' moomaw said
presidential candidates with southern ties may have the edge in the debates, which come only two days after the new hampshire primary, in which bush won the republican race and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis outdistanced the democratic field
gore, a democrat, de-emphasized the new hampshire primary and iowa caucuses in his strategy, concentrating his efforts on the south
with 20 states and about 40 percent of the delegates chosen on that day, it made sense to focus his efforts down here,'' said tom jurkovich, texas coordinator for the gore campaign in austin. ``being from the region gives him an understanding of the people and concerns. that gives him a certain edge.''
gore was dead last in iowa after pulling his campaign out of that state last year
this is our chance to counter iowa and new hampshire and say those two states are too big for their britches and their britches are not all that big at that,'' slagle said
the debates are sponsored by the dallas morning news, kera-tv and texas monthly magazine. roger mudd, a special correspondent on ``the macneil-lehrer news hour'' and former co-anchor of ``nbc nightly news,'' will moderate
all the candidates are expected to take part in the debate
besides those issues, what's important is how these guys come across, and it may be that many texans will now start focusing on the presidential race,'' slagle said. ``texans have said they want to be able to have a say early on who the next president is.''
pope john paul ii has written the seventh encyclical of his papacy, a major document summarizing and updating the roman catholic church's concerns for social and economic justice
the encyclical, a letter addressed to church leaders, will be released by the vatican on friday
the document is entitled in latin ``sollicitudo rei socialis,'' meaning the social concern of the church
john paul announced the document himself, declaring in a speech in december that it was being written to coincide with the 20th anniversary of the social encyclical ``populorum progressio'' (development of peoples) published by pope paul vi in 1967. that document stressed the needs of third world countries for a better deal from the developed world
john paul said the new encyclical would ``reveal the new themes and respond to the new problems'' of social development in the past two decades and that he hoped the document would spur concrete proposals for international cooperation
the rome newspaper la repubblica said the document is expected to reflect the pope's concerns for the excesses of both the free-market capitalist and totalitarian systems and his emphasis on the importance of human values
throughout his papacy, john paul has stressed the human element in the productive process, the primacy of people over things
this was the theme of his other major social encyclical, ``on human work,'' issued in 1981
during a visit to canada in 1984, he delivered an indictment of unfettered capitalism and urged governments to re-order their economic priorities so that human needs were put before mere financial gain
john paul was following a tradition that has seen catholic social teaching evolve to respond to the problems spawned by modern industrial society
the encyclical ``rerum novarum'' (condition of the working classes) issued by pope leo xiii in 1891 defended the right to hold private property, but insisted that material goods had to meet the needs of all humanity
paul vi's 1967 encyclical took this further as it stressed the needs of the third world and its economic development
the encyclical proposed higher taxes on the rich, regulation of world trade, expropriation of large estates if they impeded general prosperity, and the establishment of a world fund in which some of the money spent on arms would be used to ease poverty in the world
private property does not constitute for anyone an absolute and unconditioned right. no one is justified in keeping for his exclusive use what he does not need, when others lack necessities,'' paul vi wrote
john paul has used his encyclicals to criticize the materialism of communist and capitalist countries, warn that the arms race threatens the destruction of mankind, and to condemn atheism and marxism
in addition to the encylical on work, the others were titled: ``christ the redeemer'' (1979), ``the father of mercy'' (1980) ``apostles of the slavs'' (1985), ``the holy spirit, the giver of life'' (1986) and ``the mother of the redeemer'' (1987). volunteers</head>
this wealthy bedroom community could probably field a celebrity all-star team for any sporting event, but its days in little league competition may be numbered because of a shortage of adult volunteers
it seems to be a combination of parents being busy and a little lazy,'' said little league president joseph arcudi, who has been involved in the sport for 14 years
we've only asking for a few hours each week for a 14-week season. i've never seen such a lack of interest.''
westport, a community 50 miles northeast of new york city, is home to a number of celebrities, including actors paul newman, joanne woodward, frank gorshin and sandy dennis; and writers a.e. hotchner, robert ludlum and frank deford, as well as executives who commute to the city
arcudi said he plans to hold a meeting on the league's future in mid-march to try to attract volunteers. he said he needs at least 10 more people to fill jobs such as coaches and equipment managers for the town's program, which serves more than 330 boys age 7 to 12
if not enough people come forward, there will be no little league,'' arcudi said. ``a reduced season is not any good because kids don't learn what they should in that amount of time.''
steve keever, director of little league baseball inc., with headquarters in illiamsport, pa., said he has not heard of another community in the country whose little league program is in jeopardy
there are about 2.5 million children ages 7 to 18 who participate in little league in 28 countries, he said. in connecticut, there are 34,900 little league players on 2,500 teams
keever called westport's situation ``too bad'' because the youngsters ``are the ones to suffer.''
if apathy is the reason, it's going to take a localized effort to make people realize the benefits of the program so it does not go down the drain,'' keever said. ``our program is founded upon volunteers. without them, we're nothing.''
little league is not dying,'' said westport little league secretary linda abraham. ``our enrollment is up and we are not bankrupt. there are just not enough parent volunteers to run the organization.''
ralph r. reed, a physician from lawrence, kan., has been appointed deputy assistant secretary for health of the department of health and human services
he becomes the top aide to dr. robert e. windom, the no. 2 official at hhs, in helping oversee the public health service
the service consists of seven agencies, including the food and drug administration, the national institutes of health and the centers for disease control
in announcing the appointment this month, hhs secretary otis r. bowen said reed also will play a role in providing medical and health policy guidance to other department components, especially the agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs
reed replaces lowell t. harmison who recently resigned as acting deputy assistant secretary for health
george bush's surprising showing in the new hampshire primary marks a volatility in voter decision-making that may continue to trouble pollsters as the 1988 campaign unfolds, analysts said wednesday
pre-election polls released as late as tuesday morning generally missed the extent of the last-minute swing that gave bush his 9-point victory over kansas sen. bob dole, they said. most surveys had indicated a dead heat
it's the timing and the volatility of this. nothing is anchored,'' said andrew kohut, president of the gallup organization, whose final new hampshire poll had put bush 8 points behind dole. ``there's a lot of bouncing around.''
the problem is an old one for pollsters: their surveys are out of date as soon as they are completed, and cannot account for voter turnout or for very late changes brought about by advertising or campaign organization
for many years there has been a feeling that pre-primary polling is hazardous to one's health, in the early states in particular. this year, on the republican side, that's how it was,'' said laurily epstein, pollster for nbc news. ``people change their minds, and you can't poll for that.''
epstein and others noted that the polls had correctly tracked trends in the race, if not anticipating the precise outcome. all showed bush well ahead last month, then slipping badly after dole and pat robertson beat him in the iowa caucuses feb. 8. they had dole taking a narrow lead by friday, then bush rebounding to a thin edge during the weekend and monday
the tracking polls understated the size of his win. but tracking polls are only an indication of expectations beforehand,'' said warren mitofsky, polling chief for cbs news. ``the thing that polls can do best is show you direction. it showed the direction, the movement to bush the last few days.''
the final cbs news-new york times survey, done sunday and monday, had a 4-point lead for bush, 34 to 30 for dole; the final result was within the survey's margin of sampling error of 6 points. the last abc-washington post poll, with results from saturday through monday, had it 32 to 30 for dole; the boston globe had it 31-30 for bush, and the boston herald-wbz poll had it 32-30 for bush. nbc news eschewed late polling
the greatest gap was for gallup, whose last poll, done from friday to 4 p.m. sunday, had dole with 35 percent and bush with 27. kohut said the dichotomy between that poll and the bush-dole result would prompt changes at gallup: later polling, if possible, and greater sensitivity to the vagaries of candidates' support
in retrospect, kohut said, two-thirds of bush's backers had told gallup they supported the vice president strongly, while only half of dole's supporters said they felt strongly about him. the finding was an indication of bush's ability to turn out his vote, and dole's weakness in that area
we knew bush's support was strong and dole's was soft, but we didn't put enough emphasis on that,'' kohut said. ``the lesson is that even if a front-runner's lead seems stable, it remains vulnerable to last-minute changes if it is soft. not pointing that out was a real failure on our part.''
rival political groups clashed during regional elections in sulu province, and rebels ambushed a police patrol in northern luzon. at least 33 people were killed in the incidents, the government said wednesday
suspected communist rebels killed eight philippine constabulary troopers and wounded 10 others in mountain province during the tuesday ambush, a constabulary report said
it said one rebel was believed killed but his body was carried away by his comrades
the government-run philippine information agency said at least 25 people were killed and 50 others injured during fighting in sulu that began three days prior to last monday's regional elections
the military sent 4,000 troops, helicopters and warships to the province to guard against election violence. sulu was the last province to hold regional balloting that began jan. 18 but was delayed by political violence
also wednesday, israeli ambassador meir gavesh told the associated press he did not believe his embassy was the target of a grenade that exploded tuesday night outside the building in which his embassy is located
the embassy is on an upper floor of the philippine savings bank building in suburban makati
police said the grenade broke windows but caused no injuries. another grenade that failed to explode was found on the ground floor. no one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack
communist rebels threatened earlier this month to retaliate against israelis in the philippines because of israel's purported support for the government's anti-insurgency campaign. israeli diplomats deny their country is involved in the fight against the rebels
also on wednelsday, an underground organization of pro-rebel priests and nuns accused the roman catholic church of abandoning its mission to serve the poor by supporting president corazon aquino's ``total war policy'' against communist insurgents
by giving blessings to the total war policy of the u.s.-aquino regime, the reactionary church leadership betrayed us all whom they are supposed to serve,'' the christians for national liberation said in an advertisement in the philippine daily inquirer
the group is a branch of the communist-dominated national democratic front. the statement followed recent charges by cardinal jaime sin, archbishop of manila, that communists had infiltrated the church's social welfare agency
please note a0783 bc-nh-gop-pres-sum, a0784 bc-nh-dem-pres-sum and a0791 am-nh-sorted pres sums, 1st ld-writethru are based on the final results from the news election service
^the ap</head>
vice president george bush said wednesday he is ``absolutely convinced'' the presidential campaign strategy that carried him to victory in new hampshire will work in the south
we stayed on those issues. we don't have to change a single thing,'' bush told campaign staff workers a day after beating sen. bob dole of kansas, his chief rival for the gop presidential nomination, in new hampshire
bush denied he had misstated dole's positions on taxes, an oil-import fee and arms control in negative ads that flooded new hampshire's airwaves
after he finished behind dole and pat robertson in the feb. 8 iowa caucuses, bush revamped his basic stump approach and scrapped a heavy-security campaign style to mix and mingle with voters in new hampshire, the first primary state
bush also sought in the days before tuesday's balloting to avoid direct clashes with dole, although his commercials charged dole straddled the fence on several issues
asked to respond to dole's claim that he had lied about the senate gop leader's record, bush replied, ``i think i said it wasn't true, but i'll be glad to.''
you all want me to talk about senator dole. i want to talk about the issues,'' bush said. ``you want to talk about history. i want to talk about the future.''
i'm not going to dwell on it,'' he said. ``you see, i don't want to be drawn into something like that. keep it (the campaign) on a high plane. talk about the issues. people in new hampshire like clean campaigns and they endorsed me overwhelmingly.''
the system worked. you can take them in the chin, you can get up and you can fight again,'' bush said. ``so now, go on to super tuesday. we're going to fight hard.''
bush commented to reporters as he prepared to leave thursday on the first of several trips into the south, the focal point of the super tuesday competition
bush tentatively planned trips to missouri and texas on thursday, while aides spoke of a possible trip to south carolina on the same day
bush hopes to win the march 5 primary in south carolina, giving him a boost as he heads into the march 8 round of 16 gop primaries and caucuses _ with 700 delegates at stake _ including a dozen primaries in the south. there will be 2,277 delegate votes at the gop national convention, with 1,139 needed to win the nomination
bush said he felt the ``grass-roots'' campaign approach used in new hampshire would appeal to voters in the south
but he also said ``we're taking nothing for granted. we're going to take a positive message _ a message that was good in new hampshire and is just as good. ... it's just as good as we go south. i'm absolutely convinced of that.''
barbara pardue, a bush campaign spokeswoman, said the vice president will continue his new-look campaign strategy of meeting and greeting voters. ``a lot more people to people,'' she said
a japanese-owned auto carrier ran aground in the persian gulf on wednesday, and although there were initial fears it had struck a mine, divers determined it had only scraped its bottom
iran, meanwhile, reacted to the announced cutback in u.s. naval forces in the region by saying the move represented a defeat for american ``militaristic policy.''
at a news conference, assistant defense secretary richard armitage confirmed that the battleship iowa and two escort vessels had left the arabian sea in recent days and the helicopter carrier okinawa was about to depart from the gulf
tehran radio, monitored in london, said the pullout showed ``the ineffectiveness of washington's policies in the persian gulf ... and the disgraceful defeat of futile military moves carried out in support of the iraqi regime and reactionary arab countries and in the form of direct action against (iran's) islamic revolution.''
it said washington was searching for a way to withdraw without losing face for itself or its european allies, a reference to the five countries that joined last year's buildup of forces to protect commercial shipping from iranian mines and attacks
the 4,842-ton motor vessel prosper world was heading out of the gulf after delivering a cargo of new cars when it ran aground
initial reports from shipping sources in dubai quoted the captain of the liberian-flag ship as reporting an explosion and oil leak. lloyd's shipping intelligence unit in london later said flatly that the prosper world had ``hit a mine'' 12 miles off the coast
divers who inspected the ship informed its captain, a south korean, that he had ``just run aground, and the whole bottom plate was wrinkled.''
the ship, owned by the masumoto shipping company of hyogo, japan, was believed in no danger and was heading for a drydock for further inspection and repairs, the sources said
no vessel is reported to have struck a mine in the persian gulf since the small ocean survey ship marissa i, flying the panamanian flag, was blown up off saudi arabia on sept. 4. four crew members died
since then, senior officers of the united states and other western navies have declared the threat from mines sown by iran ``under control'' and have ordered a reduction in the number of mine-hunting vessels in the gulf
armitage, in his meeting with reporters, disclosed that iran, for the first time in recent memory, had used one of its u.s.-supplied f-14 tomcats in a combat role, shooting down an iraqi fighter-bomber with an american-made sidewinder missile. previous f-14 activity had been limited to reconnaissance, he said
the f-14 was one of 10 remaining from the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi's air force. armitage gave no details, but it apparently was involved in a dogfight on feb. 8, when iran claimed it shot down three iraqi jets
the uncle of a marine lieutenant colonel kidnapped in beirut on wednesday said he expects his nephew will act like an officer and a gentleman
he loves his country. he is capable of standing up as well as an ordinary man will under the circumstances. ... i don't think they could bring enough pressure or pain to cause him to betray his country in any way. i think he would die first,'' said delbert eagle, uncle of lt. col. william r. higgins
higgins' father, william f. higgins, was extremely ill in a louisville hospital wednesday. his sister, mary fisher, was with the elder higgins and asked not to be disturbed. the pentagon said higgins had come home this fall on emergency leave to visit his father
the pentagon said higgins, 43, was on temporary detail serving as the chief of the u.n. truce supervision organization's lebanon observer group
u.n. sources said higgins was kidnapped in the late afternoon on the coastal highway between lebanon's southernmost port of tyre and the border town of naqoura, site of the u.n. force's headquarters
higgins' family lived in garrard county in central kentucky when he was born and later moved to louisville, where he was graduated from southern high school in 1963. much of his leisure time was spent with his uncle
he fished a lot with me. he drove me from time to time. he drove me to california once, to florida, down south a couple of times. we were pretty close together as he grew up,'' said eagle, 86, a former circuit court judge
yes, he wanted to be in the military service. he always talked about wanting to go to the military service. he wanted to go to west point,'' eagle said
he was appointed to west point, but elected instead to study at miami university of ohio on a navy rotc scholarship. he was commissioned a 2nd lietenant when he graducated in 1967, with a business degree
he later earned masters' degrees in human resources management at pepperdine university in california and in political science at auburn in alabama
a high school friend said students at southern were surprised when higgins went into the marines
you think of the marines as being macho-type, and he really wasn't like that. but he seems to have done all right at it,'' said rudy fischer, now a lab technician at rohm and haas chemical co. in louisville
he was involved in a lot of social activities, played football and was one of the top students in the class,'' fischer said. ``just pretty much an average guy.''
ralph allen, an assistant principal at southern high school, was a math teacher there when higgins attended and was also a neighbor
he was a top student and very active in school. he played on the football team. he came from a good family and was well liked,'' allen said
eagle said higgins was more studious than athletic but was a boy who ``liked to hunt and fish and romp in the woods.''
higgins is married to marine maj. robin higgins, who works at the pentagon. he has a 17-year-old daughter by a previous marriage
with the biggest primary day in history three weeks away, presidential campaigns are hoarding their cash and searching for more to pay for campaigning and television advertising time in the 20 super tuesday states
sen. paul simon said bluntly on wednesday that his presidential campaign cannot continue unless he draws more money. by contrast, well-heeled democrat michael dukakis has $4 million available for the most pivotal date of the 1988 primary season on march 8
rep. jack kemp, straining for the republican nomination against better-funded opponents, said his campaign is in the black and counting on his third-place showing in new hampshire to help boost fund raising
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., who relied on this year's federal matching funds to pay off sizable debts, said wednesday that money is not a problem for him at this point
we're raising money at a good clip,'' he said
gephardt will need a good influx to remain competitive with dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, and sen. albert gore jr., d-tenn. in the south
gore is not as flush as dukakis, but has already has a big media jump on his opponents, thanks to his strategy of concentrating on the south while his opponents vied on the battlefields of iowa and new hampshire
last week gore launched a $1 million-plus tv campaign across the country
we will outspend every other candidate toward super tuesday,'' deputy press secretary paul risley said. he declined to give an overall spending figure, but said said the campaign has $2.2 million in cash on hand and intends to spend a minimum of up to $3 million on media alone toward super tuesday
he said the current gore commercials, featuring a biographical message, are running in 14 south and border states and nationwide on cable news network and other cable stations
dukakis, who has concentrated considerable resources on the delegate-rich super tuesday states of florida and texas, has $4 million in the bank, deputy press secretary steven akey said wednesday. he said the campaign's media buys had not been decided yet for super tuesday, but that several fund-raising events are scheduled and, ``we have the resources to go the distance.''
despite simon's successful fund-raising events in boston and in new york last week, where $140,000 was raised on the heels of his second-place finish in iowa caucuses, his campaign has debts of nearly $500,000, said his press secretary, terry michael
i have to win either in south dakota or minnesota, and we have to get additional campaign contributions. those two things have to be there, otherwise, i'm going to have to withdraw,'' simon said
simon spokesman david carle later tried to paint the financial picture more positively
he said simon hoped to raise $150,000 at four events in chicago on wednesday night. another event was planned thursday morning in st. louis, and a ``very, very good'' response was coming from the 48,000 solicitation telegrams the campaign sent out to capitalize on the iowa results, he said
these two weeks are shaping up to be record-breaking for the campaign,'' in terms of money, carle said, estimating a total of up to $600,000 might be raised
babbitt, who is to announce thursday whether he will continue his struggling presidential bid, will end up about $150,000 to $200,000 in debt if he drops out now, said his press spokesman vada manager
he said the campaign has about $30,000 in cash on hand, and that contributions ``slowed to a trickle'' after babbitt's poor showing in the iowa caucuses last week
after new hampshire, it's going to be worse,'' he said
on the republican side, kemp ended the year seriously in debt but said his campaign has raised $300,000 a week for the past five weeks, and is now operating in the black, thanks also to some $3.9 million in federal matching funds he received since jan. 1
he said he intends to hit up his list of 110,000 contributors in a fund-raising push for super tuesday
super tuesday could mean budget-watching of a different type, with the well-heeled vice president george bush, sen. bob dole and former tv evangelist pat robertson budgeting to keep spending low enough so they can save their big cash caches for states that come later
bush has raised $20.4 million so far and has a series of fund-raisers scheduled to reach the campaign's goal of $33 million, said treasurer fred bush. although the campaigns are limited by law to $27 million in overall primary campaign spending, legal and accounting costs are exempted from the limit
bush, with $8 million in the bank, is not worried about the cap, however, said spokeswoman ede holiday. although he had spent more than $13 million by the end of the year, only $7.9 million was applicable against the ceiling
dole was well-situated with $4.1 million in available cash and no outstanding debts, said campaign spokesman tim archie
pat robertson, on the other hand, had spent $12.4 million against the cap, and dole spent $9.5 million against it by the end of 1987
well-funded campaigns must budget carefully so they can spend enough on the later states without going over the $27 million limit. ``embassy employees ...'' to add info on ambassador.</note>
soviet firefighters overseen by americans extinguished a fire wednesday in the u.s. embassy, the aging building the united states has been unable to abandon because of bugging devices that riddle a new structure
about 150 embassy employees were evacuated and sent home for the day, embassy spokesman richard gilbert said. no one was injured
u.s. embassy officials said soviet firefighters were called to put out the fire in an unoccupied fifth-floor residential section after they decided embassy personnel couldn't extinguish it on their own
the soviets responded promptly and were ``escorted at all times by american employees,'' inside the building, said gilbert, who briefed reporters in the wet snow outside the mustard-colored embassy's main door after the fire had been brought under control
the 10-story embassy building, on busy tchaikovsky street near the center of moscow, has been the source of controversy for more than a year
last spring u.s. officials said they had determined a new eight-story red-brick office building directly behind the old one could not be occupied immediately because of soviet listening devices apparently installed during construction
the $191 million structure already was five years behind schedule at the time. proposals have included razing part or all of the new structure, or building a new office to house communications and secret operations
u.s. reps. dan mica, d-fla., and olympia snowe, r-maine, said in april that the old embassy building rented by the united states since the early 1950s was a ``firetrap and unsafe by accepted standards for general working conditions.''
a renovation of the building has been under way since then
gilbert said the fire ``might be construction related,'' although its cause has not been determined. it apparently started near a stairwell, he said
he said there was no damage to the main working areas of the embassy, which begins on the sixth floor
embassy second secretary michael hurley, who was in his eighth-floor office at the time of the blaze, said the smell of smoke increased before he evacuated
somebody came through shouting excitedly, `there's a fire, everybody out of the building!''' hurley said
he said he locked up his safe and left the building by a stairs that normally is closed. ``the lower i went, the more smoke i could see,'' he said
people were excited, but there was an orderly exit,'' hurley said
embassy employees gathered in the rear courtyard to watch the blaze. ``flames were leaping out of the building. obviously it was a very hot fire, and it was coming out of one window,'' hurley said
ambassador jack matlock was away from the embassy at the time but was alerted and returned to the site, gilbert said
last fall, employees underwent fire drills conducted by state department experts, hurley said
viktor kononov, moscow's fire chief, told the tass news agency that firefighters responded in four minutes to a call from one of the soviet guards who are stationed outside the embassy
he said u.s. guards ``wouldn't let us in for about five minutes more: they were apparently waiting for clearance from senior officials.''
firefighters found ``three rooms and a small hallway with traces of uncompleted repairs were on fire, with flames enveloping tables, chairs and construction garbage,'' he said, adding that it was extinguished in 20 minutes
a more serious fire hit the top floors of the building in 1977, and officials said afterward the damage was severe because ambassador malcolm toon refused to permit soviet firefighters to enter the top-security embassy communications center and some of its most sensitive work areas
last spring, a scandal erupted around charges that u.s. marine guards had permitted soviet agents inside secret areas of the embassy
the charges never were proven, but marine sgt. clayton lonetree was convicted in august of espionage for giving the soviets embassy floor plans and the identities of u.s. intelligence agents after he had become sexually involved with a soviet woman
alain savary, whose policies as education minister in 1984 caused street protests and a change in socialist governments, died wednesday at age 69
a socialist party statement said savary had been hospitalized for several weeks with a serious infection, but did not give the cause of death
savary proposed a bill in the national assembly in 1984 to carry out president francois mitterrand's campaign promises to revamp the system of private education
among its provisions, the complex reform bill gave local authorities more control over management and finances of private schools. it also gave teachers in those schools the option of retaining their status or choosing civil service status, and linked state subsidies to the number of teachers who preferred the change
nearly 16 percent of france's 12 million school children attend private schools, of which 94 percent are roman catholic and heavily subsidized by the state
the savary law inflamed passions for months. opponents felt it threatened their right to choose how their children would be educated. supporters wanted to hold mitterrand to his promise to create ``a unified, secular public education service.''
more than 1 million people joined daylong demonstrations across france on june 24, 1984
pierre mauroy, then premier, said the reforms had been ``totally misunderstood'' but the socialists withdrew the bill
jean pierre chevenment replaced savary as education minister and mauroy gave way as premier to laurent fabius
savary, who was in the french resistance during world war ii, had a reputation for being soft-spoken but stubborn
he was a leader in the government formed just after liberation and a member of the national assembly, and held ministerial positions under president charles de gaulle and in other governments
born april 25, 1918, in algeria, then a french colony, he was a strong advocate of decolonization of africa
lionel jospin, secretary of the socialist party, said wednesday: ``he represented socialism, with his strong sense of morality, his sense of justice and his commitment to the decolonization.''
u.s. industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in january despite big declines in auto production and steel, the government said wednesday
the federal reserve board said that the january increase was just half the 0.4 percent gain recorded in both november and december
private analysts said this slower growth was consistent with their view that the economy will slow considerably in the early part of 1988 as businesses work off a backlog of unsold inventories built up during the final three months of 1987
strength in domestic production helped push the overall economy, as measured by the gross national product, to a robust annual growth rate of 4.2 percent from october through december. however, nearly three-fourths of that strength went into inventories rather than final sales
analysts said this backlog will have to be worked off in coming months and will translate into an extremely sluggish economy in the first three months of this year
lawrence chimerine, president of the wefa group, a private forecasting firm, said that the smaller rise in industrial production was consistent with this view
we are seeing a slowdown in domestic demand, not only for cars, but other consumer durables and this will hold down industrial production even though we are getting some offsetting strength from stronger export sales,'' he said
some economists are predicting gnp growth could be an actual negative number from january though march, but most expect growth will resume in the spring, keeping the country out of a recession
we are seeing that while the economy is slowing down, things are not stopping. we think we will have sluggish growth in the first half of the year but no recession,'' said david wyss, senior financial economist at data resources inc. of lexington, mass
the january increase in industrial production, the fourth in a row, left output 6 percent above where it was a year ago, providing further evidence of the rebound manufacturers are enjoying as the weaker dollar boosts u.s. exports to record levels
the reagan administration is counting on the export strength to keep the country out of a recession this year
output in the manufacturing sector rose 0.2 percent in january following a much larger 0.5 percent december advance
the strength came from industries producing non-durable goods, where production rose by 0.4 percent
output of durable goods, items expected to last at least three years, showed no change at all in january
production of cars fell by 7.4 percent in january to an annual rate of 6.5 million units. the impact of this fall was offset in part, however, by an increase in production of light trucks and mini-vans, which have now captured about one-third of the u.s. consumer market
also contributing to the weakness last month was a decline in iron and steel production, which fell back following a sharp rise in december
the mining industry suffered a 0.6 percent drop in january, the second consecutive monthly downturn. this sector, which includes oil and gas well drilling, has been battered by depressed conditions caused by falling world energy prices
the utility sector had a big 1.3 percent increase in january, reflecting colder-than-normal weather which drove up the use of electricity and natural gas
the various changes left the industrial production index at 133.8 percent of its 1977 base of 100
a federal appeals court tuesday revived a lawsuit challenging the expansion of hunting on federal wildlife preserves when it ruled the humane society had legal standing to bring the case
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals here overturned a district judge's finding that the humane society of the united states lacked the requisite legal standing to sue the interior department to stop hunting on nine federal wildlife preserves
the gist of this grievance is that the existence of hunting on wildlife refuges forces society members to witness animal corpses and environmental degradation, in addition to depleting the supply of animals and birds that refuge visitors seek to view,'' the court said in an opinion written by judge patricia wald, chief judge
these are classic aesthetic interests, which have always enjoyed protection under standing analysis,'' wald wrote
david j. hayes, a washington attorney who represented the humane society, called the decision significant because ``it confirms that environmental groups like the humane society have the right to bring actions based on their members' concerns about harms to their aesthetic interests.''
an appellate decision upholding the dismissal of the lawsuit by u.s. district judge thomas a. flannery ``would have made it difficult for any wildlife group to bring suit for the protection of wildlife,'' hayes said
while ruling the society had a legal right to sue, the court upheld the interior department's decision to allow waterfowl hunting on chincoteague island, va
the appeals court sent the case back to flannery to rule on the merits of the humane society's claims that the interior department had not properly evaluated the wildlife populations of other preserves before allowing hunting
james goodrich, executive vice president of the wildlife legislative fund of america, inc., a hunters' group, said he was disappointed by the court's decision. but he predicted that hunting would be upheld at the other preserves
on a single refuge, the appeals court said that everything was proper in permitting hunting. assumedly that would apply to all other refuges,'' goodrich said
a note purportedly written by the kidnappers of two u.n. relief workers said wednesday the captives were linked to an intelligence agency and would be freed only if proven innocent of espionage
the swedish foreign minister disputed the allegations in the letter
the note, handwritten in arabic and delivered to a western news agency in beirut, said hostages jan stening of sweden and william jorgensen of norway would be released ``only after they are proven innocent from the charges against them.''
we announce to everybody that swede stening and norwegian jorgensen are involved with the secret service of a foreign country and this is becoming clear through investigation of them,'' it said
the two employees of the united nations relief and works agency, which cares for palestine refugees, were abducted by gunmen on feb. 5 near the south lebanese port city of sidon
the relief agency blamed the abduction on palestinians acting individually without political motivations or links to any organization. palestinian leaders have denounced the kidnappings
the note, which did not identify the kidnappers or give a date, carried what were said to be the thumbprints and signatures of stening and jorgensen
a similiar note said on saturday the kidnappers were interrogating them but made no specific accusations against them
we remind everybody we are not aiming at causing harm to our steadfast people. we appreciate the services of (the un agency) and call on them to be patient until the time comes for us to reveal all the information,'' the note said
we tell everyone who claims he is able to release them within a specific time or that the whereabouts of the hostages is known that their release will only take place when they are proved innocent of the charges against them,'' the statement said
swedish foreign minister sten andersson said the information in the letter ``is incorrect and false.''
one reason for this is that stening, with an impeccable service record in both sweden and unwra, not could have lent himself to anything like that,'' he said. ``secondly i think the kidnappers need a motive that can be accepted by those who put pressure on them to release the hostages. that's why they make this up. this is a product of fantasy.'' concerts, sted one, planned, subs for raleigh, n.c.-dated fourth item in rdp.</note>
southern bell knew _ to the minute _ when sales by telephone opened for tickets to two bruce springsteen concerts scheduled here. their circuits promptly went on overload
local and long-distance calls in the raleigh area were blocked temporarily after the tickets went on sale at 10 a.m. tuesday, said a repair worker at southern bell's office here
the concerts are scheduled march 3 and 4 at the smith center in chapel hill
they started this at 10 a.m. and all of our circuits are overloaded because people are trying to get tickets to see him,'' said the worker at southern bell who refused to give her name
the oregon supreme court ruled wednesday that a motorist arrested on a drunken driving charge must be given a chance to call a lawyer before deciding whether to take a breath test
an arrested driver has a right under the oregon constitution to a reasonable opportunity to obtain legal advice before deciding whether to submit to a breath test, the court said in a unanimous decision
the court, noting that evidence of blood-alcohol content dissipates with time, said police aren't required to wait for a long period of time before administering the test
but the opinion didn't hand down any iron-clad rules on what will amount to a ``reasonable'' time to allow motorists to contact attorneys
a footnote to the opinion said, however, ``a period of 15 minutes after the request to take the test has been made will doubtless suffice in most cases.''
the decision was the supreme court's third in seven years on the issue of whether suspected drunken drivers have a right to legal advice before making a decision on a breath test
refusing to take a breath test carries an automatic 120-day driver's license suspension under state law
in 1980, the supreme court said in a 4-3 ruling that arrested drivers were entitled to consult atorneys before deciding on breath tests
a divided court in 1981 overruled that decision, saying denial of access to legal counsel didn't require supression of breath test evidence
the court wednesday overturned that decision, basing its ruling on a provision in the state constitution giving anyone accused of a crime a right to obtain legal counsel
the evanescent nature of the evidence the police seek (from breath tests) may justify substantially limiting the time in which the person may exercise his or her ... right, but it does not justify doing away with it,'' the court said in an opinion by justice michael gillette
as a result, defendant ronald spencer's breath test findings can't be used as evidence against him. spencer was arrested by a lane county sheriff's deputy on may 4, 1985, and taken to the county jail. his request to consult a lawyer before deciding on a breath test was refused
his case was returned to the district court for trial
abbas ali hamadi told an acquaintance ``we have kidnapped a west german'' after a foreign businessman was abducted in beirut last year, according to testimony wednesday in hamadi's trial
hamadi is charged with the january 1987 kidnapping of rudolf cordes and another west german in beirut
the abductions were allegedly carried out to pressure bonn to free abbas hamadi's brother, mohammed ali hamadi, who is being held in connection with the 1985 hijacking of a twa jetliner in which an american sailor died
federal investigator klaus pruefer testified that an acquaintance of abbas hamadi, hamsa kassim, told police the defendant informed him that cordes had been kidnapped
according to a police statement, kassim quoted abbas hamadi as saying by telephone from beirut, ``we have kidnapped a west german.''
excerpts of kassim's statement to police were read on wednesday
in one excerpt, kassim said hamadi told him that mohammed hamadi was arrested because ``he was one of the kidnappers of the american twa'' jetliner
kassim told police that abbas hamadi made that statement jan. 14, 1987, one day after his 23-year-old brother was arrested at frankfurt airport carrying explosives
the following week, cordes and another west german, alfred schmidt, were kidnapped in beirut
last week, schmidt testified that abbas hamadi was not among the gunmen who kidnapped him from his beirut hotel jan. 20. he said abbas hamadi was older and taller than the men who abducted him
schmidt was released in september in what his kidnappers said was a goodwill gesture. cordes is still being held
last year, west germany rejected a u.s. request for the extradition of mohammed hamadi in the twa hijacking. west german authorities last week charged him with murder and air piracy, the same charges he would have faced in the united states. a trial date has not been set
a third west german citizen, ralph rudolf schray, was kidnapped in beirut three weeks ago in an apparent attempt to increase pressure on west germany to release the hamadi brothers
no one has claimed responsibility for that kidnapping
bruce babbitt says he has appropriated hamlet's dilemma: ``to be or not to be.''
the former arizona governor was talking wednesday about the possibility of ending his two-year, long-shot presidential bid. he said he would give his answer on thursday, but fellow democratic candidate jesse jackson was already angling for his support if he should drop out
babbitt aides said privately that he was unlikely to endorse anyone, at least for now
babbitt finished sixth of the seven major candidates in the democratic new hampshire primary, edging gary hart by less than a thousand votes
at a news conference before flying to washington, babbitt told reporters, ``i won't waste your time playing hamlet for more than 24 hours, but i'm sure going to do it for 24 hours.'' he said he would make up his mind after speaking with advisers and his family
in the closing days of the new hampshire campaign, babbitt had appealed directly to voters to keep his campaign alive
he talked wednesday of the possibility of staying in the race to try to force debate among the democratic contenders, to make them face up to issues such as the federal budget deficit
there will be a lot more debates,'' he said, ``and all you need to get into those debates and keep people honest and talk about the future is the price of a plane ticket. even bruce babbitt can raise the price of a plane ticket.''
in an interview with cbs-tv wednesday, babbitt said, ``there are some mornings, you know, i wake up in a motel six in some small town that i don't even know the name of. i'm on the phone that night to my kids _ obviously they miss me, i've been away too long. those are the down moments. then you're on the phone begging for money to meet the payroll and you say, `why did i ever get into this?'''
despite these regrets, babbitt retained the optimism that has driven his candidacy for two years
there are worse things than losing,'' he said. ``the worst thing of all would be to lose having had nothing to say, not having made a difference.''
babbitt said gary hart has urged him to stay in the race and that jackson has asked for his support if he quits
he and jackson ``share a lot of experience'' from the 1960s, babbitt said, including the civil rights movement. but he said he told jackson his request was premature
jesse, it's awfully early,'' babbitt quoted himself as saying. ``i'm not ready to make any decision.''
jackson, who finished fourth in new hampshire, said wednesday, ``i hope i gain his support.''
a babbitt endorsement ``would obviously broaden the base of my campaign,'' he said
babbitt's new hampshire showing was worse than his finish in the iowa caucuses, where he was fifth
another dukakis entered the race, actress holly hunter slept through the broadcast and steven spielberg wasn't talking after wednesday's oscar nominations were announced
like my cousin, i'm in the running and now i'm waiting for `super monday' in april,'' said olympia dukakis after her supporting actress nomination for ``moonstruck'' was announced
hours earlier, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the democratic new hampshire primary
nominees were announced at dawn in beverly hills by actress shirley maclaine and robert wise, president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. the timing was tailored for live east coast network coverage
miss dukakis' reaction to her nomination was captured by ``entertainment tonight'' tv cameras. ``broadcast news'' writer-director james l. brooks was dressing in a berlin hotel when he learned of the film's seven nominations
tony huston was awakened at his beverly hills home by publicist sheila barr and told about his best screenplay nomination for ``the dead.'' his father, director john huston, died last year while working on the film
tony huston recalled his father's advice years ago to another oscar nominee who didn't know what to say to reporters. the senior huston said: ``don't say _ listen.''
albert brooks was in the southern california desert writing the screenplay for his next movie when he heard he'd been nominated in the best supporting actor category for his role as a tv reporter in ``broadcast news.''
i'm on my way out to see the movie again to see what they are talking about,'' brooks said through manager herb nanas
broadcast news'' writer-director brooks was at the berlin film festival and was told of the seven nominations in a telephone call from publicist pat kingsley. brooks also was overlooked in the director category
the publicist said miss hunter was asleep hours after her nomination was announced
italian director bernardo bertolucci said his nomination for ``the last emperor'' was ``like passing exams at school _ the sensation of becoming an adult.''
i think this is the victory of a film that only wants to be cinema, that is not intimidated by television, that believes in the great screen, in cinema as the cathedral of collective imagination,'' bertolucci said in rome
best director nominee adrian lyne said he still finds it tough to believe people liked his movie ``fatal attraction.''
i got up early, fearing and trembling, watching the live thing on cnn,'' lyne said. when the movie came up in category after category, ``i was bouncing up and down with my wife and the dog.''
i'm ecstatic,'' said glenn close, nominated for her role as a vengeful, psychotic woman in ``fatal attraction,'' which she said ``represents the work of an extraordinary team of people.''
miss close was at her new york country home when informed about her nomination
douglas, best actor nominee for ``wall street,'' sat in the den of his new york apartment to watch the announcement of his first acting nomination on television
i watched this morning and i looked at the names and photographs of my fellow nominees and it made me not only proud for our film `wall street' but it reminded me what a wonderful part (writer-director) oliver stone had created,'' douglas said
thailand and laos agreed wednesday to a truce and disengagement in a disputed, sparsely populated border area where hundreds of their soldiers have been killed since november
the agreement was reached after two days of talks in bangkok between military teams led by thailand's army commander, gen. chaovalit yongchaiyuth, and the laotian chief of staff, gen. sisavat keobounphan
we have agreed to end the fighting and stop the bloodshed,'' sisavat told reporters
gen. chaovalit yongchaiyuth and i have agreed that, from now on, our supreme commands will wage no more war, end all clashes in the air, along rivers and along the laos-thai border. let that border represent friendship and peace.''
chaovalit told a separate news conference the talks created ``a basis for the establishment of improved ties. in the future, force will not be used to settle differences. let the mekong river (boundary) not only stand for friendship and peace but also signify an important bond.''
a joint statement said the nations ``expressed their sincere determination to put an end to the clashes and bloodshed in the area.'' the small, hilly area in dispute lies between thailand's phitsanulok province and the sayaboury province of laos, about 250 miles north of bankkok
both sides claim it on the basis of a 1907 french-thai treaty and internationally recognized maps
the statement said the cease-fire would begin at 8 a.m. friday (8 p.m. thursday est) and a joint military coordinating group would monitor the truce and disengagement
it said the agreement had created an atmosphere conducive to political negotiations and both delegations would ask their governments to begin talks on resolving the border question within 15 days after the cease-fire starts
hundreds of soldiers have died in ground and artillery battles and strikes by thai air force f-5e jet fighter-bombers since the military conflict began in november. thailand also claims dozens of vietnamese were killed fighting on the laotian side
the four-man laotian team arrived from vientiane on tuesday after prime minister prem tinsulanonda of thailand accepted a proposal of talks made by the laotian premier, kaysone phomvihane
air vice marshal sommot sundaravej said thailand had suspended air strikes since tuesday morning because of the negotiations. delegates</head>
winning the new hampshire primary gave little more than bragging rights to vice president george bush and democrat michael dukakis, as each came away with just a handful of national convention delegates
bush, who picked up 38 percent of the republican vote in the primary, gained 11 of new hampshire's 23 delegates to the gop national convention. in all, bush now has 61 delegates
dukakis, who got 36 percent of the democratic vote in the tuesday primary, won nine of the state's 18 pledged delegates to the national convention. the massachusetts governor has 44.5 delegates
the lift from the early primaries and caucuses is more psychological than tangible as the candidates pursue the 1,139 delegates needed to win the republican presidential nomination or the 2,082 delegates for the democratic nomination
senate republican leader bob dole of kansas gained seven delegates in new hampshire tuesday to bring his national total to 42, while rep. jack kemp of new york won three delegates to raise his total to 35
rep. richard gephardt of missouri, the winner of last week's iowa democratic caucuses, gained six national convention delegates for his second-place showing in new hampshire, and sen. paul simon of illinois followed with three delegates. in the popular vote in new hampshire, gephardt won 20 percent while simon had 17 percent
gephardt now has 39 delegates, while simon has 33
under democratic party rules, the national convention delegates were awarded proportionally to candidates who receive at least 15 percent of the vote. in effect, that disqualified jesse jackson, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, former arizona gov. bruce babbitt and former colorado sen. gary hart from receiving any delegates from new hampshire
jackson won 8 percent of the vote, gore 7 percent, babbitt 5 percent and hart 4 percent
new hampshire republicans have a similar rule, but the threshold is 10 percent. that meant former delaware gov. pete du pont, who had 10 percent, picked up two delegates, but former television evangelist pat robertson, who was within 1,100 votes of du pont, received no delegates because he had just 9.5 percent of the vote
robertson already had eight delegates, while du pont had none before tuesday's primary
among the democrats, gore already had 10.55 delegates, jackson had 9.8 and babbitt had four
the delegate totals for the republicans include results from michigan, kansas, pennsylvania, new hampshire and guam. although iowa and hawaii both have held gop caucuses, precise delegate figures cannot be calculated until later because of the way the selection process is structured
the democratic totals include results from iowa and new hampshire, as well as an associated press survey of democratic governors and democratic national committee members who will serve automatically as delegates to their party's convention. some of the democratic delegates cast fractions of votes at the convention. ^eds: subs 3rd graf bgng ``chapman, 31, to give hometown and include fact that another brother and sister have been tested already.</head>
a leukemia victim's long-lost brother has rejected pleas to determine whether his bone marrow is compatible, dashing the patient's best hope for survival
if he dies, he dies. he's about as much a brother to me as you are,'' randy jeff chapman told a reporter for the miami news
chapman, 31, ran away from home when he was 17 and lives on the streets here, working as a test subject for medical experiments. he refused to undergo tests that would check if he could donate marrow to his brother, steve chapman, 38, of oolitic, ind. chapman has another brother and sister who have already been tested and found incompatible
the older brother suffers from acute leukemia and said he will die within two years unless a marrow transplant succeeds. he is now receiving blood transfusions and chemotherapy at st. vincent's hospital in indianapolis
while his leukemia is in remission, his doctor said a marrow transplant should be performed within four months
after reading an earlier news article about steve chapman's efforts to locate his brother in miami, a friend of the younger chapman called the newspaper and told them chapman's whereabouts
a reporter found chapman at the downtown dade county public library tuesday
i'm not even going to consider it,'' he said of the marrow donation request. ``if i sound cruel, well, that's the way i feel. i'm not a very forgiving person.''
he said testing to see if his marrow is compatible with his brother's might interfere with a drug experiment in which he is going to participate starting monday at the university of miami
that's how i make my living,'' he said
contacted at his hospital room, steve chapman said his brother's decision disappointed him
he must have turned into a hard person,'' he said. ``i guess that's what living on the street does to you. i thought he would at least try to help, but that's the way things go.'' windbreaker found</head>
a television weatherman had some explaining to do after a windbreaker with a container of marijuana in its pocket blew out of his helicopter and was recovered by some junior high school students
jerry foster of nbc affiliate kpnx in phoenix said he found a canister of the drug tuesday while filming near the salt river earlier in the day
he said he made arrangements to turn the marijuana over to maricopa county sheriff's deputies, but first he had to stop by the school to film preparations for a flag-raising ceremony, so he stuck in it in his jacket
foster, an honorary deputy, said he didn't notice the black nylon windbreaker missing until he was already at the sheriff's office
apparently the jacket just blew out (of the helicopter). i never did see it go,'' he said
ironically, the jacket was found by two students from nearby mesquite jr. high, which is sponsoring a ``just say no'' to drugs program this week. they turned it over to gilbert police
the gilbert police officer wanted me to explain and i did,'' foster said. ``he called the sheriff's department and they backed me up.''
sgt. jay ellison said foster reported finding a small canister of marijuana, a .32-caliber pistol and some other items when he landed to change film near the river
foster said he placed the canister in the jacket so it wouldn't spill
gilbert police sgt. steven olsen said the marijuana would be turned over to the county
new hampshire's primary results produced a new flurry of speculation on wednesday that the democratic presidential campaign might end without a clear winner, leading to a deadlocked nominating convention next summer
but democratic party chairman paul kirk predicted, ``we're going to have a first-ballot winner'' among the current contenders
it was new york mayor ed koch who responded to the new hampshire returns by saying that delegates to the democratic convention would draft either new york gov. mario cuomo or new jersey sen. bill bradley
i believe there will be a draft,'' he said. ``the strategy, which was not a strategy to begin with but which is working marvelously, is not to come in but to be drafteed at the convention.''
bradley has consistently said he is not interested in entering the 1988 presidential race, while cuomo has said he is not a candidate but has not flatly ruled out a late entry
the governor on wednesday had kind words for virtually all the seven democratic contenders, but told reoporters it was still ``too early'' for him to bestow his endorsement on any of them
there's a long way to go,'' he said
cuomo's support has been sought avidly by several of the democratic hopefuls in advance of the april 19 new york primary
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis scored a decisive triumph in the new hampshire primary, with missouri rep. richard gephardt a distant second and illinois sen. paul simon just behind him in third place. the outcome, which had been expected, left the field without a clear front-runner and with a crowded roster of candidates heading into the delegate-rich primaries and caucuses ahead
but kirk, speaking with reporters in washington, said, ``the players who are on the field, that's where the game's going to be won.''
kirk said he had no doubt the field of candidates would begin to shrink as the primary season runs its course
i don't believe for a minute that you'll have six candidates running neck and neck right down to the convention. as we move down to the final innings, you'll see signs of a final person emerging,'' he said
walter f. mondale's 1984 campaign manager, political consultant robert g. beckel, said he thought it appeared less and less likely that any of the seven democratic candidates would arrive at the nominating convention with enough delegates to claim a victory on the first ballot
i believe there will be brokering,'' he said, meaning that the front-running candidates at convention time would need alliances with their rivals for enough delegate support to win
but he said that didn't mean a draft candidate emerging
if they're going to negotiate with anybody they'll negotiate with each other,'' he said of the current contenders
motorcycle and moped riders in nebraska will be required to wear helmets starting next year under a controversial bill passed in the legislature wednesday
the bill, which passed on a 25-20 vote, takes effect jan. 1, 1989. sen. dan lynch, the measure's sponsor, said gov. kay orr would sign the legislation, which includes a penalty of $50 for failure to wear a helmet
during the floor debate, about 70 spectators in the gallery _ many wearing motorcyle jackets and club colors _ applauded when sen. ernie chambers characterized the bill as one that ``should've been left in the graveyard of bad bills.''
the visitors appeared stunned and quiet after the vote
the bill was passed after lynch withdrew a 14-page amendment that would have required safety education for motorcycle riders
lynch said 45 states have motorcycle laws, including 19 that require helmets for everyone. he said rhode island requires a helmet for passengers and 20 other states have so-called ``limited requirement laws,'' usually having to do with the age of the motorcyclist
gov. kay orr has confirmed that she will sign the measure into law
a federal jury began deliberating racketeering charges wednesday against six men and two women accused of belonging to the westies, a gang of thugs that allegedly terrorized manhattan's hell's kitchen neighborhood for 20 years
the case, which has featured graphic accounts of killings and dismemberments, went to the jury after nearly four months of testimony and more than a week of closing arguments
the panel worked for about 4{ hours before breaking off deliberations for the night
a 14-count racketeering indictment charged the eight defendants were members of a criminal enterprise that seized control of the west side neighborhood and held sway there for nearly two decades through a series of killings and other violent crimes
prosecutors also contended the westies trafficked in drugs, counterfeit money and stolen goods, engaged in loansharking and extortion and killed people who got in their way
prosecutors mary lee warren and david brodsky said the westies had committed a series of killings that included dismembering the victims' bodies in order to enhance their reputation and eliminate competitors
the indictment listed the names of 10 alleged co-conspirators who had been killed before the charges were brought in march
the defense argued most of the evidence is based on the uncorroborated testimony of informers who were themselves killers, thieves and drug dealers
the main prosecution witness, francis ``mickey'' featherstone, said he had been ``the right-hand man'' of reputed westies boss james coonan
featherstone, who has admitted committing three homicides himself, testified he helped coonan conduct a loansharking business and was present at a 1978 meeting when the westies agreed to work with the gambino organized crime family
he also linked coonan to the killing and dismemberment of a recalcitrant loanshark customer
on cross-examination by coonan's attorney, gerald shargel, featherstone acknowleged being in and out of mental hospitals in the 1970s, lying under oath in the past and suffering psychotic episodes
shargel and other defense lawyers also denied even the existence of an organization called the westies
even government witnesses conceded the name westies was created by the police and news media to describe a group of mainly irish-american hoodlums on manhattan's west side
in addition to coonan, and his wife edna, 44, both of hazlet, n.j. the defendants are: james ``jimmy mack'' mcelroy, 42; william ``indian'' bokun, 30; john halo, 36; richard ``muggsy'' ritter, 50; thomas collins, 53, and his wife, florence, 52, all of manhattan
all face a maximum penalty of 20 years each if convicted of racketeering and racketeering conspiracy, the most serious charges
an additional 500,000 metric tons of subsidized u.s. wheat has been sold to the soviet union, the agriculture department said wednesday
the sale, equal to about 18.3 million bushels, was handled by artfer inc., 150,000 tons; union equity cooperative exchange, 150,000 tons; and cargill inc., 200,000 tons
at recent prices averaging $2.82 per bushel, the wheat would have a farm value of about $52 million
nearly 5.7 million tons of subsidized wheat has been sold to the soviet union under the department's export enhancement program, or eep, for delivery in the fiscal year that began last oct. 1
melvin e. sims, general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said an additional 1.2 million tons of wheat are still available to the soviet union under current eep authorization
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
sims said the subsidies, or bonuses, averaged $27.48 per ton on the latest sales, or about 75 cents per bushel. the subsidies for the soviet union have been available only for wheat
the sales also are part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of a long-term agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans, or 39.4 bushels of corn
in addition, 1.67 million tons of u.s. corn, 800,000 tons of soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal have been bought by the soviets for delivery this year. ``the prosecutor ...'' with defense arguments.</note>
leaders of white supremacist groups gathered in 1983 to discuss poisoning the water supplies of new york and washington, d.c., and establishing an aryan nation in the place of the present u.s. government, federal prosecutors charged wednesday
assistant u.s. attorney steve snyder outlined the meeting in his opening statement to jurors hearing the trial of 14 men, all linked with supremacist groups, charged with conspiring to overthrow the government or kill federal officials
defense attorneys contended that the issue in the trial was freedom of speech. one of the defendants, presenting his own opening statement, told the jury, ``you're about to get a great civics lesson.''
a jury of 12 whites was selected for the trial tuesday. because the trial is expected to last about three months, judge morris s. arnold seated six alternate jurors, rather than the usual two
according to snyder, james ellison, who is in prison, discussed a poisoning scheme in 1983 at an aryan nations convocation in hayden lake, idaho, with richard g. butler and robert miles
butler, 69, of hayden lake, and miles, 63, of cohoctah, mich., are among 10 defendants charged with seditious conspiracy, which is conspiring to overthrow the government by force
butler is the leader of the church of jesus christ christian (aryan nations), while miles is a former ku klux klan official convicted in 1973 in the bombing of empty school buses in pontiac, mich
ellison, whose name is on the government's list of witnesses, is the former leader of an arkansas-based militaristic supremacist group named the covenant, the sword and the arm of the lord. officials raised the group's compound in 1985 and seized weapons and a 39-gallon drum of sodium cyanide
at the time of the 1983 meeting, ellison had more than 200 pounds of sodium cyanide in his possession, snyder said
at that same conclave, several supremacist leaders discussed the idea of abolishing the u.s. government and setting up an aryan state, snyder said
louis ray beam jr., 41, of houston, a former texas klan leader and another of the defendants, told the 1983 conference that the time had come for war, snyder said
snyder said beam told his audience that ``the anti-god slithering homosexual'' dwelt in washington, d.c., and warned, ``if you don't help me kill them ... you're going to have to beg for your child's life, and the answer will be `no.'''
miles made a speech urging the use of robberies to finance supremacist activities, snyder said, and six holdups during the next 18 months netted supremacists more than $4 million
ellison ``sent a paper around to be signed,'' and when it came back signed by the leaders, ellision said, ``all of us today entered into a conspiracy against the government of the united states,'' snyder said
the prosecutor said no one disagreed with ellison's statement and ``the meeting ended with the nazi stiff-arm hail victory salute.''
butler's attorney, everett d. hofmeister, g. butler, told the jury that freedom of speech was at stake in the trial and quoted the late u.s. supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes as saying freedom of speech includes ``freedom for the thought we hate.''
the whole nation is watching you,'' hofmeister said. ``what are the limits of freedom of speech? even the speech we hate? it is an aweesome responsibility that you have.''
beam, in his 90-minute statement, said that ``if the government will admit that the constitution is dead and there is no freedom of speech, i'm guilty. but if our constitution still exists, i'm not guilty.''
beam said he was ``under the impression i could say whatever i wanted to say in this country. in fact, at one time i fought for that right. that's why i'm here. some of my views are unpopular.''
he also contended snyder's account was a ``good story, but that's all it is'' and he knew nothing about any such conspiracy
snyder said the supremacists viewed whites as the people of god, jews as ``the spawn of satan,'' and blacks as sub-human. the government was called zog, for zionist occupation government
two defendants, william wade and his son, ivan ray wade, both of smithville, enlisted the aid of ellison's group to murder a federal judge and an fbi agent who had been involved in the prosecution of people who harbored tax protestor gordon kahl, snyder said. in 1983, kahl, wanted in the killings of two federal marshals in north dakota, was killed in a shootout near smithville at a home on land owned by william wade
the wades wanted the csa to take action against judge h. franklin waters, the chief judge of the western district of arkansas, and fbi agent jack knox ``to show the people that patriots can't be pushed around,'' snyder said
a group headed out of the csa compound on dec. 26, 1983, to carry out the killings, but backed out after a van in which four of them were riding went out of control on a snowy road and collided with a pickup truck, snyder said
union leaders, uncertain which presidential candidate their members like but unwilling to accept sen. albert gore jr., are hoping to prevent the tennessean from upstaging the other democrats in the super tuesday round of primaries in three weeks
although gore carries an 88 percent pro-afl-cio lifetime voting record, unusually high for a southern democrat and ahead of rep. richard a. gephardt's 83 percent pro-labor record, some union political directors say they are having trouble slating members as gore delegates to the democratic national convention
gore has just 85 union members running as delegates to the convention next july in atlanta from the eight states whose filing deadlines have passed, compared with 255 for sen. paul simon of illinois, according to information provided by six presidential campaigns to the afl-cio
labor delegate totals for the the other five democratic candidates from all eight states were incomplete, but the figures that were available indicated that gephardt and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis were slating trade unionists in about equal numbers with simon except in the south, where jesse jackson appeared strongest
more laborites want to be gore delegates, but his campaign is the only one that is actively shunning their support, according to some union political directors
he's not going after labor at all,'' complained rachelle horowitz, political director for the american federation of teachers. ``the people he has running his campaign are 1976 jimmy carter types. they're not slating labor people.''
ms. horowitz, who openly favors dukakis and is one of 42 automatic labor delegates to the convention as members of the democratic national committee, is counting on jackson to win between four and six of the 20 primaries and caucuses on march 8 to thwart gore's southern strategy
labor leaders here are counting on jackson's strong showing in the south to keep gore out of first or third place in the post-super tuesday delegate counts and throw the race into the industrial state contests in illinois, michigan, new york, pennsylvania and ohio where unions are strongest
as a trade unionist, of course i'd rather see it decided in the industrial states,'' said robert a. georgine, president of the federation's 4-million member building and construction trades department
afl-cio president lane kirkland said wednesday he can still call the 91 presidents of the federation's member unions together to make a pre-convention endorsement if it appears any one candidate is beginning to garner overwhelming support among union members
the essential criteria is the same, at least a two-thirds consensus,'' he said. ``but i'm not going to force it, and i'm not going to invent it either.''
while acknowledging their personal favorites, most union presidents on the federation's 36-member policymaking executive council said none of the candidates has yet to muster that kind of support among their members
william wynn, president of the united food and commercial workers union, the afl-cio's third largest with 1 million members, doubts there will be an endorsement
we can't change the fact that no individual has emerged,'' he said. ``our iowa locals got together and endorsed dukakis, but it wasn't a very strong endorsement. i would bet that jesse jackson got a lot of ufcw votes in iowa.''
the afl-cio's early endorsement of walter mondale in 1984 helped save his campaign after he lost the new hampshire primary that year to gary hart of colorado. but it also enabled mondale's opponents to tag labor as a ``special interest'' candidate and created a backlash among many union members
exit polls showed only about half the voters from union households pulled the lever for mondale in the general election _ far short of the two-thirds majority support that the afl-cio claimed that its endorsement represented. union leaders here are intent on avoiding a repeat of that
we're damned if we do and damned if we don't,'' said richard kilroy, president of the transporation communications union and head of a coalition of 15 rail unions. ``we may well go into a brokered convention, and that's not a bad thing as far as we're concerned. obviously the best thing to do is not force a consensus.''
president reagan's hit list for congressional pork-barrel spending will be released next week _ but not as the cutback legislation he promised in his state of the union address, congressional sources said wednesday
instead, reagan's list of cuts will be made in a symbolic statement of what he would do if granted his longstanding wish for authority to veto individual items in appropriations bills. the cuts would have no legal effect unless congress takes up the cause
barbara clay of the president's office of management and budget said she was not certain a decision had been made
but republiocan sources on capitol hill said omb director james c. miller iii told them this week the list would not be in the form of rescission bills
it's going to be a package of suggestions from the president,'' said one gop leadership aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. the new strategy could help avoid election-year clashes with republican lawmakers who won spending projects last year, the aide said
a high-ranking omb official said the form of the request was not important, ``it's how much noise you make.'' the official, who demanded annoymity, said in either case he doubted congress would go along
the change in tactics appeared to be a retreat from the president's nationally televised address last month. the speech included a pitch for the line-item veto, which would allow him to reach into congress' mammoth spending legislation and cut out items he considered wasteful
reagan cited cranberry, blueberry and crawfish research along with other items that he would cut if given the chance
in 30 days, i will send back to you those items, as rescissions, which if i had the authority to line them out, i would do so,'' the president told the democratic-controlled congress
the omb has been drafting the list, which could total $4 billion. most of the targeted items were contained in the $600 billion catchall spending bill approved at the end of last year's session
by proposing rescissions, reagan could freeze spending on those items for 45 days and give procedural advantages to those in congress supporting his effort. after the 45-day period, the spending would be restored unless the rescission were approved
any lawmaker is allowed to propose rescission legislation, but without the president's impetus the path to passage is more difficult. gephardt comment; inserts 5 grafs on strategy, rally after 10th graf pvs, she called</note>
richard gephardt focused on south dakota wednesday in an urgent search for a primary victory, even as he contended second place in new hampshire was good enough to put him in a two-man democratic presidential race with michael dukakis
i don't think there really is a true front-runner today,'' gephardt said. ``it's a tough race now, i think, in the rest of the country between dukakis and gephardt. ... i think that's really what this race is going to boil down to.''
gephardt spoke as he left manchester, n.h., for rapid city and sioux falls, s.d., to trumpet an endorsement by democratic sen. tom daschle in a state where next tuesday's primary does not guarantee delegates
gephardt's claim to a two-man nomination battle overlooked two other democratic candidates who have staked much of their hopes and spent much of their time in the looming delegate battleground of the south _ jesse jackson and albert gore jr
it also ignored illinois sen. paul simon, whose campaign limped into neighboring minnesota after back-to-back narrow losses to gephardt in new hampshire and iowa
gephardt's leading rivals were campaigning in the south for much of what is to be a three-week campaign there. his focus instead was on a far less significant state on the primary calender, where the democratic primary tuesday is a ``beauty contest'' in which voters state a preference that does not commit convention delegates
gephardt was scheduled to visit south dakota during six of the next seven days. he was gambling on a victory that would attract attention and make him look like a winner heading toward march 8 when nearly one-third of the democratic delegates are at stake
i think i can do well here,'' gephardt said in an interview. ``in order to do that i have to get my message across and see people
this is just the way we think the time can be best spent to get the delegates, to get the results, we need,'' he said
he was also contesting wyoming's caucuses, where 13 delegates are at stake on march 5
we're doing a lot of south dakota and wyoming shuttling,'' said ali webb, gephardt's press secretary
she called them gateway states to super tuesday and said they ``are very important to us.''
gephardt strategists said they decided not to contest three other states holding contests during the next three weeks _ vermont aod maine, where dukakis figures to be strong, and minnesota, where dukakis and simon are campaigning
the congressman attended a rally with daschle in sioux falls and toured a financially troubled electronics assembly plant in rapid city, where he attacked unfair trade practices by japan
gephardt has purchased $40,000 worth of television commercials in south dakota, a significant amount in the state of just 700,000 people. gore and dukakis are already on the air here
gephardt polltaker ed reilly contended that because of intensive television coverage of the candidates whereever they are gephardt can campaign in south dakota and wyoming and still attract attention in the process in the southern states where so many delegates are at stake
time spent doing media markets in the south is an well-spent in these states _ there will be a focus on these events,'' he said
gephardt won 20 percent of the vote tuesday in new hampshire's leadoff primary, behind dukakis who finished with 37 percent
it was far from a victory, but gephardt celebrated as if it were one because he ran ahead of fellow midwesterner simon and the rest of the field. simon had predicted he would best gephardt in new hampshire, and his third place finish with 18 percent put him in danger of being unable to raise the money necessary to sustain his indebted candidacy
gephardt said gore and jackson ``will be tough opponents in the south.'' but he portrayed himself as better able to take the battle to the rest of country with his message of foreign trade sanctions and no tax increases for low and middle-income people
polls have shown gephardt ran particularly well among blue-collar and union voters in iowa and new hampshire, and he is likely to bid for those voters in the south
trade, energy and agriculture are strong issues in the south,'' he said. ``those are issues i've defined and i think we're going to do well there.''
emissions of lead into the atmosphere took another sharp drop in 1986 due to the reduction of lead in gasoline, according to the annual air pollution report released wednesday by the environmental protection agency
though most of the six major pollutants showed only minor changes from the year before, lead emissions fell 59 percent, an even sharper drop than the 47 percent seen the year before, according to the report
another sharp decline was seen in peak quarterly concentrations measured by the 82 instruments in epa's lead monitoring network. the average maximum quarterly reading fell 35 percent
lead emissions peaked in 1976 at 169,000 tons, of which 146,000 tons came from the gasoline burned in cars and trucks, according to epa's estimates. starting in 1975, most new cars could not use leaded gasoline because it would disable the new exhaust pollution equipment, and all new cars had to use lead-free gasoline in 1980
emissions fell to 44,200 tons in 1984, and the following year epa started its two-year reduction of permissible lead concentrations in gasoline from 1.1 gram per gallon to 0.1 gram. that reduced emissions to 23,300 tons in 1985 and 9,500 tons in 1986
some major companies have stopped selling leaded gasoline as a smaller number of older cars each year may legally use it. its share of the market shrank from 31 percent in 1986 to 26 percent in 1987
i would predict a continued dramatic improvement'' in next year's annual report, said craig potter, epa's assistant administrator for air programs
epa has proposed removing the last lead from gasoline, but action on that has been stalled by the fears of farmers that they will ruin old but still vital farm engines that need leaded gasoline
lead is a poison, causing kidney and brain damage in high enough concentrations. epa believes there is new evidence it raises blood pressure, at least in men
it is also the cheapest way to boost gasoline octane, and before engine manufacturers switched to hardened valve seats in 1971-1975, many engines relied on lead deposits to lubricate valves _ the point that worries farmers
epa said 4.5 million people, unchanged from the previous year's report, lived in counties where the airborne lead concentration standard is violated
those violations came near smelters. the report listed these eight cities where the standard of 1.5 micrograms per cubic meter was exceeded for a quarter. the figures are the peak quarterly average, in micrograms per cubic meter, near the smelter and the peak reading in a residential area
philadelphia (1.72, 0.14); st. louis (5.70, 0.35); minneapolis (2.09, 0.14), seattle (1.82, 0.26), indianapolis (2.49, 0.14); birmingham, ala. (2.30, 0.30); gary, ind. (1.81, 0.16) and el paso, texas (1.57, 0.58)
there were no surprises elsewhere in the report, and epa said it had not changed its estimate that about 100 million people live in counties where one or more concentration standards is violated
here is a rundown of the other major pollutants, with emissions from 1985 and 1986, followed by average concentrations in epa's monitoring networks
_carbon monoxide, from 70.9 million tons to 67.1 million tons and from 7.19 parts per million to 7.21 parts per million in the second-highest eight-hour average, a blip upward epa considers no real change at all. the standard is 9.0 ppm. carbon monoxide can worsen heart problems since it displaces oxygen in the blood
_sulfur dioxide, from 23.8 million tons to 23.4 million tons and from 88.5 micrograms per cubic meter to 86.4 micrograms averaged over the year. the annual standard is 80 micrograms. sulfur dioxide causes breathing difficulties and can turn into acid rain. epa has revised upward slightly its estimates of emissions over the last nine years
_volatile organic compounds like unburned gasoline that form ozone, from 22.4 million tons to 21.5 million tons. ozone concentrations fell from 0.127 ppm to 0.123 ppm, measured as the second-highest one-hour reading
_nitrogen dioxide, which also causes breathing problems, helps form ozone and can be transformed into acid rain, from 21.7 million tons to 21.3 million tons and from 0.0251 ppm to 0.0248 ppm, measured as an annual average. the standard calls for 0.053 ppm
_smoke, dust and soot, what epa calls ``total suspended particulates,'' from 7.7 million tons to 7.5 million tons and from 48.5 micrograms per cubic meter to 48.4 micrograms. this is the last year total suspended particulates will be listed as a pollutant. epa is switching to counting as a pollutant only the fine particles that penetrate the lung
the marine officer kidnapped in lebanon is one of at least 15 americans on u.n. duty assigned to serve in a land so dangerous for u.s. citizens that the state department declared it off-limits in 1987
the pentagon says american officers chosen for the duty are under u.n. command and it has no control over where they serve
gunmen stopped the car of lt. col. william r. higgins, 43, on a south lebanon road wednesday and abducted him. sources in lebanon said he was returning from talks with officials of a moderate shiite moslem militia near the port city of tyre
twenty-four other foreigners, including eight americans and two scandinavian u.n. officials abducted earlier this month, also are missing, most believed to be hostages of shiite extremists
terry anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, has been held longest. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
the united nations said higgins is one of 17 americans in the 76-person truce observer group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon, or unifil. the pentagon put the number of americans at 15 or 16, and neither could account for the discrepancy
not all observers are on duty at a given time. timur goksel, spokesman for unifil in lebanon, said only six americans actually were in the country
one u.n. official said some governments have understandings about where their citizens serve peacekeeping or observer duty, but the united states apparently did not in the case of lebanon. he spoke on condition of anonymity
the united states is not involved in unifil, the peacekeeping organization to which higgins' group is attached, but it has 36 officers on observer duty in various posts with the u.n. truce supervision organization, a 299-member force known as untso commanded by gen. martin vadset of norway
higgins is the senior american in untso. he had been on u.n. duty in the middle east since june 1987 and assumed command of the observer group in lebanon in mid-january, said mario zamorano, a spokesman for u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar
untso was established in 1948 to monitor a truce the security council ordered between israel and arab nations, and was the first u.n. peacekeeping organization in the middle east. its observers are not armed
now serving with the organization are officers from the united states, argentina, australia, austria, belgium, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, ireland, italy, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, sweden and the soviet union
a bus plunged off a roadside cliff and down a steep ravine in the high andes, killing 15 passengers and injuring four, police said tuesday
the crash occurred monday afternoon near the town of pallasca in ancash state, about 300 miles northeast of lima, police said. the bus had started from lima and only had 15 miles more to go before reaching its destination, the town of conchucos, police said
it was not known how many people were aboard the privately owned bus
police were investigating the cause of the accident
heavy rains usually weaken peru's mainly dirt and gravel mountain roads this time of year, causing more accidents. moynihan</head>
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., still trying to steer his party to a candidate who could unseat democratic sen. daniel p. moynihan, suggested wednesday that if rep. jack kemp were to quit the gop presidential race, he should run for new york senator
but kemp spokeswoman mary brunette said kemp has ``absolutely no intention of quitting the presidential race.''
we are on the move and i think it's kind of absurd for sen. d'amato to make that suggestion, although we appreciate his support,'' ms. brunette added
d'amato's suggestion _ first made late tuesday on wcbs radio in new york _ came after kemp scored a respectable third place in the new hampshire priamry, behind vice president george bush and sen. bob dole
former delaware gov. pete du pont and ex-television evangelist pat robertson trailed
i wouldn't be presumptuous to urge jack to drop out of his presidential race,'' d'amato said in an interview wednesday. ``i think he owes it to his party, to himself, to those who support him, to compete for the presidency as long as he feels he has a chance to win
but if he chooses to withdraw, now or even after super tuesday, he can make an outstanding candidate and i think a winning candidate for the u.s. senate.''
d'amato said he had not discussed the idea with kemp, and that it had only just occurred to him
moynihan spokesman matt james, asked about d'amato's suggestion, replied: ``you've got our poll results.''
he was referring to a survey by moynihan's campaign taken the first week of february, showing that if kemp were to challenge moynihan, the incumbent would be favored by 60 percent of the voters statewide while kemp would be the choice of 24 percent
eight hundred voters were questioned statewide, james said
the house voted wednesday to allow medical malpractice lawsuits against the federal government on behalf of active-duty military personnel who suffer injury or death because of negligent care at military hospitals
the reagan administration opposes the bill, sponsored by rep. barney frank, d-mass., on the ground that it would restrict a longstanding supreme court doctrine that the government is not liable for service-related injuries to members of the armed forces
the house approved the bill on a 312-61 roll call after voice votes approving a $300,000 ceiling on the government's liability and rejecting a proposal to make the bill's provisions retroactive to jan. 1, 1986. the bill now goes to the senate
a virtually identical bill passed the house by a 317-90 vote in 1985 but the senate never acted on it
the house-passed bill wednesday would cover permanent military hospitals but would exclude treatment at field hospitals or hospital ships and claims stemming from combat activities or foreign jurisdictions
the measure also would prohibit claims for mental or emotional disabilities unless they resulted from a physical injury
frank is chairman of the house judiciary subcommittee on administrative law and governmental relations, which had heard numerous witnesses testify about medical malpractice involving active-duty military personnel at military hospitals
active-duty servicemen represent about one-third of those treated at military hospitals and are the only patients who cannot sue for medical malpractice
the federal government generally is immune from being sued unless it gives its consent. under a 1946 federal law, however, the government can be sued for acts of negligence by its employees while on official duty, but the same law protects the government from legal claims stemming from wartime military combat operations
the supreme court ruled in 1950 that the law bars active-duty military personnel from suing the federal government for damages arising from government action or inaction in other situations. this ruling does not prohibit military dependents or retirees from suing the government for medical malpractice. say</head>
a woman accused of killing a mental health caseworker and taking three people hostage at a hospital's psychiatric emergency room complained about mistreatment by doctors, police said
at an arraignment wednesday where she was charged with homicide and reckless endangerment, edith anderson, 31, asked why she was being charged rather than her doctors
officers peter drummond and robert white, who talked with the woman during the siege, said she claimed doctors gave her too much medicine
she kept saying things like, `martin luther king is not dead,' and that she felt she had not been treated right by doctors at st. francis,'' said white, a former high school classmate of ms. anderson
it appears as though she has a mental history,'' said police chief ralph pampena
meanwhile, the staff of st. francis medical center planned a memorial service for monday for caseworker linda rosen, 27, who was shot in the back tuesday night as she tried to flee. miss rosen had worked at the hospital since may 1986
this is a nightmare. it's the kind of thing psychiatric emergency room (workers) always worry about,'' said shirley freyer, spokeswoman for st. francis
according to ms. freyer, ms. anderson entered the emergency room at 8:55 p.m. and asked a security guard where she could get psychiatric help
the woman told the guard, dan sterzinger, she wanted to think before registering as a patient and she sat in the waiting area. miss rosen sat beside her and spoke briefly with her until ms. anderson produced a gun, ms. freyer said
the victim turned and ran and started yelling for security guards, and at that point the suspect began shooting,'' said police commander ronald freeman
miss rosen died where she fell, doctors determined
ms. anderson then moved to a bathroom doorway and trained her gun on three people, whom police declined to identify, officials said
i asked her to release one of the hostages, but she said she was going to kill them,'' drummond said
the woman wanted to speak to wptt-tv talk show host eddie edwards, who went to the hospital but never spoke with her
drummond said he persuaded ms. anderson to release a 26-year-old woman among her hostages, and white, keeping his identity as a police officer secret, sat with the two remaining captives
i was really scared,'' he said. ``but the other two hostages were very well composed for such a stressful situation. they kept looking at the television.''
ms. anderson asked for cigarettes, and white slid a pack of across the floor toward her
when she looked down on the floor at them i rushed her,'' he said
white slammed the door of the bathroom, blocking ms. anderson's view of the hostages, and drummond and other officers blockaded the door and placed a bullet-proof shield over it. the woman then surrendered and was led screaming in a straitjacket to a police car
a judge wednesday disputed a published report accusing him of approving a huge attorney's fee for wedtech scandal figure e. robert wallach after asking wallach to lobby for his federal judgeship
the san francisco chronicle on tuesday said then-superior court judge eugene lynch orally granted wallach and his partner a $1 million fee in september 1981, while the white house was considering lynch for the federal bench
lynch was appointed a u.s. district court judge in january 1982
wallach in 1981 was the personal attorney of attorney general edwin meese, who at the time was a white house counselor
lynch said he has ``never been improperly influenced in any decision'' during his 16 years on the bench, and he added: ``i know of nothing that was improper or unusual about the process of my appointment to the federal bench.''
the fee was awarded to wallach's firm for representing two young sisters in a personal injury case. it was reduced to $322,000 in 1982 by another judge on the grounds that it was excessive
the article is misleading in at least one vital respect and should be corrected,'' lynch said in a statement
contrary to the story's implication,'' lynch said, ``it is a matter of public record ... that i did not finally approve the attorneys' fees that were the focus of the story.'' he said a different judge ultimately set the amount
a spokesman for the judge refused to say whether the judge had initially approved the $1 million to wallach's firm, according to the new york times
lynch, according to the chronicle, acknowledged seeking help from wallach for the federal court appointment and said that wallach was a friend of long standing
wallach strongly denied any connection between his endorsement of lynch for the judgeship and the payment of attorney's fees, the chronicle said
wallach was indicted last month in new york on charges of influence peddling for allegedly taking payments from wedtech corp. to lobby meese before he became attorney general in order to get the company government contracts. washington. inserts 4 grafs after 4th graf pvs, ``high winds ...'' to update with reagan comments upon his return.</note> ^by terence hunt</byline>
president reagan flew back to washington on wednesday for the unveiling of a $1.1 trillion budget package and the swearing-in of anthony kennedy as a justice of the supreme court
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan would not have any comment on the outcome of the new hampshire presidential primaries. the president, on his final day at his mountaintop ranch, watched the results on television tuesday night
ending a four-night stay at his 688-acre spread in the santa ynez mountains, the president, accompanied by his wife nancy, returned to the white house
high winds forced the reagans to travel to point mugu naval air station by motorcade rather than helicopter for their flight aboard air force one
reagan, asked upon his return to washington whether he had any news of lebanon kidnap victim marine lt. col. william r. higgins, responded: ``we're still trying to get more information on that.''
as he strode towards the white house, the president spotted a young boy in a wheelchair among the guests invited to greet him
the boy, identified by a white house aide as 6-year-old jonathan nutting of sarasota springs, fla., held up a postcard picture of the president
the president walked over to the boy, and amid much laughter and smiles, signed the boy's postcard with his own pen
reagan had remained in seclusion since he arrived at the ranch saturday evening following a summit with mexican president miguel de la madrid in mazatlan, mexico
in washington, reagan will meet with democratic and republican leaders of congress on thursday to present them with a copy of his new budget plan, covering the fiscal year beginning oct. 1
fitzwater said ``it is a remarkable budget that ... includes more money for aids research, more money for housing and education, but makes cuts in other areas that will allow us to meet the budget reduction and keep the deficit on a downward path.''
the budget is expected to seek $1 billion-plus for aids research, modernization of the air traffic control system, more money for orbiting a manned space station and a speed-up of the ``superfund'' toxic waste cleanup program
it also is expected to include a host of measures already rejected by congress, such as selling off amtrak, abolishing the interstate commerce commission and selling regional power authorities
under an agreement with congress, defense spending will increase by only 2 percent, to $299.5 billion
the agreement calls for cutting the federal budget deficit to $136 billion, down from $148 billion of fiscal year 1987
the swearing-in ceremony for kennedy will be held in the east room. kennedy, a member of the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals, was picked for the supreme court after the senate rejected reagan's nomination of robert bork and his second nominee, judge douglas ginsburg, withdrew after acknowledging he had smoked marijuana in earlier days
on friday, the president will meet with west german chancellor helmut kohl before leaving for camp david to spend the weekend. cuba</head>
republican presidential aspirant pat robertson insisted again wednesday that he believes there are soviet missiles in cuba, but added he has no first-hand knowledge of their existence
in my opinion they are there,'' robertson told questioners at a news conference here, as he arrived on a campaign swing through florida
but he later allowed he was ``not trying to start another cuban missile crisis.''
robertson initially brought up the topic during a new hampshire debate when he disagreed with vice president george bush over new u.s.-soviet intermediate-range nuclear forces pact. robertson said the treaty should be extended to include cuba, which he contended still had soviet missiles
the white house issued a quick denial, and robertson's republican rivals criticized his statement as inflammatory and untrue
later, robertson aides said the candidate did mean to say missiles with nuclear warheads
wednesday, robertson was asked if he considered his statements irresponsible, and responded heatedly
it's not irresponsible one bit,'' he said, raising his voice. ``it's a lousy treaty.''
he said he had cited u.s. sen. jesse helms, a prominent member of the ssenate foreign relations committee, and other committee sources in saying that there had been violations by the soviets of an agreement made in 1961 to keep missiles out of cuba
since he first made his comments on missiles, robertson said he had received more reports about nuclear missiles in cuba. he did not identify the sources of the reports
robertson, who received 10 percent of the vote in tuesday's new hampshire primary, said he expected to do ``very well'' in southern states voting in the march 8 super tuesday primary
earlier in the day, robertson campaign in south carolina, which holds its priamry march 5, three days before super tuesday, and called it ``the key to the nation.''
there's no sense in playing games,'' robertson told reporters. ``if i lose this one, then i'm in trouble.''
he said he had these words for front-runners bush and bob dole: ``meet me in south carolina and then we'll have the contest.''
we're telling everybody to fasten their seat belts and get ready,'' state republican party chairman van hipp said. ``there's going to be a whole lot of campaigning in south carolina in the next couple of weeks.''
both dole and kemp plan to visit south carolina thursday
santa ana winds gusting to 63 mph buffeted southern california on wednesday, while snow fell in northern new mexico
colorado, meanwhile, dug out from a heavy snowstorm that dumped as much as 11 inches of powder overnight
winds of 63 mph were clocked at ontario, calif., while the anemometer recorded 58 mph at santa ana and 55 mph at needles. the national weather service warned that the winds could churn up dust and sand, reducing visibility to a quarter of a mile
gale warnings were in effect for washington and southern california coastal waters
snow ended in the morning in colorado, after dumping 11 inches at strontia springs and 9 inches in wheatridge and colorado springs, but continued in parts of northern new mexico, with an accumulation of 3 inches at clayton
rain developed in the gulf coast region and extended from central texas across northeastern texas and northwestern arkansas to northwestern missouri. skies were partly cloudy across most of the nation
clear skies covered southern california and much of nevada and it was also sunny from the central rockies into south dakota and nebraska
temperatures around the nation wednesday afternoon ranged from 5 degrees above zero at yellowstone, wyo., to 78 degrees at fort myers, fla
the nation's low overnight was 13 degrees below zero at west yellowstone, mont., and yellowstone and jackson, wyo
for thursday, the national weather service predict snow from utah across colorado to southwestern kansas and the texas panhandle. rain is likely over the rest of the southern plains, the lower half of the mississippi valley, the tennessee and lower ohio valleys, the gulf states and western portions of the carolinas
thunderstorms are forecast from southeastern texas across louisiana and mississippi to southern alabama. snow will be widely scattered over northern minnesota and eastern north dakota as well as the northern rockies. light rain and mountain snow is expected over parts of northern oregon
highs will be in the 30s or 40s across most of the nation, but 10 degrees cooler in the northern great lakes and northern maine. much of texas, the desert southwest and much of california to coastal sections of the pacific northwest will have highs in the 50s and 60s, with 70-degree temperatures in los angeles. highs of 70 and 80 are likely in florida and southern texas
the parents of challenger astronaut judith resnik said they have reached a multimillion-dollar settlement with the manufacturer of the shuttle's rocket booster over their daughter's death
the settlement, completed tuesday, concluded a year of negotiations between morton-thiokol inc. and marvin and betty resnik
resnik placed the mount at between $2 million and $3.5 million, the range of settlements received by other families of the seven-member crew killed in the jan. 28, 1986 challenger disaster
the shuttle exploded 73 seconds after blastoff when a joint in its right-side booster leaked flame and ignited the shuttle's giant fuel tank
the settlement leaves one claim pending against morton-thiokol, from the family of challenger co-pilot michael j. smith, resnik said
morton thiokol spokesmen did not return a telephone call for comment wednesday
it was commensurate with what some of the others got _ from $2 (million) to $3.5 million,'' resnik said of the settlement. ``it's all settled, thank god,'' he added. ``it wasn't what we wanted. it was ok.''
smith's parents filed a $1.5 billion suit against the government, morton-thiokol and lawrence mulloy, director of the space agency's solid rocket booster program at the time of the accident
a portion of the settlement will go to the resniks' two grandchildren, and most of the rest will be placed in educational and scholarship funds established in judith resnik's memory in ohio and maryland, resnik said
two men sentenced to a total of 735 years in prison for the kidnapping and sexual molestation of two children asked wednesday that their convictions be overturned
alex carbarga, 23, and luis ``tree frog'' johnson, 38, were convicted of a string of crimes that began when they snatched 2-year-old tara burke from a shopping center in concord, 30 miles east of san francisco, in february 1982
it ended 10 months later when police broke into a dingy bread van parked under a san francisco freeway overpass and discovered tara huddled inside. the other child in the case, 11-year-old mac lin, had fled and alerted police
during trial, carbarga, who was 18 when arrested, was depicted by his attorney as johnson's youthful pawn and sex slave since carbarga's parents turned their 9-year-old son over to johnson
carbarga pleaded innocent because of insanity
his attorney, alan caplan, argued before the three-member panel of the state court of appeals that superior court judge robert dossee allowed testimony about carbarga's ``tragic mental condition'' in the penalty phase of the trial, but incorrectly prohibited it during the guilt phase
it was really the only defense and the jury didn't know it,'' he said
carbarga was convicted on 93 of the 154 counts against him. of the convictions, 89 were felonies. jurors found he was not legally sane at the time of 58 crimes, and he was sentenced to 208 years on 35 offenses
a central issue is prosecution classification of some crimes as taking place before a change in california law that altered standards to determine questions such as whether a defendant knew the difference in right and wrong, could form the required mental intent to commit certain crimes or could appreciate their nature
caplan said there was a ``two-year window'' between enactment of one law regarding sanity determination and a state supreme court ruling that the law had incorrectly stated legislative intent
there's no way in hell this boy could have formed the intent required to commit these crimes,'' he said of carbarga
deputy attorney general robert murphy said ``certain technical problems had to be worked out at trial and have to be worked out on appeal.''
according to caplan, the appeals court could take a variety of actions. carbarga could be tried again on the criminal offenses or the sanity question; he could go to a mental hospital; or be returned to juvenile court and sent to the california youth authority
johnson's attorney, george schraer, argued for reversal of his client's convictions saying blacks were unfairly excluded during jury selection. johnson is black
schraer also said police acted without a search warrant when they broke into the van
in addition, he said, the defense was not alowed to show potential jurors some of the videotapes and photographs seized and depicting tara and mac nude, often in sexual situations
by only describing the material, he argued, the defense couldn't reliably gauge response when potential jurors said they could consider the case fairly despite the evidence
johnson, convicted of 95 felonies and five misdemeanors, is serving a 527-year term
italy's most wanted man was escorted out of switzerland under heavy security wednesday and brought to italy, where he is to face trial in the 1982 collapse of the nation's biggest private bank
licio gelli, 69, was moved into a specially modified three-room jail suite in a former monastery outside parma, state-run rai reported
gelli was the reputed leader of the secret p-2 masonic lodge, which italian officials have linked to tax evasion, bribery and conspiracy to topple the government
but under the terms of the extradition agreement with switzerland, gelli can be tried only in connection with the 1982 collapse of banco ambrosiano
he fled italy in 1981 after police raided his offices and found a list of alleged lodge members that included cabinet ministers, business executives, generals and journalists. the scandal toppled the christian democrat government of premier arnaldo forlani
gelli also has been charged in italy in connection with the 1980 bombing of the train station in bologna, which killed 85 people and wounded 200
in december, a court in florence convicted gelli in absentia of financing right-wing terrorism and sentenced him to eight years in prison. he does not have to serve the sentence because of the extradition arrangement
news reports said italian authorities planned to begin questioning gelli on friday about the bank collapse
gelli surrendered to swiss officials on sept. 21, 1987, after being a fugitive for more than four years
he escaped from champ-dollon prison on aug. 10, 1983, after serving only three days of a two-month sentence for entering switzerland on false papers. he also was awaiting extradition to italy at the time
swiss police originally arrested gelli in september 1982 when he tried to withdraw funds from a frozen geneva bank account linked to a south american branch of banco ambrosiano. pvs, ``under cross ...''</note>
a former drug smuggler testified wednesday in the trial of reputed colombian cocaine kingpin carlos lehder rivas that he had turned down a chance to make more money by going to work for lehder
lehder, 37, an alleged leader of colombia's violent medellin cartel, is on trial on charges that he and others smuggled 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978-80
william freeman, 42, former brother-in-law of key prosecution witness ed ward, testified he had joined ward and others in a marijuana-smuggling venture from 1975 until 1978
but in the summer of 1978, ward announced he was going to work for lehder smuggling cocaine and invited partners in his marijuana operation to join him
he didn't think we were making enough money,'' said freeman. ``i thought he was acting very foolishly.''
ward's group was flown to norman's cay to discuss the switch, and lehder provided a bottle full of cocaine to the guests, freeman testified
he said he declined to participate because of the violence of the cocaine business, the legal penalties for being caught and concerns about the drug itself
ward reportedly told freeman that lehder purchased protection in the bahamas by paying $200,000 a month, the witness said
the money was going to mr. (bahamian prime minister lynden o.) pindling through an attorney by the name of nigel,'' he testified
in later arguments, u.s. attorney robert w. merkle said, ``nigel bowe has been identified as the principal mediator between narcotics traffickers and bahamian officials.''
earlier, an attorney for lehder attacked the credibility of another admitted marijuana smuggler who said he paid bribes to the prime minister of the bahamas
prosecution witness george william ``bill'' baron had testified tuesday that he had paid some $3 million to $5 million over two years to pindling
under cross-examination wednesday, defense attorney jose quinon asked baron about ``all the things you made up in the courtroom about norman's cay and mr. pindling.''
quinon also questioned baron extensively about his testimony concerning lehder and two of his men shooting up a norman's cay home after an altercation at the airport
baron had testified that lehder and his men had sprayed the home with automatic weapons fire
but under questioning, baron said he couldn't see if any of the shots hit the house
all i can tell you is i stood in the driveway and saw them shoot at the house,'' he said
he also said he didn't see any evidence of gunfire when he later visited the house
lehder is charged in this case with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, is charged with conspiracy. ^by reid g. miller</byline>
negotiators for nicaraguan rebels say the u.s. refusal of more aid has not changed their position for the second round of peace talks thursday with the sandinista government
fernando aguero, one of the seven contra delegates, told reporters after arriving wednesday that the rebels still want three-way talks including the internal nicaraguan opposition and they still want to discuss political matters
the leftist nicaraguan government insists on sticking to the mechanics of arranging a 30-day cease-fire that could lead to a permanent truce. it says political changes will be discussed only after the contras have accepted an amnesty, laid down their arms and resumed civilian life within the country
aguero, the rebel delegate, said: ``our position has not changed, and it will not change. there can be no cease-fire unless the sandinistas first agree to democratic reforms in nicaragua.''
the first direct talks were held in san jose, costa rica, last month, a week before the house of representatives voted down president reagan's request for another $36.2 million in contra aid
the rebels and the nicaraguan government each presented radically different proposals in a two-day session that all said was noted for cordiality and lack of progress. several diplomatic observers suggested neither side wanted to rock the boat before the congressional vote
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, roman catholic primate of nicaragua, will mediate the guatemala city talks. he was visiting rome on vatican business during the san jose session and sent a substitute
obando y bravo is scheduled to arrive at mid-morning and the talks probably will begin in the afternoon at the guatemala archbishopric. they are scheduled to end saturday
victor hugo tinoco, deputy foreign minister, will lead the nicaraguan delegation. jaime morales carazo, a former managua banker, heads the contra group
the talks are being held in line with a central american peace plan signed last august by by nicaragua, el salvador, honduras, costa rica and guatemala. quits; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng: only the</note>
there are no medals when you come in sixth, observed sixth-place new hampshire finisher bruce babbitt on wednesday. nor are there headlines or chunks of money coming in, and by day's end it looked as if he and republican pete du pont were ready to call it quits
we have drafted a statement,'' said babbitt. ``it still has three conclusions to it and i have to check one of the boxes,'' he said. but the former arizona governor conceded ``somebody would have to make a persuasive pitch'' to keep him in the race
babbitt scheduled a news conference for thursday morning. du pont, who had not been heard from much after the new hampshire primary, scheduled one in the afternoon
if you write a story that indicates we're going to bow out, you'll be ok,'' said a dupont campaign source
only the presidential candidates named bush, dole, dukakis and gephardt didn't have to face questions about their steadfastness in the wake of the first primary. a strong third in this contest wasn't good enough, according to sen. paul simon, d-ill
it makes a huge difference,'' said simon on nbc's ``today'' show. ``first of all in media momentum _ the headlines in the morning newspaper have his name, rather than mine. it makes a great deal of difference in money.'' the ``he'' was richard gephardt who bested simon 20 percent to 18 percent in the democratic contest. the winner, of course, was massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, whose finish in his neighboring state came as no surprise
simon said he has to win either the minnesota caucus or the south dakota primary next tuesday to stay in
i cannot continue to run second and third in various primaries,'' he said. ``you have to win somewhere. and there's no sense in fooling myself or fooling those who follow me.''
so simon gave himself another week. babbitt said he was of ``divided mind'' on what to do
i will indulge myself the luxury of agonizing no more than 24 hours,'' he said, leaving new hampshire for washington. ``my mood this morning is plaid. there are no medals for sixth.''
he planned to spend the day on the telephone. ``what i'm going to ask my frinds is, you know, `can i or should i throw it in and acknowledge reality?'''
one man's reality, however, was another man's vindication
sen. albert gore jr., of tennessee, who didn't campaign as intensely as the other democrats in new hampshire, looked forward to the super tuesday primaries next month when 1,307 democratic delegates will be picked in 20 states
we made a decision not to spend $1 million on two or three delegates,'' he said. ``we're saving that for the 1,400 delegates here in the super tuesday states.'' he called the results in new hampshire, and last week in iowa, inconclusive
jesse jackson, who came in fourth in new hampshire with 8 percent of the vote, said the two contests so far ``proved we could broaden our base.''
among white families, he was asked by kathleen sullivan of abc's ``good morning.''
white families,'' replied jackson. ``we've found where that point of challenge is. it is that at the plant gate which closed on workers without notice, as in kenosha, wis., where there's a closure with too little notice, or where farmers are losing their farms. when they do that, the lights are cut off and people look amazingly similar in the dark.''
and gary hart, last among seven democrats with 4 percent, took comfort in doing ``500 percent better than iowa'' where he barely got 1 percent
we have just begun, we are committed,'' he said
on the republican side, jack kemp saw his third-place finish as a victory in a ``race for conservatives'' among himself, pat robertson and pete du pont. the other race was one ``for the traditional, moderate wing of the party'' between vice president george bush, who won new hampshire, and sen. bob dole who came in second
finally we've dragged bush and dole out of discussing their resumes and their tax returns and where they're born and into discussing issues,'' kemp said
du pont returned home to wilmington, del., late last night and wasn't saying much publicly about his 10 percent of the vote and what it meant to his future as a presidential candidate. his office said he was meeting with advisers, presumably discussing that question
we're solvent right now and we have enough money to run the campaign for another two weeks,'' said du pont press secretary fred stern
for his part, robertson also was looking to super tuesday to overcome a 9 percent showing, dead last, in new hampshire
they're going to be playing in my backyard,'' he said. and, addressing bush and dole, the virginia-born robertson said: ``i'm going to beat you there convincingly.'' that court did not say why parents wanted daughter sterilized; adds 7 grafs on other cases in past years</note>
the iowa supreme court ruled wednesday that courts have the power to order sterilization of the mentally retarded but declined to spell out guidelines for deciding when it is appropriate
a dissenting justice said the court was walking into a legal morass
in a narrowly drawn opinion, seven justices agreed that courts can act on a request that retarded people be sterilized even though a state law providing for such action was repealed in 1977
we conclude that our district courts possess subject matter jurisdiction over, and accordingly may hear and determine, applications seeking authorization for sterilization of a mentally incapacitated ward, such as that involved here,'' the high court said in an opinion written by justice bruce snell
in his dissent, justice k. david harris said the court was wandering into a subject ``shot through with searching social and ethical questions.''
in taking this first wide leap the majority commits itself to the eventual resolution of a twisted conglomeration of attendant social and ethical issues,'' harris wrote. ``future litigants, faced with unanswered questions of great social and ethical dimensions, or with missing ingredients of a vague application process, will continue to press us for determinations we are singularly unfit to reach.''
the majority rejected that reasoning
we do not believe our courts lack jurisdiction over a case merely because the case is important or unavoidably includes a constitutional dimension,'' the court said. ``as always, we must remain mindful that a court cannot escape the demands of judging or of making ... difficult appraisals.''
the decision came in a polk county case involving jan and tekla matejski, who are legal guardians of their 33-year-old mentally retarded daughter, court records said
the couple filed an application with a lower court seeking authorization to have their daughter sterilized, but a lawyer appointed by the court to represent the daughter's interests argued that there was no provision in iowa law for sterilization
polk county judge glenn e. pille agreed and dismissed the application
both sides appealed
lawyers for the woman noted that in 1977 the legislature repealed a law providing for sterilization of people ``who are mentally ill or retarded, syphilitic, habitual criminals, moral degenerates, or sexual perverts and who are a menace to society.''
while agreeing that lower courts can decide such requests, the high court refused to set guidelines about when it would be appropriate
we are not persuaded that such action is appropriate given the posture of the present case,'' the court said. ``the excursion suggested by the parties would be in the nature of an advisory opinion.''
the high court did not indicate why the parents wanted their daughter sterilized
harris wrote that the court's decision would return to haunt it
at what level of mental retardation can sterilization be compelled?'' harris asked. ``what board or body, if any, will suggest statewide standards?
the good news is that the majority, in its obvious and wise recognition of its inability to do so, chooses not to address these questions,'' harris wrote. ``the bad news is that the majority consigns them to iowa's individual trial judges for ad hoc determinations
iowa's trial courts must now face these and, undoubtedly, a host of other public policy decisions.''
the leading u.s. supreme court case on the issue was buck vs. bell in 1927, in which the court upheld a virginia law that provided for the sterilization of institutionalized retarded persons. the decision set guidelines including the appointment of a guardian, a hearing and the right of appeal
more than 7,500 persons were sterilized before virginia abandoned the program in 1972, according to state records cited by the washington post in 1980. in 1981, the virginia legislature enacted new guidelines for judges deciding sterilization cases
in other cases in recent years:
_in 1985, the california supreme court struck down a law enacted in 1980 that banned sterilization of retarded persons. the following year, a santa clara county superior court judge authorized sterilization of a 31-year-old woman who had down's syndrome. the operation was sought by her parents
_in 1984, the u.s. supreme court killed a $3 million lawsuit filed by a woman who had been sterilized at age 14. the woman had sought damages from the north carolina eugenics board, which approved the surgery in 1974 on the grounds that the woman was mentally retarded
a federal appeals court in virginia had ordered a trial of the suit, but a u.s. district court jury in new bern, n.c., a jury rejected her claim
_in 1981, the new jersey supreme court ruled that incompetent individuals could be sterilized only if a court determined that the operation appeared to be in the best interest of the patient and if procedural safeguards had been followed. the ruling came in a case involving a 19-year-old woman wit
4th graf pvs, `the pentagon ...'; inserts two grafs after 10th graf, `he later ...,' with more detail on higgins' military career
the uncle of a marine lieutenant colonel kidnapped in beirut on wednesday said he expects his nephew will act like an officer and a gentleman
he loves his country. he is capable of standing up as well as an ordinary man will under the circumstances. ... i don't think they could bring enough pressure or pain to cause him to betray his country in any way. i think he would die first,'' said delbert eagle, uncle of lt. col. william r. higgins
higgins' father, william f. higgins, was extremely ill in a louisville hospital wednesday. the pentagon said higgins had come home this fall on emergency leave to visit his father
it's been very trying times because we've been here at the hospital off and on for two weeks. then we hear this. if one thing's bad, two is worse,'' said harold fisher, whose wife, mary, is the marine officer's sister
mary fisher told whas-tv that she called her brother's wife, marine maj. robin higgins, in woodbridge, va., wednesday morning to tell her to get him home from lebanon as soon as possible so he could see his father before he died. that is when she learned of the abduction
fisher said the elder higgins is too ill to understand what happened to his son
the man has not opened his eyes in a couple of days. there's no way he could be able to comprehend, although he may be able to hear,'' he said
the pentagon said higgins, 43, was on temporary detail serving as the chief of the u.n. truce supervision organization's lebanon observer group
u.n. sources said higgins was kidnapped in the late afternoon on the coastal highway between lebanon's southernmost port of tyre and the border town of naqoura, site of the u.n. force's headquarters
higgins' family lived in garrard county in central kentucky when he was born and later moved to louisville, where he was graduated from southern high school in 1963. much of his leisure time was spent with his uncle
he fished a lot with me. he drove me from time to time. he drove me to california once, to florida, down south a couple of times. we were pretty close together as he grew up,'' said eagle, 86, a former circuit court judge
yes, he wanted to be in the military service. he always talked about wanting to go to the military service. he wanted to go to west point,'' eagle said
he was appointed to west point, but elected instead to study at miami university of ohio on a navy rotc scholarship. he was commissioned a 2nd lietenant when he graducated in 1967, with a business degree
he later earned masters' degrees in human resources management at pepperdine university in california and in political science at auburn in alabama
higgins served in vietnam in 1968 and 1972, and later was a rifle company commander in okinawa, japan, an instructor at the staff non-commissioned officers academy at quantico, va., and a rifle company commander at camp lejeune
in 1980, he was a distinguished graduate of the air force command and staff college at maxwell air force base. higgins served in various staff positions at marine corps headquarters in washington and at the pentagon, and graduated from the national war college in 1985
a high school friend said students at southern were surprised when higgins went into the marines
you think of the marines as being macho-type, and he really wasn't like that. but he seems to have done all right at it,'' said rudy fischer, now a lab technician at rohm and haas chemical co. in louisville
he was involved in a lot of social activities, played football and was one of the top students in the class,'' fischer said. ``just pretty much an average guy.''
ralph allen, an assistant principal at southern high school, was a math teacher there when higgins attended and was also a neighbor
he was a top student and very active in school. he played on the football team. he came from a good family and was well liked,'' allen said
eagle said higgins was more studious than athletic but was a boy who ``liked to hunt and fish and romp in the woods.''
higgins is married to marine maj. robin higgins, who works at the pentagon. he has a 17-year-old daughter by a previous marriage. out.</note>
american ballet theater star patrick bissell died from an overdose of cocaine, codeine, methadone and other drugs, according to an autopsy report released wednesday
bissell, 30, was found dead dec. 29 in his apartment in hoboken, across the hudson river from manhattan
hudson county prosecutor paul m. depascale said investigators found ``significant quantities of dangerous substances'' in bissell's body. among the substances were ethanol, painkillers and salicylate, a component of aspirin, the autopsy said
depascale said he has ruled out suicide because no note was found. he said the case was being closed because it was unlikely investigators could trace the source of the drugs
the prosecutor said in december that authorities suspected a drug overdose, but that an autospy and toxicology tests would be needed to determine an official cause of bissell's death
bissell's family said he was having trouble handling the pressures of the highly competitive dance world in new york city
bissell, a principal performer for the theater company, had gone to the betty ford clinic in california last summer and left the substance abuse program ``dried out'' in august, said his twin brother, william. grafs after 7th graf pvs, bgng: ``eban said ...'' to add details of meeting; picks up 8th graf pvs, bgng: ``shultz met ...''</note>
secretary of state george shultz sought support wednesday for his proposals to revive the moribund mideast peace process, meeting with israeli envoy abba eban and members of the senate
shultz, who leaves for moscow late this week, will travel to the middle east at the end of the month to try to push arab and israeli leaders toward the negotiating table
shultz appears encouraged by the support he's gotten so far for his proposals,'' eban told reporters following a 30-minute meeting with the secretary. but he added that ``the positions of the various sides are still far apart and one should not expect the ice to melt right away.''
eban said he supports shultz's initiative ``and the high degree of his activism. i don't think this is just a symbolic effort and that the americans will withdraw afterward. this is a serious initiative.''
shultz is laying the groundwork for the next u.s. administration to continue mediation efforts between arabs and israelis, eban said
eban is a member of the labor party headed by foreign minister shimon peres, who favors the shultz plan. his rival in the coalition government, prime minister yitzhak shamir, has expressed some reservations
eban said he hopes shultz can overcome shamir's hesitancy
at the capitol, sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said shultz did not outline any ``magic solution'' or precise plan for dealing with the problems of the middle east other than to say he would devote himself to the search for a breakthrough
cranston said shultz did provide assurances that, contrary to some reports, egyptian president hosni mubarak is not opting out of the peace process
the senator said shultz, responding to a question, said the united states has urged israel not to use ``undue violence'' in dealing with rebellious palestinians but also has expressed understanding that ``some strength is needed'' to deal with the situation
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said he believes that it is ``high time'' shultz visited the area in an attempt to revitalize the peace process
what we see going on there is a tragic situation and what we see on our newscasts every evening certainly doesn't go over very well with the american people,'' byrd said
shultz met tuesday night with some 25 members of the house to present his proposals and arranged to lay out his plans for senators wednesday night
the plan he will propose in his mideast talks has not been made public, but it reportedly calls for arab-israeli negotiations to start in april on an interim autonomy agreement for the 1.5 million palestinians in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
it envisions that talks on the permanent fate of the territories would begin in december
several arab leaders have rejected the interim solution included in the shultz proposal, while shamir opposes the notion of negotiating for a permanent solution. shamir fears that such talks would force israel to give back the lands it captured from the arabs in the 1967 middle east war
shultz's re-engagement in the peace process was sparked by two months of rioting in the occupied territories in which at least 53 palestinians have been killed. arbitrator ruling against drivers; picks up 3rd graf, `the talks ...'; deletes last two grafs, now redundant.</note>
a union official whose cooperation was considered crucial to saving the new york post boycotted labor-management negotiations wednesday, with a deadline for closing the paper two days away
jerry cronin, president of the 350-member drivers' union, did not join the negotiations. both sides had said agreement was impossible without the cooperation of his union
late in the day, the post announced that arbitrator thomas g. christensen, a labor law professor at new york university, had denied a petition by the drivers' union to stop the paper from closing feb. 19
the union argued that the post was required by contract to give 30 days' notice of any change in work rules, rubenstein said. christensen decided that the rule did not apply if the paper was closing
the newspaper hopes that the drivers will now work with them in reaching an agreement,'' said howard rubenstein, a spokesman for the post
cronin could not be reached for comment
earlier, labor lawyer theodore w. kheel, who is advising the newspaper's union, had said ``there's no chance of a settlement before friday.''
the talks between management and nine post unions at the grand hyatt hotel were scheduled to continue around the clock until the 2 p.m. friday deadline set by post owner rupert murdoch, who has demanded $24 million in union concessions over three years
after meeting for 35 minutes, both sides broke for lunch and consultations. george mcdonald, president of the allied printing trades council, said they had discussed the concession figure and told reporters, ``i feel optimistic. we all had smiles in there, i think.''
if the unions refuse to go along with the concessions, murdoch has said his $37 million sale of the paper to real estate developer peter kalikow will collapse and the paper will close
participants in the talks included post publisher patrick purcell and other post executives, mcdonald and leaders from most of the eight unions which constitute the trades council
purcell had no comment after the brief meeting
one union leader, lenny higgins of the pressmen's union, said one goal was to extend the deadline. ``if he (murdoch) stays with the friday deadline, i don't know what'll happen,'' he said
under the terms of his contract with kalikow, murdoch has until monday to negotiate the union concessions
murdoch opted to sell the post after congress passed legislation preventing cross-ownership of a newspaper and a television station in the same city. murdoch also owns wnyw-tv in new york. he faces a similar cross-ownership situation in boston
murdoch claims he has lost nearly $150 million since purchasing the post 11 years ago. clearwater speech. note that this is a writethru to a0857. disregard a0899, which inadvertently dropped material from a0857</note>
michael dukakis headed full-speed from the northeast into a southern campaign wednesday, spending the day after his new hampshire triumph talking tough on military issues in a region where he hopes to take his next big step toward the democratic nomination
the massachusetts governor, who won a lopsided victory over six democratic rivals in new hampshire on tuesday, left new england at dawn and was in atlanta and campaigning while his triumph was still fresh
in the next three weeks, he will be spending much time _ and money _ in the south, where 14 states will have their primaries on march 8, known as super tuesday
dukakis, more liberal than many southern democrats, put a heavy emphasis on the military after a speech in atlanta, declaring he would use force to stop a foreign aggressor in this hemisphere or to counterattack terrorists
i'm a very tough guy when it comes to terrorism,'' he said
i don't yield on toughness to al gore in any shape or manner,'' he added in a reference to the tennessee senator who has staked his campaign on doing well in the south
dukakis said his emphasis on defense issues had nothing to do with any southern strategy but came simply ``because i was asked about it.'' he also said some issues are more important to some regions than others, adding, ``the south, for many years, has been the location for many military installations.''
his speech to about 500 spectators was essentially the same as his victory speech in manchester tuesday night. dukakis used the words ``strong'' or ``strength'' 14 times in a 15-minute address
former kentucky gov. martha layne collins and former new orleans mayor dutch morial endorsed dukakis in his atlanta appearance. collins said that she and her fellow governors used to say of dukakis, ``now there's something worth watching.''
dukakis said the idea that the south is politically different from the rest of the nation is a false image created by the press
there's a mythology about the south as if it's some kind of foreign country. it's nonsense,'' dukakis said
in his victory speech the previous night, dukakis said, ``i have no southern strategy.''
but his aides say his campaign will focus on texas, florida, north carolina and georgia _ the four southern states with the most delegates to the democratic national convention
the bottom line is delegates; that's what we're looking for super tuesday,'' said alice travis, dukakis' national political coordinator
dukakis also is expected to do well in his home state, in neighboring rhode island and in washington state, all of which also have contests on march 8
john dukakis, who is running his father's southern campaign, said, ``florida, texas, north carolina and georgia are places where we started early. those are the four largest states but we're everywhere and moving quickly.''
in clearwater, fla., dukakis told about 600 cheering supporters: ``i don't have to tell you how important florida is going be.''
dukakis has led in recent polls in florida, which ranks second among super tuesday states with 135 democratic delegates
he also fired a shot across gore's bow when told the tennesssee senator had accused his opponents of being alienated from the electorate
mr. gore left iowa, virtually left new hampshire,'' dukakis said. ``i don't know who's alienated.''
dukakis made it clear wednesday that he would continue to contrast his positions with those of missouri rep. richard gephardt, who finished second to dukakis in new hampshire after beating him in iowa
on foreign trade, one of gephardt's main issues, dukakis said, ``a portion of the problem has to do with unfair trade practices.'' but he also said the federal budget deficit is the primary culprit and he said gephardt helped create the problem by voting for president reagan's 1981 tax cut
in one strategic uncertainty, dukakis' aides say that between now and super tuesday the democratic field could narrow, forcing a more direct comparison of the remaining candidates
during the new hampshire campaign, dukakis said, negative campaigning by his oppoents ``failed miserably. when you have many candidates in a race, trying to strike out at a number of them doesn't work.''
the 20 caucuses and primaries on super tuesday _ including 14 in the south _ won't come to dukakis as easily as new hampshire, his aides recognize
in new hampshire, next door to his home state, dukakis had hundreds of volunteers. in the south, a paid staff of 64 in 15 offices is seeking to create a new volunteer corps
florida, with its northeastern transplants and jewish population, texas with its hispanic vote and north carolina with its concentration of high technology industries will be places where dukakis campaigns hard, said aide travis
dukakis' wife kitty is jewish
the dukakis game plan combines an emphasis on economic growth and opportunity with strengthening of the nation's conventional military force
politically, dukakis is hoping that the credibility he gains from winning new hampshire and from hoped-for good showings in the minnesota caucus and south dakota primary on feb. 22 will make up for any disadvantage created by his ethnic and geographic origin
john dukakis said his father's greek background and immigrant parents ``may be an initial hurdle at times'' in the south. but he said, ``people pronounce his name just fine. people are looking way beyond that.''
boston-based political consultant michael goldman said dukakis campaign sources tell him the governor will spend between $3 million and $4 million in the south to spread his message across such a large region. and john dukakis said the ads would begin with a biographical series, to introduce the candidate to voters. `but railey...', to delete references to smith; person being referred to is process server steve adams.</note>
a former methodist minister accused in a civil lawsuit of trying to kill his wife was served with court papers as he and a female companion tried to flee in california, a newspaper reported tuesday
a process server slipped a copy of the lawsuit under the windshield wipers of a car as walker railey and lucy papillon, a dallas psychologist, sped away from a northern california resort monday, the dallas times herald said
the parents of railey's wife, margaret ``peggy'' railey, filed the lawsuit feb. 2, accusing their son-in-law of the attempted strangulation. the suit seeks unspecified damages
mrs. railey has been in a coma since she was left for dead on the floor of the family's garage april 22. she is in a tyler nursing home
railey denies attacking his wife. he has said he was studying at two libraries and came home to find his wife on the floor
several lawyers told the newspaper that they believe placing the papers under the windshield wipers would be considered a proper service. they said they didn't know of any case with the same circumstances, but that visibility was the key in serving a lawsuit
railey, former minister of the first united methodist church of dallas, and ms. papillon, who reportedly told a dallas county grand jury that she and railey traveled together and once discussed marriage, were spotted at 2 p.m. sunday at a mendocino, calif., inn by process server steve adams of san francisco and a dallas times herald reporter
the couple were drinking beer outside their $140-a-night cabin when they spotted the process server and reporter
railey and ms. papillon ran inside and remained there for 22 hours, the newspaper said. they did not turn on any lights and had food delivered by room service and instructed inn employees to put through telephone calls only from certain individuals
on monday, a resort employee carried their luggage to their rented car. ms. papillon walked out of the cabin, got into the car and railey darted from the cabin with a coat over his head
railey slumped down in the front seat as the car sped out of the driveway. adams ran alongside the car, identified himself as a process server and placed the papers under the windshield wipers, the newspaper said
railey told the dallas morning news in an interview late last week that he was not attempting to avoid the legal papers and was ``keeping a low profile'' to avoid the press
but railey and ms. papillon declined to answer the door at the cabin when adams knocked and identified himself as a process server
railey has until the first monday after the expiration of 20 days since being served to answer the charges in the suit, said bill arnold, attorney for mrs. railey's parents. 7th graf pvs, `minority leader ...'</note>
the arizona senate on wednesday granted gov. evan mecham a one-week delay of his impeachment trial set to begin monday
the action came on a voice vote. earlier in the day, the senate defeated two motions for delay offered by the embattled governor's attorney, murray miller
arizona's chief justice, frank gordon, who will preside at the impeachment trial, told the senate a one-week delay would ultimately save time by allowing some issues to be settled beforehand
however, sen. majority leader bob usdane said, ``there is an ongoing fear ... that this will be the beginning of lots of motions for continuation'' by miller
miller had asked that the trial be put off until criminal charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan are adjudicated. he contended that an impeachment trial would prejudice the criminal trial jury
but a motion to delay the trial until 20 days after the criminal case is resolved lost on a voice vote, and a motion to delay the senate proceeding a flat 90 days went down 24-5, with five republicans supporting the governor
after the one-week delay passed, miller would not say whether he would go to court in an effort to obtain a further delay. he told the senate on tuesday that if the trial was not delayed, he would go to state or federal court
before the two earlier votes wednesday, senate majority leader bob usdane, a republican, had said, ``i think we need to expedite the trial.''
minority leader alan stephens, agreed, saying, ``his (miller's) game is delay. that's his middle name.''
at least 72 people are considering challenging mecham in a recall election may 17, including a former congressman and a former state school superintendent who lost to the republican in 1986
the house impeached mecham on feb. 5 and accused him of concealing the $350,000 loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
wednesday was the first day for recall election candidates to file petition signatures aimed at getting placed on the ballot. mecham will automatically be put on the ballot, but all other candidates must file 3,336 signatures of registered voters by march 18
by midday wednesday, nobody had turned in any petition signatures, but 72 had picked up packets to collect signatures
the most prominent names among them are those of democrat carolyn warner, who lost to mecham in a three-way gubernatorial race in 1986, and former rep. john rhodes, who planned to announce friday whether he would run
but some of the lesser knowns among the prospective candidates also insist they have a shot at unseating mecham
dave colosimo of phoenix, a former teacher and musician, said, ``if i didn't think i could win, i wouldn't run.'' he has never sought public office before and admitted his campaign thus far was a ``one-man show.''
frank vaupell, a phoenix mortgage loan officer, acknowledged he has no real chance of winning. asked why he was running, he said, ``i shouldn't be. there's probably much more qualified people.''
republican national committeeman jack londen also said he will run so voters will have a choice of a conservative candidate in case mecham is barred from running in the recall. if mecham is convicted by the senate, lawmakers could vote to bar him from holding any future public office
londen said he would pull out if mecham stays on the ballot
laos has given the united states remains believed to be those of americans missing from the vietnam war, american and laotian reports said thursday
a statement from the u.s. embassy in vientiane said the mission's charge d'affaires, harriet isom, and military officials received the remains at a ceremony at vientiane airport wednesday
the laotians also handed over pieces of aircraft wreckage they excavated in december and january, the statement said
it said the remains were to flown to bangkok and then to honolulu for analysis at the u.s. army's central identification laboratory
the turnover also was reported wednesday by the official laotian radio
the broadcast, a text of which was obtained thursday from a western embassy in bangkok, said the remains were retrieved during a december excavation in savannakhet province and a january dig in saravane province. both are in laos' southern panhandle area, between thailand and vietnam
at the same time, the lao side also handed over to the u.s. government copies of the i.d. cards of three u.s. soldiers missing in laos,'' the broadcast said
the reports did not specify how many remains were handed over
the broadcast said the act ``shows the sincerity of the ... government in improving relations with the united states.''
there are 555 americans listed as missing in laos from the vietnam war years, most of them airmen shot down during bombing runs against laotian and vietnamese communist positions
laos has been working to improve its relations with the united states with an eye toward getting international aid and economic help from the west. update with details of rebel casualties. picks up 7th graf pvs, `radio venceremos ...'</note>
more than 600 rebels using mortars, grenades and automatic weapons attacked an infantry base and cotton cooperative early wednesday in the biggest guerrilla operation since early 1987
officials said at least 18 people were killed and 14 wounded. the battle raged in and around this provincial capital of 70,000 people 70 miles southeast of san salvador, the capital
military officers said two detachments of about 300 leftist insurgents each took part in the coordinated attacks, which included blowing up two bridges linking the capital and usulutan, el salvador's eastern province
seven members of a civilian family _ a couple and five children aged 7 months to nine years _ were killed when a mortar shell hit their one-room brick and adobe home in a poor neighborhood just outside the 6th infantry brigade headquarters
col. inocencio montano, brigade commander, said five soldiers were killed in combat at advance posts outside the base perimeter and no guerrillas penetrated the base. the attack began at 12:10 a.m. and lasted about three hours, he said
montano said four of the 55 u.s. military advisers stationed in el salvador were at the base when the assault began, but none was in danger
he said the bodies of three guerrillas were brought to the base and two other bodies were removed by the retreating insurgents
radio venceremos, the clandestine rebel transmitter, called the raid a success and claimed the attackers inflicted 190 casualties. it gave no breakdown of dead and wounded
the coordinated attacks appeared to be the largest in scale since the rebels hit the 4th infantry brigade in the northern province of chalatenango last march 31. that battle cost 70 lives, including that of a u.s. military adviser, and more than 100 people were wounded
one member of the military national police was killed in the attack on the salvadoran cotton cooperative ltd. about 5 miles west of usulutan
lt. jose mejia henriquez, commander of the 30-man detachment stationed at the cooperative, said the assault began with mortar and rocket-propelled grenade fire at 12:20 a.m
guerrillas of the farabundo marti national liberation front, who began fighting the u.s.-backed government eight years ago, have waged a campaign of economic sabotage that includes attacks on the coffee, cotton and sugar industries. those industries account for 80 percent of el salvador's export earnings
wednesday's attacks came hours before five central american foreign ministers met at a san salvador hotel to discuss progress in implementing a regional peace plan signed aug. 7
ricardo acevedo peralta, host minister, urged his colleagues to ensure that their countries comply with the plan's prohibition of external aid to insurgents
el salvador's christian democratic government accuses neighboring nicaragua of backing the salvadoran rebels
guerrillas left leaflets on streets around the infantry base calling for popular insurrection and accusing president jose napoleon duarte of ``selling national sovereignty to the united states.''
the attack's effect was evident well into the afternoon. trucks full of soldiers with m-16 assault rifles sped along dusty roads. helicopters and spotter planes flew overhead
montano said the guerrillas retreated to the north toward san vicente volcano, on whose slopes insurgents camp
lt. mejia at the cotton cooperative said the attack there began with about 15 minutes of mortar fire
then they attacked shouting like indians,'' he said on the porch of the cooperative's offices. ``they shouted at us to surrender, calling to me by my name that it was useless to resist.''
he said he and his men held off the attackers from trenches at the front of the cooperative, but guerrilla fighters penetrated from the sides and rear. seven of the unit's open-sided warehouses were burned
at the palo seco crossing 9 miles west of usulutan, peasants milled around a hole 50 feet long and 20 deep where a bridge had been the day before
residents said the they heard a tremendous explosion at about 12:30 a.m. and rebels then blew down power poles on either side of the road
local officials reported skirmishes in at least three other provinces _ san miguel, cabanas and chalatenango
rebel radio said the attacks in san miguel and the northeastern province of morazan were part of a new operation they called ``death to the killers of herbert anaya sanabria.''
anaya, coordinator of the independent salvadoran human rights commission, was assassinated oct. 26
the united states plans to give to west germany the world's largest collection of nazi documents, u.s. officials said wednesday
the berlin document center, administered by the united states, holds about 30 million documents from the nazi era. they can be viewed by scholars, government officials, prosecutors investigating nazi war crimes and others
west germany and the united states have been discussing a west german takeover of the archives for years
the two countries have agreed that the center's archives will be given to west germany after they are copied on microfilm, according to officials from both sides
under the plan, the originals will be handed over to the west german federal archives, and the microfilm copies will be taken to the united states for storage
u.s. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said about half the center's documents have already been copied onto microfilm
the west german government is paying for the copying of the documents
west berlin justice officials, meanwhile, said an investigation into the possible theft of tens of thousands of documents from the berlin document center was still under way
a spokesman for the west berlin justice department, volker kaehne, denied news reports that an arrest in the case was imminent, and said investigators could not yet determine how long their probe would take
prices shot above official levels wednesday as the nicaraguan government implemented a plan to replace its old currency with new notes
prices for eggs, cooking oil and soft drinks tripled
at least 40 nicarguans were arrested for currency violations and police said several u.s. embassy employees were caught illegally exchanging currency
commander doris tijerino, the city's police chief, said none of the embassy employees were arrested
the program, which went into effect monday, replaced the old cordoba currency with new cordoba notes pegged at a higher value to the u.s. dollar. nicaraguans had three days to exchange their old cordoba bills for new ones
the government closed the period for trading old bills wednesday, claiming enough new bills were in circulation
commander rene vivas, deputy interior minister, told the sandinista newspaper barricada that the government had discovered a contra plan to introduce large quantities of old cordobas into the country
he said border customs houses were closed monday to stop the alleged plan
the cordoba is worth 1,000 times more than the old currency. the new cordoba is worth about 10 u.s. cents
the sandinista government also authorized price increases of up to 500 percent for a list of 33 basic staples, and raised salaries up to five times above their december levels
the government said it sought to curb inflation, which reached 1,500 percent in 1987
but prices for many basic goods suddenly jumped beyond their official levels this week _ even at government sales booths that ration the commodities
a carton of 30 eggs that went for the equivalent of 15 new cordobas last week rose to 50 cordobas at the government booths, and fetched 60 in the black market. meat prices also shot up
a liter (about a quart) of cooking oil that sold for 3.7 cordobas in the government booths last week rose to 12 this week. in the black market, the price per liter went from 100 to 150 cordobas
thousands of people were angered with the new prices, according to a new radio channel the government set up last weekend to explain the reforms
one resident of the villa libertad district, in the east of managua, complained that a tiny corn tortilla ``smaller than a hand'' now costs a full cordoba, double what it did before the currency swap
soft drinks that used to cost 3 cordobas now cost 15, even though the government's fixed price was ten, he complained
newspapers also raised their prices. the opposition daily la prensa, which formerly cost the equivalent of two new cordobas, sold for ten wednesday. barricada, the government daily, sold for five cordobas, up from one last week. nicaraguans were only allowed to cash in 10 million cordobas. those arrested for currency violations face up to six months in prison
tijerino, the police chief, said ``various vehicles from the american embassy were surprised giving personnel (at an exchange house) packets that supposedly contained money.''
he said the law mandates all foreign embassy personnel change their old currency at the foreign ministry
it was not clear whether the embassy employees were americans. news digest: concord, n.h._nh primary rdp, a0520; greenland, n.h._how bush did it, a0491; undated_new hampshire analysis, a0459; atlanta_looking south, a0454; beverly hills, calif._oscar nominations, a0498; washington_biden health, a0455; athens, greece_plo deportees, a0442; turin, italy_robotic fiat, a0421; leadville, colo._mining museum, a0423.</note>
a man who had been fired from a top-secret defense plant shot 12 people there, including a woman who spurned his attention, and killed seven before surrendering, authorities said
richard wade farley, 39, of nearby san jose walked from the sprawling two-story esl corp. building about 8:30 p.m. tuesday with his hands in the air. he was quickly surrounded by three officers and taken to the santa clara county jail
daryl anderson, an esl business analyst, said she was in her second-floor office when the gunman came down the hall firing shots between 2:30 and 3 p.m. she said bullets punctured her office door. laura black, the woman who spurned him, was shot in the shoulder, said sunnyvale public safety lt. reuben grijalva
after months of debate, the u.s. energy department has decided not to restart the flawed and aging n reactor, one of four reactors supplying the u.s. nuclear arsenal with bomb-grade plutonium
the n reactor has been closed since january 1987 for about $70 million worth of safety improvements prompted by the nuclear disaster that killed 31 people at the similarly designed soviet nuclear plant at chernobyl
energy secretary john herrington announced tuesday the reactor at the hanford nuclear reservation will be placed on ``cold standby'' status, forcing about 2,600 workers to be laid off in the next two years
the obscure cargo airline that eastern airlines is counting on to keep it aloft in case of a strike faces questions about its safety record as the government decides whether it is fit to carry passengers
few air travelers have ever heard of orion air, a north carolina cargo carrier which serves such air freight companies as united parcel service, emery air freight and purolator
but if labor strife intensifies at eastern, many of that airline's customers may find themselves with tickets to fly orion _ and the prospect has caused federal safety officials to step up scrutiny of the airline
recently eastern entered into an agreement with orion, including the leasing of 26 of eastern's jetliners, that call on the airline to take over much of eastern's routes if pilots and mechanics go on strike. orion would fly the eastern planes with its own pilots and ground workers, eastern officials said
but the faa has yet to approve orion for passenger service, and a senior agency official said tuesday that an enforcement proceeding is under way that likely will include fines against orion because of past safety violations
if the trend by many taxpayers to delay filing their federal tax returns continues to spread, the federal government could feel the pinch _ right in the pocketbook
lawrence b. gibbs, commissioner of the internal revenue service, notes that five years ago, 14 percent of all individual returns were filed in january and 34 percent in april. but last year, only 4 percent were filed during the first month and almost 40 percent in april
if this trend were exacerbated by tax reform (the sweeping 1986 law), it could jam the system by slowing down processing and the issuance of refunds,'' gibbs told a senate finance subcommittee tuesday. ``as a result, there could be a high price to pay
if we don't process returns within a 45-day period after the return due date the government must pay interest on refunds,'' he noted. that due date is april 15
israeli soldiers opened fire on palestinian demonstrators in a west bank village today, killing one with a shot through the heart and wounding four others, arab reports and hospital officials said
the clashes occurred at the village of shuyukh, northeast of the city of hebron, said the arab-run palestine press service
the army said it was checking the report
the house of lords defeated a bid to water down legislation restricting the promotion of homosexuality by local governments, making it virtually certain the measure will become law
the lords, the unelected upper chamber of parliament, voted 90-48 on tuesday night to defeat an amendment to legislation regulating local government powers
the restriction on promoting homosexuality is included in a legislative package proposed by prime minister margaret thatcher's conservative administration
a proposed merger of the tire-making divisions of firestone tire &amp; rubber co. and tokyo-based bridgestone corp. would give a japanese company a significant stake in a major u.s. industry
firestone, fifth in worldwide tire sales in 1986, announced tuesday the plan to merge its tire business with no. 3 bridgestone
creation of the joint venture, of which bridgestone would own about 75 percent, is expected to generate more than $1 billion in cash for firestone, the company says. news digest: beirut, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap; undated _ political rdp; concord, n.h. _ the south and beyond; hebron, occupied west bank _ israel; tel aviv, israel _ israel-mood; sunnyvale, calif. _ sunnyvale shooting; san juan, puerto rico _ haiti-colonel; beijing _ china-population.</note>
there are no medals when you come in sixth, observed sixth-place new hampshire finisher bruce babbitt on wednesday. nor are there headlines or chunks of money coming in, but for the day, at least, he stayed in the race and so did the others who failed to win or place
only the presidential candidates named bush, dole, dukakis and gephardt didn't have to face questions about their steadfastness in the wake of the first primary. a strong third in this contest wasn't good enough, according to sen. paul simon, d-ill
it makes a huge difference,'' said simon on nbc's ``today'' show. ``first of all in media momentum _ the headlines in the morning newspaper have his name, rather than mine. it makes a great deal of difference in money.'' the ``he'' was richard gephardt who bested simon 20 percent to 18 percent in the democratic contest. the winner, of course, was massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, whose finish in his neighboring state came as no surprise.   
michael dukakis headed full-speed from the northeast into a southern campaign wednesday, spending the day after his new hampshire triumph talking tough on military issues in a region where he hopes to take his next big step toward the democratic nomination
the massachusetts governor, who won a lopsided victory over six democratic rivals in new hampshire on tuesday, left new england at dawn and was in atlanta and campaigning while his triumph was still fresh
in the next three weeks, he will be spending much time _ and money _ in the south, where 14 states will have their primaries on march 8, known as super tuesday
the last emperor,'' a panoramic drama of modern china, scored top honors with nine nominations wednesday in an oscar race that included cher, robin williams and michael douglas but overlooked directors steven spielberg and james l. brooks
broadcast news,'' the comedy-romance set in a television news bureau, followed with seven nominations including those for stars william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks. james brooks was nominated as producer and writer, but surprisingly, not as director
spielberg's ``empire of the sun'' tied ``fatal attraction'' and ``moonstruck'' with six nominations, but spielberg was not mentioned for his direction, nor did the film make the best movie list. in 1985, spielberg's ``the color purple'' collected 11 nominations, but none for the director
secretary of state george p. shultz will meet with noted soviet dissident andrei d. sakharov on his trip to moscow next weekend to underline u.s. support for the human rights movement
human rights is high on his agenda,'' department spokesman charles e. redman said wednesday. ``mr. sakharov obviously is a person well-placed to talk about these kind of issues.''
assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway, in a u.s. government telecast to western europe, said human rights has ``pride of place'' on shultz's agenda
soviet firefighters overseen by americans extinguished a fire wednesday in the u.s. embassy, the aging building the united states has been unable to abandon because of bugging devices that riddle a new structure
about 150 embassy employees were evacuated and sent home for the day, embassy spokesman richard gilbert said. no one was injured
u.s. embassy officials said soviet firefighters were called to put out the fire in an unoccupied fifth-floor residential section after they decided embassy personnel couldn't extinguish it on their own
the rigid soviet bureaucracy must loosen its grip on schools and provide better training in computers and other technology to ensure the survival of the country, a top official said wednesday
yegor k. ligachev, generally regarded as the no. 2 communist party official, outlined plans for the overhaul in a two-hour speech to the party's policy-making central committee
ligachev said the reforms will include increased distribution of computers and decentralization of decision-making in education, which he said is now done by ministries using ``bureaucratic methods, in a conservative spirit.''
housing construction suffered a second consecutive monthly decline in january, dipping to the weakest pace since the end of the last recession, the government reported wednesday
the 1.9 percent january decline in construction of single-family homes and apartments, reported by the commerce department, raised new concerns among some economists about the possibility of a recession this year
however, other analysts pointed to a second government report showing that industrial production rose for the fourth consecutive month in january. the 0.2 percent rise in industrial output followed larger gains of 0.4 percent in both november and december
president reagan on wednesday prepared to send his fiscal 1989 spending plan to congress and launch the last and likely least contentious budget debate of his presidency
the $1.1 trillion fiscal blueprint being unveiled thursday was expected to reprise reagan's oft-rejected requests for cutting domestic programs, with some new proposals for transferring government functions including parks management and perhaps amtrak railroad service to private industry
but the plan also was being crafted to comply with the spending agreement reached last fall in the budget ``summit'' between reagan and congressional leaders
shock-wave machines, which already have revolutionized the treatment of kidney stones, can also safely smash gallstones and could replace surgery for more than 100,000 americans each year, according to new research
german doctors reported that the machine is ``a safe and effective treatment in selected patients'' with gallstones. their study is the first large-scale examination of the machine's potential in dealing with this common problem
it's the only really good study that's been done in the world, and it's very optimistic data by a very good group,'' said dr. randolph b. reinhold of new england medical center in boston
history buffs organizing re-enactments of major civil war battles this summer are running into the same problem gens. ulysses s. grant and robert e. lee faced 125 years ago _ not enough billy yanks and johnny rebs to go around
there are so many re-enactments planned that you could stay busy just about every weekend,'' said charles sullivan, a member of ``stanford's mississippi battery.''
but the civil war fanatics who dress up in blue or gray to camp out and charge through fields in battlefield re-enactments have a manpower solution that was not available in the civil war _ fight for both sides
pierce brosnan, who'd never been to asia before, started last year with a miniseries in hong kong and ended it with a movie in india
in between, he returned to his native ireland to do an independent film with some friends
the miniseries, ``noble house,'' starts its eight-hour, four-part run on nbc this sunday. it's based on the best-selling book by james clavell
the movie in india is ``the deceivers,'' from the book by john masters. the irish movie is ``taffin.''
in ``noble house,'' brosnan stars as ian dunross, the tai-pan, or boss, of hong kong's leading trading house. it also stars deborah raffin, ben masters, john houseman, john rhys-davies and julia nickson. gary nelson directed it on location in hong kong for 12 weeks and at the dino de laurentiis studio in north carolina for another 12 weeks
hong kong was my first step into the orient,'' said brosnan. ``it's a fascinating place, sort of a condensed version of new york city. my schedule was such that i had time to go around and see the place. i bought an automatic camera and did some photography
what was around me was so exciting to look at and so different. the colors and the light were magical. having started life as a commercial artist, i've always looked at things as though to paint them. i used a zoom lens because the chinese don't like having their pictures taken.''
as the story opens, dunross has just taken over the family's trading empire
he's fairly ruthless in his dealings with people,'' said brosnan. ``he has a remoteness to him. an isolated charm. i've never played a character like him before. the job came at a very opportune moment, after the whole incident of james bond and `remington steele.'''
after nbc canceled ``remington steele'' a few seasons back, brosnan was asked to become the next james bond. roger moore had decided to step down as 007. then, because of the publicity over bond, nbc put ``remington steele'' back on the schedule, and brosnan was dropped from the bond picture
did he see the offer of the role in ``noble house'' as a peace offering?
i never thought of it as a peace offering,'' he answered. ``i saw it as a way of putting as much distance between myself and `remington steele' as possible. i'd always enjoyed doing the series, but i knew coming back for six more episodes was hogwash. they wanted to have their cake and eat it
the turmoil for me was the on and off anxiety of the bond part. it lasted an eternity. i was offered james bond. i said yes. `remington steele' was brought back. that's enough to say on the subject. it was a shame because `remington steele' was never allowed to finish with any grace.''
as it turned out, timothy dalton was hired to play james bond in ``the living daylights.'' brosnan said he sees no chance that he will ever play the role
his wife, cassandra harris, was moore's leading lady in the bond movie ``for your eyes only.''
brosnan's india movie, ``the deceivers,'' is set in 1824 and focuses on the thugs who worshipped the god of destruction, kali
i play an englishman, a glorified accountant working for the east india trading co.,'' he said. ``he discovers this cult and disguises himself as an indian. he goes on the road with the thugs, who kill people by strangulation.''
brosnan's only current appearances on tv are in a commercial for diet coke, which was premiered during the super bowl coverage. it was filmed on a speeding train in england and looks like a scene right out of a spy thriller such as a bond movie, or perhaps ``the fourth protocol,'' in which brosnan played a soviet agent being tracked down by michael caine
that was me walking on top of that train,'' he said. ``it was going 40 miles an hour. if i'd fallen off that sucker i'd never have done `the deceivers.'''
elsewhere in television:
guest stars _ executive producer fred de cordova says in redbook that not everybody wants to be a guest on nbc's ``the tonight show.'' among the holdouts who say no: woody allen, al pacino, dustin hoffman, jessica lange, robert redford, robert deniro, jack nicholson, meryl streep, paul newman, katharine hepburn, anne bancroft and sir john gielgud. the article is taken from his forthcoming book ``johnny come lately.'' ..
no zoo _ cbs has changed its mind on a sitcom for mary hart of ``entertainment tonight.'' she was to have played a zoo veterinarian married to a cartoonist. hart, who has a nightclub act, made her tv singing and dancing debut on abc's ``dolly!''
kevin spacey, who has been wowing tv audiences with his portrayal of brilliant, bedeviled bad guy mel profitt on cbs' ``wiseguy,'' had a tough act to follow
ray sharkey had created one of the season's best villains in sonny steelgrave, a tough new jersey-based crime boss who turned out to be so lovable that undercover hero vinnie terranova (ken wahl) wept when he died
but steelgrave was gone, and vinnie had to have a new investigation
enter mel and susan profitt (joan severance), a bizarre brother-sister act with an international crime syndicate and a vaguely incestuous relationship
mel, a manic-depressive with a genius iq, gets his self-destruction wish in monday's episode. the finite role is what appealed to spacey
i was really attracted to be able to go and do a role for a number of weeks, find out what it was like to do a tv series but not be tied to one, create a character that hopefully will be memorable and get out,'' spacey said recently, back home in manhattan
you know, the crew, they're the biggest critics, they not only were in love with the character (sonny steelgrave), they knew ray, and they hung out with ray, and they were, like, ray's pal, and here was this new york actor coming in.''
by his last day on the set, spacey said, ``one of the crew members came up and said, `you know, when you came on, we thought no one would ever make us forget, uh ... what's his name?' i thought that was a really great compliment.''
if spacey won over the ``wiseguy'' crew, he also won over audiences. back in new york, he said, people were stopping him on the street and quoting lines from the show to him
wiseguy'' premiered last fall on thursday, opposite nbc's high-rated lineup, so it didn't get much attention. but with the introduction of the profitts mid-season, cbs moved it to monday night, where it is doing better
spacey, a dedicated new york stage actor, had little screen time before the series. he starred on broadway in ``hurly burly'' and later with jack lemmon in ``long day's journey into night,'' a performance that can be seen later this season on pbs. he worked with lemmon again in nbc's recent miniseries ``the murder of mary phagan.'' spacey played a newspaper reporter
he has a movie due out in april, ``rocket gibraltar,'' in which he plays burt lancaster's son, a standup comic. spacey, in fact, did standup as an impressionist in los angeles. his specialty is johnny carson, but he also does a mean katharine hepburn
spacey went to vancouver to shoot ``wiseguy.'' a number of film projects have moved to canada because of lower production costs
i travel with a large black labrador named slate,'' spacey said. ``my dog's traveled all over the world, and he's this incredible, like, east side dog. i found him as a stray in '81. and i hate hotel life, it's too busy. so i went on the hunt and found this great apartment, very quiet and secluded down near the largest park in vancouver, stanley park. i thought, great, no actors. nobody knows about it
i get in the elevator the first day i'm living there, and katharine hepburn is standing in it.''
hepburn was shooting an nbc movie. spacey notes casually that he and hepburn knew each other already
when he was 15, spacey said, he saw hepburn in a los angeles production of ``a matter of gravity.'' he waited for her in the parking lot with a bouquet of flowers. the gesture won him a few precious minutes with the actress
after a performance of ``long day's journey,'' hepburn came backstage to congratulate the actors. spacey said he was too choked up to mention their meeting of years before
but the next day he sent her another bouquet, with a letter. he got a note back, he said, which, in typical hepburn style, noted it was the first time she had received flowers for simply attending the theater, not performing. since then, the two have stayed in touch
sign language _ nbc's ``hunter'' features several deaf actors as guest stars in the march 1 episode, ``death signs.'' the episode is based on a mystery novel of the same title by minneapolis writer edward hunsberger and features deaf actors mary vreeland, howie sego, david balachier and solly brandt. director james whitmore jr. had a special challenge because scenes of the deaf actors' dialogue had to include their signing, ruling out typical film devices such as closeups and voiceovers
since the wall street crash last fall, many savers and investors have been taking a closer look at bond mutual funds as an alternative to stock funds
bond prices and bond fund net asset values have generally been rising since october as interest rates have fallen
in fact, most analysts agree, one reason for that trend has been strong demand for bonds by investors large and small who have been scared away from the stock market
but if bonds and bond funds are the trendy thing right now, do they make sense as a place to put your money if you aren't particularly interested in high current income from your savings? does the prospective reward match up well with the risks involved?
the overall return bond funds will produce in the future depends to a significant extent on such imponderables as what happens to interest rates and the economy
if you think the nation is headed for a calamitous, deflationary recession, a fund investing in treasury bonds would seem a logical bet
the bonds are backed by a guarantee from the federal government. and should circumstances ever reach the point that the united states defaults on its obligations, just about all other domestic investments (with the possible exception of gold) will surely be in terrible shape as well
if, on the other hand, you think a financial armageddon isn't in the cards, the question is more problematical. a study just conducted by burt berry, a san francisco investment adviser, may give you some pause before investing in a high-quality bond fund
in his newsletter noload fund x, berry compared the performance of four different types of funds over the 10-year period that ended dec. 31
that would seem a good test period, in that it included a couple of recessions, an energy crisis, a near-panic on inflation, a long bull market for stocks and, as a finale, a market crash
especially pertinent for bonds, it also contained spells of both high and rising interest rates and low and falling interest rates
to represent the stock market, berry chose the vanguard 500 index trust, a mutual fund set up to track as closely as possible the ups and downs of the standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index. each $100 invested in that fund at the end of 1977 grew to $389 a decade later, for an annual compound growth rate of 14.6 percent
as a gauge of the performance of high-yielding, lower-rated bonds _ widely known as ``junk'' bonds _ he picked the fidelity high income fund, which increased a $100 investment over the 10 years to $323, for an annual compound growth rate of 12.4 percent
from the ranks of the high-quality bond funds, the vanguard fixed income securities investment grade portfolio increased $100 to $254, which translates to annual compound growth of 9.8 percent
in the same span the reserve fund, a money market fund, turned $100 into $258, producing annual growth of 9.9 percent
a comparison of the last two funds is striking. holders of the high-quality bond fund were not compensated for the constant risk they faced of fluctuations in the fund's net asset value. the return they received failed even to match what investors got from the money fund, which normally has a constant net asset value
this, said berry, ``raises the question whether bond funds, except for high yield bond funds, merit the additional risk compared to money funds or the stock market.''
meet richard m. marcus, the gourmet peanut-butter entrepreneur who's nuts about his job
i come in here every day and think, `thank god! this is marvelous!' it's the most exciting thing i've ever done in my life. somedays, i'm just bursting,'' he says before climbing a metal ladder and ducking his head into a 700-pound vat of dry-roasted peanuts
marcus is a former symphony conductor, piano teacher and nursery school administrator who spent the better part of his adult life yearning for the gooey, old-fashioned taste of the peanut butter he remembered from childhood
which is why he started grinding peanut butter in his wife's blender 25 years ago
and it is why he sells a couple of million dollars worth of his speciality peanut butter in supermarkets, gourmet shops and health-food stores from maryland to connecticut
i was making it and giving it to my friends, my students, my dentist, in little 1{-ounce jars. listen, 1{ ounces of peanut butter is a lot of work when you're making it by hand. anyway, people kept saying, `you ought to sell this,''' said the 58-year-old president of c.r. foods inc. during a recent interview
he paused to look at several one-pound jars of crazy richard's peanut butter that line his paneled office at the camden county plant. then, breaking into a rich belly laugh, he shrugged, ``who knew?''
certainly not marcus, who studied conducting with leonard bernstein and toured as the musical director of the royal winnipeg ballet before coming home to philadelphia to teach piano to children
but even as he toured the world as a musician, he kept looking for a peanut butter made from just plain 100 percent peanuts, just like it says today on every one of his brown-and-orange labels
the truth is it really doesn't require those additives. peanut butter does not have to be salted, sweetened or stabilized. what the heck's wrong with the oil rising to the top? just take a table knife and stir it down. meanwhile what you have is a purer form of food,'' he said
he learned he wasn't the only person who liked his specialty line of peanut butter made sans sugar, salt and oil
in 1973, he started making his peanut butter with the help of a plant in conshocken, pa., a suburb of philadelphia
by 1979, he sold a private school which he had started in philadelphia and turned to making peanut butter full time, first at a rented facility in pennsauken and now at the plant he bought last year in this new jersey suburb of philadelphia
in his first year, he sold 18,000 cases. now, he says he's selling more than twice that amount annually
we will sell between three-quarters of a million to 1 million jars this year. it's very exciting, especially when you realize this is something i started in the back of my car with 144 jars,'' he said
the kitchen blender has long been retired and replaced by a 1910 grinding machine that churns out about 4,000 gallons of crazy richard's peanut butter on a good day when the line is running and all eight of the plant's employees are on hand
this machine doesn't know how to make modern-day peanut butter. it couldn't even if we wanted to,'' said marcus, who stopped eating the modern stuff in the 1940s when homogenization was introduced to peanut butter manufacturing
homogenization breaks down the fat particles and blends the fat throughout the rest of the product. marcus' unhomogenized peanut butter has swirls of oil floating on top, which in his words, defines real peanut butter
marcus says the homogenizing process ``altered, once and for all, the taste of peanut butter in america.''
sometimes i'm amazed there was no public outcry.'' he said. ``everything was homogenized in those days. nobody knew what it meant, but if it didn't have it, they wouldn't buy it,'' he said
there are three products in his line: creamy, chunky and chocolate-flavored peanut butter. none is homogenized, all are his favorites
i usually have it for breakfast. if you have it for breakfast, you don't need lunch. it really quells the appetite,'' he said while briskly strolling past pallets piled with burlap bags of peanuts or cardboard cases of the finished product
he attributes much of his success to entering the market just at a time when the back-to-nature movement was emerging in the 1970s
processing changes the consistency and flavor of food. here, you get it in the natural state,'' he said, adding that luck also seemed to play a major role in his success
crazy richard, although a regional food product, is slowly expanding its market. it opened its national mail-order business in december with three small advertisments in the new yorker magazine
according to marcus, the calls are still coming in
editor's note: toll-free telephone no. 1-800-322-yumm
cadet julianna klejnot is out of uniform this day at norwich university, and that's unprecedented in the 168-year history of the oldest private military college in the united states
instead of her standard green skirt and shirt, she is wearing blue jeans and a pink cotton warm-up jacket. she's one of three cadets on a work detail winterizing a widow's home off campus
the cadets form a peace corps squad that has invaded the military college in a pilot program designed to prepare students in their junior and senior years for the peace corps or other volunteer relief agencies
the program, the only one of its kind in the nation, is intended as an alternative to campus rotc and eventually military service
norwich and peace corps officials hope other colleges will follow suit and that the federal government will join with the schools and finance the training effort as it has done with rotc military training on 400 campuses. other schools already have made inquiries to norwich
a bill is pending in congress that would authorize $5 million a year for five years to enable the peace corps to test the program at other schools. norwich went ahead on its own and added the peace corps to its curriculum last september, and will foot the cost itself
the peace corps is campaigning to double its volunteers to 10,000 by 1992 and has challenged colleges to find ways to help
because of programs like the one in norwich, we will be able to reach that goal,'' said james c. flanigan, peace corps press officer in washington
lewis greenstein, the peace corps liaison with universities, called the norwich pilot program a promising model for other colleges and the forerunner of a federally sponsored plan of incentives for undergraduates to consider the volunteer service agency. still, he acknowledged ``the irony of a military school preparing people for the peace corps.''
the impetus came from university president w. russell todd, a retired general with 32 years of army service including combat duty in vietnam. todd, his son and his father are all graduates of norwich
the most exciting thing about it is the way people perceive norwich university,'' said todd. ``they've seen us as a bunch of rambos. and when we've expressed our mission in terms of the peace corps, we've had a very, very positive reaction from some people.''
norwich university consists of two campuses and two student bodies, one military and one civilian. the peace corps program has drawn students from each
the military college was founded in 1819, and the murals and plaques on its walls attest to its heroes from the mexican war of 1847 to vietnam
the civilian campus, vermont college, eight miles away in montpelier, was founded in 1834 as a methodist seminary
it was merged into norwich university in 1972 to allow a wider variety of programs and more opportunities for expansion. the military college has an enrollment of 1,300 cadets, including 81 women, while the civilian college has 900 students
todd said he had been looking for a way to give the civilian part of the student body the sense of national service _ and when his wife, caroline, came back from a conference on volunteerism last summer, she told him, ``i found what we've been looking for.''
she had heard loret miller ruppe, director of the peace corps, report on a proposal by rev. theodore m. hesburgh, president emeritus of the university of notre dame, that the federal government devise an rotc-like peace corps preparation program that colleges could incorporate
so rather than wait for the federal government to devise a program, we decided we'd experiment,'' said todd. ``when i discussed it with the peace corps, they were fascinated.''
but what surprised todd was that the peace corps was not nearly as interested as he was in putting the program on the civilian campus. instead, they wanted it on the military campus because of the cadet corps' physical and leadership training. a compromise was struck to make it available to students on both campuses
only four students are enrolled in the first class, three of whom had been in rotc on the military campus and one from the civilian campus. todd, who attributed the low enrollment to the program's newness last fall, said the goal is 60 students two years from now
the four students now enrolled are not sure whether they will go into the peace corps. students are not committed to entering once they graduate, nor is the peace corps under obligation to accept them
as an incentive, norwich is offering low interest loans of up to $5,000 to students in their senior year, then writing them off if they complete two years service in the peace corps
military students at norwich must take four years of rotc, but service after graduation is optional. if they agree to accept a commission for active service after graduation, they are paid $100 a month in their last two years of college. otherwise, they receive no monthly stipend while in school and go into the reserves upon graduation
tuition, fees and room and board run $12,500 a year at norwich
miss klejnot, a 21-year-old junior biology major from portland, maine, initially enrolled in air force rotc because she wanted to see what the military was like. but after 2{ years, she decided she didn't want to devote her future to a regulated life in the military
the peace corps option was available so i decided to see what it was like,'' she said
even though she dropped rotc, she still has to wear her uniform and attend three formations a day, a requirement for all cadets on the military campus
the peace corps program was designed by richard may, the director and university chaplain, and a committee of faculty members who had worked with the peace corps and other volunteer agencies in third world countries. may himself had worked with cambodian refugees while serving as a navy line officer in vietnam
he also went to the agencies themselves to find out why their volunteers did or did not complete their tours. the peace corps has a dropout rate of about 30 percent. may said he found that many volunteers have little community service experience and are frustrated once they arrive overseas
the norwich program includes three hours of work in the community once a week, classroom studies of the third world and a summer internship between the junior and senior years in jamaica working in the slums of kingston
the whole emphasis in the military is to keep from going to war by strength,'' said todd. ``the other half of the equation is to make friends and make the world a better place ... and you won't have to go to war either.''
george esper is the ap northeast regional reporter, based in boston. ... jean-claude paul'' with miami informant linking paul to drug trafficking. picks up 23rd graf pvs, ``the dessalines ...'' ^an ap extra</head>
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the 7,000-member military, long a dominant force in haiti, would be put to work building bridges and promoting public health under a reorganization plan drawn up by the nation's new leader
the plan, a key part of the 86-page platform of president leslie manigat's national democratic progressive rally, also would separate the police from the armed forces and put them under civilian control
there is a perception the army was ... corrupted by the duvalier dictatorship,'' the party document says. ``but there is another truth, also incontestable, that the army was the victim of the duvalier dictatorship, which humiliated, dismantled and decapitated it.''
there must be a ... rehabilitation to wipe out the image that the army is a repressive force against the civilian population.''
manigat as a candidate and now president has acted as a buffer between the army and its harshest critics. he claims he can control the institution that has dominated politics in this impoverished caribbean country of 6 million people from the time haiti won independence from france in 1804
following the end of the 19-year u.s. occupation in 1934, the army put dumarsais estime in as president in 1946, took power itself in 1950 under col. paul magloire, and helped francois ``papa doc'' duvalier win a disputed election that began a brutal 29-year dictatorship in 1957
duvalier set up the tonton macoutes militia, which came to be generally regarded as street thugs, when the army and coast guard plotted against him. he emasculated haiti's armed forces by shuffling, retiring and sometimes executing commanders. he based promotions on loyalty to him, and gave away state monopolies to his military favorites
when duvalier's son and successor, jean-claude ``baby doc'' duvalier, fled into exile in february 1986, a military-dominated junta led by lt. gen. henri namphy, then the army's chief of staff, took control and ruled by decree for two years leading up to manigat's election jan. 17 and inauguration feb. 7
opposition leaders say it remains to be seen whether the army will return to the barracks as namphy, now the commander in chief, had pledged before the election, and whether manigat has the power to reorganize or dismantle an entrenched military hierarchy
a western diplomat who closely tracks political and military developments here said in an interview: ``all those who made officer between 1959 and 1971 were duvalier appointees of very low quality. ... the officers who graduated in 1973 (two years after ``baby doc'' reopened the haitian military academy) ... see things differently. they're more progressive, they're more educated, they're more professional
but they're blocked by the system, they're blocked by the duvalier appointees above them _ the colonels, the generals _ who are not leaving,'' said the diplomat, speaking only on condition of anonymity
the military also has been linked to drug trafficking and to the smuggling of cars, rice, sugar and other goods
the u.s. drug enforcement administration opened an office in port-au-prince in november because cocaine smuggling was rising so rapidly in haiti. a dea informant, osvaldo quintana, testified in federal court in miami, fla., in january that the trafficking was taking place under the protection of haitian soldiers
armed forces of haiti officials rarely respond to such criticism or charges. the military is a closed, secretive organization
all interviews have to be cleared with brig. gen. carl michel nicolas, who is namphy's successor as chief of staff. nicolas did not respond to a written request for an interview with the associated press
the present-day army structure was established by u.s. marines in 1916 to help put down a guerrilla-style insurrection. it is the main component of the armed forces, which also include the police, coast guard, fire department, a presidential guard and several other battalions and departmental commands
the armed forces' main role is to protect the president and maintain security _ a difficult task given their small numbers and inadequate equipment and training. the fire department is notoriously slow, and residents who have been robbed have to send their own cars to pick up police investigators
military recruits, drawn from the lower middle class, are paid the equivalent of $160 a month on a pay scale that ranges up to $1,800 for colonels and $3,400 for namphy, the top commander
enlistment terms run for six years and the military is considered a good career in a country where more than half the population cannot find steady work and the annual per capita income is about $350
training is limited, and equipment consists mostly of aging hand-me-downs from the united states _ m-1 rifles and m-14 automatic weapons, a half-dozen helicopters of which only two or three work, a few armored personnel carriers and some cutters that patrol the coast
for 7,000 men, fewer than a single u.s. army division, there are five generals and 24 colonels
while namphy is the commander in chief, the 500-man battalion at the dessalines barracks acts semi-autonomously under col. jean-claude paul
on feb. 15 in miami, osvaldo quintana, the dea informant, linked paul to drug trafficking. the 35-year-old miami businessman told a news conference that he personally arranged a 100-kilogram (220-pound) cocaine shipment in december, 1986. quintana said, ``we flew (the shipment) out of his own personal ranch in haiti.''
quintana's lawyer in miami, ellis rubin, said he was trying to arrange for quintana to testify before the u.s. senate committee that is investigating alleged drug smuggling by gen. manuel antonio noriega, the panamanian military strongman
the dessalines battalion was involved in almost every incident last summer when soldiers shot and killed unarmed anti-government demonstators
the green-uniformed, black-booted battalion, which patrols streets in this sprawling capital of 1 million, was noticeably absent nov. 29, however, when gunmen with hand grenades and automatic weapons killed at least 34 people and forced the cancellation of what would have been haiti's first free, open and independently run presidential election in 30 years
it is the only unit that is really feared here,'' the western diplomat said, noting that some of the duvaliers' tonton macoutes were incorporated into it. ``the men are very loyal to (col. paul). he ignores the chain of command and commands them directly.''
nevertheless, the diplomat said he was optimistic that manigat might succeed in his efforts to educate and modernize the armed forces, and reorient soldiers to accept civilian rule and participate in national development
the young officers aspire for change and they see it coming,'' the diplomat said. ``the problem remaining is the dessalines barracks. we're waiting to see what manigat will do about that
in the next five years, we'll see a new generation of officers with diplomas who have traveled abroad, who are of a different mentality, who are young and cultured. they can give a new image to the army.''
a leading haitian academic who has had a 30-year acquaintance with manigat said he is not sure that will happen
speaking only on the condition that he remain anonymous, fearing recrimination, he said: ``the army wants to leave the civilian structures of power, not power itself. there's too much money to be made
manigat is no puppet. far from it. it is an extremely interesting battle. he makes the army believe he supports it. the army makes him believe they support him. each one knows the other is lying. ..
in the final analysis, manigat is not capable of dominating the army or manipulating power. haiti's immediate future is going to be as tragic as its present and its past. i fear uprisings among the people.''
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan says the economy seems ``in equilibrium,'' apparently signaling that the central bank is unlikely to move soon on lowering interest rates
there had been speculation that the fed was verging on a reduction in the discount rate, the loan fee to financial institutions, in an effort to stimulate the economy and avert a recession. but greenspan's remarks in a speech tuesday suggested he is taking a more cautious approach
sales of existing homes held steady in 1987 at close to 4 million units despite volatile mortgage rates and the october stock market collapse, a national real estate trade group reported
the national association of realtors said tuesday that sales of existing single-family homes and condominiums totaled 3.885 million units last year, down a slight 0.3 percent from the 1986 level of 3.897 million units. sales in both years were the fastest pace of this decade
a significant number of americans may have had too little tax withheld from paychecks last year, meaning they will owe the government when they file their tax returns, the internal revenue service says
preliminary surveys indicate most people probably made accurate tax estimates when they filed new w-4 withholding forms last year, but some taxpayers such as high-income earners and working couples may have underestimated, commissioner lawrence b. gibbs told a senate finance subcommittee tuesday
a walkout by eastern airlines pilots in the event of a strike by mechanics might force it out of business, an airline executive told congressional lawmakers
thomas j. matthews sr., an eastern vice president, told the house government activities and transportation subcommittee tuesday that the airline has lost $900 million since 1978 and its financial condition is deteriorating
the miami-based carrier, which employs 32,500 people, is seeking new agreements that would allow it to cut labor costs by 30 percent. eastern mechanics have been particularly outspoken critics of management's plan
lawyers for american telephone &amp; telegraph co. say the company should be awarded government telecommunications contracts worth millions of dollars because a general services administration employee leaked secret at&amp;t bid information to competitors
at&amp;t attorney c. stanley dees told the gsa board of contract appeals tuesday that the federal agency had received information on at least three occasions suggesting that at&amp;t's price had been disclosed, but gsa let the bidding proceed anyway
chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca said he would dedicate all the profits from new chrysler cars sold in wisconsin this year to a trust fund to help the 5,500 workers in kenosha who will lose their jobs
iacocca said tuesday that based on 1987 sales, the fund should amount to about $20 million to help laid off autoworkers make house payments, educate their children and meet other financial obligations
iacocca stressed, however, there was no way he would change his mind about closing the kenosha plant
gaf corp. has become the first major company to exempt itself from delaware's new law limiting hostile takeovers, but experts say the move probably doesn't signal a trend
the chemical company announced the exemption tuesday under an implementing provision of the new law, which covers thousands of important companies headquartered in delaware. but gaf is considered an unusual case because management wants to acquire the company for $1.2 billion and the law could complicate that transaction
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. said it planned to spin off its worldwide tire business into a $1.5 billion joint venture to be 75 percent owned by tokyo-based bridgestone corp
firestone said tuesday that the transaction, which must be approved by its shareholders, was expected to result in a $1 billion cash distribution to firestone shareholders as part of a major financial restructuring, according to a joint statement
firestone stock soared $9.25 to $45 a share in new york stock exchange trading following the disclosures
irving bank corp. has rejected the current $1.08 billion buyout offer from bank of new york co., and launched another sharp verbal attack against its unwanted suitor
irving's board of directors tuesday turned away bank of new york's offer to pay $15 in cash and 1.575 shares of its own stock for each of irving's roughly 18.3 million common shares outstanding
irving stock fell $1.37{ to $48.37{ a share on the new york stock exchange. bank of new york dipped 12{ cents to $29.75 a share, giving its offer an indicated value of nearly $62 a share
california first bank, which is controlled by the bank of tokyo ltd., has agreed to acquire union bank in a deal valued at around $750 million
the transaction announced tuesday represents the largest investment ever by a japanese bank in a california financial institution, analysts said
the deal will more than double the size of cal first to a total of $15.2 billion in assets, making it the state's fifth largest commercial bank
burger king corp., which hopes to reignite stalled sales growth, has come up with a new advertising campaign echoing the approach that sparked the $60 billion fast-food industry's burger wars
the campaign unveiled tuesday pitches burger king's flame-broiling process as the one burger lovers prefer
the campaign contains some reminders of the hard-hitting ads of 1982 in which burger king asserted that tests showed people preferred its flame-broiled hamburgers to those from mcdonald's corp
stock investors pushed the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks past the 2,000 barrier tuesday for the first time since early january
the dow industrials rose 22.71 points to 2,005.97, its first finish above 2,000 since suffering a 140.58-point plunge on friday, jan. 8
bond prices declined slightly, while the dollar fell against most major currencies
in other markets, frozen concentrated orange juice futures prices fell sharply; livestock and meat futures were mostly higher; grains and soybeans were mixed; precious metals were lower; and energy futures retreated
oil prices fell marginally in lethargic trading that dealers attributed to a lack of news and the absence of many market participants because of industry conferences
on the new york mercantile exchange, the march-delivery price of west texas intermediate, the key u.s. crude oil, closed tuesday at $16.67 per 42-gallon barrel, down 8 cents from friday. the exchange was closed monday for the presidents day holiday
refined products prices barely changed. the march-delivery price for wholesale heating oil fell 0.23 cent a gallon to 46.37 cents, and the march-delivery price for wholesale unleaded gasoline edged up 0.01 cent a gallon to 46.29 cents
basically, i'd have to say it was one of the quietest days this year that i can remember,'' said peter beutel, assistant manager of elders futures inc., a futures trading firm in new york
many u.s. and european oil traders were away from the market for events sponsored by the international petroleum exchange, the london oil futures market. smoker-death suit</head>
as lawyers for three tobacco companies and a man suing them for his wife's cancer death do battle inside a federal courtroom, another struggle goes on outside, this one waged by a squad of public relations people
at each break in the proceedings, pr specialists for the companies buttonhole reporters covering the trial, drop by the courthouse press room to say hello _ and make sure no questions need to be answered _ and happily provide transcripts of testimony favorable to their side, with key passages highlighted
the $22 billion-a-year tobacco industry has never shrunk from getting its message across, but some observers say this trial involving liggett group inc., philip morris co. and lorillard inc. presents an especially striking image problem
lawyers for the man suing the three companies have spent 4{ years gathering an unprecedented quantity of confidential internal corporate documents and interviewing key company officials
in the first two weeks of the trial, for example, jurors have seen notes by a liggett vice president saying that selling a safer cigarette would increase the risk of cancer lawsuits involving existing products
a memo describing a meeting of liggett officials and consultants says the company ``wanted to sell cigarettes so we must get over the hurdle of linking smoking and lung cancer.''
last thursday, the jury heard testimony from an assistant research director of liggett saying that the company blocked publication of research on a safer cigarette and his participation in a scientific conference
the trial is likely to last two to four months
the documents and testimony were introduced to bolster antonio cipollone's contention that liggett, philip morris and lorillard were responsible for the lung-cancer death of his wife rose, a 40-year smoker
cipollone charges in part that the companies failed to do enough research on the health effects of smoking, to disclose adequately what research they did or to put a safer cigarette on the market
cipollone doesn't have a pr staff but his two lawyers and their courtroom staff of three don't stint on meeting the needs of reporters. they readily present their interpretation of the day's evidence during courtroom breaks, and make available copies of documents deemed newsworthy as soon as u.s. district judge h. lee sarokin enters them into evidence
does the trial truly present an image problem for the industry?
no, i don't think so,'' said john scanlon, one of five pr professionals working on behalf of the tobacco companies. they attend court nearly every day and work out of an office rented in downtown newark
a lawyer from the prominent kansas city firm of shook, hardy &amp; bacon is also on hand to answer all legal questions from reporters. inside the courtroom, a team of nine attorneys handles the defense
our purpose here is just to keep things as clean as possible in terms of trying to keep the story straight,'' said scanlon, the 52-year-old senior vice president of the international pr firm daniel j. edelman inc
scanlon has made his mark in the field in recent years by presenting litigants' positions from courthouse steps while lawyers handle the juries inside
the bearded, straight-talking member of former new york city mayor john lindsay's administration handled the media in highly publicized libel trials for cbs, the boston globe and mcclatchy newspapers
our role is ... to present a balanced, objective picture of what's going on,'' said scanlon colleague alan hilburg, who has his own pr firm in dallas and a joint venture in new york
so many people enter with an anti-cigarette bias,'' he said. hilburg represented pennzoil co. in its legal battle with energy giant texaco inc. and worked on johnson &amp; johnson's campaign to recover from the devastation of the tylenol-tampering incidents
image could have an impact on wall street. some analysts have said a legal loss in the suit _ which would be the industry's first in such a case _ could lower the value of tobacco company stocks
however, said analyst neal kaplan of interstate securities corp. in charlotte, n.c., ``it's hard to picture the tobacco companies' image as suffering, because i don't think they have good images.''
gaf corp.'s decision to exempt itself from delaware's new anti-takeover law reflects its own acquisitive philosophy rather than a groundswell of corporate opposition to the statute, experts say
gaf said tuesday its board of directors voted to ``opt out'' of takeover protections included in the controversial law, making it the first major corporation to do so since the law took effect earlier this month
the company is considering a $1.2 billion buyout offer from a group led by chairman samuel j. heyman, who has steered the chemical and building materials company through two major takeover battles as part of its acquisitive corporate strategy
in proposing a buyout last september, heyman said the move would allow gaf to pursue its takeover strategy without having to worry about the short-term earnings pressures faced by many publicly-held companies
the management-led group has offered $40 in cash and $8.50 worth of debt securities for each of gaf's roughly 27.7 million common shares outstanding. heyman, who also is gaf's chief executive, controls about 10 percent of the outstanding shares
gaf stock rose 50 cents to close at $47.62{ a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange
the company is based in wayne, n.j., but is incorporated in delaware, as are more than half of the fortune 500 companies
a key provision of the new delaware law would bar a potential buyer from acquiring a company for three years after the buyer accumulated more than 15 percent of the target company's stock. the provision would not apply if the buyer acquired a total of 85 percent of the company's shares in the same transaction that it passed the 15 percent threshold, or if the board of directors approved the takeover
the provision was aimed at ``bust-up'' deals where a hostile buyer sells off chunks of a target company in order to help finance the buyout, and partial offers where the buyer acquires just enough shares to win control of the target and offers the remaining shareholders a lesser price for their stock
state-chartered companies have 90 days from the law's effective date to exempt themselves from the law. after the 90-day period, a corporation may exempt itself only by a shareholders' vote
campeau corp. and black &amp; decker corp., which have made pending hostile buyout offers for delaware-incorporated companies, have filed lawsuits challenging the new law as unconstitutional
in announcing the gaf board's action, heyman criticized the law as an example of the proliferation of state anti-takeover laws, which he said helped entrench managements at the expense of shareholders
this is an expression of our company's corporate governance philosophy,'' heyman said in a telephone interview. ``and we simply wanted to lend support to the effort in congress for federal pre-emption of state anti-takeover laws.''
gaf also released a letter from heyman urging david s. ruder, chairman of the federal securities and exchange commission, to press congress to pre-empt anti-takeover legislation in the states
the gaf management group's buyout bid is unlikely to turn hostile, but the delaware law could impede heyman's takeover strategy by putting restraints on gaf attempts to acquire other companies
last year, gaf made an unsuccessful hostile bid for borg-warner corp., which eventually agreed to a buyout by a group led by the investment firm merrill lynch &amp; co
in late 1985, gaf made an unsuccessful but highly profitable attempt to take over union carbide corp. gaf withdrew after union carbide undertook a major defensive restructuring, but made about $250 million in profit by selling the carbide stock it had accumulated
gaf's decision to exempt itself probably does not signal a trend among delaware-incorporated companies, experts said
many of the thousands of major companies incorporated in delaware pushed for approval of the law, and are deemed unlikely to forego its protection
burger king corp. hopes to reignite sales growth with an advertising campaign that invokes the memory of the flame-broiling-versus-frying debate that engulfed the fast-food industry in the early 1980s
the campaign employs the theme ``we do it like you'd do it'' and pitches burger king's flame-broiling process as the one which burger-lovers prefer
the campaign contains some reminders of the hard-hitting ads of 1982 in which burger king asserted that tests showed people preferred its flame-broiled hamburgers to those from the industry leader, mcdonald's corp
mcdonald's objected, saying its burgers are grilled and not fried. the exchange became known as the burger wars
mcdonald's name is only mentioned once in the new burger king ads, which were previewed for the media tuesday in a new york hotel room decorated to look like a backyard complete with sod, a barbecue pit, lawnmower and picnic tables
in one new ad, a kindergartener discovers that her burger king hamburger has ``lines'' from broiling. she likes the taste and asks a friend why she never gets similar lines on burgers from mcdonald's. her pal shrugs
in another ad, a foreign exchange student savors a broiled burger king hamburger, and complains to some friends that hamburgers are usually fried in his country. when told that some burger places fry them here too, the student registers his disbelief with a long ``noooooo.''
the ads begin appearing feb. 29, and burger king reportedly plans to spend about $200 million putting them on the air and in print over the next year
the approach, created by the agency n.w. ayer inc., replaces the ``best food for fast times'' theme that had been created by j. walter thompson. ayer was selected for the burger king account last fall
burger king officials, speaking on condition they not be identified by name, said consumers liked the ``best food'' and ``this is a burger king town'' campaigns created by thompson but failed to remember the characteristic that separates burger king from other hamburger chains _ flame-broiling
charles s. olcott, president of the miami-based burger king usa, said the company's average sales per store had stalled. burger king's average sales per store cracked $1 million for the first time in 1985 but rose to only $1.02 million in the year ended may 31, 1987
mcdonald's had average sales per store of $1.37 million in 1986, and has about 7,400 stores nationwide compared with 4,700 for burger king
they are the leaders in the fast-food market, which the trade magazine advertising age estimates at $60 billion. hamburgers account for roughly half of the figure
another hamburger chain, wendy's international inc., based in dublin, ohio, recently began airing new versions of an old campaign
wendy's and hardee's food systems inc., based in rocky mount, n.c., are fighting for third place in hamburgers, analysts say
the agency, backer spielvogel bates, has created some new versions of a 2{-year-old campaign for wendy's, known as ``hamburger a-hamburger b.''
the campaign spoofs consumer taste-tests as an interviewer asks someone in each ad to choose between a fresh-looking wendy's hamburger a and an unappetizing hamburger b
a truck driver picks b in one ad, and beams that he can have one ``in shakeytown and still be tasting it in salt lake.'' in another, a woman trying to lose weight said she'd pick b because she wouldn't be tempted to eat it
wendy's used humor to boost sales in 1984 when its advertising asked, ``where's the beef?'' wendy's average sales per store peaked at about $861,000 in 1984, but slipped to $767,000 in 1986, according to spokesman paul raab
with the new ads and the installation of superbars that offer all-you-can-eat mexican or italian food or salads in about a third of its 3,600 domestic restaurants, wendy's sales are picking up, said another spokesman, denny lynch
he added the company expects ``a gradual improvement through the year.''
a proposed merger of the tire-making divisions of firestone tire &amp; rubber co. and tokyo-based bridgestone corp. would give a japanese company control of the world's third-largest tire company, experts say
firestone, which was fifth in worldwide tire sales in 1986, announced the plan to merge its tire business with no. 3 bridgestone on tuesday
based on 1986 tire sales figures _ the most recent available _ of $2.3 billion for firestone and about $3.1 billion for bridgestone, the proposed firestone tire co. would rank third behind goodyear tire &amp; rubber co. of the united states and michelin of france
more important, the joint venture, with majority ownership by bridgestone, would give the japanese company a share of the u.s. original-equipment tire market, said ed noga, editor of the industry trade journal rubber &amp; plastics news
bridgestone is an aggressive company that wants to grow in the united states, and they wanted to get access to the original-equipment market,'' noga said in a telephone interview from akron, ohio, where firestone's tire division is based
chicago-based firestone has been successful in obtaining original-equipment contracts, meaning it supplies tires to car and truck manufacturers to be used on new vehicles
firestone made the surprise announcement of an ``agreement in principle'' with bridgestone and said it would ``enter into formal negotiations immediately to reach a final agreement.''
firestone stock soared $9.25 to $45 a share in new york stock exchange trading tuesday following the disclosure
the announcement came amid speculation that firestone would sell its tire division to the italian tire manufacturer pirelli spa
bridgestone would own about 75 percent of the company, and firestone 25 percent
the two companies plan to operate the joint venture, doing business worldwide as firestone tire co., as ``a relatively autonomous business unit, subject to the direction and control of a board of directors consisting of persons representing the owners,'' the statement said
under the tentative agreement, the joint venture would be initially financed with $750 million in equity from bridgestone, $250 million from firestone and $500 million in debt
the agreement also calls for firestone to transfer tire assets and liabilities with an equity value of about $1.5 billion to the joint venture
after spinning off the tire business, firestone would still retain its 1,500 car-care centers; firestone diversified products, which includes divisions that manufacture industrial and building products; firestone synthetic rubber and latex co., which manufactures synthetic rubber and operates a rubber plantation in liberia; and firestone car rental inc
the firestone tire division employs 30,000 people worldwide, said spokesman robert troyer. the rest of firestone's businesses employ 23,500, he said
the creation of the joint venture is expected to generate more than $1 billion in cash for the parent firestone tire &amp; rubber co., the company said
once final agreement with bridgestone is reached, firestone would schedule a special shareholders meeting to seek approval of the joint venture
the company also would ask shareholders to approve a financial restructuring that ``would distribute a very substantial portion of the cash generated by the transaction'' to firestone shareholders, the statement said
the joint venture's headquarters would be located in akron and would be assigned the exclusive right to use firestone's name on tires throughout the world
in a related move tuesday, firestone's board adopted a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover plan to guard against unfriendly suitors
the plan would take effect if any person or group buys 20 percent or more of firestone's common stock without the approval of the company's board of directors. the firestone statement said the anti-takeover plan was ``intended both to ensure that firestone's shareholders will retain the benefits of a joint venture with bridgestone and to protect the full value of its shareholders' investment in the company.''
firestone is the third-largest u.s.-based tire manufacturer, behind goodyear and b.f. goodrich co
bridgestone held a 2 percent share of the u.s. replacement passenger tire market last year and had a 7 percent share of the u.s. replacement truck tire market, according to modern tire journal, an industry publication
bridgestone is in the process of moving its bridgestone u.s.a. tire inc. headquarters from torrance, calif., to lavergne, tenn., where it operates its sole u.s. manufacturing plant, a truck-tire factory, said greg smith, publisher of modern tire journal
firestone put its tire division in a free-standing position last november when the top headquarters staff relocated from akron to chicago, and the company will seek shareholder approval next month to change the name of the company to firestone inc
rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, wants the federal trade commission to explain why it decided not to pursue an in-depth review of an attempted takeover of cincinnati-based federated department stores inc
luken, chairman of the house energy and commerce transportation subcommittee, has scheduled a hearing on the matter for today
the commissioners of the ftc were scheduled to testify as was sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, chairman of the senate judiciary antitrust subcommittee. metzenbaum has said the takeover raises the possibility of reduced competition in several cities, higher prices, less consumer choice and a substantial loss of jobs
luken said tuesday that documents suggest the ftc based its decision on state and regional impact rather than on individual metropolitan areas
he said that according to an ftc memorandum, the agency's staff recommended against seeking additional information on the proposed merger between federated and campeau corp. of toronto on the basis of the competitive situations in florida and new england as a whole
in other cases of department store mergers, luken said, the ftc has used individual metropolitan areas to gauge potential anticompetitive effects
they've used a totally false basis for denying the heart of competition,'' he said
ftc spokeswoman susan tichnor said the agency declined comment
federated operates about 650 retail stores in 36 states and had sales exceeding $11 billion in 1987
its holdings include the new york-based chains of bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, lazarus in cincinnati, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, rich's in atlanta, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles, and i. magnin in san francisco
campeau, a retailing and real estate development company, on tuesday sweetened its bid for federated to $66 a share, or about $5.85 billion in cash, but federated rejected it _ saying campeau lacked adequate financing for the takeover
according to the ftc memo, of particular competitive concern were federated stores in new england and florida that compete with campeau's jordan marsh stores
however, the ftc said that based on 1982 figures, campeau held only 15 percent of the new england department store market compared with 7.7 percent for federated. in florida, each company held 16.4 percent of the market, the ftc said
although this acquisition would combine the first- and third-largest department store chains in the country, we do not feel that it raises competitive concerns,'' the memo concluded
campeau bought allied stores in december 1986, then sold several divisions of the company. however, it retained several retailing chains including ann taylor, brooks brothers and jordan marsh
ohio politicians are worried that campeau will buy federated, sell major portions of the company and fire or lay off large numbers of its employees. federated operates 63 stores in ohio, employing about 16,000 workers in the state
federated has spurned campeau three times. federated rejected campeau's initial $47-a-share, $4.2 billion takeover offer as inadequate
it later turned down an improved $61-a-share, $5.4 billion bid as well as tuesday's increased offer because it was not convinced campeau had the necessary financing
an offer by olympia &amp; york developments ltd. to increase its stake in santa fe southern pacific corp. is a shrewd move intended to put the canadian company's imprint on any restructuring plans, analysts say
the toronto-based real estate company, which seeks to increase its interest in santa fe from 10.5 percent to 19.9 percent, launched a $245 million offer tuesday for up to 14 million shares
the olympia &amp; york offer, which expires at midnight march 13, hinges on payment by santa fe of a special dividend. the cash portion was paid tuesday, and the debenture payment is set for march 1
the olympia &amp; york offer amounts to $17.50 per share. it is challenging a plan by henley group inc. of la jolla, calif., to wage a proxy fight for control of santa fe
i think olympia &amp; york are trying to make sure they have a controlling position in the company,'' said isabel benham, an analyst at printon, kane in new york. ``i think it's a smart move.''
henley group is santa fe's largest shareholder with 15.7 percent. it plans to wage a proxy fight in opposition to santa fe's proposed $4.7 billion restructuring plan, which is seen as an effort to stop henley's advances
olympia &amp; york supported the restructuring, and its representatives have been nominated to two seats on the santa fe board
santa fe, which has about 156.2 million shares outstanding, said it had been informed of olympia &amp; york's tender offer but had no comment, spokesman richard hall said
norm ritter, a spokesman for henley group, said company chairman michael dingman was ``pleased with the move,'' but he would not elaborate
under the santa fe restructuring plan, shareholders would receive $25 in cash and $5 in subordinated debentures per share
henley has said the debentures are another effort by santa fe to prevent a takeover, and is challenging them in court. ritter said a delaware chancery court has set feb. 26 as the date for a preliminary hearing on the issue
a debenture is a debt repayable within a specified time and bearing a fixed rate of interest which must be paid whether or not the company issuing it makes a profit
meanwhile, moody's investors service inc., citing the effects of the restructuring plan, said it downgraded the securities ratings of santa fe and its subsidiaries, the atchison, topeka and santa fe railway, and southern pacific co
moody's said the downgrade was based on the ``substantial weakening in the parent's debt-protection measurements because of a recent corporate restructuring.''
about $1.4 billion of securities are affected
johnson &amp; johnson will significantly expand its market share in the tampon field with the acquisition of the maker of playtex tampons, analysts say
on tuesday, johnson &amp; johnson said it has agreed to pay $726 million for the playtex holding co. division that makes the tampons
the addition of playtex family products would give the health care giant more than 30 percent of the u.s. tampon market, of which it already has about 6 percent with the o.b. brand tampon, one analyst said
johnson &amp; johnson, the leading manufacturer of sanitary napkins in the united states, and playtex said in a joint announcement that the transaction is still subject to government approval
playtex family products is one of three operating subsidiaries of stamford, conn.-based playtex holdings, itself once part of bci holdings inc., the company formed by the april 1986 leveraged buyout of beatrice cos
the family products divsion also makes disposable baby nursers, household gloves and toothbrushes. the division accounts for half the company's sales and 70 percent of its profits, said chairman joel e. smilow
the other two divisions are playtex jhirmack inc., maker of hair care products, and playtex apparel, a leading worldwide manufacturer of bras, girdles and pantyhose
proceeds from the sale of the family products division would go towards paying off debt incurred in the december 1986 leveraged buyout of playtex from bci, said smilow, who had been chairman of bci's consumer products division
he said the jhirmack division would likely go on the selling block next week. the divestments would allow playtex to concentrate on its intimate apparel lines, smilow said
the apparel division last year had operating profits of $45 million on sales of $300 million
analyst lucy olwell of merrill lynch in new york estimated sales from playtex tampons at $125 million, or about 25 percent of the more than $500 million domestic tampon market, and sales from the other family products lines at about $100 million
tambrands' tampex line is the market leader with 55 percent, she said
johnson &amp; johnson's more than one-third of the sanitary napkin market should give it leverage in finding shelf and distribution space for the playtex line, said ms. olwell. its experience in feminine hygiene products should also allow for cost savings
a company accused along with the hunt brothers of cornering the silver market in 1980 agreed to pay a peruvian company $3.65 million in an out-of-court settlement, a minpeco sa attorney said
aml futures is the last of six financial institutions accused by minpeco of participating in an illegal price manipulation scheme that drove up silver prices that led to substantial losses for the company, owned by the government of peru
the hunts claim they did nothing illegal when they began pouring money into the silver market. from august 1979 to march 1980, the price of silver rose from $9 an ounce to $50 an ounce before the market collapsed to about $10 an ounce
jury selection is scheduled to begin thursday in the trial against the hunts _ nelson bunker, william herbert and lamar _ before u.s. federal district judge morris e. lasker in new york city. opening arguments in the case are scheduled for wednesday, feb. 24
the aml futures settlement and those by the other institutions add up to $64.65 million, said mark a. cymrot, of cole &amp; corrette, the washington, d.c., firm that represents minpeco
minpeco, peru's largest precious metals distributor, seeks to recover $150 million in damages
in addition to aml futures, e.f. hutton &amp; co. (now part of shearson lehman brothers inc.), merrill lynch, prudential-bache securities inc., continental grain co.'s conticommodity services unit and banque populaire suisse have reached out-of-court agreements with minpeco since 1986
the original damage claim was for $225 million to $252 million that minpeco said it lost in trading losses and potential profits because of silver market manipulations in late 1979 and early 1980 by the hunt brothers
on dec. 22, lasker ruled that minpeco must subtract from its damage claim profits made when silver bullion prices skyrocketed, and could not sue for lost potential profits. these rulings reduced the amount of the claim to $150 million
the hunts also are facing two class action suits by more than 17,000 silver futures investors, who claim that illegal market manipulation caused them losses. cars</head>
chrysler corp. said it has raised prices on its imported mitsubishi motors corp. cars an average 4.6 percent over comparably equipped 1987 models
the new prices, announced tuesday, also were higher in most cases than tentative prices used since the model year began in october, said chrysler spokeswoman karen stewart
the increases followed a debate between chrysler and various japanese automakers in which chrysler charged the japanese companies may be dumping cars and trucks on the u.s. market
dumping is selling foreign products here for less than in their home market
chrysler has maintained the japanese companies probably haven't increased prices enough to reflect the dramatic jump in the value of the japanese yen against the dollar in the past two years
the dumping debate heated up at news conferences preceding last weekend's opening of the chicago auto show, where chrysler also introduced a new japanese car, the mitsubishi-built eagle summit, for its jeep-eagle lineup
toyota motor sales u.s.a. vice president robert mccurry charged that if the japanese were dumping, so were the u.s. automakers who sell imported japanese cars under their own nameplates
of the big three u.s. automakers, chrysler is the most dependent on japanese imports. about 11 percent of its cars and 40 percent of its light trucks are built by mitsubishi in japan
mccurry also said chrysler, ford motor co. and general motors corp. were charging less for imported japanese cars sold under american nameplates than were japanese companies who made the cars
at the prices announced tuesday, a base plymouth colt two-door hatchback will start at $5,998, down from $6,005 for a comparable 1987 model and up from the tentative 1988 price of $5,899
at the other extreme, the base price on the sporty chrysler conquest tsi coupe rose to $18,683 from $18,005 on a comparable 1987 model and up from the tentative 1988 price of $18,155, stewart said
chris cedergren, industry analyst with j.d. power and associates in agoura, calif., said japanese automakers have held down prices on their entry-level cars and made up the difference on higher-priced models
automakers value entry-level buyers because of the chance they will become loyal customers and buy more expensive cars from the same company later
chrysler corp. chariman lee iacocca says his company will establish an estimated $20 million trust fund to help the 5,500 autoworkers at its kenosha plant meet housing, education and other needs after they lose their jobs when the factory closes
gov. tommy g. thompson, who has threatened to sue chrysler over the plant closing, called the announcement ``a good first step,'' but that the automaker must do more to avoid the possibility of ending up in court
leaders and members of united autoworkers union local 72, which represents 5,000 hourly workers at kenosha, were less enthusiastic
about 80 union members set up a picket line outside the hotel where iacocca held a news conference to announce the trust fund, the money for which would come from chrysler's profits on all its cars sold in wisconsin this year
iacocca said based on 1987 sales, the chrysler-kenosha trust fund should grow to about $20 million by the end of the year. it would be administered by a seven-member board of trustees appointed by state and local officials and by chrysler and its dealer organizations
we are not interested in a charity program that is financed only if chrysler cars are sold,'' said rudy kuzel, bargaining chairman for local 72. ``we want jobs. he could have said i will keep my word and keep the plant open.''
kuzel also said the offer of a $20 million trust fund was too little
our attorneys tell us the damages in this case are $1 billion,'' kuzel said, adding that figure includes the plant's total payroll for five years
but leaders of the national uaw were warmer in their reaction
chrysler should ... be commended for showing a degree of responsiveness in this painful situation,'' the uaw said in a statement released in detroit
iacocca said the trust fund would be in addition to approximately $1.3 million that the company will give governments to repay for capital improvements such as roads. it would also be in addition to benefits guaranteed workers in the contract between chrysler and the uaw and benefits negotiated by the union in a plant closing agreement, iacocca said
iacocca stressed, however, there was no way he would change his mind about closing the kenosha carmaking plant, which is scheduled to shut down this summer. chrysler will still employ about 1,000 people in kenosha at an engine plant
the decision to close kenosha was a crummy call but one we had to make. time and the marketplace just caught up with an 86-year old plant,'' iacocca said
iacocca also said the company's decision to close the plant did not break any contracts with the state regarding the future of the former american motors corp. facility
we are guilty as hell of being cockeyed optimists and we are paying the price for the optimism right now,'' iacocca said
iacocca said the company had hoped to continue building cars in kenosha for three-to-five years but car sales were not good enough to allow that
what we did unintentionally was to create expectations that couldn't be fulfilled,'' iacocca said
iacocca said the decision to establish the trust fund should not be viewed as a precedent for other auto plant closings
he said kenosha was a unique situation because of the impact the closing will have on a relatively small city. kenosha's population is about 75,000
iacocca also said thompson's threats to file a lawsuit against the nation's third largest automaker were not a factor in setting up the trust fund
iacocca said he, thompson and house armed services committee chairman les aspin, d-wis., would meet in washington on thursday. he said he hoped an agreement would be reached eventually that would avoid the need for the state and chrysler to meet in the courtroom
acting premier li peng said wednesday the government may expand its subsidies of major commodities to cut the inflation rate, which hit 7.5 percent last year
in a speech marking the lunar new year, li told a crowd of about 6,000 at the great hall of the people that the rapid rise in prices, especially for food, was china's most pressing economic problem, the official xinhua news agency reported
xinhua said li admonished governments at all levels to make price stability a priority and said the state council, china's cabinet, is considering ways of expanding the subsidy program
however, we should not follow the road as we did in the past where prices were rigidly controlled by administrative means,'' li added
li did not specify which price subsidies would be increased or by how much, or whether price supports would be introduced for non-subsidized items
any such move would be a dramatic step away from the government's goal of gradually ending price controls and letting market forces take over
subsidies for non-staple foods, including vegetables, have been gradually lifted in the past few years and the government has reduced the proportion of grain and other staples sold at subsidized prices
the subsidies are believed to be a major contributor to the government deficit, which rose 14 percent in 1987 to 8 billion yuan, or $2.1 billion
economic growth in the 12-nation european economic community will drop below 2 percent this year and in 1989 as a result of the stock market crisis last fall, a report released thursday said
but the report by the eec executive commission predicted there would be no economic recession
the commission said that the turmoil on the world's financial markets late last year has ``increased the uncertainties in the world economy'' and upset earlier economic predictions for a 2.5 percent average growth in the common market
eec economists said this level of growth is too low to bring about a reduction in the rate of unemployment, which currently stands at 11.5 percent
peter schmidhuber, the eec commissioner for economic affairs, told a news conference the analysis was based on the assumption the u.s. dollar will stay stable at 1.60 german marks and 125 yen through the next two years
changes on the financial markets ``would have profound implications'' for the european economies and could offset any national efforts to stimulate growth, schmidhuber said
the commission said the slow growth will be caused largely by a decline in the growth of domestic demand and sluggish industrial investments
exports, the commission said, will remain flat in 1988, while imports will increase by about 7 percent. inflation, although up against 1987, will remain between 3 percent and 5 percent
according to the report, virtually all eec countries will experience a decline in economic growth compared with 1987
the report said the eec should contribute to economic growth of its member states by stimulating cooperation in research and development, investing in large infrastructure products and improving the regulatory climate
a former broker has pleaded guilty to charges he defrauded his employer of more than $1 million in a scheme involving illegal trading at the chicago mercantile exchange
meanwhile, another defendant charged with making bogus trades while disguised in a wig remains missing
daniel dewey, 39, a former bond futures trader at the chicago board of trade is now the subject of a nationwide manhunt after a fugitive warrant was issued, assistant u.s. attorney ruben castillo said
dewey was among 10 brokers, traders and other people named in indictments last week by u.s. attorney anton valukas. the men were accused of four separate schemes at the board of trade and chicago mercantile exchange
jeffrey donnelly, 28, of chicago, a former trader in standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index-futures contracts, pleaded guilty tuesday to two counts of commodities fraud
the plea agreement states that he defrauded his former employee, crt services inc., by diverting money from profitable s&amp;p futures trades to four accounts between january 1984 and july 1986
under the agreement, the government reserves the right to grant donnelly certain immunity from prosecution in return for his testimony, said assistant u.s. attorney howard pearl
u.s. district judge james alesia set april 7 for sentencing. donnelly faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine
authorities charged that donnelly split the profits with four other people after diverting the money. pearl said the four agreed to pay income taxes on the money, and donnelly received his share, or 35 percent of the profits, in cash
dewey was indicted in chicago on charges he conspired with three others to use a wig, phony credentials and other paraphernalia to enter restricted areas at the board of trade to make certain trades
the indictment says dewey placed orders to buy or sell u.s. treasury bond futures contracts, then turned the trading cards over to a co-defendant
if the position turned out to be profitable, the trades were cleared, but if they turned out to be losers, dewey and the others could walk away from the loss and it could not be traced, according to the indictment
housing construction fell 1.9 percent in january to its lowest level since the end of the last recession, the government reported today
the commerce department said new homes and apartments were being built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.38 million units last month
the january setback, which followed a 15.5 percent plunge in december, surprised analysts who had been forecasting a modest rebound in construction activity
the housing sector is being watched closely at present since it is often one of the first sectors to turn down at the start of a new recession
while the majority of economists believe the country will be able to escape a downturn in this presidential election year, some forecasters dispute this outlook, in part because of concern about the record collapse of stock prices last october
the january annual starts level was the slowest pace since a rate of 1.30 million units in december 1982, just as the last recession was ending. the january pace was almost 24 percent below the rate at the beginning of 1987
the weakness last month came from a 2.9 percent decline in construction of single-family homes, which fell to an annual rate of 1.01 million units
this drop offset a 0.8 percent increase in construction of multi-family housing, wich edged up to an annual rate of 366,000 units, still 35 percent below the level of a year ago. this sector has been in a slump because of the impact of the 1986 tax law, which removed many of the tax shelter benefits of investing in real estate
in other ominous news, permits, considered a good sign of future activity, fell an even sharper 8.2 percent in january to an annual rate of 1.25 million units, the lowest level for permits since january 1985. permits had fallen 7.4 percent in december
the january weakness in construction starts came from two sectors of the country. starts fell 21.8 percent in the midwest to an annual rate of 223,000 units and dropped 17.1 percent in the south to 469,000 units
these declines were partially offset by a 27.6 percent increase in starts in the northeast, where homes were being built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 291,000 units, and a 21.2 percent increase in the west, where starts rose to a rate of 394,000 units
the european commission said wednesday it was investigating allegations that seven japanese photocopier manufacturers were ``dumping'' their products, or selling them for less than they do in their home market
the commission also said it began an inquiry into whether south korean companies were dumping small color television sets in the european market
the commission said the japanese companies _ canon, konishiroku, matsushita, minolta, ricoh, sharp and toshiba _ were accused of making photocopiers in europe using mainly components from japan to get around a 20 percent anti-dumping duty on photocopier imports from japan
the eec decided a year ago to impose the duties, affecting the $1 billion photocopier market. eec companies account for only 15 percent of the market
the commission said that the latest complaint alleged that the japanese companies had started or increased production of photocopiers in europe when an initial anti-dumping inquiry started
the complaint also charged that the value of the japanese components in the photocopiers exceeded by 50 percent the value of all the other components used to make the machines
in the case involving south korea, a group of european consumer electronics companies had complained that korean imports were increasing by more than 100 percent a year and that prices of the television sets were considerably lower than those charged by eec manufacturers
the prices undercut eec producers by as much as 38 percent, forcing eec manufacturers to cut prices, according to the industry complaint
eec producers were alleged to have lost 6 percent of the eec market as a result of the korean dumping at a time when consumption rose by 11 percent, the domestic industry claimed. in second sentence. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
if the trend by many taxpayers to delay filing their federal tax returns continues to spread, the federal government could feel the pinch _ right in the pocketbook
lawrence b. gibbs, commissioner of the internal revenue service, notes that five years ago, 14 percent of all individual returns were filed in january and 34 percent in april. but last year, only 4 percent were filed during the first month and almost 40 percent in april
if this trend were exacerbated by tax reform (the sweeping 1986 law), it could jam the system by slowing down processing and the issuance of refunds,'' gibbs told a senate finance subcommittee tuesday. ``as a result, there could be a high price to pay
if we don't process returns within a 45-day period after the return due date the government must pay interest on refunds,'' he noted. that due date is april 15
the irs is not ready to push the panic button, even though 9.7 percent fewer returns have been filed this year than during the same period in 1987. just a week ago, that gap was 17.5 percent
it does not appear that there is an easy solution to reversing the trend'' toward late filing, gibbs said. he cited surveys finding that the chief reasons for later filing include simply procrastinating and failure to receive some information necessary to prepare a return
the irs is not sure how the new tax law, with its lower rates, reduced deductions and higher personal exemptions, will affect the late-filing trend. some returns are simpler under the new law; others are more complicated
the backlog of unprocessed returns at the irs was down to 11.5 million last week, compared with 12.9 million at this time last year. the number of couples and individuals receiving refunds, 1.7 million, also dropped, from 1.9 million. the average refund was up 13 percent, to $743
by the end of the tax-filing season, the irs expects that about 80 percent of the 107 million returns will qualify for refunds
but no one can say with a great degree of certainty, because of the new tax law and the fact that most workers filed new tax-withholding forms with their employers last year
gibbs said the irs is watching closely to determine whether a significant number of americans may have had too little tax withheld from paychecks last year an, thus, would owe the government when they file. ``pockets of underwithholding among certain groups of taxpayers, such as high-income taxpayers, working couples and young wage earners, could exist,'' he said
because of confusion about the new law and a complex w-4 withholding form, the irs has agreed to waive underpayment penalties if too little was withheld from 1987 wages. that amnesty does not apply for 1988 earnings
despite more personnel, more equipment and a desire to see that taxpayers get all the information and forms they need, ``we are concerned that the complexity of the law and the volume of changes will provide us ample opportunities to make mistakes,'' said robert lebaube, director of taxpayer services
sen. david pryor, d-ark., chairman of the finance subcommittee, offered some rare words of praise for the irs
pryor, after studying reports that found irs employees in the past sometephone questions from taxpayers, decided to test the improvements that the irs has been bragging about. last week, he said, he assigned eight members of his staff to call irs ``assistors'' around the nation with some questions
not one staff member who discussed a particular problem ... encountered anyone on the other end of the line except a very courteous, friendly irs employee who almost went overboard to help,'' pryor said
his staff is still checking the answers to the questions. but one thing is sure, pryor said: it often took several tries to ring an irs number and not get a busy signal. figures. uppicks 4th graf pvs: they have...</note>
u.s. industrial output rose 0.2 percent, while housing construction dropped by 1.9 percent in january, the governemnt reported today
the federal reserve said production at american factories, mines and utilities increased for the fourth consecutive month _ despite a sharp drop in the production of autos _ following gains of 0.4 percent in both november and december
those gains helped push the production level up by 6 percent in the past 12 months, providing further evidence of the strength in the manufacturing sector
the weaker dollar has been a major benefit to u.s. industry, making american products competitive once more on overseas markets and boosting exports to record levels
earlier, the commerce department said january's seasonally adjusted annual rate of housing construction stood at 1.38 million units a month, the lowest level since the end of the last recession
some analysts had expected a small rebound in the building of new homes and apartments, following december's 15.5 percent plunge in december
they have been keeping a close eye on the housing sector, since it is often one of the first sectors to turn down at the start of a new recession
but the jury is still out on that question
on tuesday, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's remarks that the economy appears to be balanced riled the bond market, but wall street ignored him and gave the dow jones industrial average its best showing in more than a month
greenspan's comments in a washington speech tuesday were interpreted by bond traders as a signal that the nation's central bank won't move quickly to push interest rates down to stimulate the economy, as had been widely expected. he spoke against a background of government statistics that suggested the economy isn't slowing down, despite the warning signs given by the stock crash four months ago. on friday, for example, the government reported that the nation's trade deficit shrank in december and inflation increased
the 30-year treasury bond, the most closely watched issue, fell about $10 per $1,000 in face value after greenspan spoke, though the price recovered somewhat later. the bond's yield, which moves inversely to price and can be a sensitive indicator of interest rates, rose to 8.46 percent from 8.43 percent late friday
on wall street, investors largely overlooked greenspan's remarks and the bond market's reaction, buying stocks in a late-afternoon rally that baffled strategists because signs of higher interest rates usually depress stock prices
the dow jones average rose 22.71 points to 2,005.97, its first finish above 2,000 since jan. 8, when computerized selling and a presidential panel's report on the october stock crash sent the index down 140.58 points to 1,911.31
the value of all u.s. stocks rose $16.9 billion tuesday, according to the wilshire associates 5,000 equity index
in other economic news tuesday, a national real estate trade group said sales of existing homes steadied in 1987 at close to 4 million units despite volatile mortgage rates and the stock market collapse
the national association of realtors said sales of existing single-family homes and condominiums totaled 3.885 million units last year, down 0.3 percent from the 1986 level of 3.897 million units. sales in both years were the fastest pace of this decade
b.f. goodrich co. today announced plans to sell its vacant 27-building downtown complex to covington capital corp., a group of new york developers
terms were not disclosed. however, goodrich's treasurer, robert mcmillan, described the price as nominal
most of the buildings involved in the sale have been vacant since fall, when goodrich shut down several manufacturing operations
the former b.f. goodrich corporate headquarters, now occupied by the uniroyal goodrich group, and the goodrich adhesives plant are not included in the sale
the property up for sale encompasses the site of goodrich's original factory building, goodrich officials said. the company opened in 1870
at its peak of operation, the manufacturing and office complex consisted of 90 buildings and 28,000 workers
production lines gradually were shut down or moved out of town. goodrich now is based in bath township, an akron suburb. tender offer, editing to conform, early stock price; picks up 7th graf pvs: federated said ...</note>
campeau corp. today boosted to $61 a share its tender offer for federated department store inc. and promised to sweeten the offer again to $66 a share if federated agrees to be acquired by midnight sunday
the move came a day after the giant retailer's board rejected campeau's separate proposal to pay $66 a share, or about $5.85 billion, for federated in a definitive merger agreement
federated's board, meeting in new york on tuesday, instead approved a financial restructuring that could include the sale of most assets other than the company's department stores
campeau sweetened its tender offer to $61 a share, or about $5.4 billion, from the $47 a share, roughly $4.2 billion, it initially offered on jan. 25. federated rejected the initial tender offer as inadequate
federated stock fell $2.87{ to $60.87{ a share in early new york stock exchange trading
federated also has rejected campeau's alternative offer for a definitive merger agreement twice, including the latest $66 proposal and campeau's initial $61 a share offer, because it was not convinced campeau had the necessary financing
but campeau spokeswoman joele frank said in new york today that ``financing for a $66 bid is absolutely solid.''
on tuesday, campeau said youngstown, ohio, developer edward j. debartolo agreed to increase his previously announced $400 million loan to $480 million to help support the buyout. toronto's reichmann family, through its olympia &amp; york enterprises ltd., has agreed to buy a $260 million interest in campeau corp., campeau spokesmen said
campeau said the bank of montreal and banque paribas of france had agreed to provide $200 million each in equity and to coax another $100 million in equity from other banks
the developer reiterated today that first boston corp. said in a letter it is ``highly confident'' it could provide up to $1 billion in bridge financing
campeau said in a statement that it will increase its tender offer to $66 a share if federated ``enters into a definitive agreement'' to be acquired by midnight sunday
the tender offer is conditioned upon ``certain recently enacted anti-takeover legislation being invalidated'' or not applicable to the offer, campeau said in a statement
the developer is challenging a new anti-takeover law in delaware as unconstitutional. while federated is based in cincinnati, it is incorporated in delaware
federated said tuesday its bankers and financial advisers studied the latest bid and decided that campeau did not have the financing for such a transaction and that ``its ability to arrange financing continued to be questionable.''
federated said its investment bankers believed the company's shareholders could be hurt if federated entered into an agreement with campeau and the transaction couldn't be completed at the specified price
the federated board of directors then authorized negotiations with other unspecified parties that have shown an interest in buying federated or some of the company's assets
the company said in a statement: ``the board also considered a restructuring plan, which would involve sales of most of federated's non-department store assets, the possible issuance of preferred stock, and either an extraordinary dividend or the repurchase of more than 50 percent of federated's outstanding stock
the board requested that management proceed intensively with the further development of such a plan, and authorized management to negotiate the terms of such preferred stock and to obtain prompt bids for all of federated's non-department store assets.''
federated's directors said a shareholders' rights plan adopted by the board last month would take effect thursday. the plan, known as a ``poison pill'' defense, is designed to discourage an unwanted takeover by making such a move more expensive
the company, which operates about 650 stores in 36 states and had sales exceeding $11 billion in 1987, said nov. 28 it had 88.5 million shares outstanding
federated said it spent the weekend negotiating with numerous parties, including campeau, which bought allied stores corp. in december 1986
among those believed to be interested is the takeover specialist firm kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co., based in new york
last week, in a letter to henry kravis, campeau chairman robert campeau warned that any agreement between kohlberg, kravis and federated would be challenged in court
after the allied purchase, campeau sold several allied divisions but retained several retailing chains, including ann taylor, brooks brothers and jordan marsh
federated's holdings include the new york-based bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, rich's in atlanta, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles, i. magnin in san francisco and lazarus in ohio. general news wires.</note>
the former girlfriend of a midwest stock exchange clerk fatally shot him in the crowded lobby of the exchange, then sobbed over the body, police said
andre tatum, 27, of suburban harvey was dead after being shot in the wrist, chest and stomach on tuesday
none of the other 100 people in the lobby were injured, officer arthur buckley said
tatum and ramonia patton, 24, of chicago, had quarreled in the exchange building before the shooting, police said
she apologized and offered no resistance as she was taken into custody, said officer tony lobue. ms. patton was charged with murder and was being held in the cook county jail
when police arrived, the woman was sobbing and saying, ``i shot him. i shot him because i love him,'' lobue said
the stock market advanced broadly today, extending the rally it began a week ago
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, rose 1.82 to 2,007.79 in the first half hour today
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 807 up, 350 down and 496 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 29.30 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing in recent days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
at the same time, numerous takeover developments and rumors have revived some of the enthusiasm for stocks that vanished in the crash last fall
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 2 to 43 after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .35 to 146.31. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .71 at 279.64
on tuesday the dow jones industrial average rose 22.71 points to 2,005.97, closing above 2,000 for the first time since it stood at 2,051.89 on jan. 7
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 4 to 3 on the nyse. big board volume totaled 135.38 million shares tuesday, against 144.86 million in last friday's session
the stock market gained more ground today, extending the rally it began a week ago
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, rose 7.96 to 2,013.93 by 11 a.m. today
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 875 up, 431 down and 482 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 63.35 million shares at midmorning
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing in recent days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
at the same time, numerous takeover developments and rumors have revived some of the enthusiasm for stocks that vanished in the crash last fall
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 3[ to 41~ after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .67 to 146.63. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.08 at 280.01
grain and soybean futures were mostly lower in early trading today on the chicago board of trade
soybeans were mixed on a lack of foreign demand and improved growing conditions for the south american crop, analysts said
wheat prices retreated despite the soviet union's bid tuesday for 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, and despite the agriculture department's announcement tuesday afternoon that it had sold less wheat than expected in last friday's weekly auction
the agriculture department recently targeted the soviet union for sales of 2 million metric tons of u.s. wheat, but the market has been disappointed at the soviets' slowness in buying the grain, said joel karlin, an analyst in chicago for research department inc
they're really taking their sweet time about it and waiting for prices to drop down,'' karlin said
corn prices declined on prospects for increased farmer selling, he said
in early trading, wheat was 2} cents to 3{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.27{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to { cent lower with march at $1.97} a bushel; oats were { cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.89{ a bushel; soybeans were { cent lower to 2\ cents higher with march at $6.22 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were sharply lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
cattle futures led the declines in reaction to tuesday's monthly usda cattle-on-feed report showing a larger number of cattle being fattened for slaughter than the market had expected, analysts said
live cattle were .45 cent to .87 cent lower with february at 71.35 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .50 cent to .97 cent lower with march at 82.40 cents a pound; hogs were .35 cent to .60 cent lower with february at 47.00 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .40 cent to .80 cent lower with february at 55.00 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled mostly higher on tuesday
the stock of societe generale de belgique, for whose control italian financier carlo de benedetti has been fighting for a month, set a new record on brussels stock exchange wednesday, on the third day of the italian's public bid
the holding company's stock price made closed at a record high of 5,000 belgian francs, or $143, up 140 francs, or $4 from tuesday's close, and 1,000 francs, or $28.5, above the price offered by de benedetti in his public bid for 15 percent of societe generale
trading volume in societe generale was higher than on tuesday, with a total 294,000 shares changing hands
meanwhile, the french dumenil-leble group announced it had sold its stake in societe generale to cerus, a company controlled by de benedetti, exercising its option to buy approximately two million shares and 700,000 warrants of societe generale
the 1.4 billion french-franc move _ worth $242 million _ gives de benedetti exclusive control over the stake of 18.6 percent in societe generale shares which cerus and dumenil-leble have shared up to this point
societe generale's voting share capital totals 28.2 million shares while the exercise of all warrants would raise that figure to 30.9 million shares
de benedetti's bid for 15 percent of societe generale was made at 4,000, or $114, a share
british airways plc said wednesday its pre-tax profit fell 5.4 percent in its fiscal third quarter from the same period a year ago
britain's largest airline said the profit for the three months ended dec. 31 fell to 35 million pounds, or $61 million, from 37 million pounds, or $64 million, in the same period a year earlier
earnings per american depositary share totaled 59 cents, based on an exchange rate of $1.83 per pound as of dec. 31, compared with 74 cents, based on an exhange rate of $1.47 per pound, in the year-earlier quarter, company said
the company declined to provide specific reasons for these profit declines
quarterly sales rose 10 percent to 881 million pounds, or $1.5 billion, from 801 million pounds, or $1.4 billion
the company said the results exclude those of british caledonian group plc, which british airways acquired for 250 million pounds
for the nine-month period ended dec. 31, british airways said it earned 174 million pounds, or 24.2 pence a share, compared with 173 million pounds, or 24 pence, a share
earnings per american depositary share in the nine months totaled $4.43, compared with $3.53 in the same period of 1986, the airline said
sales over the period gained 12 percent to 2.8 billion pounds from 2.5 billion pounds a year earlier
the company said those results were affected by a 10 percent increase in operating costs over that period; costs for new aircraft and a 20 percent increase in expenditures for fuel
the stock market kept climbing today, extending the rally it began a week ago
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, rose 8.78 to 2,014.75 by noontime today
gainers outnumbered losers by about 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 828 up, 541 down and 475 unchanged
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing in recent days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
at the same time, numerous takeover developments and rumors have revived some of the enthusiasm for stocks that vanished in the crash last fall
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 3] to 41| after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
navistar international led the active list, up \ at 4|. the company reported sharply higher quarterly earnings from continuing operations
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .35 to 146.31. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .84 at 279.77
volume on the big board came to 89.25 million shares at noontime, against 74.44 million at the same point tuesday. elaborate on comments by orion's heffernan.</note>
the obscure cargo airline that eastern airlines is counting on to keep it aloft in case of a strike faces questions about its safety record as the government decides whether it is fit to carry passengers
few air travelers have ever heard of orion air, a north carolina cargo carrier which serves such air freight companies as united parcel service, emery air freight and purolator
but if labor strife intensifies at eastern, many of that airline's customers may find themselves with tickets to fly orion _ and the prospect has caused federal safety officials to step up scrutiny of the airline
recently eastern entered into an agreement with orion, including the leasing of 26 of eastern's jetliners, that call on the airline to take over much of eastern's routes if pilots and mechanics go on strike. orion would fly the eastern planes with its own pilots and ground workers, eastern officials said
but the faa has yet to approve orion for passenger service, and a senior agency official said tuesday that an enforcement proceeding is under way that likely will include fines against orion because of past safety violations
an faa inspection report on orion shows ``a large number of serious safety infractions,'' said anthony broderick, the faa's associate administrator for aviation standards
broderick said the airline's management has taken actions ``to permit orion to safely operate its cargo business'' and training and maintenance procedures ``are being corrected to prevent similar occurrences in the future.''
at congressional hearings tuesday, james l. heffernan, an orion vice president, said problems cited by the faa have been corrected
heffernan called orion's safety record excellent and maintained that much of the faa's concerns stemmed from a ``misunderstanding'' by faa inspectors about orion's method of record keeping
orion air responded to each of the faa's proposed findings last summer and are still in the process of resolving these issues. obviously, if any of the issues compromised air safety, the faa would not have allowed orion air to continue to operate,'' heffernan continued
but rep. cardiss collins, d-ill., chairman of the house government operations and transportation subcommittee, called orion ``an airline in near-shambles'' and raised questions about its fitness to fly passengers
in an interview, steven kolski, a vice president of eastern, said eastern executives believe orion's past safety problems have been resolved. he expressed confidence that the airline's fitness will be assured before the faa allows it to engage in passenger-carrying flights
we got a report that said they (orion) are a hell of a lot better today than they were a year ago and that most, if not all, of their problems were behind them and they were in good shape,'' said kolski
kolski said eastern is relying on the agreement with orion to keep eastern's service going if its 10,000 mechanics go on strike and its 4,000 pilots refuse to cross the picket lines
but faa officials were not as certain that all of orion's safety shortcomings are behind it. the faa cited ``systemic difficulties'' with the airline's training program, record keeping and use of operational handbooks that are not yet corrected
and the agency disclosed it was seeking civil penalties against orion for past violations, although no amounts were cited
once the systemic problems have all been corrected, the faa will turn its attention toward developing an appropriate enforcement package, including a proposed fine'' for past violations, broderick said
orion's problems stem from safety violations found in early 1987 _ violations that attracted little public attention because orion's 55 jets were carrying only cargo
among the findings by faa inspectors were a shortage of required training records; inadequate auditing of maintenance facilites; poor documentation on the qualifications of ``check pilots'' who decide on the performance of line pilots; incomplete flight operations manuals, instances of pilots failing to go through required refresher training; and training programs that did not meet federal standards
in a related development tuesday, the faa made public a report on improvements eastern airlines has made in its own maintenance program since the airline was fined a record $9.5 million two years ago
the faa said that eastern has made ``substantial progress'' to correct past deficiencies, but that some concerns remain about the airline's deferred maintenance program and repeated problems with certain equipment
nevertheless, eastern officials hailed the latest faa findings which showed that corrective actions had been taken in 52 of the 53 areas cited by the faa two years ago
we are very pleased. this report shows that eastern has corrected the deficiencies,'' said kolski
prices closed higher in moderately light trading on the london stock exchange wednesday
there was little fresh news to affect share prices, dealers said. instead, sentiment turned moderately favorable following tuesday's release of positive british economic data, they said
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index ended 13.5 points, or 0.8 percent, higher at 1,748.1
volume increased to a modest 374.9 million shares from 293.6 million tuesday
dealers said share prices rose as investors took a second look at tuesday's figures for britain's public sector borrowing requirement, which is a measure of its budget deficit, and industrial production. the reports were better than market expectations but had failed to boost share prices on tuesday
gains in new york and tokyo overnight and continued gains in early trading on wall street also inspired confidence in london investors, dealers said
a federal judge approved a $25 million settlement tuesday to end a class-action lawsuit brought by former owners of montgomery ward &amp; co. catalog stores
the settlement will affect 852 store owners, with the average payment totaling $24,000
the owners sued 2{ years ago to challenge montgomery ward's decision to stop taking catalog orders from independent store operators
the agreement, reached last month shortly before the case reached a jury, also requires montgomery ward, a retail chain based in chicago and owned by mobil corp., to drop countersuits to recover nearly $2 million in debts from operators
the settlement is fair, reasonable and completely adequate considering the hazardous litigation,'' u.s. district judge clifford scott green said in approving the settlement tuesday. ``it is clear to this court that a jury could have found in favor of the defendants.''
he also said only about 20 former owners objected to the settlement, and the objections centered on the distribution of the settlement, an issue to be handled later
the opposition included two former store owners who testified tuesday
thomas imerito, of wysox, pa., and frank logue, of montrose, pa., said they doubted their payments would cover their costs
their attorney, albert slap of philadelphia, said he will appeal
the assignment of the distribution could split the class into warring factions, and this kind of opposition reflects on the fairness of the settlement,'' he said
harold cohen, a philadelphia attorney representing most of the plaintiffs' lawyers, asked the judge to set an immediate hearing on lawyer fees. he suggested a payment of $3.5 million plus $500,000 in expenses
the judge said he would decide the issue later, possibly after agreement is reached on dividing the $25 million
the stock market turned mixed today, running into some resistance after the rally of the past week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, dropped back 8.46 to 1,997.51 by 2 p.m. today
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 736 up, 707 down and 477 unchanged
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing lately, but traders still seemed reluctant to chase after rallies after they have run for a few days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 3} to 41\ after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
pillsbury dropped 2{ to 32. the company said analysts' estimates of its earnings for the fiscal year ending in may were too high
navistar international led the active list, unchanged at 4]. the company reported sharply higher quarterly earnings from continuing operations
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .34 to 145.62. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was off .07 at 278.86
volume on the big board came to 127.14 million shares with two hours to go
construction contracts will drop 4 percent this year, led by steep declines in office and other commercial building and lesser drops in housing and public works projects, according to a forecast released wednesday
builders will commit to $246.2 billion worth of new contracts in all of 1988 compared with $255.2 billion last year, according to an update of the 1988 dodge-sweet's construction outlook, put out by mcgraw-hill information systems co
in coming months, construction activity will only be slightly affected by the stock market crash of last october, the mcgraw-hill unit said
since october, consumer confidence has been shaken, federal budgetary restraint has been tightened and expectations for the economy's growth in 1988 have been lowered,'' said george a. christie, chief economist at the company. ``at the same time, however, the outlook for interest rates has brightened.''
accordingly, so long as a recession is avoided, this mix of positive and negative developments will not pose a serious threat to a credit-sensitive industry such as construction, he said
christie predicted nonresidential building would drop 7 percent, to $89.5 billion this year, led by the ``highly overbuilt office market.''
office building activity should drop by 14 percent to $19.2 billion, and will have to fall even more ``if the office vacancy rate is to shrink from its current 20-plus percent,'' he added
reduced consumer spending and weaker home-building together could mean a 12 percent drop in the retail sector, to $21.6 billion, while industrial building should pick up by 6 percent, christie said
while many would-be home buyers remain on the sidelines in the wake of the market crash, lower interest rates will lure others back into the market, he said
even so, single family homebuilding will ease 1 percent, to $84.9 billion, and multifamily housing will slump 4 percent, to $26.3 billion, dragged down by a large surplus of apartments, he added
the report predicted nonbuilding construction would be pulled two ways in 1988, with environmental building increasing by 2 percent and transportation building down by 4 percent
as a result, total nonbuilding construction will shrink by 1 percent overall, to $45.1 billion, the forecast said
the company that made president reagan's new hearing aid is thinking of nicknaming it the jellybean in honor of the sweet tooth of its most famous customer
we used to say it was the size of a cashew nut, but he (reagan) reminded me it's also the size of a jellybean,'' thomas a. powers, an executive of siemens hearing instruments inc. said wednesday
we may start to call it the jellybean,'' said powers, the director of professional relations for siemens. ``after all, he's the president.''
reagan last week began wearing a $1,900 siemens hearing aid equipped with a remote-control device for screening out unwanted noise. the publicity helped spur sales of hearing aids to the general public
president reagan deserves recognition for being willing to publicly acknowledge that he wears a hearing aid,'' said helmut ermann, president of the piscataway, n.j.-based subsidiary of west germany's siemens ag
ermann said reagan ``is sending a very powerful message to many millions of people all over the world, really, whose quality of life is adversely affected by hearing loss.''
reagan's new hearing aid, for which he was fitted in december, can be switched to pick up telephone signals, preventing the whistling sound of feedback that comes from holding the receiver against the ear
reagan dates his hearing loss to the noise of a gun going off by his ear during his acting days in hollywood. he wears a hearing aid in each ear
construction of the tunnel under the english channel is roughly on schedule and within budget, a co-chairman of the anglo-french building consortium eurotunnel said wednesday
alastair morton, acknowledged that certain aspects of the construction of the 31-mile rail tunnel under the english channel have fallen behind schedule, but said none of the delays so far led him to believe the tunnel will not open in 1993 as planned
the start of tunneling on the french side was delayed when one suppliers for the boring machine went bankrupt and the machinery had to be finished in the united states, but he said the machine is now in place and will resume boring shortly
boring on the english side of the channel began as planned on dec. 1 and is progressing on schedule, he said
the main problem on the british side is the country's shortage of skilled labor, morton said. as a result, british contractors are hiring overseas, morton said
morton said eurotunnel has spent about 300 million pounds, or $525 million, of the 750 million pounds it raised in a stock offering last year
eurotunnel must use up the funds raised in the offering before it can draw on 5 billion pounds in bank loans also arranged last year
eurotunnel is ``basically within budget'' and won't draw on the bank loans until the end of 1988, morton said
the stock market pulled back a bit today, running into some resistance after the rally of the past week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, dropped back 6.96 to 1,999.01 by 3 p.m. today
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 732 up, 740 down and 468 unchanged
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing lately, but traders still seemed reluctant to chase after rallies after they have run for a few days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 3\ to 41} after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
pillsbury fell 2| to 31~. the company said analysts' estimates of its earnings for the fiscal year ending in may were too high
navistar international led the active list, unchanged at 4]. the company reported sharply higher quarterly earnings from continuing operations
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .32 to 145.64. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .10 at 279.03
volume on the big board came to 144.70 million shares with an hour to go
soybean futures closed sharply higher on the chicago board of trade wednesday while grain futures ended mixed
soybean prices soared near the close as talk circulated that abc radio news commentator paul harvey had reported the discovery of a ``sudden death syndrome'' affecting soybean crops, said jerry gidel, an analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
harvey's chicago office confirmed the commentator had reported such a finding, based on a wire service report about a research project at the university of illinois. the associated press reported the story in 1986
the soybean complex also was supported by expectations of new foreign purchases of soybean meal and soybean oil, said joel karlin, an analyst for research department inc. in chicago
the soybean rally spread to the neighboring grain pits, pushing corn prices higher and bringing wheat futures off their lows of the day, analysts said
at the close, wheat was unchanged to 3{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.27{ a bushel; corn was 3{ cents to 4} cents higher with march at $2.01} a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 8{ cents to 13 cents higher with march at $6.33 a bushel
the stock market pulled back a bit today, running into some spells of selling after its rally of the past week
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing lately, but traders still seemed reluctant to chase after rallies once they have run for a few days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
however, brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, slipped 4.98 to 2,000.99
declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the new york stock exchange, with 743 up, 761 down and 472 unchanged
big board volume totaled 176.83 million shares, against 135.38 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost .24 to 145.72
joseph p. grano jr., who had headed merrill lynch &amp; co.'s giant retail operations since 1985, has resigned to take a similar post at painewebber inc., painewebber announced wednesday
merrill lynch named david h. komansky, president of its real estate limited partnership, to replace grano as national sales director of merrill lynch consumer markets
with some 480 retail sales offices and about 12,000 brokers nationwide, merrill lynch is regarded as the nation's biggest brokerage house
grano, 39, had worked for the firm since 1972. he will head painewebber's retail network of 283 offices and more than 4,100 brokers nationwide
merrill lynch is a great firm, and i leave many friends and associates there with mixed emotions,'' grano said in a news release. ``while my decision was not an easy one, i look forward to my new position with great enthusiasm.''
komansky, 48, is a 20-year merrill lynch veteran who in 1985 was named to head the firm's merrill lynch realty inc., 25 percent of which was sold to investors last year as a limited partnership
the dollar finished lower against all major currencies wednesday in dull, thin trading
gold prices rose. republic national bank of new york quoted a late bid for gold of $446.25 a troy ounce, up from tuesday's late bid of $444.15
traders said the dollar moved in a narrow, technical range. the currency jumped higher last week when the government a reported smaller-than-expected merchandise trade deficit for december, but traders said a lack of follow-through buying based on the trade number continued to push the dollar lower
in general, the market has lost its luster to buy the dollar in this environment,'' said ronald holzer, chief dealer at harris trust and savings bank in chicago
additionally, one large order to sell dollars took its toll on the currency, said dan holland, an assistant vice president at discount corp
the dollar also fell in earlier european trading, when profit-taking pushed the currency down from its session highs
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar continued its decline against the japanese yen, closing at 130.41 yen, down 0.09 yen from tuesday. later, in london, it was quoted lower at 130.30 yen
in new york, the dollar closed at 130.125 yen, down from 130.385 yen on tuesday
in london, the dollar fell against the british pound, which was quoted at $1.7490, compared with tuesday's $1.7440. in new york it cost $1.75415 for one british pound, more expensive than tuesday's $1.74625
other later dollar rates in new york, compared with late rates tuesday, included: 1.7010 west german marks, down from 1.71045; 1.3995 swiss francs, down from 1.4040; 5.7395 french francs, down from 5.7805; 1,253.50 italian lire, down from 1,258.00, and 1.2673 canadian dollars, down from 1.2685
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates tuesday, included: 1.7065 west german marks, down from 1.7120; 1.4030 swiss francs, down from 1.4038; 5.7635 french francs, down from 5.7815; 1.9190 dutch guilders, down from 1.9200; 1,258.75 italian lire, down from 1,260.00; and 1.2656 canadian dollars, down from 1.2687
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $446 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $445.50. in zurich, gold closed at a bid $446, compared with tuesday's $444.50. hong kong markets were closed for the chinese new year
on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $446 a troy ounce, up from $445 on tuesday
silver bullion prices rose on the london market, where the metal traded at a late bid price of $6.42 a troy ounce, compared with tuesday's $6.39. on the comex, silver closed at $6.430 a troy ounce, up from $6.355 on tuesday
cotton futures prices soared the limit allowed for daily trading wednesday in a technically inspired rally that lifted the market out of several weeks in the doldrums
on other markets, soybean futures surged while grains were mixed; livestock and meat futures were mixed; precious metals advanced slightly; energy futures were mostly lower; and stock-index futures retreated
cotton prices for delivery in march, may and july all advanced the 2 cents a pound daily limit on the new york cotton exchange in buying that accelerated sharply when the may contract reached 63.20 cents a pound, said ernest simon, cotton specialist for the investment firm prudential-bache securities inc
the rally marked the largest daily movement for those contracts _ all of which are based on the 1987 crop _ since jan. 26, when the price on all three contracts fell nearly 2 cents a pound
simon attributed most of the buying to technical, rather than fundamental factors
judy ganes, an analyst in new york with shearson lehman hutton inc., said rumors of soviet purchases of u.s. cotton may also have contributed to the rally
that's it as far as fundamentals,'' she said. ``the market's just been quiet for a while and today it began to pick up.''
the contract for march delivery settled at 63.70 cents a pound
soybean prices soared near the close on the chicago board of trade as talk circulated that abc radio news commentator paul harvey had reported the discovery of a ``sudden death syndrome'' affecting soybean crops, said jerry gidel, an analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
harvey's chicago office confirmed the commentator had reported such a finding, based on a wire service report about a research project at the university of illinois. the associated press reported the story in 1986
the soybean complex also was supported by expectations of new foreign purchases of soybean meal and soybean oil, said joel karlin, an analyst for research department inc. in chicago
the soybean rally spread to the neighboring grain pits, pushing corn prices higher and bringing wheat futures off their lows of the day, analysts said
wheat settled unchanged to 32 cents lower with march at $3.27} a bushel; corn was 3{ cents to 4} cents higher with march at $2.01} a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 11\ cents to 13\ cents higher with march at $6.33{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures ended mixed on the chicago mercantile exchange after declining sharply earlier in the day in reaction to the agriculture department's monthly cattle-on-feed report
the report showed larger numbers of cattle being fattened for slaughter than the market had anticipated. that sent futures prices lower in early trading, but steady cash prices for livestock limited the losses, analysts said
live cattle were .25 cent lower to .68 cent higher with february at 71.80 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .85 cent higher with march at 83.85 cents a pound; hogs were .43 cent lower to .05 cent higher with february at 47.17 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .28 cent lower with february at 55.70 cents a pound
precious metals futures advanced slightly on the commodity exchange in new york, but analysts said the move did not indicate a change in the recent downward trend for gold and silver prices
the dollar appears to be holding steady, the balance of trade figure is showing improvement and that is leading to a rather weak investment demand outlook for gold,'' said stephen w. platt, metals analyst in chicago for dean witter reynolds inc
gold settled $1.40 to $1.80 higher with april at $449.20 a troy ounce; silver was 7.5 cents to 7.8 cents higher with march at $6.45 a troy ounce
energy futures finished mostly lower on the new york mercantile exchange after starting out higher in reaction to weekly american petroleum institute figures showing sharp drawdowns in gasoline and distillate stocks
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 8 cents lower to 4 cents higher with march at $16.61 a barrel; heating oil was .39 cent to .79 cent lower with march at 45.58 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .15 cent lower to .38 cent higher with march at 46.66 cents a gallon
stock index futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 2.25 points lower at 259.85. the underlying spot index was off .61 point at 259.21
when foreign corporations and investors look at the united states these days, they see a big ``for sale'' sign
the weak dollar, relatively cheap u.s. stock prices and fears of trade protectionism have escalated the already heady pace of foreign acquisitions of u.s. companies
while some u.s. businesses and politicians are worried about the impact of the invasion, many corporations are jumping to hook up with cash-rich foreign suitors
we're finding there's a lot of interest out there,'' said ian p. dunn, a managing partner in new york with the british investment banker samuel montagu inc. ``we're working on a number of deals at the moment.''
at the same time, hostile foreign takeovers are expected to be a minority. aside from several high-profile hostile battles already waged this year, foreign buyers mainly are expected to be business-oriented suitors interested in long-term benefits rather than quick profits
recent weeks have witnessed a mini-wave of foreign buyouts. in one of the biggest, firestone tire and rubber co. and tokyo-based bridgestone corp. announced a joint venture by which bridgestone would acquire 75 percent of firestone's global tire business, the world's fifth-largest, for $1 billion
a flurry of smaller deals also have surfaced, including:
_bank of tokyo ltd.'s acquisition of union bank of los angeles for $750 million from britain's standard chartered plc
_british publisher pearson plc's $283 million purchase of the textbook publisher addison-wesley publishing co
_the $36 million buyout of anspach grossman portugal inc., a corporate image consultant, by wpp group plc, the british marketing firm that last year acquired advertising giant j. walter thompson co. for $566 million
still being contested are two of the year's biggest proposals: bat industries plc's hostile $4.2 billion offer for farmers group inc. and toronto-based campeau corp.'s hostile $5.4 billion bid for federated department stores inc
the 1988 buying spree had been expected following the rise of foreign buyouts in recent years. foreign buyers _ chiefly the british and japanese _ spent an estimated $41.9 billion in acquiring 326 u.s. companies in 1987, according to mergers and acquisitions magazine, compared with $25.2 billion in 358 deals during 1986 and just $2.2 billion for 116 takeovers in 1983
british buyers alone accounted for about $30 billion in u.s. acquisitions last year, such as british petroleum co.'s $7.8 billion buyout of standard oil co., while the japanese took in about $6 billion worth of purchases, including sony corp.'s $2 billion acquisition of cbs inc.'s records business
the speedup in foreign buyouts coincided with the sharp decline in the dollar's value that has increased foreign buying power in the united states over the past two years. the japanese yen's value has risen by about 100 percent against the dollar since early 1985, and the british pound by 64 percent in that time
furthermore, although u.s. stock prices have rebounded somewhat from their lows following october's market crash, they generally remain well below their peaks of last summer, keeping the market prices of many american businesses at cut-rate levels
that presents a unique opportunity for foreign businesses to make long-desired strategic expansions into the united states. bridgestone, for example, would become a major u.s. competitor for the first time through its firestone venture
such considerations also make it likely that hostile deals will be the exception rather than the rule
what the japanese would like to establish over here is a significant presence, a more efficient operation,'' said shuehei sato, head of u.s. merchant banking for japan's sanwa bank. ``in order to achieve that, it's necessary to have a good team of managers, a good working relationship with workers or labor unions.''
that could only be achieved, in the japanese manager's mind at least, by having friendly negotiations,'' he said
but along with those welcoming new foreign investment are critics warning against a tidal wave of foreign ownership, ranging from members of congress to lee iacocca, the entrepreneurial chairman of chrysler corp
critics say foreign takeovers could cause the same problems they attribute to the domestic takeover wave of the 1980s, including lost jobs, a weakened industrial base and lost tax revenue
rep. byron dorgan, d-n.d., who already has proposed legislation to restrict domestic hostile takeovers, has asked the general accounting office to examine the impact of foreign buyouts and the benefits that foreign corporations might enjoy in pursuing u.s. companies
dorgan and others have said the laws of some countries such as switzerland gave foreigners legal veils of secrecy and other unfair advantages in their attempts to buy u.s. companies
we're going to try to analyze what the threat is and what we might want to do in response to it,'' dorgan said in a telephone interview
the stock market posted some scattered losses wednesday, running into some resistance after the rally of the past week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, slipped 4.98 to 2,000.99
declines slightly outnumbered advances among new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 746 up, 774 down and 478 unchanged
big board volume totaled 176.83 million shares, against 135.38 million in the previous session
analysts said optimism about the economic outlook had gradually been increasing lately, but traders still seemed reluctant to chase after rallies after they have run for a few days
on tuesday alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, described economic activity as stable if not especially ``buoyant.''
there was some disappointment in the financial world over greenspan's remarks implying that the fed had no plans for any further relaxation of its credit policy
but brokers said that message also meant that policymakers saw no great cause for concern about an impending recession
the fed's report wednesday morning that industrial production rose 0.2 percent in january was in line with advance estimates on wall street
among actively traded blue chips, eastman kodak lost { to 42{; philip morris 1{ to 89[; international business machines 1 to 112}, and american telephone &amp; telegraph [ to 29\. an exception was ford motor, up { at 44{
firestone tire &amp; rubber dropped 3 to 42 after jumping 9\ points on tuesday, when the company agreed to form a joint venture with bridgestone corp. of japan that would take over firestone's tire business
cooper tire climbed 2[ to 34|
pillsbury fell 2| to 31~. the company said analysts' estimates of its earnings for the fiscal year ending in may were too high
navistar international led the active list, up [ at 4{. the company reported sharply higher quarterly earnings from continuing operations
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1[ to 16|. the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
allegis rose ~ to 72. the company said it began its tender offer for as many as 35.5 million of its common shares for $80 apiece
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $1.58 billion, or 0.06 percent, in value
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dipped .24 to 145.72
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 202.43 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell .50 to 298.59, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down .62 at 259.21
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose .54 to 355.28. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 279.09, up .16
general motors corp. has recalled nearly 322,000 buick, oldsmobile, pontiac and cadillac cars for reasons including potential fires in some models, the automaker said wednesday
gm recalled 132,000 1987 buick, pontiac and oldsmobile subcompact cars with 2.0-liter engines because a fuel line may crack or separate, leaking fuel and leading to a possible engine fire
the fuel lines on the 1987 buick skyhawk, pontiac grand am, pontiac sunbird and oldsmobile firenza models are being replaced at dealerships, gm said
gm said it recalled about 179,000 1986 and 1985 buick somerset and buick skylark models for replacement of headlight switches that may overheat and make the lights turn on and off by themselves
dealers are replacing power window switches on about 5,500 cadillac eldorado convertibles because of potential shorts and ensuing door fires caused by water dripping onto the switches when the driver's-side door is open, gm said
on about 5,300 1988 cadillac brougham models, dealers are inspecting and replacing rear-seat shoulder belt systems because the belts may not meet federal standards and may not lock properly in a crash, gm said
luis nogales stepped down tuesday as president of univision inc. after control of the nation's leading spanish-language television network was transferred to a group led by hallmark cards inc
the 45-year-old nogales joined univision in december 1986 as head of its news operation and became president last september
nogales, a former chairman and chief executive of united press international, said the new owners had asked him to stay on in the job but he declined
it was not an offer i found attractive at this point in my career,'' nogales said, adding that he was bothered by a variety of factors including the ``reporting structure.''
named to replace nogales on an interim basis was univision's longtime sales executive william stiles, said spokeswoman emma carrasco
stiles will work closely with danny villanueva and joaquin blaya, heads of the company's stations in los angeles and miami, she said
hallmark, based in kansas city, mo., and first chicago venture capital of chicago agreed last november to aquire the network for an undisclosed price
previously, hallmark and first chicago bought five major spanish-language television stations from univision for $301 million. the stations are located in los angeles and fresno, calif., san antonio, texas, miami and new york
nogales will remain with univision's parent, univisa s.a., a diversified entertainment concern with cable television, record, video and other operations
nogales said he will spend some time exploring a number of new businesses for univisa before it is determined what he will head
australian investor robert holmes a court said his conglomerate bell group lost 500 million australian dollars, or about $350 million, as a result of the october stock market crash
the loss announced monday was the largest corporate loss in australian history, according to newspapers
holmes a court was considered the richest man in australia until the oct. 19 world crash that started on wall street. the company's flagship firm, bell group ltd., said revaluing of investments caused the losses, which also were spread across holmes a court's bell resources ltd. and j.n. taylor holdings
a bell group spokesman said the losses reflected a ``clearing of the decks'' and the adoption of one-time writedowns
holmes a court has a 30 percent holding in broken hill proprietary co. ltd., one of australia's largest companies. bhp shares dropped sharply during the stock collapse
all of holmes a court's investments in publicly traded companies, except for investments in his associated companies, were written down to market values as of last dec. 31, the spokesman said
the bell companies also reported unspecified losses from selling investments, and said they have sold more investments since dec. 31
holmes a court said he wanted to emphasize that the writedowns represented unrealized non-cash losses, and didn't necessarily reflect permanent drops in the value of the investments
the statement said the companies were considering a restructuring ``to reflect new conditions and objectives.''
itt corp.'s fourth-quarter profit quadrupled as the company set earnings records for both the quarter and the year, the 68-year-old multinational conglomerate said tuesday
itt said its profit of $447 million, or $3.01 per share, contrasted with a profit of $102 million, or 66 cents a share, a year earlier. revenue in the quarter rose 9.3 percent to $5.2 billion from $4.7 billion a year earlier
the quarterly results included a gain of $252.8 million from the sale of itt's 24 percent interest in britain's stc plc, the company said
for all of 1987, itt said its profit more than doubled to $1.02 billion, or $6.76 a share, from $494 million, or $3.23 a share, in 1986. revenue in 1987 rose 12 percent to $19.5 billion from $17.4 billion in 1986
itt is a diversified company that owns sheraton hotels, insurance companies, basic manufacturing, defense contracting and forest products. it has a 37 percent interest in french-based alcatel nv, a major telecommunications equipment manufacturing company
all of our core businesses performed better in 1987 than in 1986, with the exception of our defense technology segment, where remedial actions are under way,'' rand araskog, the chairman and chief executive, said in a news release
bond prices stagnated or fell marginally wednesday in light trading, reflecting fresh uncertainty over the outlook for interest rates and the economy's direction
the treasury's 30-year issue lost about $2 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price and is considered a sign of interest rate trends, rose to 8.48 percent from 8.46 percent late tuesday
bond prices generally had been rising and interest rates falling this year up until last friday, when economic statistics suggested the economy isn't slowing down significantly despite the stock market crash in october
signs of a slowdown or impending recession often rally the bond market because they imply the federal reserve will ease credit conditions. but fed chairman alan greenspan obscured the fed's intentions on tuesday, when he said important features of the economy seem stable. bond prices fell as a result
on the other hand, fresh economic evidence reported wednesday suggested recession remains a possibility. the commerce department said housing construction fell in january to the lowest level since the end of the last recession, and the fed said industrial production grew only marginally
i think the whole range of numbers have gone from imminent recession to that of a more balanced approach, so we don't know where we're going,'' said william veronda, director of fixed-income investments at financial programs inc. in denver. ``it's really painted a mixed bag.''
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments were unchanged, intermediate maturities fell 1-32 point and long-term issues fell about 3-16 point, the financial information service telerate inc. said
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.09 to 113.05. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, fell 0.40 to 1,182.63
in corporate transactions, industrials were largely unchanged and utilities fell [ point in light trading
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.24 to 282.10
among tax-exempt municipal bonds, general obligations fell about \ point and dollar bonds were unchanged, municipal traders said. business was light
yields on three-month treasury bills were unchanged at 5.73 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 4 points to 5.98 percent and year bills were unchanged at 6.29 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6| percent, down from 7 percent late tuesday
two former executives of beech-nut nutritional corp. were found guilty wednesday of selling apple-flavored sugar water labeled as pure apple juice for babies, a prosecutor said
i think it's an important victory for consumers,'' said thomas roche, executive assistant u.s. attorney for the eastern district of new york, who prosecuted the case
our whole trial team believes that justice has been done,'' he said
the defendants _ former beech-nut president neils l. hoyvald and a former vice president, john f. lavery _ faced hundreds of violations of federal food and drug laws, and conspiracy and mail fraud charges
lavery was convicted of all 448 counts in the indictment, roche said
hoyvald was found guilty on 351 counts, all violations of federal food and drug law, roche said
the jury couldn't agree on the remaining counts regarding hoyvald, he said
the company, which also was named in the november 1986 indictments, pleaded guilty last year
the indictment charged that beech-nut shipped adulterated and misbranded juice made from phony concentrate throughout the united states and overseas from 1978 to 1983
the juice, labeled as 100 percent apple juice for babies, was actually made from a flavored concentrate that had little or no apple juice, the prosecution charged. it was bottled at a beech-nut plant in canajoharie in western new york state
there has been no evidence that the juice caused any health problems, the prosecution said
this case was tried not in terms of being a health hazard,'' roche said wednesday. ``it was tried as a fraud case. it was our view that the evidence in this case demonstrated a massive defrauding of beech-nut's consumers by beech-nut.''
u.s. district court judge thomas c. platt did not fix a specific date for sentencing, but it should be within six to eight weeks, roche said
roche said both hoyvald and lavery ``face substantial prison terms and substantial fines.''
conspiracy is punishable by five years in prison and@or a $10,000 fine; mail fraud is punishable by five years and@or $1,000; food and drug law violations are punishable by three years and@or $10,000, roche said
the two men were allowed to remain free on bail until sentencing, the prosecutor said
during closing arguments last monday, roche said that evidence presented at the three-month trial never showed hoyvald and lavery ``worrying about selling fake apple juice to babies,'' but they were instead concerned about ``bad publicity and profits.''
this is not the way we expect corporate executives in this country to operate,'' he said
hoyvald's attorney, brendan sullivan jr., argued that the government had ``fallen short by an enormous margin'' of proving his client's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt
sullivan charged that two key prosecution witnesses who work for beech-nut had lied when they testified that they had repeatedly warned executives that the concentrate was phony
steven kimelman, lavery's attorney, said his client was ``a man who had nothing to gain by committing a crime.'' lavery was in charge of manufacturing at the canajoharie plant
the jury began deliberations last tuesday. it was not told that on nov. 13, three days before the trial began, beech-nut pleaded guilty to 215 counts of violating federal food and drug charges and agreed to pay a $2 million fine
in may beech-nut, a subsidiary of nestle inc. that is based in fort washington, pa., settled a class action suit that was filed in federal court in philadelphia in response to the new york city indictment
in that case, beech-nut agreed to set up a $5 million cash fund for consumers and to provide $2.5 million in beech-nut and affiliated products to retailers
also on the team prosecuting hoyvald and lavery were two attorneys from the u.s. justice department's office of consumer litigation: john r. fleder, director of that office and kenneth l. jost, a trial attorney. pvs, bgng: ``but the ...''; deletes last 8 grafs to tighten; also moved on general newswires</note>
president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget cites ``few signs of serious damage'' to the economy from last year's stock market plunge in outlining programs to reduce the budget deficit to $129.5 billion, budget documents showed wednesday
reagan's spending outline _ to be formally submitted on thursday _ will propose record spending of $1.09 trillion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1, against $964.7 billion in receipts, according to a portion of the document obtained by the associated press
if the policies proposed in this budget are adhered to, the deficit will decline steadily in future years,'' reagan said in the budget report to congress
the spending proposal, likely to produce the least contentious budget debate of the reagan presidency because it adheres to a budget pact struck last year with congress, proposes a $20.7 billion reduction from last year's spending shortfall of $150.2 billion
the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law calls for a budget deficit of no more than $136 billion in fiscal 1989, which begins next oct. 1
however, many private economists contend that the deficit will be higher next year, even with the steps expected to be outlined in the new budget _ including the smallest defense spending increase ever sought by reagan
the new budget report concedes that the new reagan spending plan ``assumes a declining rate of inflation and falling interest rates'' for both 1988 and 1989
the budget document calls last october's stock market collapse ``startling'' and cites ``many predictions that the economy would soon suffer a downturn or even a return of the great depression.''
although it is too soon to determine what the final effects will be, the initial fears now seem greatly exaggerated,'' the budget report states
despite the sharp reversal in stock prices, the economy has shown few signs of serious damage,'' it adds
the new reagan budget assumes that the economy will grow in 1988 by 2.4 percent and by 3.5 percent in 1989. however, the budget report states that a percentage point lower growth _ even with no change in other economic data _ could drive up the deficit by an additional $6.3 billion in 1988 and $18 billion in 1989
reagan's new budget document projects that the deficit in the current fiscal year, fiscal 1988, will total $146.7 billion _ with $1.055 trillion in spending and $909.2 billion in receipts
it projects that the deficit, after declining to $129.5 billion in 1989, will ease to $104.2 billion in 1990, to $79.3 billion in 1991 and to $51.1 billion in 1992
the reagan budget cited expected improvements in exports, leading to ``a welcome resurgence of the nation's industrial sector,'' as the main source of economic strength in the coming years
the eighth, and for practical purposes, final reagan budget takes note of the fact that reagan's initial budget plan, submitted in 1981, ``was expected to achieve a balanced budget by 1985.''
instead, the budget has been in deficit. reducing the deficit is one of the nation's central economic policy concerns.''
a key reason why the budget still isn't balanced, reagan's new budget report suggests, is the drain on the economy of the deep 1981-82 recession as well as the fact that congress has ``been unwilling to approve'' domestic spending cuts he proposed
many of these proposed reagan reductions were expected to be included in the $1.1 trillion fiscal blueprint being unveiled thursday, including proposals for transferring government functions including parks management and perhaps amtrak railroad service to private industry
but the plan also was being crafted to comply with the spending agreement reached last fall in the budget ``summit'' between reagan and congressional leaders
since the budget summit agreement spells out overall spending and tax levels, including allocations for the military, domestic programs and foreign aid, this year's battles were expected to focus on the details rather than the thrust of the budget priorities
the pact should help smooth the budget's path through congress, since the balance between domestic and military spending totals is annually one of the most difficult
in addition, democratic leaders have pledged to speed the process and avoid packing all spending into a single, massive bill as they did in a $600 billion measure last year
when reagan pledged in his state of the union address never again to sign such legislation, ``he was preaching to a choir already converted,'' house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., said this week
in addition to the requirements of the budget agreement, the administration is proposing about $14 billion in sales of government assets and ``privatization'' initiatives to drop the deficit to $129.5 billion
the fiscal 1987 deficit was $150.4 billion, and red ink this year is expected to drop to $146.7 billion, according to administration estimates
the administration's estimates, which are more optimistic than those of the congressional budget office, would normally provoke widespread charges of ``cooking the books'' for the democratic-controlled congress. however, the revised gramm-rudman law requires that administration estimates be used in determining whether the budget meets its goals
rep. william h. gray iii, d-pa., chairman of the house budget committee, said wednesday he was concerned about congress using too rosy a set of figures. but, he added, ``unduly pessimistic assumptions could produce unnecessary battles over additional spending cuts or tax increases that, in this election year, might achieve nothing.'' healthy</head>
a former liggett &amp; myers president ignored the issue of smoking and health until the 1964 surgeon general's report, and asserted that smoking posed no hazard because it never harmed him, according to evidence released wednesday
milton e. harrington said in testimony read for the jury that company officials ``didn't even discuss a position about smoking and health as far as the corporation was concerned.''
previous testimony in the trial, in which liggett and two other cigarette makers are being sued over a smoker's lung-cancer death, revealed that liggett had a 25-year research program, starting in 1954, to develop a less carcinogenic cigarette that was never marketed
harrington, under questioning by plaintiff's attorney marc z. edell, said the 1964 report ``was a concern to us as it was to other people in the industry.''
but harrington said, ``i didn't think anything about smoking and health other than smoking was not harmful to you in any way.''
edell asked the basis for that opinion, and harrington replied: ``it didn't ever harm me.''
edell pressed him for the facts he considered, and harrington said it was ``just my belief.''
once the surgeon general's report came out, harrington said he didn't look further into the validity of its findings because ``it wouldn't do any good anyway.''
he said he read it as executive vice president, shortly before becoming president
edell asked harrington about the adequacy of federally mandated warnings on cigarette packs required in 1966
we didn't care to warn the public about anything. we just had to put that warning on. it wasn't because we liked to. it was just something we had to do. we weren't interested in warning the public about something,'' harrington replied
harrington, who has since died, was 76 when the testimony was taken by attorneys for antonio cipollone, 64, of lakehurst, n.j., who is suing liggett group inc., philip morris co. and lorillard inc. for the death of his wife rose. liggett group is the parent company of liggett &amp; myers
it was read in court wednesday by edell and an actor playing the role of harrington. the executive was a former semi-professional baseball player who joined the company in 1934 and rose through the ranks until becoming president and chief operating officer in 1964. he retired in 1972
responding to harrington's statements, liggett spokesman alan hilburg said the witness was ``nearly 80 years old when he gave that testimony.''
it wasn't unusual for people's memories to fade over that period of time,'' hilburg said. he said he did not know when harrington died
cipollone charges that the three tobacco companies, makers of the brands mrs. cipollone smoked, neglected to do enough research on cigarettes, didn't reveal adequately what they did find and failed to put safer cigarettes on the market
one reason for not marketing the safer cigarette, edell argues, was because to do so would weaken the companies' defense against lawsuits over their existing products
referring to a 1968 memorandum from liggett's researcher to harrington on a meeting of tobacco company scientific directors, edell asked what harrington did with similar memos after reading them
i read that and probably referred it to our legal department,'' the former executive replied
why?'' asked edell
because i thought they should know about it,'' harrington replied
why?'' edell pursued
that was just our policy. they were the people that i was holding responsible.''
the purpose of the conference detailed in the memo was to ``discuss the scientific aspects of the problems facing the tobacco industry with specific emphasis on tobacco and health,'' the document said
allegis corp. said wednesday that a california court has granted its request to order a halt to union plans to block the company's restructuring
the international association of machinists and aerospace workers filed a lawsuit in january in california superior court, contending that allegis' plan to sell its non-airline subsidiaries and distribute the proceeds to shareholders was illegal
the union contended that the restructuring would create a higher debt load for allegis' core business, chicago-based united airlines
in a statement wednesday, allegis said the california court held that california was an inappropriate place to resolve the question and ordered a stay of all proceedings
it was not the headquarters of the company or where any of the transactions took place,'' said nancy hobor, a spokeswoman for allegis
the allegis statement said the court's ruling does not prevent the union from refiling the action ``in an appropriate forum.''
ms. hobor said she did not know if the union has any such plans
the union's headquarters in washington, d.c., was closed wednesday night, and a spokesman there could not be reached for comment
the restructuring of allegis, which involves the sale of its hertz rental car company and westin and hilton international hotel subsidiaries, will push its debt-to-equity ratio from about 55 percent to 80 percent, company spokesman matt gonring said in january
he said then that the restructuring would mean selling off equity, but ``it's not that we're incurring new debt.''
the company promised its 58 million shareholders it would give them a $50 dividend to distribute proceeds from the sales or would buy the equivalent amount of shareholders' stock, which would have tax advantages
in january, gonring said the lawsuit was filed in san francisco county because that is where the largest proportion of united's 21,000 employees in the machinists union are based
