three years ago, it was hard to turn on the radio without hearing joan jett pound it out, or madonna whine or cyndi lauper tell us that girls just like to have fun. women had a dominant role in the rock scene
however, at this year's grammy awards, to be presented on march 2 at radio city music hall, female rockers are an extinct breed: there's no category, as there has been in the past, for ``best rock vocal performance, female.''
the grammys have separate categories for men and women singers in pop and rhythm 'n' blues. the rock category combines them this year. tina turner, the grandmother of rock who was named best female rock vocalist last year, is nominated along with richard marx, bob seger, bruce springsteen and joe cocker
al schlesinger, president of the national academy of recording arts and sciences, said naras has a rule that the 6,000 industry professionals who are members must nominate 10 different people in a category for that category to exist
the screening committee listens to each nomination and decides whether it has been nominated in the right place. if it isn't, it's moved to where the committee decides it belongs
record company executives will always try and enter things in smaller categories where there's less competition,'' schlesinger said. ``we don't accept that
if we don't end up with 10 nominations in a category, rather than having insufficient competition, we fold that category into another one. it doesn't happen often.''
another rule, which rca executive dennis fine unsuccessfully fought this year, is that the rock vocal performance nominations must be from solo albums; lead singers of groups aren't eligible
grace slick's `babylon' is a rock 'n' roll track and a great solo on a starship album. unless she does her own solo album, it's not considered a solo,'' fine said. ``it all depends on how a record is billed. it's not fair. sade is considered to be a group. the screening committee eliminated patty smythe and cyndi lauper from rock in the past. they determined they were pop.''
during the decade, performers such as tina turner, madonna, cyndi lauper, sheena easton, laura branigan, joan jett, pat benatar, annie lennox, chaka khan, donna summer, debbie harry and grace jones took rock in new directions with their strong images and hot music
are these same female rockers _ and others _ suddenly in short supply? the answer to that depends on who you ask. bob guccione jr. thinks there are lots; bill graham thinks there are few
guccione, publisher of spin magazine, is incensed that the female rock vocalist category was eliminated
this is literally a disservice to both males and females,'' he said. ``i think, if anything, the last year to two years has represented the emergence of the female rock superstar. it started with madonna and it's really just blossoming
my favorite is maria mckee on `wheels.' there were a lot of great performances last year _ grace jones' `i may not be perfect but i'm perfect for you,' debbie harry's `french kissing in the u.s.a.' madonna is always to be considered. my perspective is that this past year of all years, females performed better on the whole than the males.''
graham, rock's best-known impresario, disagrees. ``it is an irony and phenomenon of rock 'n' roll that there have been so few women accepted commercially,'' he said. ``i really don't understand why, other than the fact that the terminology of rock 'n' roll sounds more masculine than feminine. the music has got a harder edge sometimes
we have to generalize but a young rock 'n' roll male listener may have a problem admitting that he's a fan of a female rock 'n' roller, if his friends are into all-male groups. a woman rocker is going to have to have that extra edge, so that he can't get that song out of his head. otherwise she'll lose.''
however, in the '60s and early '70s, rock fans _ male and female _ had no trouble following janis joplin and grace slick. later, male fans were just as enthusiastic as female fans at joan jett and pat benatar concerts
but singer-songwriter suzanne vega, nominated for three grammys this year, including ``best pop vocal, female,'' agrees with graham
when rolling stone ran its list of the top 100 rock albums, i noticed there were only about six women on this list,'' she said. ``laura nyro and kate bush have made brilliant albums but they can't be considered rock 'n' roll
rock 'n' roll is an aggressive, very male style of singing. some women fit into it naturally _ like chrissie hynde and patty smythe. there are not many women, i think, who naturally take to rock 'n' roll, but they do great music. i may have closet tendencies in that direction, but i don't think of myself as a rock 'n' roller.''
on jan. 24, when the allied jewish appeal of philadelphia mobilized for the year's biggest fund-raising event, there was little reason to believe that ``super sunday'' would live up to its name
the telephone solicitation campaign came at a disturbing moment for many jews in this country. they have watched with increasing distress and horror as palestinians rioted in israel's occupied territories, and israeli soldiers retaliated with beatings and bullets
half of the money collected on ``super sunday'' would go to israel. are american jews so pained by israel's actions that they have become disaffected with the jewish state, and unwilling to make their customary donations?
the answer is no. after the last pledge was counted, fund raisers found they had collected $2.5 million, up $400,000 over the 1986 total
israel is the jewish homeland, the jewish heart. no one can live without a heart. they are rallying around the flag,'' said leonard barrack, general chairman of the philadelphia aja
in city after city, fund raisers have reached the same conclusion. in miami, the total collected jan. 24 was $2.6 million, up $1 million from last year's figures; in cincinnati it was $360,000, up about $50,000; in rhode island it was $187,167, up about $25,000
wanting to see your kids work on a kibbutz, wanting to plant trees in israel, wanting a jewish state _ these things are not affected by political events,'' said steven m. cohen, a professor of sociology at queens college and leading jewish demographer
but there is no question that many american jews are anguished by reports of israeli soldiers beating palestinians, burying them alive, shooting them in street warfare reminiscent of beirut. and some have spoken out
as a supporter of israel ... i am appalled beyond measure by the treatment of the rioting palestinians by the jews,'' wrote filmmaker woody allen, in a recent op-ed piece in the new york times
i mean, fellas, are you kidding? beatings of people by soldiers to make examples of them? breaking the hands of men and women so they can't throw stones? dragging civilians out of their houses at random to smash them with sticks in an effort to terrorize a population into quiet?''
since early december, stone-throwing palestinian protesters have challenged israel's army, demanding an end to its occupation of the gaza strip and the west bank of the jordan river, territories seized by israel in its wars with the arabs. more than 50 arabs have been killed by israelis in the rioting
time magazine polled american jews last month and found that 57 percent opposed the use of force and beatings on arabs. a palestinian homeland was opposed only by a small margin _ 39 percent in favor, 42 percent opposed
michael lerner, editor of tikkun magazine, a self-styled leftist alternative to commentary that is based in oakland, calif., describes the israeli occupation as ``immoral and stupid.''
we did not survive the gas chambers of europe in order to become the oppressors of gaza,'' lerner writes in an upcoming editorial
tikkun has been overwhelmed in recent weeks by calls and letters from american jews who are outraged by what is happening in the middle east, lerner said. ``there has been unbelievable change,'' he says
it used to be that the rule was, `there is no room for criticism.' now, the only issue is where do you say it. do you say it to the press, or do you say it to your friends?'' the editor says
that has been a major issue. jewish leadership has been divided; some leaders denounce others who have gone public with their criticism _ those like rabbi alexander schindler, the leader of the reform movement who described the beatings as an ``offense to the jewish spirit.''
the criticism by american jews of israel _ i've termed it despicable,'' said rabbi avi weiss, a leader of americans for a safe israel. he deplores those who criticize from ``plush living rooms in manhattan.''
these are not protesters. these are rioters who are out there with the intent to maim, to wound and to murder,'' weiss says
a newsday poll of new york jews found that 47 percent thought american jews should speak out to influence israel _ and 47 percent felt they should keep their views to themselves
congregants say rabbi jehiel orenstein of congregation beth el of south orange and maplewood, n.j., recently took the pulpit to discuss the creation of a palestinian state. but when a reporter asked orenstein to confirm his remarks, the rabbi was evasive
american jews should not be the critics of israel because they're standing on the front lines and we're at a distance,'' orenstein said
but orenstein indicated that he was uneasy with the growing influence of rabbi meir kahane, the american-born member of the knesset who proposes expelling the arabs from israel and its occupied territories
and he recounted that when news of the beatings spread, he told his congregation, ``it cannot be the policy of israel to break arms and legs and pull people from their beds and terrorize them.''
some say israel does not deserve the infamy that is coming its way
we cannot give the impression that we're satisfied to have hands broken,'' says arnold lasker, a retired rabbi living in margate, fla. ``but the breaking of bone, which is a horrible thing, has to be seen in context'' _ as a tiny aspect of a decent, democratic israel
many agree that the context is missing _ that the news media have distorted events in israel, either by exaggerating the force applied by the israelis or by neglecting to focus on arab provocations
and there is the question of whether israel should be held to a higher standard than other nations. even orenstein asks, ``is anybody asking the united states to give back texas?''
elaine w. charny, a 52-year-old former teacher who lives in the philadelphia suburb of jenkintown, pa., feels that a higher standard is justified. ``israel represents a certain bright hope and ideal,'' she says
she says it is the ``moral responsibility'' of jews around the world to speak out on israeli issues; she cringes when she reads the headlines these days. ``we're all hoping and praying that they can find a better way of solving this problem,'' she says
mrs. charny and her husband buy israeli bonds; they have visited israel three times. however saddened by recent events, mrs. charny does not envision a day when israel will lose its appeal
it's an idea,'' she says. ``the idea that it's there for all of us, kind of like a little utopia. it's just a vision.''
the south korean press is enjoying a broad degree of freedom after years of tough official control, but opposition quarters maintain it still is manipulated by the government's ``hidden hands.''
nevertheless, the nation's newspapers are reporting and commenting more vigorously on politics and other subjects that for years had been limited or banned by the government
president-elect roh tae-woo, who takes office feb. 25, promises to ensure full press freedom and made it a key point in his election campaign. the government began easing press restrictions last summer under pressure from roh
we have done much and there should be nothing to complain about,'' said lee jung-bai, the assistant culture-information minister
journalists agree the government has abandoned most controls on the domestic press, such as regular visits to newspapers by security agents and the issuance of ``press guidelines'' that dictated what could be reported and in what way
government reguirements on registration of journalists have been dropped and new legislation will end limits on newspapers having news bureaus outside their headquarters locations. there also will be no limits on the number of pages a newspaper can publish
the ball is in the court of the news media. it's up to them,'' said rep. lee min-sup, a ranking member of roh's democratic justice party
opposition politicians and dissidents contend, however, that much of the press still remains under government control through ``hidden hands.''
rep. kim tae-ryong, spokesman for the main opposition reunification democratic party, said, ``no basic changes have been made and the press still is no more than a public relations tool of the government.''
the opposition claims the government exerts behind-the-scenes influence and control, ranging from intimidation to patronage and bribery. they also contend the media is packed with government supporters
rep. ahn dong-sun, spokesman for the opposition party for peace and democracy, claimed journalists are practicing self-censorship
kim tae-hong, secretary-general of the dissident council for democratic press movement, said, ``essentially, roh is the same as his dictatorial predecessor. he would not give in easily. we must continue to fight for press freedom.''
several editors and reporters rejected the opposition charges of self-censorship, but said they want to help ensure ``sound political development'' without endangering social stability
one senior editor, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said many journalists are cautious because ``they suspect the true intention of the government.''
the opposition claims the country's two networks, which are state-owned, project only a government viewpoint and that opposing points of view receive little attention or are distorted
a korea broadcasting system (kbs) spokesman, lim ung-shik, rejected the opposition's charges
our news and other programs are fair by any standard,'' he said
lim said kbs has recently started some new programs, including talk shows to which opposition figures are regularly invited
government officials say the criticism the networks may end after a neutral broadcasting committee is set up in june, as required by a new law, to nominate the heads of the two networks. some opposition lawmakers will be appointed to serve on the committee to ensure fairness
the government is also preparing to inaugurate in march a new press law that would drop a requirement for government approval to start new newspapers or periodicals
seven newspapers have so far applied to start publishing under the new law. south korea now has 20 national daily newspapers with an estimated combined circulation of 12 million
the first beneficiary of the new law would be a newspaper that some 200 dissident journalists plan to publish this spring with support from 3,300 sponsors, including 1,000 college professors, 100 lawyers, 200 religious leaders and 200 literary figures
song kun-ho, president of the newspaper, the hankyoreh shinmun, said the project will be started with 5 billion won ($6.8 million) to be raised through public shares. song said 15,000 people have so far responded, contributing about half of the needed money
song and the other journalists, dismissed from their previous jobs on grounds of anti-government activity, said their newspaper would emphasize human rights and spearhead press freedom
the influential roman catholic church also has announced it will start a newspaper in april and set up a nationwide radio network in september
critics of the government contend the new press law is restrictive because it stipulates that new newspapers must use certain kinds of presses that cost millions of dollars. they contend this would keep control of the press in the hands of establishment groups
cafe owner yosef weizman said when israeli police beat up his arab workers three days ago, he understood the depth of distrust between jews and arabs after months of clashes in the occupied territories
eli ben-simon, 38, had learned the lesson a few days earlier. ben-simon, a jew, was beaten up in an industrial area near tel aviv because, he said, his israeli attackers thought he was an arab
growing numbers of palestinians who work in and around this coastal city of 1.5 million people are subject to harassment, primarily by israelis made suspicious by the unprecedented fury and violence of arabs opposing israel's 20-year occupation in the west bank and gaza strip
arab harassment is leading to a climate of fear among palestinians and concern among many israelis
city officials estimate about 40,000 arabs work in the tel aviv metropolitan area. there are also about 10,000 arabs with israeli citizenship who live in the area
this incident ... is, of course, linked to the unrest in the territories,'' police minister chaim bar-lev said in a statement of the beating of weizman's workers
i am afraid the situation in the territories is having a bad influence on the morals and values of the rest of israeli society,'' he added
one of the four beaten arabs, 20-year-old maysara al-ijela of gaza, told the jerusalem post that police entered an apartment shared by nine arab workers friday and ``did not say anything at first. they just started to hit us with their hands and walkie-talkies, and also kick us.''
one policeman said `you are smelly arabs. you go home, throw stones at jews and afterward return here to work,''' al-ijela told the daily hadashot
weizman, owner of the shelly cafe in dizengoff center, said after his workers were beaten, he moved them out of their apartment into a hotel and promised to find them a new, safe place to live
three of them ... said no thanks and quit,'' he told the associated press. ``the police said they went into the apartment because they thought the arabs were organizing something, but that is ridiculous. it's just israeli suspicion of arabs.''
i guess the police had a right to go into that apartment. but the way they handled it was very bad. i need those workers.''
one israeli, dalit laub, witnessed the beatings when she walked past the arabs' first-floor apartment and glanced in the window
it was really violent. but i was afraid to get involved ... i thought of calling the police _ but they were the police,'' she told hadashot
city hall was reluctant to get involved
the problem of beating arabs has to be taken care of by the police because it is a criminal issue,'' city spokesman shabtai sheval told the ap
he refused to say how many incidents involving arabs were reported in tel aviv over the last month
police said they were investigating and legal action would be taken if the allegations were found to be correct, police spokeswoman shlomit herzberg told the ap
police also were investigating the incident involving ben-simon, who was beaten senseless and left on a street
he was driving to work on feb. 12 when two israelis flagged him down
i thought they needed help, but when i stopped, one of them shouted, `here's an arab maniac!,''' ben-simon told the post. ``i said, `hey guys, what's going on? i'm not an arab.'''
his protestations did no good. ben-simon saw the license plate number of the car as the two sped away, but he couldn't pick himself up
an arab worker helped ben-simon off the street and he was taken to a hospital, where his head was stitched
israeli newspapers reported the first case of harassment about a month ago. an arab youth said he was picked up on a tel aviv street by two men who identified themselves as police, taken to a garbage dump and beaten
some harassment has come from arab militants. city hall spokesman benny cohen said more than 100 arab workers left their jobs in tel aviv's yermiyahu restaurant district last week after their lives and families were threatened if they disobeyed calls from palestinian activists to stay home
there have been cases of alleged discrimination, as well. one palestinian said he was turned away from a popular tel aviv discotheque. another complained in an israel tv interview he was barred ``for security reasons'' from taking a small craft flight with his two children
one gazan working in a tel aviv restaurant gave a statement to the jerusalem post last week on condition that his name not be used. he said he was saving money to get married
but now, i get this message saying `stop working for the jews, stop working for the oppressors,' and i have to make up my mind,'' he told the post. ``most of the others have gone. they don't want anything to happen to them or their families. for me, it is also dangerous.''
the turban of darshan singh, a 12-year-old sikh, was half burned from the heat of the mud oven where he hid to escape death
but the killers _ sikhs themselves _ yanked him out, and he died in a burst of gunfire. the boy, his elder brother and their father all died in the courtyard of the village of fattu bheela, home of 2,000 sikhs
it was one more case of sikhs killing sikhs. never before in the radicals' six-year campaign for an independent homeland have the killers turned their guns so relentlessly on people of their own minority faith
of the 283 deaths blamed on sikh militants this year in the sikh-dominated northern state of punjab, at least 169 victims were sikhs. on friday and saturday, 31 people died in attacks, at least 20 of them sikhs
the militants want the message to go deep _ that they will not only kill those who oppose them, but even those who refuse to support them,'' said the amritsar district police superintendent, mohammed izhar alam
harbhajan kaur, darshan's mother, told of the attack last week in the village 18 miles north of amritsar, the sikh holy city and heart of the radical campaign
she said she was wounded but because of fear, no neighbor came to help
i was laying in my courtyard the whole night, bleeding,'' she said from her hospital bed
the sikh campaign began with attacks on hindus, india's religious majority but a minority in punjab. last year, most of the 1,000 victims of sikh radicals were hindus
the radicals allege economic and cultural domination by hindus and want an independent homeland for their 16 million people. but theories vary considerably on sikh guns are now aiming at sikhs
most of the men killed are either former terrorists or harborers and their families who now refuse to give shelter to the militants,'' said s.s. virk, deputy director general of the paramilitary central reserve police force
the killers themselves claim all sikh victims are police informers or enemies of the 500-year-old faith, founded as an alternative to the beliefs of warring moslems and hindus
we shed the blood of only enemies, not of innocents or passive people,'' said giani jagir singh, spokesman for the panthic committee, an umbrella group that controls the sikh movement
write it down,'' he commanded during an interview in a bare, windowless room in the sikhs' golden temple. ``i have led half a dozen attacks myself and in every case, we killed only police informers.''
why are sikh women and children also killed?
have you heard of an old punjabi saying _ when you grind wheat to get flour, some millets also get crushed?'' said singh, 45, a large man with flowing beard
dewan singh, a police detective in amritsar, said in most cases the killers wipe out all witnesses because they are recognized by the victims' families. in 19 of the 25 cases he analyzed, the victims knew the killers
in each of the 19 cases, police found half-emptied glasses of milk or sarbat, sweetened water with lemon, which were believed served to the assailants
rarely did the killers have to force their entry, dewan singh said
such was the case with the family of darbar kaur, 50, in the village of khera bala-chak near kathunangal
five sikh boys came and asked for my younger son, surjeet. he opened the door and asked his wife to heat up some milk for the visitors,'' mrs. kaur said
after a few minutes they fired at surjeet,'' she said. surjeet, her husband, another son, and a 4-year-old granddaughter were killed, while mrs. kaur and her daughter-in-law hid behind a bolted kitchen door
surjeet had been arrested in july for illegally possessing a firearm and was believed to be a member of the radical group babbar khalsa. he was freed on bail jan. 1
he was not a police informer, but he was required under bail provision to report to the police station once a week,'' said kathunangal police officer subba singh. ``so his former associates drew the conclusion that surjeet had turned informer.''
singh, responsible for maintaining order in 70 villages with a population of 200,000, said surjeet was afraid he might be killed. but he said the police don't have the resources to protect everyone
the killers often leave behind a note written on the stationery of khalistan, the name of their unborn sikh nation. the letters sometimes even carry reference numbers, such as the a-159 on one left where 12-year-old darshan singh died
they are our death warrants. `a' stands for akal (the immortal throne of the sikh faith) and the police informer to be killed was 159 on our list,'' explained giani jagir singh, the militant spokesman
he left no doubt that more death warrants could be expected
if any of the men on the hit list die a natural death, we will consider it as a great insult to our faith,'' he said
composer larry shay, onetime musical coach of such greats as al jolson and jimmy durante, and best known for the song ``when you're smiling,'' died monday of lung cancer. he was 90
shay's work was recorded by a number of performers including judy garland, bing crosby, perry como, andy williams, louis armstrong, nat king cole, dean martin, doris day and guy lombardo
he was metro goldwyn mayer's movie musical director in the early 1930s
the composer died at hoag memorial hospital at 1:20 a.m., said a hospital records secretary who did not want her name used. she did not know how long he had been hospitalized. shay also suffered from emphysema
despite his illness, shay continued to perform in a local band for the past decade, family members said
his career started during world war i, when shay put together a band and show group for soldiers
in the '20s, he lived in new york, coaching stars such as durante, jolson and sophie tucker
in addition to his stint in the movie industry in the early '30s, he served as program director for nbc radio in the late '30s
among his hits were ``that's georgia,'' ``kentucky, sure as you're born,'' ``when you're smiling,'' ``knee deep in daisies,'' and ``tie me to your apron strings again.''
he is survived by his wife, doris; a daughter; a son; seven granchildren; and three great-grandchildren
private funeral services were planned
singer barbara mandrell will be the host of a celebrity softball game june 3 to benefit the organ donor program at vanderbilt university medical center
miss mandrell said at a news conference monday that celebrities at the event will include roy acuff, lucille ball, patrick duffy, ralph emery, morgan fairchild, frank gifford, bob hope, gladys knight, emmanuel lewis, willie nelson, walter payton, minnie pearl, ahmad and phylicia rashad, herschel walker, danny white, betty white and oprah winfrey
the game will be played at vanderbilt's football stadium. tickets will cost $10 each, the university said
princess anne left london for uganda to begin a 12-day visit to three african nations in her capacity as president of the save the children fund
buckingham palace said the trip would be the first official visit to uganda by a member of the royal family since 1965
the 37-year-old daughter of queen elizabeth ii planned to visit several hospitals and clinics set up by the international charity in uganda, mozambique and somalia
pulitzer prize-winning author alex haley will be the first recipient of the bootstraps foundation award for overcoming adversity
he will be honored for ``pulling himself up by his bootstraps'' at an april 14 banquet in nashville at which 45 high school seniors will be honored and seven will be awarded college scholarships
the program was announced monday by its sponsors, the afternoon daily nashville banner and shoney's inc., which owns a restaurant chain
haley, who was reared in the small western tennessee town of henning, won a pulitzer prize for his book, ``roots,'' which traced his ancestry about 200 years. he determined that his fourth great-grandfather was kunta kinte of gambia, west africa, who was kidnapped in 1767 and brought to america as a slave
haley enlisted in the u.s. coast guard in 1939 as a mess boy and served for 20 years in the military before starting a free-lance magazine writing career
actress susan dey, the sulky legal eagle on nbc's ``l.a. law,'' married movie industry executive bernie sofronski during a private ceremony, her publicist says
with a few show business pals as witnesses, miss dey recited wedding vows with sofronski on saturday at the bel-air hotel, publicist nann sumski said monday
the entire ``l.a. law'' cast attended, including harry hamlin, corbin bernsen, michele greene, jill eikenberry, michael tucker, richard dysart and the show's creators terry louise fisher and stephen bochco, said ms. sumski
it was the second marriage for miss dey, 35, who has a 9-year-old daughter. sofronski, 47, formerly with cbs television, is an executive at warner bros
they met through a friend at a party and dated for two years before announcing their engagement 18 months ago, the spokeswoman said
outspoken former gov. dick lamm is back in the public eye, this time as a twice-weekly commentator for a denver television station
you can make fun of television. i sometimes do,'' lamm said in a recent interview. but he quickly added that polls show more than 70 percent of the public's political information comes from tv
it's sad but true, we've gone from town hall america to airwaves america,'' he said. ``how many senators are more powerful than john chancellor?''
denver's kmgh-tv, which is running lamm's commentaries during its news programs on tuesdays and thursdays, says that if lamm gets too controversial, it will add a ``counterpoint'' speaker for balance
all they told me is there are seven words you can't use on television. i didn't even ask what they are,'' lamm said
lamm, a democrat, has made a cause of pointing out the pessimistic aspects of the high cost of medical care, earning himself the nickname ``governor gloom.''
lamm also is a professor at the university of denver, and says he may run for the u.s. senate in two years
actor patrick swayze, basking in the $60 million box office gross of ``dirty dancing,'' will next be cast as the reluctant hero of a midwest town fraught with corruption, a spokeswoman said
united artists pictures will soon begin shooting ``roadhouse'' starring swayze as a man who rallies townspeople to stand up against corruption, said studio spokeswoman amy kimmelman
swayze's most recent role was as a charismatic dance instructor in ``dirty dancing.'' separates moved as a0746 on williams, a0663 on allegro, a0666 on debo, a0750 on fuller.</note>
roger j. williams, recognized as one of the world's foremost authorities on nutrition, died saturday at age 94
williams was a professor emeritus at the university of texas. his work in nutrition at the ut clayton foundation biochemical institute, which he founded, led to the discovery of more vitamins and their variants than at any other research facility in the world
one of williams' most significant accomplishments was the discovery and isolation of pantothenic acid, one of the ``universal vitamins'' required by all living cells and essential to life. later he discovered and named folic acid, a substance used by every cell in the body
williams wrote a book on ``biochemical individuality,'' a concept that no two people are exactly alike physiologically and therefore everyone has different nutritional requirements. he retired in 1985
john allegro, renowned for his work in deciphering the dead sea scrolls but ridiculed for his theories that western religions were based on the worship of mushrooms, died feb. 17. he was 65
allegro was a brilliant student of semitic languages at manchester university and went on to study hebrew dialects at oxford university
in 1953, allegro was named to an international team formed to decipher the dead sea scrolls, which were discovered in caves at qumran
the scrolls included the oldest known manuscripts of books from the old testament. allegro's gift for deciphering minute texts was crucial. his book, ``the dead sea scrolls,'' was published in 1956 and became a bestseller
in his 1970 book ``the sacred mushroom and the cross,'' he contended that judaism and christianity were in fact products of an ancient sex-and-mushroom cult. allegro also published a 1966 book, ``search in the desert,'' about an unsuccessful search for lost scrolls in the judean desert
angie debo, 98, who came to oklahoma by covered wagon and became known as ``the first lady of oklahoma history,'' died sunday. miss debo wrote 13 books and hundreds of articles about indian and oklahoma history. her books include ``the rise and fall of the choctaw republic,'' ``and still the waters run,'' ``geronimo: the man, his time, his place'' and ``prairie city.'' a one-hour documentary on miss debo's life and work is scheduled to be broadcast next fall as part of public broadcasting's ``the american experience'' series
david otis fuller, a fundamentalist preacher who helped found a children's radio ministry and the grand rapids baptist college and seminary, died sunday at the age of 84
fuller founded the children's bible hour, a grand rapids-based christian radio program now broadcast by 660 radio stations worldwide. he was pastor until his 1974 retirement
larry shay, a composer, the musical coach of such greats as al jolson and jimmy durante, and best known for the song ``when you're smiling,'' died monday of lung cancer at age 90
shay's musical career spanned the 1920s through the 1960s and his work was recorded by judy garland, bing crosby, perry como, andy williams, louis armstrong, nat king cole, dean martin, doris day and guy lombardo. he was metro goldwyn mayer's movie musical director in the early 1930s
shay composed such hits as ``that's georgia,'' ``kentucky, sure as you're born,'' ``when you're smiling,'' ``knee deep in daisies,'' and ``tie me to your apron strings again.'' in the late 1930s, shay went to new york and served as program director for nbc radio
carl blackman, who contributed to guyanese journalism for more than 40 years, died thursday of a heart ailment. he was 67
blackman wrote for the old daily chronicle, the guyana graphic, the state-owned guyana chronicle, the trinidad evening news, the trinidad guardian and the guyana national newspapers limited. he also was an associated press stringer in guyana
seven years ago blackman retired as first general manager and editor-in-chief of the guyana national newspapers limited. he continued to write his popular columns regularly for the sunday chronicle until shortly before his death
frances h. price, the sister of chicago radio personality paul harvey, died saturday at age 79
isabel bishop, 85, a artist known for her work depicting the everyday activities of american women, died friday of parkinson's disease. miss bishop studied at the arts students league with kenneth hayes miller and guy pene du bois. she began a series of union square paintings after leaving the league in 1924. miss bishop joined manhattan's midtown gallery and the national academy of design and remained affiliated until her death
bishop was known for her work depicting the everyday activities of american women and for showing life as it existed around union square in 1930
mikhail s. gorbachev's economic reforms have been formulated and explained sufficiently to the soviet people, and now it's time to ``start taking action,'' moscow's top economist says
abel g. aganbegyan also said there are ``painful and difficult'' days ahead for the soviet union under ``perestroika,'' gorbachev's wholesale restructuring of the stagnant economy, and that bureaucratic opposition to the reforms remains
aganbegyan, the chief economic adviser to the soviet leader and an architect of perestroika, also said the average soviet family has yet to reap its benefits
a little bit more than two years have elapsed since we started the process, the initial stage, where we are developing our concepts, making our programs, trying to understand what's going on, what has to be done, and a period during which we have to try to convince people of the necessity undertaking these new changes,'' he said
this period is now coming to an end. we are getting to a much more critical stage, which is a stage where we have to start taking action.''
he and several of his colleagues on monday outlined the history and pitfalls of perestroika to a conference of economics students and faculty at the new school for social research as part of an u.s.-soviet academic exchange program
aganbegyan said the soviet union has ``only made the first steps'' toward loosening the top-heavy central controls that have driven the economy since the stalin era and emphasized heavy industry over consumer goods
in fact, most families have not really benefited from what's been done so far,'' he said through a translator. ``we have to accelerate the whole process so as to achieve a breakthrough in the next two or three years so that everyone in the country will feel he has a stake in the process.''
in addition to consumer goods, the biggest soviet economic failures during the past 15 years were in housing, health care, education and agriculture, he said
to remedy the problems, he cited modest increases in construction of new apartments and budget increases for education and medicine, including 30 percent salary increases for teachers, doctors and some other health care workers. he did not say how the military budget would be affected
he also singled out the planned overhaul the machine tool industry, which will be ``the basis for the reconstruction of the whole manufacturing sector.''
in 1985, we were able to replace 3.1 percent of all our machine tools. in 1987, 9 percent were replaced, and by 1990 we hope to replace 13 percent of the machine tools yearly,'' aganbegyan said. ``this is a painful and difficult process, but we have to go through it. we haven't any other alternative.''
aganbegyan also cited the policies of ``khozrachyot,'' or self-accounting, that went into effect jan. 1. the law gives state-run factories and firms more autonomy, with more emphasis on profits and job performance
he said factories must go ``on a completely cost-accounting basis, self-financing basis and self-administrating basis.''
gorbachev's policies of perestroika have come under ``a good deal of opposition, however, from the people in the economic administrative bureaucracies,'' in moscow and in the soviet union's 15 republics, he said
we have reduced the staff and fired or eliminated 110,000 jobs in the central and republican administrative apparatus,'' aganbegyan said
the opposition has not been confined to the bureaucracy, said another conference participant, timur t. timofeev
we cannot say that the whole working class 100 percent is for gorbachev,'' said timofeev, director of the institute of the international labor movement of the soviet academy of sciences
the new working class _ the younger generation, the much-more-educated generation _ is really the leading force, the dynamic force of perestroika,'' he said
some soviets ``are accustomed to the old ways of work,'' preferring less pay and less work
aganbegyan acknowledged that the restructuring at many factories and companies in the next 15 to 20 years will throw 16 million of people out of work _ in a nation where the constitution provides that everyone shall have a job
these people ``will therefore have to be retrained and given additional jobs,'' he said. special employment offices will be set up to retrain them and find them work, he said. boost</head> emperor' in 9th place, `broadcast news' in 10th, sted the other way around. picks up 11th graf, `here are..'.</note>
good morning, vietnam'' and two other disney studios pictures remained in the box office top 5 while the offbeat romantic film ``moonstruck'' capitalized on its oscar nominations to secure the no. 3 spot
moonstruck'' seemed to lure moviegoers with its nominations, but weekend receipts don't reflect an interest surge in other oscar contenders, including no. 9 ``the last emperor'' and no. 10 ``broadcast news.''
the last emperor'' got the most academy award nominations last week with nine, ``broadcast news'' got seven and ``moonstruck'' got six
disney-touchstone awoke to a sixth week atop the box office heap with ``good morning, vietnam,'' featuring best actor academy award nominee robin williams as a raucous saigon disc jockey, ringing in nearly $7 million
second in the studio's one-two turnstile punch was ``shoot to kill,'' featuring sidney poitier in his first movie in nine years, taking in $4.8 million in its second week of release
moonstruck'' was a close third with $4.7 million last weekend and ``action jackson'' took in $3.6 million in its second week to place fourth
meanwhile, the no. 5 spot was occupied by disney-touchstone's ``three men and a baby'' which kept turnstiles spinning in its 12th week of release with a $3.5 million take. the movie has made $136 million so far
the three disney-touchstone films have raked in $220 million for the studio and its buena vista pictures distribution arm, whose senior vice president dick cook said simply: ``we are delighted with these latest box office figures.''
universal's creepy ``the serpent and the rainbow'' brought in $2.3 million for a drop to sixth in its second week of release. the kevin bacon film ``she's having a baby'' was seventh with $2.1 million and justine bateman's ``satisfaction'' was eighth with $1.7 million
the last emperor'' was ninth with $1.71 million in receipts and ``broadcast news,'' which got william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks acting oscar nominations, was 10th with $1.63 million
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release and estimated production costs
1. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $6.88 million, 1,598 screens, $4,308 per screen, $71.4 million, eight weeks, $21 million
2. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $4.84 million, 1,519 screens, $3,191 per screen, $11.93 million, two weeks
3. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $4.73 million, 1,163 screens, $4,057 per screen, $36.5 million, nine weeks, $17 million
4. ``action jackson,'' lorimar, $3.61 million, 1,250 screens, $2,888 per screen, $10 million, two weeks
5. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $3.53 million, 1,689 screens, $2,095 per screen, $136.58 million, 12 weeks, $18 million
6. ``the serpent and the rainbow,'' universal, $2.3 million, 1,211 screens, $1,905 per screen, $14.5 million, two weeks, $8 million
7. ``she's having a baby,'' paramount, $2.1 million, 1,133 screens, $1,858 per screen, $10.55 million, two weeks, n-a
8. ``satisfaction,'' twentieth century fox, $1.79 million, 1,018 screens, $1,763 per screen, $5.11 million, two weeks, n-a
9. ``the last emperor,'' columbia, $1.71 million, 375 screens, $4,560 per screen, $16 million, 13 weeks, $25 million
10. ``broadcast news,'' twentieth century fox, $1.63 million, 798 screens, $2,065 per screen, $40.67 million, nine weeks, $15 million
an administrative law judge was wrong when he ruled last year that canon usa inc. illegally monopolized the domestic market for dry ink used in some office copying machines, the u.s. international trade commission says
the commission, in a 6-0 ruling monday, overturned judge john j. mathias and terminated the investigation
mathias had ruled in november that canon, a copy machine giant, had violated u.s. trade laws by unfairly disparaging independent toner distributors. aunyx corp., a small toner producer based in hingham, mass., had charged that canon representatives were telling customers that toner from competitors was ``pirate'' merchandise
itc attorney edwin j. madaj jr. said an opinion detailing why the commission overturned the judge's decision will not be available for at least several days. he declined to outline the commission's reasoning
naturally we're very disappointed,'' said lorraine hanley, vice president for dealer sales at aunyx. ``we don't know why the commission voted this way.''
canon lawyers argued that corporate representatives did not make disparaging remarks about independent competitors, and if they did, ``it was very minor stuff, the kind of competitive talk that is normal in any industry where there are competitors,'' said washington attorney harvey m. applebaum
we have always said that we would be completely vindicated as this case evolved,'' canon usa president fujio mitarai said in a statement from corporate headquarters in lake success, n.y. ``this decision makes clear that we were right on the law, on the facts and in the way we market our products.''
aunyx has estimated that the toner market for copiers in question is worth about $250 million annually, but applebaum said ``that sounds to me very exaggerated.''
the companies competed for sale of toner for certain types of canon copiers, mostly low- and medium-volume office machines
aunyx president robert langone said last year that canon had about 99 percent of that market while aunyx and other independent toner dealers take between 20 percent and 50 percent of the toner markets of other copying giants like xerox and ibm
the massachusetts company, which once had 85 employees, is down to fewer than 30, ms. hanley said
bart s. fisher, an attorney representing aunyx, said he would appeal the itc ruling to the u.s. circuit court of appeals
a separate $300 million antitrust suit filed by aunyx against canon is pending in u.s. district court in boston
farmers hear a lot about the european economic community's barriers to u.s. agricultural exports, but there is a brighter side too
the europeans, particularly french consumers, are developing as an even larger market for u.s. food products
overall, the 12-nation bloc took $6.8 billion of the $27.9 billion in u.s. farm exports in the 1987 fiscal year that ended last sept. 30, up 5 percent from 1986. a further gain to around $7 billion is expected this year
despite the increase and prospects for further growth, u.s. farm exports are still far below the record levels of the early 1980s. thus, every possibility is examined eagerly by usda trade experts
the eec ranks second only to asia as a regional market for american farmers. japan, with u.s. farm imports of $5.55 billion last year, is the largest single-country foreign market
a recent usda report says, ``the time is right for u.s. exporters to consider the french food market.''
last year france imported $495 million worth of agricultural products from the united states, up from $435 million in 1986 and $403 million in 1985. in the heyday of the early '80s, france bought a peak of $625 million worth of u.s. food and raw commodities
france is the largest country in western europe, with a population of 55 million and an area of 213,000 square miles _ about four-fifths the size of texas, says the report by the department's economic research service
changing lifestyles _ more working women, urban rather than rural life, eating lunch at work, and a greater standard of living _ have led to changes in the food habits of the french people,'' the report said. ``they are consuming more processed products, like canned food and precooked dishes.''
for example, the report said, france's per capita consumption of fresh vegetables held steady from 1967 to 1982 but the average use of frozen vegetables rose from 0.5 pounds per capita to 6.6 pounds. the consumption of canned vegetables jumped to 44 pounds per person in 1982 from 24.9 pounds in 1967
according to the french food industry association ania, there have been dramatic changes in consumer spending patterns since 1960,'' the report said. ``the association's data show that the french buy more pastries, cooked and preserved meats, cheese, ice cream, cooked dishes, confectionery products and non-alcoholic beverages as a percentage of their total budget.''
meanwhile, the report added, the share of family spending on wine, bread, fruits and vegetables, and butter, has decreased
the analysis, prepared by mark d. newman and victor h. miesel jr., was included in the current national food review, a quarterly magazine issued by the usda agency
american goods compete with agricultural products from other eec member countries, which are generally admitted freely into france
however, specific products of high quality with unique characteristics can find a place on the french market regardless of barriers, exchange rates and competitive pressures,'' the report said
china has bought an addition 405,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat at subsidized prices for delivery in the 1987-88 marketing year, according to the agriculture department
the sales, equal to almost 14.9 million bushels, were handled by five companies: cargill inc., 135,000 tons; nichimen america inc., 35,000; bunge corp., 35,000; continental grain co., 100,000; and artfer inc., 100,000
william l. davis, acting general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said monday the sales were part of an authorized 1.2 million tons of wheat announced feb. 5 under the export enhancement program, or eep
although no selling prices or other details were announced, recent prices of wheat at farm points have averaged around $2.76 per bushel, indicating a u.s. farm value of about $41 million
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat
china bought more than 4 million tons of wheat under previous eep arrangements, which allow exporters to sell commodities at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition and then collect free government surpluses of grain or other commodities as bonuses, or subsidies
davis said the bonuses due the five companies averaged $40.38 per ton, or about $1.10 per bushel of wheat. the bonuses will be paid in the form of surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp
china has 495,000 tons remaining for use under the eep initiative announced on feb. 5, he said
inventories of frozen beef are down 2 percent from a year ago, but the supply of frozen pork is up 31 percent, an agriculture department report shows
as of jan. 31, the beef stockpile was about 313 million pounds, down from 320.6 million a year earlier, the report showed monday. frozen pork, at 285.6 million pounds, was up from 217.7 million. deficit</head>
the government enjoyed a rare budget surplus last month because social security checks for january were mailed before the new year began
the treasury department said monday that the surplus between government spending and revenues jumped to $16.09 billion in january, a sharp turnaround following a december deficit of $24.22 billion
both months were influenced by social security, the government's biggest benefits program. the government ended up making two payments in december, the regular one and the january payment, which was mailed on dec. 31 because of the new year's holiday
in january, government revenue totaled $81.79 billion, down 4.3 percent from december. government spending was almost half the december total, dropping to $65.71 billion in january, compared with $109.74 billion the month before
the surplus was the first since september and only the second in the past 16 months
for the first four months of the fiscal year, which began oct. 1, the deficit totals $65.81 billion, down 0.7 percent from the same period in the 1987 fiscal year
for the first four months of this fiscal year, government revenues have totaled $286.66 billion, 5.5 percent higher than a year ago. government spending totaled $352.46 billion, an increase of 4.2 percent over the same period a year ago
for all of 1988, the reagan administration is projecting the budget deficit will fall to $146.74 billion, down 2.5 percent from last year's deficit of $150.4 billion
the congressional budget office, using less optimistic assumptions about economic growth this year, projects a 1988 budget deficit of $157 billion, substantially above the target of $144 billion set in the gramm-rudman deficit reduction law
president reagan sent congress his budget recommendations for 1989 last thursday, predicting a 1989 deficit of $129.5 billion
the largest spending categories in january were, as usual, the military, followed by social security, other programs in the department of health and human services and interest on the national debt
military spending totaled $19.23 billion last month and $93.52 billion for the fiscal year so far, up 6.5 percent from the same period a year ago
spending for social security totaled just $652 million last month and $70.14 billion for the past four months, up 4.6 percent from a year ago
the other health and human services programs, including medicare and medicaid, spent $50.51 billion in january and $49.93 billion so far this budget year, a 1.1 percent increase over 1987
interest on the $2.2 trillion national debt totaled $14.67 billion last month and $75.77 billion so far this fiscal year, an increase of 9.8 percent over the same period last year
for the 1988 fiscal year, interest payments on the debt are expected to total $210.06 billion, accounting for 20 percent of total federal spending
navy secretary james webb's abrupt resignation blew the lid off his split with defense secretary frank carlucci and revealed bitter infighting at the pentagon as it grapples with budget cuts after years of reagan-era increases
webb resigned monday and decided to air some dirty linen on the way out, accusing carlucci of needlessly sinking the administration's dream of building a 600-ship fleet
he further accused carlucci of ordering him to lie about internal budget fighting, saying the defense chief had written him a note saying he should deny news stories reporting it was the defense department _ and not the navy _ proposing to mothball ships
now, i'm not going to deny the truth,'' webb said
this building needs to be led. ... it needs some vision,'' he continued. ``if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building
he's been spending a lot of time with the state department and a lot of time on the (capitol) hill. i think they (pentagon leaders) need to feel his vision and to understand what he believes in.''
carlucci declined to respond monday, issuing a written statement saying only that he learned of webb's resignation ``with regret.''
the pentagon added in a separate statement, though, that if webb decided he could not ``defend the department's decisions'' on the budget, then ``under the circumstances, he has done the honorable thing.''
an administration official who asked not to be identified said carlucci was recommending that william l. ball iii, the assistant to the president for legislative affairs, be nominated to replace webb
the white house might announce ball's nomination today at the same time it formally accepts webb's resignation, the source said
the 42-year-old webb, a highly decorated vietnam combat veteran who earlier worked as an assistant defense secretary, said he had been contemplating resignation for some time but didn't make up his mind until sunday
the final impetus, he said, was the submission to congress last week of the fiscal 1989 pentagon budget. carlucci shaped it without regard to the advice of the navy's top civilian and military leadership, webb said
i cannot support the reductions that are in this budget,'' he said
the massive military buildup under president reagan, which has seen the pentagon's budget more than double, is coming to a halt because of concerns about the huge federal deficits run up during the reagan years
carlucci, following up on a deficit-reduction agreement reached by the white house and congress in december, submitted a fiscal 1989 budget proposal totaling $299.5 billion, slightly more than for fiscal 1988 but unlikely to cover inflation. it cuts the navy's original 1989 spending plan by $12.3 billion and calls for, among other things, mothballing 16 older frigates
those ships are at the heart of the dispute that erupted monday. webb said they didn't have to be retired and that if they were, the navy could never reach its goal of deploying a 600-ship fleet. the pentagon maintains the navy will end fiscal 1989 with 580 ships and can still reach 600 by fiscal 1992
reagan, former defense secretary caspar weinberger, and webb's predecessor, john f. lehman, all have insisted that the navy needs a minimum of 600 warships to satisfy u.s. commitments around the world without requiring overly long deployments
webb, in his letter of resignation and in a meeting with reporters, said he had provided carlucci with three different plans for cutting the necessary dollars without mothballing the ships. at the very least, he said, the 16 frigates could be transferred to the naval reserve at a cost of less than $100 million and stay on standby
in each case, the advice of this senior (navy) leadership, concurred in by the joint chiefs of staff, was ignored,'' webb wrote
i can only conclude that the decision to reduce the level of our fleet ... was motivated by other than military and strategic reasoning.''
webb declined to say why he thought carlucci had ignored his advice
a ranking pentagon official who asked not to be named, however, said defense department executives for a time eyed the 16 frigates as ships that could be offered for sale to portugal at a cut rate. portugal wasn't interested, the source added
the administration is trying to find ways of increasing military assistance to portugal to preserve access to an air base on the azores islands
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said: ``secretary carlucci is having to make some very difficult adjustments in the pentagon to accommodate budgetary reductions. secretary webb indicates he is unable to operate under these constraints, but i know the president feels he has given very valuable service to the country.''
webb, who became navy secretary 10 months ago after serving as an assistant defense secretary under weinberger, is an attorney and the author of the best-selling vietnam war novel ``fields of fire.'' he said he probably would return to writing
they call it super tuesday. a better name might be tarmac tuesday. or maybe satellite tuesday
the tuesday comes in two weeks, on march 8. what's super about it is that the day will be the closest america has ever come to holding a national primary election to select presidential nominees
democratic and republican nominees may not be decided then, but the presidential landscape will be altered
twenty of the 50 states hold primaries or caucuses, and they are scattered from massachusetts to florida to idaho. yet tuesday has a distinctly southern flavor. fourteen of those 20 states are in the south or border regions. every state of the south save south carolina holds delegate contests that day _ and the republicans in south carolina hold theirs three days earlier
to campaign across that vast expanse of country, the presidential candidates have found agreement. the only way really is for the candidate to wing his way to as many cities as possible each day in an effort to get his face, and maybe even a few of his words, on the local television news
no candidate, they reason, can buy enough television commercials to carry 20 states in a two- to three-week campaign, although some will try. so they aim for the ``free'' tv time
hence tarmac tuesday. many of the candidates are seeing no more of the states or cities where they campaign than can be viewed from the airports where they hold news conferences, or more often the case, from the single event they hold not far from the airport
then it's quickly off to the next event in the next ``media market.'' they are ``press hits'' in the jargon of this campaign
look for a lot of hits that are close to the airports,'' said ed reilly, a polltaker and strategist for one of the democrats, richard gephardt. ``you look for your opportunities within 20 minutes from the airports, so you can get back and on to the next one.''
quick campaign stops are nothing new to presidential campaigns. but it's hardly what the architects of the southern regional primary had in mind
they wanted to take some of the thunder away from iowa and new hampshire. for all the criticism of those two early states, candidates do spend a lot of time there and really do meet with real voters
the way it worked out, those states may have gotten even more attention this time, while the south is still waiting to hear about its concerns of, say, rural poverty and development
but still a better name for this mega-primary, reilly says, may be satellite tuesday
developments in television technology have played directly to the candidates' slavish need to get television airtime. local tv stations now have _ and use _ the technology to get live reports from from virtually anywhere
the candidates are trying to exploit that by accommodating television stations in the super tuesday states, not just by tailoring local events but by making far-flung campaign appearances available via satellite to stations elsewhere
campaigns may pay to have video pictures of their candidate at an apperance beamed up to a satellite where it is available for stations that want it, even if they didn't have crews on the scene
we have found in these small markets, particularly with agriculture stories, we've had enormous success'' getting the candidate on the air, reilly said
hence gephardt makes three stops as he flies across three time zones one day last week. and he walks through a nearly idle electronics factory, to underscore his attack on unfair trade practices, with only a half-dozen people to hear him talk
it was the handful of television cameras there that he had in mind
never mind that the factory was in rapid city, s.d. it's one of the five states with primaries or caucuses in the three weeks before super tuesday, but it is a state where the primary is meaningless in the allocation of delegates. that will come later at the state caucus
what counted was that the gephardt story that day appeared not only on south dakota television, but on some southern stations too. it is the old story of television creating a ``global village.''
and it means that the campaigns pick events and locations that meld with the point a candidate is trying to make. his message for the day will be summed up in a 30 second bite on television that evening, if he's lucky. so look for gephardt to go to a texas automobile factory and a birmingham, ala., steel mill to make his point about foreign competition and lost jobs
it's super-satellite tuesday,'' reilly said. ``pretty soon the secret service will have to start attaching those (satellite) dishes to the limos so these guys can do link-ups from the road.''
editor's note: william m. welch is covering the 1988 presidential race for the associated press
there were technical disagreements but no acrimony during meetings of scientists that led to the decision to reduce power levels at the savannah river plant's nuclear reactors, plant officials said monday
the washington post reported monday that the power levels were reduced by federal officials following a stormy meeting during which scientists warned that the reactor was operating beyond the demonstrated capacity of its emergency cooling system
the department of energy officials initially were reluctant to order the reduction because they didn't want to admit they had made a mistake and risk triggering public pressure to close the south carolina facility, the newspaper reported, citing unidentified sources
the decision was made during a meeting feb. 12 to reduce power levels at two of the three government reactors at the savannah river plant _ the last energy department facility that produces plutonium, said roger rollins, the department's chief of reactors at srp
rollins described the 10 percent reduction in power _ the third reduction in 14 months _ as a routine action reflecting a change in the way reactor temperatures are measured. the reduction dropped the operating level from 1,100 megawatts thermal to 960 megawatts. power had been reduced previously from 2,200 megawatts
but the post said its sources said the reduction was ordered only at the insistence of scientists working for du pont, doe's contractor at savannah river. the scientists had discovered a fundamental error in the calculations that have been used for decades to justify reactor operating levels, the newspaper said
savannah river manager robert l. morgan decided to reduce the levels following a confrontation with the scientists at a feb. 8 meeting during which a top du pont scientist threw his security badge on the table in front of morgan and threatened to ``go public'' unless the power levels were lowered, the sources said
an unidentified doe official told the post that the department did not want to ``raise the specter of continuing problems at savannah river.''
rollins denied monday there was a fundamental error in the doe calculations and denied there were any heated disagreements during either of the meetings feb. 8 and feb. 12
there were lots of technical discussion, which helped the decision-making process,'' rollins said. ``there was no dissention. utilmately, everyone agreed with the decision to make the minor adjustment.''
the supreme court will be the setting for a crucial constitutional fight this spring when it studies a post-watergate law creating special prosecutors to investigate high-ranking government officials
the justices announced monday they will hear arguments in the dispute in april with a decision expected by july
the eventual ruling will determine the future of court-appointed independent counsels. it also will affect the criminal conviction of former white house aide michael k. deaver and the investigation of ex-justice department official theodore b. olson
deaver, prosecuted by an independent counsel, was convicted of lying to a grand jury and to a house subcommittee that investigated his lobbying activities. olson is under investigation by an independent counsel on charges he lied to congress
an independent counsel's probe of marine lt. col. oliver l. north for his role in the iran-contra affair is expected to survive any adverse high court decision on the law
the u.s. court of appeals here ruled jan. 22 that the law improperly grants presidential appointment powers to the federal courts and encroaches on the president's exclusive authority to enforce criminal laws
the law authorizes a special court, acting at the attorney general's request, to appoint the independent counsels
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh received a parallel appointment from attorney general edwin meese iii to conduct the iran-contra investigation. that power insulates his office from the constitutional attack on the special prosecutor law
similarly, independent counsel james c. mckay, who successfully prosecuted former presidential aide lyn c. nofziger on illegal lobbying charges, also accepted a backup appointment
but the investigations of deaver and olson were not buttressed by such parallel grants of authority from the attorney general
the case before the supreme court was brought by independent counsel alexia morrison. she is investigating charges that olson, a former assistant attorney general, lied to congress in 1983 during a dispute over the environmental protection agency's cleanup program for toxic waste
the court on monday allowed morrison to resume her investigation of olson, raising the possibility that grand jury indictments could be returned before the high court's ruling
the appeals court ruling temporarily derailed morrison's investigation
meanwhile, the court returned to full strength monday with the addition of justice anthony m. kennedy to fill a vacancy that had lasted eight months
with kennedy available as a tie-breaking vote if necessary, the court took the highly unusual step of agreeing to hear a second round of arguments in two cases already under study
in one case, involving the death of a marine helicopter co-pilot, the justices will decide whether defense contractors may be forced to pay damages for on-duty accidents involving members of the military
the second case, involving the convicted killer of an oklahoma policeman, deals with the the disqualification of a potential juror who said he would vote to impose the death penalty if the accused were convicted
but the court refused to reconsider its 4-4 decision last december striking down an illinois law that could have made abortions more difficult to obtain for some teen-agers
the justices rejected a request by illinois officials to restudy the law now that kennedy has taken his seat
in other action, the court:
_dealt a blow to religious fundamentalists by killing a lawsuit challenging the required use of ``godless'' textbooks in tennessee public schools. the justices, without a recorded dissenting vote, left intact a federal appeals court ruling that said it was constitutional to require fundamentalist christian children to read the objected-to books
beverly lahaye, president of the conservative concerned women for america, said: ``a dark cloud of religious oppression looms over america's schoolhouses today. religious tolerance in our nation's classrooms has been dealt a devastating blow.''
_agreed to decide whether local governments may impose affirmative-action programs requiring minority participation in public works projects. the justices will study an invalidated richmond, va., program that set aside 30 percent of the value of public works projects for firms at least one-half owned by minorities
_refused to let a fort worth, texas, hospital withhold the names of its blood donors from a woman suing on charges her baby daughter contracted aids after receiving transfusions
_said it will hear arguments by coal mining companies and the reagan administration aimed at blocking the possible awards of billions of dollars in ``black lung'' benefits to thousands of miners
_agreed to decide whether the national collegiate athletic association should be barred from suspending jerry tarkanian as basketball coach at the university of nevada-las vegas for alleged recruiting violations
_voted to decide when police need court warrants before searching from helicopters for marijuana growing in fenced-in yards
former tv evangelist pat robertson is borrowing heavily going into the critical super tuesday primaries, taking out a massive $5.5 million loan for his presidential campaign, financial reports show
robertson ended january with $5.5 million in the bank, but his campaign had $6 million in debts as he far outspent any other candidate on the super tuesday contests involving 20 states on march 8
rival gop contenders george bush and bob dole, on the other hand, remained in good shape
bush, the overall fund-raising leader, ended january with $9.2 million in cash on hand and $811,029 in obligations, while dole had $4.2 million and $654,269 in bills to pay, their latest financial statements show
neither had any loans outstanding, but the other gop contender, rep. jack kemp of new york, took out $750,000 in loans to get through the iowa and new hampshire contests this month
among democratic candidates, money leader michael dukakis had the most cash available, $4 million
besides his loan, robertson reported contributions of $1.3 million during january. his report also listed as receipts the $6.5 million in federal matching funds that he applied for but had said he might not use
robertson had said he was philosophically opposed to the public financing system and his staff said he would only use matching funds if he needed to stay competitive
robertson's campaign did not return calls monday night to answer questions about the loan, by far the biggest borrowing of any campaign for the 1988 election
robertson paid off a short-term loan of $1.5 million that his attorney has said was secured with his matching funds, his report showed
the latest financial reports were due at the federal election commission on saturday, but robertson had not filed his by monday. aides said it was still being worked on monday, and released summary pages monday evening. however, details of the loan were not included
the sizable expenditures on this month's iowa and new hampshire contests and subsequent spending toward super tuesday are not reflected in the new reports, which cover the period through jan. 31
robertson has spent more than any other candidate against the overall spending ceiling which is set by election law at $27 million for the primary season. he reported spending $17.6 million against the cap
bush, conversely, while raising more money than any other candidate, has been watching his budget and has spent the least of any republican contender against the cap
he reported spending $10.7 million against the ceiling, compared with kemp's $12.8 million and dole's $13.5 million
robertson also spent the most of any campaign in a single state _ $1 million in texas, compared with bush's $335,743 and dole's $81,645
wealthy campaigns must keep from spending too much early in the campaign, because they could leave themselves unable to spend money on later contests without going over the limit
on the democratic side, none of the candidates approached the cap, with dukakis spending the most at $7.8 million
the massachusetts governor also had the biggest democratic bank account at the beginning of this month, $4 million with $511,789 in bills to pay, while the next nearest democrat, sen. al gore jr. of tennessee, had $2 million with $84,248 in obligations
sen. paul simon, d-ill., borrowed $523,674 in january and ended the month with a $691,069 debt and only $401,176 in the bank. he raised $534,259 in contributions for the month, $1.9 million in matching funds, and $523,674 in loans
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., entered february with $820,260 in debts and $172,477 in cash on hand. he collected $212,702 in contributions and $1.9 million in matching funds during january
aides for both gephardt and simon have said that fund-raising picked up this month and that they have whittled down their debts
gore had ignored iowa to concentrate on the super tuesday states, but he raised very little money during the time the other candidates were campaigning hard in iowa and new hampshire
he collected only $180,746 in contributions during january, in addition to the $1.8 million in matching funds he got, his report showed
dukakis raised $804,839 in contributions and got $3.5 million matching funds
democratic contender jesse jackson reported raising $610,036 in donations, plus $598,021 in matching funds during january, ending the month with $509,978 in cash on hand and $354,881 in obligations
former colorado sen. gary hart ended the month with $615,547 in cash on hand and $24,484 in debts after collecting $70,303 in contributions and $937,325 in matching funds
kemp continued a hand-to-mouth campaign, ending january with a debt of $1.3 million after raising $1 million for the month. however, his political director, charlie black, said the debt would be wiped out when kemp's federal mathching funds come in this month
he insisted the campaign is not in financial trouble, saying a heavy mail solicitation program and fund-raising events are reaping about $400,000 a week
dole raised $1.2 million in contributions for january and got $5.6 in matching funds, while bush collected $767,892 privately and got $6.4 million in matching funds
most candidates got very large matching fund payments in january because that was the first months the money was released, and the sums were based on the candidates' fund raising for all preceding months
candidates can get matching funds from the federal treasury for each contribution of $250 or less that they raise in private funds. the matching fund is supported by the $1 checkoff on individual income tax returns. nationwide</head>
jesse jackson and sen. albert gore were the democratic leaders in the southern and border states that vote on super tuesday, according to a poll published today, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis very close behind
but dukakis was the favorite among democratic voters nationwide, according to the cbs-new york times poll. the survey found 21 percent of registered democratic primary voters queried nationwide said dukakis was their choice for the democratic presidential nomination
in the southern and border states, which hold primaries or caucuses march 8, jackson had 19 percent, gore had 16 percent and dukakis 13 percent. with a 4 percentage-point margin of error, that pointed to a close race. rep. richard gephardt had 11 percent and former colorado sen. gary hart, 10 percent. the survey also included south carolina, which holds its primary march 5
in the nationwide sampling, jackson, with 13 percent, was second behind dukakis, the poll found. gephardt had 12 percent and hart 10 percent, with a margin of error of 3 points. twenty-three percent of both samplings didn't answer or said they didn't know
on the republican side, the cbs-times poll found vice president george bush leading strongly both in the south and nationwide
bush garnered the backing of 51 percent of the registered republicans in super tuesday states to 20 percent for sen. bob dole. in the nationwide sampling, the poll found 42 percent opting for bush and 27 percent for dole
the telephone poll of 933 democrats and 684 republicans nationwide taken feb. 17-21 had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points on the democratic side and four percent for the gop race, the times said
the newspaper said 575 democrats and 375 republicans were surveyed in the super tuesday states and south carolina. the cbs-times super tuesday figures have a margin of error of four percentage points for the democrats and five points for the republicans
another survey, this one in the 14 southern or border states that hold primries or caucuses on super tuesday, suggested bush holds a 2-1 lead over dole. on the democratic side, jesse jackson and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis were running roughly even, the scripps howard news service survey suggested
bush led dole by a 51-26 margin, with former television evangelist pat robertson was third with 11 percent. rep. jack kemp of new york trailed with 3 percent and 9 percent were undecided, the poll indicated
the pollsters contacted 423 likely republican voters feb. 17-19, and the margin of error was 5 percentage points, the news service said
among democrats, jackson had 22 percent and dukakis 19 percent _ within the poll's 4 percentage-point margin of error. gore and gephardt each had 14 percent, with 21 percent undecided
hart had 6 percent, the scripps howard poll indicated, and simon had 5 percent. on the democratic side, 597 voters were surveyed
the survey involved voters in alabama, arkansas, florida, georgia, kentucky, louisiana, maryland, mississippi, missouri, north carolina, oklahoma, tennessee, texas and virginia, all of which hold primaries or caucuses on march 8
six other states will also vote on super tuesday
the survey was done in conjunction with the birmingham (ala.) post-herald, the commercial appeal of memphis and the knoxville (tenn.) news sentinel
a senior official of the bahamas is angered by a state department charge that ``systemic corruption'' in his government is undermining a combined campaign against illicit drug trafficking there
paul l. adderley, attorney general of the bahamas, also disputed recent testimony of an admitted marijuana smuggler that he paid prime minister lynden pindling millions of dollars to protect operations in the caribbean country
what offends us the most is the judgment that if it were not for corruption and indifference in this country, the bahamas would not and could not be used as a transit route for the smuggling of colombia cocaine and marijuana to south florida,'' adderley told a senate hearing monday
if the corruption and indifference that is perceived were to magically disappear, the rate of smuggling might not diminish at all simply because i regret to say the united states has not put the personnel, equipment and operating funds into doing what needs to be done in the bahamas,'' he said
he said it was ``untrue, unfair and distorts the real facts'' to suggest that the bahamas is not doing enough to halt the flow of 60 percent of the cocaine and marijuana that enters the united states through his country
but sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said he still might vote to deny further u.s. assistance to the bahamas when the senate deals with the question of drug interdiction efforts by foreign countries in the next few weeks
we already have too much rhetoric and empty promises,'' d'amato said
ann b. wrobleski, assistant secretary of state for international narcotics matters, combined criticism with praise for the bahamas' impressive narcotics seizures and cooperation with u.s. authorities
she said the joint interdiction of 24,860 pounds of cocaine and 146.5 tons of marijuana in the bahamas last year was ``not equaled in any other country in the caribbean.''
nonetheless, she said: ``narcotics-related corruption remains a serious problem in the bahamas. the bahamian government has not dealt effectively with systemic corruption, which continues to make the bahamas attractive to drug traffickers.''
d'amato and sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz., questioned adderley closely about american marijuana smuggler george baron's testimony last week at the drug trial of colombian cocaine kingpin carlos lehder in jacksonville, fla
baron said he paid pindling $3 million to $5 million from 1979 to 1981 in exchange for bahamian protection for his activities. baron also quoted lehder as saying he himself had paid pindling $200,000 a month in bribes
baron said he once paid pindling $400,000 at a gambling casino on paradise island in the bahamas in the fall of 1980, which adderley said was ``a totally incredible story, an unbelievable story.''
adderley said he intended to investigate baron's allegations. but he also said that for pindling to accept a bribe in a crowded casino ``would be like the president of the united states taking a bribe in atlantic city.''
a world war ii bomber pilot whose promised medal and promotion were forgotten when he was shot down 43 years ago has finally received the honors
i'm not angry about anything,'' said federico gonzales, 66, associate professor emeritus of cell biology and anatomy at northwestern university. ``i couldn't be more happy because i didn't know anything at all about it, that i was supposed to get it.''
lt. gen. john a. shaud, commander of the air training command here, awarded the evanston, ill., resident the distinguished flying cross and his captain's bars during ceremonies monday at randolph air force base
as it is with bureaucracy, eventually we get it right,'' shaud said
in january 1945, gonzales was a 23-year-old first lieutenant who already had flown 24 missions and was slated for the medal and promotion when his b-17 bomber was shot down near neuss, germany
gonzales, the only survivor of nine crew members, was taken prisoner and held until germany's surrender three months later. he then returned to san antonio, his hometown
at the time of the crash, however, he was presumed dead by the military and his awards were forgotten, military officials said
at a reunion in 1986, gonzales met retired air force col. jean miller of newport beach, calif., who led gonzales' squadron, the 603rd of the 398th bomb group
miller told gonzales about the medal and promotion, which the colonel had recommended at the time, and encouraged him to apply for them
the honor that has been bestowed on me today is a high point in my life,'' gonzales told about 80 relatives, friends and military personnel in a 15-minute speech
gonzales and the widow of the american commander who died in the crash will travel with others in the 398th to tour the bomber group's old base in nuthamstead, england, later this year
he said they will visit a cemetery in holland where the remains of the dead crew members are buried, then neuss
sen. albert gore says democratic presidential rival rep. richard gephardt has made ``wholesale changes in dozens and dozens of key positions,'' but gephardt claims it is gore who has reversed himself on a dozen issues of prime importance
the bickering between the two democratic hopefuls turned up a notch on monday with gephardt's campaign laying down a list of what it said were 12 major gore position changes
it's hypocrisy,'' said gephardt spokesman mark johnson of gore's attacks. but gore kept up his volleys, saying the missouri congressman votes one way in congress and is telling the voters something different
the tennessee senator said gephardt's ``whole approach to the electorate is in contrast to the approach during his career in the congress.''
and gore spokeswoman arlie schardt took aim at the gephardt campaign's depiction of gore position changes
it's misleading and an almost laughable list,'' schardt said. ``it reveals their anxiety about being so deeply in debt and about seeing gore surging past them'' in recent polls
on the politically explosive issue of abortion, gephardt's aides said gore voted in 1984 for legislation that would have defined a fetus as a ``person'' from the moment of conception _ a change in the law that has been key goal of the anti-abortion movement
on sunday, gore denied voting for such an amendment
no, no, i did not,'' gore said on nbc's ``meet the press.'' ``i have never supported restrictions on the ability of the woman to make a choice in having an abortion.''
gore's staff said the gephardt campaign is describing the vote incorrectly. they say it was a vote designed to deny the use of federal funds for abortion _ a longtime gore position _ and not an attempt to write the definition of a fetus into the law in such a way that would deny women the right to choose abortions
the gephardt campaign also listed four other times it said gore had voted on both sides of the abortion issue in the house and senate
i have not changed my position at all,'' gore said monday. ``there is no inconsistency at all.''
gephardt has been severely criticized for backing down from his strong opposition to abortion, a change that came as he was planning his bid for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination
the gephardt sheet also said gore voted for the harkin amendment to the agriculture bill in 1985, which gephardt aides said contained production controls almost identical to the harkin-gephardt farm bill. gore now attacks the harkin-gephardt bill
gore said monday that the 1985 amendment was ``the only alternative'' to the reagan-sponsored farm bill and he said the measures are different. on sunday, gore termed the latest bill ``the worst single idea of campaign '88.''
there are ten other issues on which the gephardt campaign said gore had flip-flopped. gore aides said the list misconstrued vote after vote
here are the ten:
_ balanced budget amendment: gephardt statement says gore voted against it in the house in 1982 and for it in 1986 in the senate
_ non-lethal contra aid: gephardt release says gore voted against such aid in 1985, but now says he favors it
_ mx missile: gephardt statement says gore voted for the mx in 1983, but now says he is against further mx funding
_ defense policy: gephardt release says gore voted for the nuclear freeze in 1983 and was ``a respected advocate for the liberal peace agenda.'' now gephardt campaign says gore ``positioned himself as a defense hawk.''
_ grain embargo against the soviet union: gephardt release says gore voted against ending the embargo in 1980, but not criticizes embargo
_ oil import fee: gephardt statement says gore voted against it in 1980, 1985 and 1986, but told texas voters in 1987 he would consider one
_ gramm-rudman: gephardt release says gore voted for it in the senate and then against legislation that would have rewritten the law to solve constitutional questions raised by the supreme court
_ trade: gephardt statement says gore declared himself a ``free-trade purist'' in 1987, but had previously voted for a textile protection bill
_ litmus tests: gephardt release says gore denounced litmus tests of special interest groups, but that he pledged to the national women's political caucus in august 1987 he would name women to 50 percent of his presidential slots
_ supreme court: gephardt statement says gore quickly came out against the appointment of william rehnquist as chief justice, but that gore was the last senator to announce he would vote against the by-then-doomed nomination of robert bork to the high court
two independent television stations say jerry falwell owes them thousands of dollars from his tv ministry, but a spokesman for the evangelist says checks are in the mail
mike liff, general manager of wpgh-tv, said he was pulling falwell's weekly ``old time gospel hour'' from the station's schedule because of unpaid bills ``in the neighborhood of $50,000.''
he's flying around in his private plane and he hasn't paid us since october,'' liff said monday
falwell also owes an undisclosed amount of money to wptt-tv, according to general manager chuck hobbs. the station, which carries falwell's daily program, temporarily dropped the show four years ago for nonpayment, hobbs said
oma bradner, who handles falwell's television accounts for the sam k. pate advertising agency, said late monday a check was mailed to both stations on friday. he said he didn't know the amount of either check but said ``it was a pretty good bit.''
falwell's spokesman, mark demoss, said the checks were delayed because ``audience support for the program in the pittsburgh area has been slow for the last few months.''
i can understand they're upset but i would also hope they would continue to carry the program,'' demoss said. ``i know they made some strong remarks. but they'll be glad to know we're flying around in the private jet a whole lot less this year than last.''
liff said he's also bothered by the fact that such shows can be an important source of revenue to television evangelists, who must pay stations to carry their programs because they do not sell advertising on them
we are the vehicle that broadcasts these shows to people who send in a whole lot of money, possibly at the expense of their own well-being. that's my problem,'' he said
wpgh continued to run falwell's show without being paid ``because we didn't have a viable alternative,'' liff said
there's very little this station could run at 11 p.m. on sunday night that's going to make us money.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,949.45 points, up 102.74 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
republican presidential contender bob dole and democrat michael dukakis have invested the most cash in efforts to get a boost from the so-called gateway states leading into the super tuesday series of primaries, financial records show
these states have been somewhat overshadowed by the 20-state showdown that will occur on super tuesday, but the campaigns generally agree that whoever does well in the gateway states will have the look of a winner going into the critical march 8 contests
the gateway contests, occurring between now and super tuesday's mega-primary on march 8, are in south dakota, minnesota, maine, south carolina and wyoming
dole, the senator from kansas, spent more than twice as much as bush and their republican rival pat robertson in the gateway states, according to campaign financial statements filed over the weekend with the federal election commission
dukakis leads the democrats in spending for both super tuesday and the gateway contests, the records show. he also had the biggest bank account at the beginning of this month, $4 million, while the next nearest democrat, sen. al gore jr. of tennessee, had $2 million
the new reports reflect spending through the end of january, while not reflecting the sizeable expenditures this month on the iowa and new hampshire contests or the subsequent spending toward super tuesday and the gateways
by the end of january, the reports show, dole spent a total of $786,529 in the gateway contests, compared to bush's $389,150, robertson's $373,105 and rep. jack kemp's $183,831
dole's biggest spending was in minnesota, $367,097, compared to bush's $20,927, robertson's $75,391, and kemp's $67,994. the state holds its caucuses tuesday
robertson has selected south carolina as his must-win state, and had spent $224,234 there by the end of january, compared to bush's $126,151, dole's $110,775 and kemp's $35,681
kemp's political director, charlie black, said monday that his candidate will make a big push in south carolina to come in ahead of robertson. kemp plans a tv campaign there of $250,000 to $300,000, black said
bush, the overall fund-raising leader took a conservative approach to spending in january, spending the least among gop contenders during the month, $3.7 million. robertson spent the most at $7.9 million
among the democrats, dukakis had spent $423,606 on the gateway states. his nearest competitors were sen. paul simon of illinois, $89,202, and rep. richard gephardt of missouri, $75,462
they were followed by sen. al gore jr. of tennessee, whose gateway total through january was $40,681. gore has focused virtually all of his attention on the super tuesday states, particularly the 14 in the south
simon had said last week that he needed to win either south dakota or minnesota to continue his campaign. he has since backed off of that statement, citing an infusion of campaign contributions that can keep him alive beyond those contests
simon spent $66,313 in minnesota through january, compared to dukakis, who spent the most there among democrats, $266,418. simon had spent only $13,705 in south dakota, while dukakis again led the field in that state, with $80,989
campaign money is being raised at a record pace by incumbent house members, and more of it than ever is coming from special interest groups, according to an analysis by a congressional watchdog group
the study by common cause, released monday, found that the 412 house members expected to seek re-election in november collected nearly $55 million last year, 28 percent more than incumbents had amassed at the same time in the last two-year house election cycle
of that total, $24.2 million came from political action committees, the fund-raising arms of special interest groups which seek to influence congress. that figure was up 44 percent over the comparable figure two years ago, common cause said, and also amounted to 44 percent of the total raised by the incumbents
early returns for the 1988 election are in, and they reveal a landslide victory in the house for special-interest pacs,'' said common cause president fred wertheimer, who is leading a fight in the senate for campaign-finance legislation to curb the influence of pacs
the largest house beneficiary of pac giving in 1987 was house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., who received $223,058 from the groups. that represented 51 percent of coelho's total receipts in 1987 of $436,616
three other house members topped the $200,000 mark in pac receipts for the year: byron dorgan, d-n.d., with $207,846; beryl anthony, d-ark., $207,187; and martin frost, d-texas, $200,924
of the house members expected to run again, 34 raised more than $250,000 last year. topping the list of total fund-raising was rep. mel levine, d-calif., with $729,720, and three others topped the half-million dollar level: joseph dioguardi, r-n.y., $670,570; joseph kennedy, d-mass., $656,894; and bob mcewen, r-ohio, $634,445
mcewen was also the top spender in 1987, with his campaign committee spending $629,325. house speaker jim wright, d-texas, was second on the spending list, at $426,121, and kennedy was third at 404,512
for incumbents, total cash on hand in campaign chests at the end of last year averaged $155,528, a 45 percent increase from the level of two years earlier. rep. david dreier, r-calif., had the richest campaign fund, with more than $1.1 million on hand
others near the top of the list were house ways and means committee chairman dan rostenkowski, d-ill., $904,149; rep. steven solarz, d-n.y., $880,998; and levine, with $847,138. rehabilitation</head> modify district ruling; subs 6th graf, `swaggart made...', to update with him flying to baton rouge; subs 10-11th grafs, bgng `juleen turnage...', with 1 graf to update with comment from national church official, picking up 12th graf, `national assemblies...'. should stand for ams.</note>
the state hierarchy of the assemblies of god church monday ordered television evangelist jimmy swaggart to immediately begin a two-year rehabilitation period that will limit his preaching and place him in counseling, an official said
louisiana district supervisor cecil janway announced the action, which could be modified by the national organization, after more than nine hours of meetings with swaggart, who was accused of sexual miscounduct and admitted sunday to unspecified sins
the following action has been taken by the board of the louisiana district of the assemblies of god concerning evangelist jimmy swaggart: we accept his confession of specific incidents of a moral failure,'' janway said
based on his detailed confession and the evidence we observed of true humility and repentance, we have offered him rehabilitation, in accordance with the bylaws of the general council and louisiana district of the assemblies of god,'' he said
brother swaggart has submitted to the terms of rehabilitation,'' he said
swaggart made no comment as he left the meeting. he was whisked away by guards and left in a van, later flying home to baton rouge
janway told reporters that swaggart will be prohibited from preaching a minimum of three months, ``except in fulfillment of present commitments involving foreign governments during that period.'' he did not elaborate
earlier, janway had said the regional board would report its findings privately to the general council of the country's largest pentecostal denomination, based in springfield, mo
he declined to answer questions after reading his statement, saying ``no comment'' when asked if the action announced monday would require further action from church officials in missouri
everett stenhouse, assistant general superintendent of the denomination, said the action will now be referred to the executive presbytery in springfield to ``be approved or sent down for modification.'' a march 29 meeting is scheduled, but ``it's possible for us to meet sooner,'' he said
national assemblies of god officials had met with swaggart last week
janway said swaggart would be relieved of his duties as co-pastor of the family worship center in baton rouge, but he would be allowed to return to preaching after three months. jim rentz, co-pastor with swaggart at the worship center, earlier had said he would assume duties as chief pastor of the church
swaggart did not describe his misconduct sunday in his confession, which drew gasps and tears from his congregation
an overflow crowd packed his 7,500-seat family worship center after reports that church officials had been given photographs purporting to show swaggart and a known prostitute going into and out of a motel room
the evangelist flew here from his headquarters in baton rouge on monday for the meeting with the district presbytery of the assemblies of god
in his announcement after that meeting, janway said swaggart would be counseled and supervised weekly by three members of the louisiana district presbytery during the rehabilitation period. he will be required to submit quarterly and monthly reports to church officials, janway said
again no doubt, much speculation and rumor will find its way into the secular media, but for the church, the body of christ, such speculation and rumor has no place,'' he said
we urge brother swaggart and his associates to resist the request of those outside the church to respond to questions. brother swaggart has been in complete cooperation with the assemblies of god and has pledged with work within the structure of the church,'' janway said
the photographs allegedly showing swaggart with a prostitute reportedly were given to church officials by new orleans evangelist marvin gorman, who had once filed a $90 million suit against swaggart, claiming swaggart had unjustly accused him of numerous affairs. ``i know they exist and they're relevant,'' gorman's attorney hunter lundy said of the photographs
the washington post reported monday, quoting a source who spoke to a jimmy swaggart world ministries board member, that swaggart said he did not engage in sexual intercourse with the woman but ``paid her to perform pornographic acts.''
one church official said swaggart had confessed that his sexual misconduct had continued for years
he tried and tried and tried through prayer and fasting and everything he could do to lick it and it beat him,'' the rev. glen cole, pastor of the capital christian center in sacramento, calif., told a sacramento television station on sunday. cole is one of 13 denomination officials that examined swaggart's case last week
he confessed to specific incidents of moral failure,'' forest h. hall, secretary-treasurer of the assemblies' louisiana district, told swaggart's congregation. ``in the opinion of the officers of the louisiana district, he has shown true humility and repentance and has not tried to blame anyone else for his failure.''
the denomination's role is limited to disciplining swaggart, but as in the case of ptl, it has no control over the television ministry
eleven months ago, swaggart scathingly denounced fellow assemblies of god evangelist jim bakker for committing adultery, comparing him to a cancer that had to be excised
bakker, who resigned from his ptl ministry in march after admitting to an extramarital sexual encounter with church secretary jessica hahn and being defrocked by the denomination, had blamed swaggart for bringing his misconduct to light
swaggart had worked last summer to develop an ethics code for broadcast ministries to stem a drop-off in donations caused by the sex and money scandal at the ptl ministry under bakker's reign
with tears streaming down his face, swaggart said sunday he was stepping down from the pulpit ``for an undetermined, indeterminate period of time. we will leave that in the hands of the lord.''
he said he was cooperating with the assemblies' investigation
i do not plan in any way to whitewash my sin or call it a mistake,'' he said. ``i call it sin.''
ministry officials had refused to comment on the future of swaggart's television program, which is videotaped at his regular sunday service and distributed in more than 100 countries
swaggart, a cousin of rock 'n' roll pioneer jerry lee lewis and country singer mickey gilley, combined his singing and piano playing with old-fashioned, fire-and-brimstone preaching to build a ministry with an income estimated at $142 million in 1986. scrapping</head>
democratic presidential contender rep. richard gephardt is still talking tough on trade, despite the fading prospects of the trade amendment that bears his name
i want to turn it in the other direction,'' the missouri congressman said as he opened a two-day campaign swing here. ``first, we've got to change our trade policies so other countries treat us like we treat them.''
as an example, gephardt pointed to the fact a car manufactured in south korea can be sold in the united states at a low price, while tariffs and taxes in south korea would push the cost of a mid-sized american car in south korea to $48,000
gephardt recently made commercials suggesting that south korean-made hyundais sell for $48,000 here unless south korea mends its ways. the commercials, coupled with a populist push, were credited with helping him win the iowa caucuses two weeks ago
if they bring their products here and sell them with ease, i want to be able to take our products there and sell them with ease,'' he said. ``i will demand equal trade.''
he added the united states should not back away from such a policy
why are we selling ourselves short?'' he asked. ``why don't we stand up for what's right? when we stand up, (foreign markets) open up.''
gephardt is the author of an amendment to a massive trade bill that would call for mandatory sanctions against countries with big trade surpluses with the united states if six months of talks fail to resolve differences
but house conferees working on the measure, which has been languishing, have said they will soon scrap the gephardt amendment in order to get the measure through. one conferee, a fellow democrat, called the provision ``bad policy.''
as a courtesy to their colleague gephardt, the trade bill negotiators were expected to wait until after the super tuesday primaries to give his provision the heave-ho
gephardt also repeated his calls for a national energy policy including a fee on imported oil
we import as much oil today as we did in 1973,'' he said. ``we don't have a courageous leadership or energy policy. why don't we stand up for america for once and have an energy policy that is good for the united states?''
on the issue of defense, gephardt called for a central procurement system for defense purchases and said he favored the midgetman over the mx missile
two years ago they were heroes _ idealistic young officers whose mutiny helped spark the revolt against ferdinand marcos. now they are in disgrace, victims of the revolution they helped inspire
on feb. 22, 1986, the reform the armed forces movement, or ram, a clique of young officers angry over corruption in the marcos military, mutinied
their action tapped a groundswell of opposition that began after the 1983 assassination of opposition leader benigno aquino, and it led to a popular revolt backed by clergy and joined by hundreds of thousands of civilians
president marcos fled the country on feb. 26, and president corazon aquino took office. ram leaders such as lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan were hailed as heroes in the finest tradition of service to the nation
but on the second anniversary of what is known as the ``edsa revolution,'' honasan is in detention aboard a navy ship for his role in the aug. 28 coup attempt that left at least 53 people dead and hundreds wounded
two other ram members, navy capt. rex robles and air force lt. col. eduardo ``red'' kapunan, have been detained in connection with the nov. 13, 1986, murder of leftist leader rolando olalia. officials say three other ram officers are being sought in the killing
late monday, on the anniversary of the mutiny, military police prevented robles from attending a mass organized by honasan's wife jane to commemorate the ram contribution to marcos' downfall. he was hustled away into a jeep by military police as he headed for the church with his wife
in a broad historical sense, the crackdown on this group illustrates the continuing cannibalism of the `revolution' which has already gobbled up several of its leading actors,'' wrote commentator amando doronila in the manila chronicle
the political landscape has changed favorably in favor of giving a little more stable base for democratic government,'' he added. ``but it is not yet time to be confident that stability will endure. the revolution has not yet run its course _ it can turn on its other leaders.''
the series of military coup plots and the strong desire among most filipinos for civilian leadership cost the ram faction whatever favorable image it once enjoyed among the general population
but other key figures in the anti-marcos struggle have also been eased out of positions of leadership in the political turmoil of the past two years
chief among them were former defense minister juan ponce enrile, the ram patron and leader of the military mutiny, former executive secretary joker arroyo, and former finance secretary jaime ongpin
enrile, now a senator, was fired nov. 23, 1986, after the government said it foiled a coup plot by officers close to the longtime defense chief
arroyo, once mrs. aquino's closest adviser, was fired last september amid charges by the military that he was a communist sympathizer, a charge the former human rights lawyer vigorously denied
ongpin, an industrialist who helped rally the business community behind mrs. aquino, was fired along with arroyo in a cabinet shakeup in the wake of the august coup attempt
he committed suicide three months later, and his family said he was despondent over the rancor and bitterness within the aquino cabinet
filipino commentators believe the turmoil was due in large part to the lack of political consensus within a disparate coalition which shared the goal of ousting marcos but differed widely on a vision for the country's future once the longtime strongman was gone
monday, enrile released a letter which he said he received from honasan to mark the second anniversary of the revolt against marcos
although there is no real cause for celebration now because our aspirations in 1986 have not yet been realized, it is well worth the time to pray and remember,'' honasan wrote
i also pray that all of us still share in the elusive dream of true reconciliation, peace and a better life for our people.''
the state department says it is ``concerned by the apparent diversion'' to the soviet union of a u.s. computer system which could help determine the best targets for nuclear missiles
officials of the reagan administration confirmed monday that the commerce department and customs service were investigating the possibility that the computer supposedly destined for yugoslavia wound up in soviet union
we're concerned by this apparent diversion and are working with yugoslav authorities to determine exactly what happened in the specific case,'' said state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley
according to a report in monday's editions of the washington times, a los angeles company, essex marketing co., is under investigation for an alleged shipment last december 21 of a computer capable of simulating nuclear explosions to an engineering college in zagreb, yugoslovia
the newspaper said the computer was shipped to moscow by way of belgrade, the yugoslav capital, and east berlin
donald creed, a spokesman for the commerce department, said government investigators had uncovered ``an elaborate scheme to divert a high-technology computer.'' he said it was the first ``diversion that we are aware of concerning yugoslavia.''
he declined to discuss details of the case
u.s. law prohibits export of items with possible military application to soviet bloc nations. other high-technology goods may only be shipped to those nations with approval of the paris-based coordinating committee for multilateral export controls, or cocom
disclosures last year that toshiba machine company of japan had exported high-technology submarine technology to the soviets in violation of cocom regulations led to the filing of criminal charges against some company officials in tokyo and strong denunciations of the sale from u.s. lawmakers
though communist, yugoslavia is not officially aligned with the soviet union. high-technology shipments there do not require cocom approval
another commerce department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that the complete computer system was not shipped to the soviet union. ``there were some things that were ready to go in warehouses that were stopped,'' the official said
the washington times said the computer, made by floating point systems of beaverton, ore., can be used by military planners to gauge the impact of nuclear explosions and to help determine optimal targets for nuclear missiles
the newspaper said that floating point was not a target of the investigation
ana marija besker, press counselor for the yugoslav embassy, said ``we have asked for a clarification from belgrade on this report.''
but in any case, we are responsible partners in technology deals,'' she said. ``our laws on these matters are very strict.''
in 1986, the administration investigated an alleged attempt to divert large shipments of computers and other sensitive equipment to the soviet bloc through austria. treaty</head> after 9th graf pvs, ``both men...'' pickup 10th graf pvs, ``american officials...</note>
the united states and soviet union told their negotiators monday to draft anti-cheating and other key provisions of a new arms agreement within a month so the treaty can be signed this spring
defense minister dmitri t. yazov said the soviets will begin withdrawing shorter-range ss-12 missiles from east germany and czechoslovakia late this month as a ``display of goodwill.'' the missiles must be eliminated under the intermediate-range arms pact signed in december
secretary of state george p. shultz reported progress on human rights and emigration, and professed not ``the slightest doubt'' that soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev will make good on his pledge to pull soviet military forces out of afghanistan
a joint statement said progress was made toward banning chemical weapons and verifying nuclear test limits set by unratified 1974 and 1976 treaties. a report by the official news agency tass, however, quoted gorbachev as telling shultz the u.s. stand on a chemical weapons ban ``hampers the working out of an international convention.''
addressing a news conference about arms negotiations, shultz said it was ``extremely important'' to accelerate work in geneva if president reagan and gorbachev are to sign the treaty at their fourth summit, planned for may or june in moscow
he spoke after two days of talks with gorbachev and foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
shultz said anti-cheating measures especially were ``an extremely important thing to get nailed down'' in a pact on strategic, or long-range, nuclear weapons
shevardnadze told his own news conference later the meetings produced headway toward agreement to cut strategic nuclear weapons, which he said ``can be accomplished'' before the summit
both men said their geneva negotiators were instructed to work out the key elements in time for their next meeting, march 22-23 in washington
shultz left on tuesday for brussels, belgium, the soviet news agency tass said, where he was to brief nato allies on his visit
american officials said they hoped the new instructions would speed the negotiations
it's not a breakthrough; it's not dramatic; it may not make a headline,'' a senior u.s. official said privately, but the sides now have established that ``verification is the name of the game.''
shultz said u.s. and soviet negotiators were ordered to prepare three documents dealing with:
_inspection of the projected 30-50 percent reduction in overall numbers of long-range bombers, missiles and nuclear-armed submarines
_how the banned weapons can be eliminated or converted into other nuclear arms that would remain legal
_agreement, in a memorandum of understanding, to exchange information about strategic weapons as another way to prevent cheating
according to the secretary, negotiators will try to resolve ``some misunderstandings'' about the u.s. program to develop a defense system in space. the soviets contend some tests contemplated in the ``star wars'' program would violate the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
yazov said at an anniversary ceremony for the soviet army and navy: ``the soviet missiles and launchers that are going to be withdrawn will be sent immediately to the sites where it is planned to liquidate them after the ratification of the treaty.'' gorbachev and shevardnadze were in the audience
east germany's official news agency adn reported last week that soviet ss-12s in waren northwest of berlin had been dismantled, put in crates and were ready for transport back to the soviet union
shultz told his news conference a series of human rights meetings was agreed upon, the first to set for march 16. jurists, psychiatrists and other experts will attend, shultz said, but he did not announce where it would be held
the secretary, who gave human rights ``the pride of place'' on his agenda here, said shevardnadze promised``flexibility'' in rules that require applicants for emigration to have close relatives abroad
that has been straightened out, at least for the balance of this year,'' he told reporters, adding that shevardnadze told him ``categorically'' the only barrier to emigration is past work involving state secrets
kremlin officials have given such assurances before. shultz said the sides still were ``exploring'' the point at which involvement in classified work would cease to count against an applicant
after asserting belief in gorbachev's intentions about afghanistan, shultz said of withdrawal: ``the question is how, and that is what the negotiations are about.''
his reference was to u.n.-sponsored talks between afghanistan and pakistan that resume next week in geneva. key issues remaining are a timetable for the pullout and whether an interim government should be in place while it occurs
gorbachev offered to begin the the withdrawal may 15 and complete it within 10 months if agreement is reached in geneva by march 15. shultz said he wants the estimated 115,000 troops out by the end of the year, and ``i think there is a very good chance of that happening.''
soviet soldiers entered afghanistan in december 1979 and remained to help the communist government fight moslem insurgents
a century-old windmill once saved from demolition by donations burned to the ground in a suspicious blaze, authorities said
the structure erupted in a fireball and collapsed monday night, fire officials said
the blaze was ``definitely suspicious,'' said firefighter nick ventrella
the 26-foot windmill, believed built between 1860 and 1870, was set for demolition when the private property it was on was bought about a year ago, said pat juviler, director of the alley pond environmental center and chairwoman of the committee to save the windmill
it was moved to the center in a park in queens, and about to be restored, she said
she said nearly $60,000 had already been raised for the move and the restoration, and that the state had pledged $40,000 more for the project
she said the project will go on with a scheduled fund-raising dinner in april
interest rates on short-term treasury securities fell in the most recent auction, with the rates on six-month bills dropping to their lowest point since last july
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.64 percent in monday's auction, down from 5.73 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.83 percent, down from 6.03 percent last week
the rates were the lowest since three-month bills sold for 5.63 percent on feb. 8 and six-month bills averaged 5.54 percent last july 13
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.82 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,857.40 and 6.11 percent for six-month bills selling for $9,705.30
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate home mortgages, rose to 6.70 percent last week after averaging 6.59 percent the week before
national security agency director lt. gen. william e. odom says he had decided to leave the intelligence-gathering agency even before there were questions about whether he would be allowed to extend his tenure
i've served my tour,'' odom said monday in a telephone interview with the washington post. ``i've extended four months beyond what the normal (three-year) turnover is. i have 34 years of active (military) duty. it's time to move on to another career.''
the post reported today that odom, 55, asked for the resignation to be effective aug. 1. a soviet scholar, odom told the newspaper he wanted to write ``a couple of books fairly quickly, and some articles.''
the new york times reported in today's editions that the joint chiefs of staff earlier had unanimously recommended against extending odom's tenure beyond the typical three years accorded his predecessors
odom said he initially had hoped to stay at the nsa another year, but had made his decision to leave late last year, before the question of his future reached defense secretary frank c. carlucci, the times said
i've really kicked this agency into line,'' odom told the times
the resignation request was submitted to the secretary of the army about 10 days ago and must be approved by the army chief, carlucci and the white house, the newspapers said
the nsa, based at fort meade in suburban maryland, assists the defense department in gathering national security information, and operates facilities designed to collect intelligence and protect communications and computer security within the government
before assuming his current position in 1985, odom had been the army's assistant chief of staff for intelligence since 1981
pentagon spokeswoman capt. mary laluntas had no information late monday on the reported resignation request. odom's home telephone listing is unpublished and he could not be reached for comment late monday
here is the text of a memo from lawyer e. robert wallach to attorney general edwin meese iii on a proposed iraqi pipeline:
memo to: emiii
from: erw
date: 25 september 1985
personal &amp; confidential _ for your eyes, only
i hesitate to provide the following information to you in memorandum form. i'm constantly torn between my own feelings of privacy and the need to provide you with information in a form which will expedite communication. the following are specific items of information which b.r. (bruce rappaport) provided to me
1. when edgar bronfmann met with gorbachev in moscow, he was advised to transmit a message to peres to the effect that they would be willing to allow the flow of soviet jews to israel only. (you may recall my memo quite awhile ago, in which i expressed to you my own frustration at the conflict between u.s. american jews and the state of israel which occurred in vienna. at that juncture point, there was a competition and most of the soviet jews, especially the best trained and younger, were coming to the u.s. i said at that time that this provided an excellent rationale for the soviets to restrict the immigration.) in addition, apparently mitterand has offered the services of air france to the soviets for the purpose of emigration
2. b.r. has been financing private polls for quite a long time in israel on behalf of labor-peres. they demonstrate an increasing strength for labor and the high probability of elections, no later than march 1986
3. he confirmed the arrangement with peres to the effect that israel will receive somewhere between $65-$70 million a year for ten years out of the conclusion of the project. what was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor
for both this information, and the emigration above, the obvious rationale needs to be kept well in mind. there is a need to provide israel with an increasing flow of ashkenazy jews (from the soviet union) to help balance the influx of sephardic-oriental jews who have a natural affinity and affiliation with likud. from the standpoint of american interests, the advantage is evident
4. b.r. indicates that peres emphatically indicated that the release of weir was as a result of the efforts of the state of israel, and no one else. he indicated that they would also arrange for the release of the remaining six. there is a feeling that the u.s. ``owes'' and that the accomplishment of this project, as outlined in my memo, is appropriate. it should be emphasized that things are seen in a totality of the relationship but that in this istance, they are uncertain and a bit frustrated as to why the u.s.g. has not more directly facilitated the accomplishment of this project when it is so obviously in the interest of everyone involved
5. there is to be a opic meeting in vienna october 6. b.r. intends to send his representative (former minister of energy calderon of venezuela _ who is now a member of his board of directors and an employee) to vienna to meet with minister taki, the iraqi who is in charge of their oil entity (see my previous memo). apparently these men know each other very well. at that time, bruce intends to comunicate to iraq, through calderon, the private banking proposal which he is prepared to put together which would provide funds to iraq as indicated in my previous memorandum
6. the prime minister is very sensitive to the letter which he sent. he wants it returned if there's not going to be some kind of appropriate response when he comes to washington. that appropriate response would clearly be a meeting with the president and with bud mcfarlane which would include this project. as you saw from the letter, he also includes secretary of state schultz and i have expressed myself as to whether or not that is appropriate. in any event, they apparently find it hard to understand why mcfarlane is not able to comunicate to iraq, and to s.h. the importance of this project
n.b. i have explained to them the reluctance to become involved in the promotion of a private venture. of course, they don't see it in that light, but rather in the total context of the geo-politics of the middle east
7. there was a suggestion that i call the p.m. of the middle country to see what is happening and see if i could prod him along. i indicated i did not think that was appropriate at this moment. i also told him that i had had a brief and private conversation with bill casey and had invited me to meet with him in a non-discussion. the trip to geneva intervened
here is the text of the letter submitted to president reagan on monday by navy secretary james h. webb disclosing his decision to resign
dear mr. president:
over the past three months the department of defense has been struggling to implement a mandated $33 billion reduction of the fiscal year 1989 budget approved by you last year. the navy department was directed to absorb a significant share of this reduction, which eventually became approximately $12 billion
like many others, i have serious concerns regarding the entire budget reduction process. first, the department of defense has been required to absorb cuts at a ratio almost twice as great as non-defense programs. second, many defense reductions themselves have been made in the wrong areas, and without clear strategic thought. i am particularly upset with the nature of the cuts as they affect the department under my authority
on three separate occasions, the uniformed and civilian leadership of the navy department provided the secretary of defense with proposed cuts totaling the amount required to meet the budget reduction, but which also would preserve the cherished goal of your administration to rebuild our navy to a minimum level of 600 ships
in each case, the advice of this senior leadership, concurred in by the joint chiefs of staff, was ignored. i can only conclude that the decision to reduce the level of our fleet to a point that it may never reach the 600-ship goal was motivated by other than military and strategic reasoning
during the four years i have served in your administration, i have repeatedly expressed my gratitude at your decision to rebuild the greatest navy in the world. since i became secretary of the navy last year, i have stated just as frequently my belief that the force levels of our sea services remain minimal and must not be reduced
even in the current budget environment, such force levels could have been maintained. since recommendations to that effect were rejected by your secretary of defense, i am unable to support him personally, or to defend this amended budget during budget deliberations. consequently, i find it necessary to resign from my position as secretary of the navy
thank you for the opportunity to have served our country during four of our nation's most critical and productive years
respectfully yours,
james h. webb jr
in james h. webb's best-selling novel ``fields of fire,'' a vietnam war lieutenant ponders the dignity of men engaged in battle, and remarks ``it was the fight, not the cause that mattered.''
for webb, who resigned monday after only 10 months as secretary of the navy, there was always a fight or controversy, from his criticism of the service academies' admission of women in 1979 to his lashing out at defense secretary frank c. carlucci, as he did on his final day on the job
this building (the pentagon) needs to be led,'' the 42-year-old webb told reporters as he announced his departure. ``it needs leadership. it needs some vision. i'm saying that if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building.''
furor has dogged webb almost from the day he was sworn in as navy secretary on april 9, 1987
five days after the ceremony, webb reversed a decision of his predecessor, john f. lehman, and ruled that the navy would no longer make special accomodations for officers who wanted to play professional sports
ensign napoleon mccallum's weekend career with the national football league's los angeles raiders thus ended and 7-foot-1 midshipman david robinson's eventual start in the national basketball association was delayed
in the same month, webb reversed a lehman decision. to dismiss a board of admirals and rejected its promotion recommendations. l:ehman charged the board had improperly tried to promote nuclear submariners at the expense of aviation and surface warfare
webb took over the post of overseeing about 584,000 navy personnel and approximately 199,000 marines amid a sea of problems, including sex scandals that had rocked the marine corps, debate over the size of u.s. forces in the persian gulf and the role of marine lt. col. oliver north in the iran-contra affair
north was all too familiar to webb. during their student days at the u.s. naval academy, they fought for the brigade boxing championship. north won
a native of st. joseph, mo., webb served in the pentagon as the assistant secretary for reserve affairs on may 3, 1984. he was about to quit that job when then defense secretary caspar weinberger made an offer he couldn't resist _ the job as secretary of the navy
webb had served previsously on the republican staff of the the committee on veterans affairs of the house of representatives
a 1968 graduate of the naval academy, webb served with the 5th marine regiment in vietnam as rifle platoon leader and company commander, earning the navy cross, the silver star, two bronze star medals for valor and two purple hearts
after the war, he left the marine corps and earned a law degree from the georgetown university law center, where he won the horan competition for excellence in legal writing
webb once said, ``in my mind, i am a writer. in my heart, i am a soldier, and i always will be.''
webb wrote three novels, including ``fields of fire,'' ``a sense of honor,'' and ``a country such as this,'' and a non-fiction book on military strategy, ``micronesia and u.s. pacific strategy: a blueprint for the 1980s.''
but an article for washingtonian magazine, ``women can't fight,'' was his most controversial piece of writing, haunting him during his senate confirmation hearings for the navy's top job. in the article, webb wrote that women are ruining the military academies by poisoning their ability to train men for combat
webb reiterated his opposition to committing women to combat during the hearings, but said he had accepted the change in the academies
in fact last june, webb ordered the navy to allow female technicians aboard submarines for sea trials to test new equipment. in announcing the decision, webb said the policy ``will reinforce the department of navy's equal employment opportunity objectives of full integration of women into the civilian work force.''
here is a text of a portion of the two-page handwritten letter on sept. 19, 1985, from then-israeli prime minister shimon peres to attorney general edwin meese iii dealing with the proposed $1 billion iraqi pipeline project:
dear mr. meese:
... i am following with great interest the projected pipeline from iraq to jordan as a possible additive to introduce economic consideration to this troubled land. apparently a israeli guarantee may help to pave the way to the construction of this p@l
i would go a long way to help it out. but then discretion is demanded on our part
i shall be in the usa in the middle of october, and i intend to talk it over with george shultz, for whom i have the highest regard
considering the short while of my staying in washington, i believe it may be of great help, if george will be informed ahead of time
i shall appreciate your good office in this respect. i have asked my friend bruce and bob to let you know the whole story, and i shall depend on your judgment about the best way to handle this matter
with many thanks
shimon peres
here is the text of the letter submitted to president reagan on monday by navy secretary james h. webb disclosing his decision to resign
dear mr. president:
over the past three months the department of defense has been struggling to implement a mandated $33 billion reduction of the fiscal year 1989 budget approved by you last year. the navy department was directed to absorb a significant share of this reduction, which eventually became approximately $12 billion
like many others, i have serious concerns regarding the entire budget reduction process. first, the department of defense has been required to absorb cuts at a ratio almost twice as great as non-defense programs. second, many defense reductions themselves have been made in the wrong areas, and without clear strategic thought. i am particularly upset with the nature of the cuts as they affect the department under my authority
on three separate occasions, the uniformed and civilian leadership of the navy department provided the secretary of defense with proposed cuts totaling the amount required to meet the budget reduction, but which also would preserve the cherished goal of your administration to rebuild our navy to a minimum level of 600 ships
in each case, the advice of this senior leadership, concurred in by the joint chiefs of staff, was ignored. i can only conclude that the decision to reduce the level of our fleet to a point that it may never reach the 600-ship goal was motivated by other than military and strategic reasoning
during the four years i have served in your administration, i have repeatedly expressed my gratitude at your decision to rebuild the greatest navy in the world. since i became secretary of the navy last year, i have stated just as frequently my belief that the force levels of our sea services remain minimal and must not be reduced
even in the current budget environment, such force levels could have been maintained. since recommendations to that effect were rejected by your secretary of defense, i am unable to support him personally, or to defend this amended budget during budget deliberations. consequently, i find it necessary to resign from my position as secretary of the navy
thank you for the opportunity to have served our country during four of our nation's most critical and productive years
respectfully yours,
james h. webb jr
the dollar dropped in tokyo trading today and stock prices advanced for the ninth straight day
after opening at 129.27 yen, the dollar fell by midday to 128.65 and closed the day at 128.50, down 1.45 yen from monday`s close of 129.95
the dollar's fall was attributed to overnight setbacks in new york and london and strong selling pressure from foreign banks, dealers said
on the tokyo stock exchange, share prices closed higher at the end of tuesday's session, led by large-capital issues such as steels and heavy industrials
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,949.45 points, up 102.74 points, or 0.04 percent. volume in the first section was a moderately heavy 850 million shares, up from 830 million shares monday
there's nothing really big out there to push prices up or down, but it`s got to run out of steam sometime,'' said ron napier, vice president of salomon brothers, referring to the longest consecutive advance in stock prices since august
finance minister kiichi miyazawa told a news conference today that the higher prices on the stock exchange are the result of japan's sound economic fundamentals and optimism about a bright economic future
nine organizations, including the american academy of pediatrics and the national education association, are forming a coalition to lobby on behalf of children with aids
edward conner, a member of the pediatrics academy, noted in monday's announcement that about 80 percent of the known 839 cases of children with aids in the united states were born to mothers who are drug abusers themselves or sexual partners of drug abusers
if we could reach these prospective parents today, we could stop this expanding problem in nine months,'' he said at a press conference
rather than focus on a particular goal, representatives of the nine organizations said they would engage in a ``generic'' effort to make sure children are not forgotten as programs to combat aids are formulated and implemented
other members of the coalition: children's defense fund, american psychological association, national association of community health centers, child welfare league of america, american nurses association, national association of children's hospitals and related institutions and the western association of children's hospitals
state and local government workers received annual pay raises last year averaging 4.9 percent under collective bargaining contracts with public employee unions, according to the labor department
the pay increases were below the average 5.7 percent raises received by he same employees in 1986. but the workers still fared better last year than federal employees who got a 3 percent pay increase and private sector workers whose wages rose an average 3.3 percent, the department said monday
however, the bureau of labor statistics noted that union contracts in the public and private sectors differ significantly
state and local governments, for example, tend to have a higher proportion of professional and white-collar workers. union contracts in the private sector, on the other hand, often include lump-sum bonuses and cost-of-living adjustments excluded from the wage calculations and usually absent in the public sector
the figures showed that local government workers with wage increases averaging 5.3 percent outpaced state employees workers with an average 4.3 percent raise. fight</head>
the reagan administration's long and sometimes bumpy road to filling a vacant seat on the supreme court has came to an anti-climactic end as justice anthony m. kennedy spent his first day on the bench
four hours of subdued technical arguments in the hushed, crimson-draped courtroom monday were a sharp contrast to the noisy and partisan battles that preceded kennedy's feb. 3 confirmation by the senate
kennedy looked solemn as he entered the chamber, strode past the american flag, stood before the pale marble columns and took his seat at the end of the row of nine justices. that seat, on the far right as spectators face the court, is the traditional place for the high court's newest member
the former appellate judge from sacramento, calif., a man with a reputation for being deliberative and well prepared, didn't say a word until nearly an hour had elapsed. and then he asked only one question
kennedy's presence brought the court to full strength for the first time since justice lewis f. powell resigned in june
the producer of ``jeopardy'' has apologized to mayor joseph e. steineger jr. because a question on the television game show referred to the city as a suburb of kansas city, mo
but producer george vosburgh stopped short of conceding an error
we are taking kansas city, kansas, out of our definition of a suburb,'' said vosburgh, who sent a written apology to the mayor last week
we are not necessarily incorrect. ... we just will not refer to it that way in the future.''
the show intends to clear up the matter and other recent misunderstandings with an ``oops'' category in a future show
after hearing about the reference to his city on a december show, steineger wrote an indignant letter to the producer, saying kansas city, kan., was a city in its own right
steineger said he was satisfied, though still somewhat miffed
i guess when the mayor said they were wrong, they were wrong,'' he said. ``we certainly like to be recognized as our own city.''
slum dwellers gathered possessions from condemned homes and rescue workers searched mud and rubble for victims of four days of floods and mudslides in rio that have killed at least 75 people
civil defense spokewoman sonia hadid said monday that many poor people, who perch homes on the steep hillsides that jut up through this city of 5.6 million, were refusing to obey orders to abandon their shacks
they prefer to risk their lives than abandon their worldly goods,'' she said. officials warned that torrential rains that let up monday had loosened boulders and earth and said they expected more mudslides
get out while there's still time,'' mayor roberto saturnino braga told slum dwellers as civil defense officials condemned whole hillside communities
flash floods and mudslides have punished rio de janeiro state since feb. 2, killing at least 268 people and leaving more than 13,000 homeless
rains devastated the nearby mountain resort of petropolis during the first 10 days, briefly let up for carnival, then returned late friday to plague rio
the weather bureau said an antarctic cold front over rio dumped 5.1 inches of rain on saturday alone. normal rainfall for the month is 5.5 inches
roads turned into raging rivers that tossed cars and carried away shanties, rubbish and stones. the rains washed out city streets, power lines, knocked down large trees and filled homes with mud
in the wealthy santa teresa hillside district, a massive mudslide tumbled onto a three-story hospital wing, killing at least 11 elderly patients and staff. more victims were expected to be pulled from the thick mud
in the working-class abolicao district, firefighters continued their search for at least one more resident of a three-story building of six apartments built on a hillside that fell face forward late sunday
officials said 12 bodies were pulled from the concrete and twisted metal, while 16 dwellers were pulled out alive
three television networks broadcast appeals for donations of food, clothes, medicines and mattresses to aid the nearly 9,500 city residents rendered homeless by the inundation
the homeless were being housed in schools, churches and public buildings that have been converted into shelters
ms. hadid, the civil defense spokeswoman, said the death toll of 75 included only bodies that had reached the morgue
the final total certainly will be higher,'' she said
after months of preparation, pop star michael jackson was ``raring to go'' for tonight's first concert of his 13-city u.s. tour, his spokesman said
jackson spent monday night at kemper arena rehearsing and checking sound for the two kansas city shows, which are expected to draw about 33,000 people
jackson is confident about his tour, press manager lee solters said
he's a hard worker, a perfectionist,'' solters said. ``everybody is in tune with him. they all keep up with him and they all respect him for his professionalism.''
the 29-year-old jackson will perform here tonight and wednesday, before moving on to madison square garden in new york for concerts march 3-6
tickets for the shows here were virtually sold out, solters said, although some limited-view seats were still available. the kansas city star reported monday that some tickets were being sold for $200
the show requires 35 tons of equipment, which are carried in 11 48-foot-long trucks
jackson's 15-member troupe has seven musicians, four backup singers and four dancers. a 60-member crew works behind the scenes. about 70 local people have been hired as stagehands and security staff, said john friedmann, director of kemper arena
the show will include four video screens suspended from the ceiling, 72 speakers, nearly 3,000 lights and special effects
secretary of state joyce hazeltine says she doubts that today's weather will affect voter turnout, and she still expects about one-half the state's registered republicans and one-third of the democrats to vote in the presidential primary
the weather forecast calls for strong winds but no snow, she said
the secretary of state said the fact that vice president george bush withdrew from active competition in the south dakota primary will not affect republican voter turnout
how i see that. those who are for him are going to vote for him anyway. those who are angry with him for that are going to come out and vote for (bob) dole.'' supporters</head>
the chairman of rep. jack kemp's texas campaign is asking supporters of sen. bob dole and pat robertson to abandon their candidates and join the kemp campaign because of the refusal of dole and robertson to appear in a debate last week in dallas
bob holland, the kemp official, call the action by robertson and dole a snub of texas
by their failure to face george bush in one of his home states friday night, bob dole made clear that he has written off texas and pat robertson committed another serious blunder casting further doubts on his electability,'' holland said
the withdrawals left only kemp and bush to debate
we have had many disappointed former dole and robertson and for that matter (pete) du pont supporters calling us looking for a new home and we want them to know they are welcome to join us,'' holland said
du pont, former governor of delaware, withdrew last week as a candidate for the republican nomination
agriculture commissioner ward ``butch'' burnette said 32 calls from his department's phones to supporters of the presidential campaign of u.s. sen. albert gore jr. were made to discuss official business, not the democrat's race
burnette, gore's kentucky campaign chairman, and two of his aides involved in the campaign said the campaign may have come up, though
burnette said six calls to gore headquarters in arlington, va., were made to clarify news reports published locally jan. 19 about the tennessee senator's agriculture platform. the calls were made, however, jan. 12-14, according to the courier-journal
the newspaper reported in today's editions that more than 70 calls were made in december and january from state-government telephones to offices and supporters of gore
the total cost of the 73 calls was $58.97, not including tax
the day he was named gore's state chairman, burnette said, he issued a memo to employees telling them not to use state facilities on gore's behalf
a hand grenade slipped from the belt of a lebanese army officer and exploded today at a hospital in east beirut. police said the officer was killed and four visitors were injured
the grenade exploded in the morning in the visitors' lounge of the hayek hospital in the christian district of sin el-fil, a police spokesman said
first lt. issam rahmeh, who was visiting a patient, died instantly and four other visitors were injured, said the spokesman, who cannot be named in line with standing regulations
he said it had not been determined how the grenade slipped from rahmeh's belt. the army was investigating the incident
the american medical association, stressing that it opposes euthanasia, says first amendment rights should outweigh an order that it identify the author of a mercy-killing essay
citing the u.s. constitution and a state free-press law, the ama filed a motion monday in cook county circuit court to quash a subpoena from the state's attorney's office seeking the author's name
the essay, titled ``it's over, debbie,'' was written by a resident physician who described injecting a fatal dose of morphine into a 20-year-old woman dying of ovarian cancer. it was published in the journal of the american medical association's jan. 8 edition
jama's confidential sources are protected by the first amendment and by the illinois reporters privilege act,'' ama general counsel kirk johnson wrote in a statement accompanying the motion
as described in our motion, the debate and controversy which the publication has generated is exactly what the first amendment is all about
the ama supports the privilege asserted by dr. george lundberg,'' the journal's editor-in-chief, ``to protect jama's confidential sources, not withstanding that the ama opposes the practice of euthanasia and that ama believes the action described in the essay in unethical,'' johnson wrote
physicians and their organizations also have an ethical duty, however, embodied in the hippocratic oath, to teach education and inform their fellow physicians,'' he wrote. ``it is to fulfill this latter obligation that the ama publishes jama and gives it editorial independence.''
attorney newton minow, a former chairman of the federal communications commission who is helping johnson represent the ama, said he did not know whether the essay's author was aware of the controversy
lundberg has said he published the essay to spark debate over the issue of mercy killing
i expected a major reaction, but i didn't realize the extent to which the country was ready for an extraordinary response,'' lundberg said
we have clearly touched many raw nerves, and many people have been thinking about many of the diverse issues involved.''
he has said he believes the essay describes an actual event. but on monday, he said ``the account does have enough vagueness to welcome critical analysis as to whether it happened, or happened in this way.''
officials in the state's attorney's office have repeatedly declined to discuss the matter, as is routine during a continuing investigation
we're not confirming or denying that we're even looking into this,'' spokesman terry levin said monday
johnson said a subpoena was served a week ago today
retired marine corps brig. gen. charles banks, who was awarded the navy cross for heroism in the korean war, died of cancer. he was 73
banks, who died monday at st. francis memorial hospital, also served in world war ii. his combat service in that conflict included a tour with edson's raiders on guadalcanal
banks was awarded the navy cross for extreme bravery during the marine breakout from the chosin reservoir
banks, whose decorations also included the silver star, retired from the marines in 1959 and entered business. at the time of his death, he was vice president of the harper group, a san francisco-based freight-forwarding company
survivors include his wife, jane, of belvedere and their daughter, alexandra kennedy of soquel
the creators of a ``minicow'' produced near this northern town through cross-breeding and genetic engineering claim the smaller species can revolutionize cattle and milk production in the third world
the 27 animals grazing on a ranch at nearby tanleon are the product of 18 years and six generations of genetic manipulation. the smaller versions of the ox-like brazilian zebu or brahma species stand 3 feet and weigh 300 pounds
the experimenters began with a small pair of zebu that weighed more than a ton each and stood nearly 5 feet tall
each generation has become about eight inches shorter than the one before it,'' says angel castrillon, the local rancher who has conducted the minicow experiment since its start. ``we have created a genetic work that produces almost the same quantity of milk as a normal cow, occupies much less space and uses fewer resources,'' he told a visitor
people working on the project believe the mincows will enable many densely populated, land-poor countries to start or upgrade their cattle industries
ten minicows can graze on less than three acres of land, the area one normal cow generally requires. those 10 minicows produce 2,970 pounds of meat, about 330 pounds more than the one big cow would
horses and other animals have been reduced in size in other parts of the world, castrillon said. but, he said, ``what surprised us was that the minicows are producing three of four liters (about one gallon) of milk a day, compared to the six liters (about 1.5 gallons) that a normal cow produces.''
castrillon, whose ranch is in the fertile ``huasteca'' region of north central mexico, first proposed the idea to manuel berruecos, a geneticist at the national autonomous university of mexico, at a mexico city conference
the rancher said he suggested doing the opposite of what animal breeders traditionally do: instead of producing bigger and heavier specimens, why not make them smaller, on the model of the bonsai trees in japanese gardens?
unfortunately we have the theory and the prejudice that the bigger things are the better,'' berruecos said in an interview in mexico city. ``we want to make everything bigger, but the world isn't growing. our project may seem like science fiction, but we are close to a world that perhaps will have to adopt these (types of) measures.''
to achieve the smaller species, experimenters selected prospective breeding candidates with small heads and cross-bred to achieve smaller offspring
in the laboratory, berruecos works to weaken and eventually eliminate altogether large-growth genes in the herd's semen
berruecos, who holds a doctorate from the university of north carolina, claims that ``in terms of quality, our experience shows no difference in the milk or the meat.''
field specialists from west germany, japan and the united states are watching the experiments with interest. in fact, castrillon said one american offered $1 million to take over the research, an offer he said he rejected
castrillon's ranch is home to 15 adult minicows and a dozen offspring. another three are under care of the veterinary faculty at the national university
the minicows are gentle, but also very strong. they come close to you and strongly nudge your legs,'' said anabella castrillon, the rancher's wife
the researchers' next step?
we're planning to cross the tiny zebus with the jersey type, which is small and the best milk producer,'' castrillon said
he said he will continue cross-breeding until he produces the tiniest possible species with maximum productive efficiency
we're thinking that this species would be about 2 feet tall.''
religious broadcasters who lost financial support following last year's scandals and controversy face another potentially hard blow from the rev. jimmy swaggart's confession of sexual misconduct
my feeling is that there will be more damage, and the credibility of those of us in christian broadcasting will be hurt a little bit more,'' jerry rose, president of national religious broadcasters, said monday
this is not what we are about, and we have spent an inordinate amount of time dealing with these issues,'' said rose, who operates religious station wcfc-tv in chicago
swaggart, among the nation's most widely watched television preachers, stepped down from his pulpit sunday after confessing he had sinned against god and his family
officials with his church, the assemblies of god, said he had admitted to a long history of sexual problems and would be prohibited from preaching for a minimum of three months while he undergoes rehabilitation
mark demoss, a spokesman for the rev. jerry falwell, judged the damage to television ministries to be survivable
i look at the example of a gary hart moral failure _ that did not ruin the democratic party or other democratic candidates, but it did ruin gary hart,'' demoss said
it didn't work that way a year ago. some of the big ministries, including swaggart's, bled from the wounds inflicted by jim bakker's adultery and high living in the ptl ministry, and oral roberts' do-or-die appeal for $8 million
in the aftermath, no one sounded more cynical and disillusioned than swaggart. ``you can stay more holy a lot of times watching `miami vice' than watching so-called christian television,'' he said in one of his rousing sermons a year ago
a lot of people saw jimmy as a pacesetter for doing what needed to be done in the church, so in this case it is shocking,'' rose said
the rev. james robison, a tv evangelist who is seen on about 150 stations around the country, said the fear of criticism from swaggart and other preachers may have led bakker to hide his own problem, rather than address it
jim bakker told me himself, he said, `i wanted help, but i was so afraid of what would be said,''' robison said early today on abc's ``nightline.''
at cbn, whose operations include the christian broadcasting network and cbn university, spokesman benton miller declined to speculate on the impact from swaggart's problems
last year, however, he said contributions to cbn dropped 32.5 percent from april to october, and have remained flat. when cbn cut nearly 500 employees last summer, founder pat robertson blamed the controversies surrounding bakker and roberts
roberts, based in tulsa, okla., had said that god might ``call me home'' if he didn't raise $8 million by the end of march, the month of bakker's confession and resignation from ptl. cbn's fiscal year started april 1
we had to take the whole hit of that, plus the change in the talent mix for the 700 club, plus the drop in oil prices ... plus the recent october stock market plunge,'' miller said monday. ``all four of those factors hit us all at once.''
the change in the talent mix involved robertson's departure from the broadcast to seek the republican presidential nomination, and the resignation of co-host ben kinchlow. cbn cut 145 more employees in november, leaving a workforce of 1,174, though it has also managed to expand its television programming and launch a radio service, miller said
demoss said contributions to falwell's ministry had rebounded, but on monday, wpgh-tv in pittsburgh announced it was dropping falwell's program because he was $50,000 in arrears
oma bradner, who handles falwell's television accounts, said late monday a check was mailed on friday
swaggart had a larger audience _ 1,720,000 households per week last november _ than any other video evangelist, according to the arbitron rating service. the a.c. nielsen co. put swaggart's audience at 860,000 households, second to robert schuller's audience of 1,189,000 for the ``hour of power,'' but nielsen said swaggart was seen on the most stations, 286
arbitron reported that swaggart's audience had been 2,161,000 households last february, before the ptl and roberts controversies. between february and november, arbitron said, schuller's audience dropped from 1.7 million households to 1.4 million, roberts' from 1.15 million to 900,000, and falwell's ``old time gospel hour'' from 616,000 to 495,000
those figures are for broadcast audience only; most programs reach additional viewers on cable television
rose said swaggart's weekly broadcast would remain on his station at least until he sees what assemblies of god leaders decide to do
a fire slightly damaged the office of interior minister jose barrionuevo today, the ministry said. no injuries were reported
a ministry spokesman said the fire apparently was caused by an electrical short circuit in the second-floor office of the minister's personal secretary and spread to three adjacent offices
firefighters put out the fire in 15 minutes, the spokesman said
the interior ministry building is located near the central colombus square on the city's main north-south thoroughfare
barrionuevo was not in his office at the time the fire began, although members of his press office, security guards and cleaning help were
house prosecutors for gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial have submitted a list of 41 potential witnesses, including the governor and his brother, willard
but mecham's attorney murray miller wrote a letter monday saying he does not want to provide a witness list or to turn over any documentation yet
in a letter to chief justice frank gordon, who will preside over the trial that's scheduled to begin monday, miller said mecham believes that holding the senate trial before his criminal trial would violate his constitutional rights
he therefore does not wish to turn over any documentation or witnesses that he may call in his defense at this time,'' miller said
the governor's lawyer has indicated that he may go to court in an effort to get the senate trial delayed until after the criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan. that trial was delayed on monday until march 22
the house impeached mecham on feb. 5 and accused him of hiding the $350,000 loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat
the witness list submitted monday by the prosecution included many people who appeared before the house select committee on impeachment, including state department of public safety director ralph milstead and mecham campaign fundraiser bill long
also in the new list were people who did not testify before the house panel, including tempe developer barry wolfson, who provided the governor's $350,000 campaign loan. wolfson was subpoenaed on monday to provide documents and testify before the senate
mecham also was subpoenaed on monday to provide documents, according to house attorney paul eckstein
also on the list were donna carlson, the former mecham aide who was the subject of the alleged death threat, and former state official lee watkins, who is accused of making the threat
the list included an unidentified polygrapher who performed a lie-detector test on watkins to determine if he actually made the threat
all sides are scheduled to meet in a pretrial conference friday
smoke-free workplaces are becoming more common as employers listen to their workers' health concerns, according to a survey
the injurious effects of passive smoking have been well-publicized, and people object to working in that kind of environment,'' said victor lindquist, author of the 42nd annual northwestern university lindquist-endicott report
it seems to me that organizations are really trying to bend over to be accomodating to the non-smoker. there also were more firms spending money to help their employees stop smoking,'' lindquist said monday
his survey of 226 large and mid-sized companies found 70 percent restrict or are preparing to limit smoking in the workplace
on-the-job restrictions included permitting smoking only in designated areas, segregating workers into smoking and non-smoking areas, and equipping smokers with smokeless ashtrays
i was really surprised at the extent to which this had surfaced as a personnel issue,'' said lindquist said. ``today, smoking is pretty passe.''
lindquist said it was the first year he had asked companies about smoking policies in the survey, which began in 1945 and is used by thousands of corporations to establish starting salaries for college graduates and review personnel trends
the 1988 questionnaire drew responses from a cross-section of major industrial and geographic sectors. lindquist declined to identify any of the companies
in addition to the smoking regulations, the survey found:
_ 38 percent of companies conduct pre-employment testing for drug use and 8 percent said they would begin such testing in the next year
_ 2.2 percent plan to begin pre-employment testing for exposure to the aids virus by the end of the year
_ 1 percent said they will begin pre-employment genetic testing to screen for possible diseases
_ 66 percent said they provide guaranteed reinstatement to employees who take parental leave after having a child, and 20 percent provide payroll services that allow employees to have money deducted from paychecks that is designated to pay for day care and is tax-free
usg corp., a chicago-based maker of acoustical ceiling tile and thermal insulation, drew national headlines a year ago when it warned its 1,300 workers to quit smoking _ at work and at home _ or face possible firing
the survey found only one company that had completely banned on-the-job smoking, but several prohibited smoking in the private offices of corporate executives, said lindquist, northwestern's director of placement
although 70 percent restricted smoking or were planning to do so, just 34 percent said they discussed that policy with job applicants during interviews, he said
walker merryman, vice president of the tobacco institute, a washington-based lobbying group for the industry, said he couldn't comment on the survey's findings without details about the types, locations and identities of the companies surveyed
but he said the 70 percent finding ``is substantially higher than anything i've seen recently.''
for example, merryman said, he had seen a recent scientific, random-sample survey of businesses nationwide that found 36 percent with policies on smoking
the sex scandals surrounding two prominent assemblies of god ministers should not taint the more than 30,000 others in the church, of whom only a tiny number are ever disciplined, an official says
the evangelical church, which counts more than 16 million adherents worldwide and operates four colleges, is investigating the misconduct of its most popular television preacher, louisiana evangelist jimmy swaggart
on monday, a day after swaggart temporarily stepped down from his pulpit, church officials said he had admitted to a long history of sexual misconduct and would be prohibited from preaching for a minimum of three months while he undergoes rehabilitation
another prominent television evangelist, the ptl's jim bakker, lost his assemblies of god credentials last year amid charges of sexual misconduct. swaggart was said to have been active in uncovering that scandal and bakker accused him of plotting to take over ptl
those are the only two in our whole denomination that have that kind of recognition,'' church spokeswoman juleen turnage said monday. ``so people may feel that this is indicative of the assemblies of god denomination, and that is not true
we have over 30,000 credentialed ministers in the assemblies of god in the united states. at any given time, any given year, fewer than one-half of 1 percent are ever called into discipline.''
mrs. turnage said 12 areas of misconduct, ranging from doctrinal aberrations to moral failure, call for disciplinary action
swaggart's suspension and two-year rehabilitation program must be approved by the church's executive presbytery in springfield, according to the church's by-laws, she said
swaggart appeared before his congregation in baton rouge, la., on sunday to ask forgiveness from his family and church for an act he did not describe publicly. he said he would not return to his pulpit until the church investigation was completed
here is the text of a statement monday night by cecil janway, district superintendent of the assemblies of god, about the discipline recommended for evangelist jimmy swaggart:
we accept his confession of specific incidents of a moral failure. based on this detailed confession and the evidence we observed of true humility and repentance, we have offered him rehabilitation in accordance with the bylaws of the general council and louisiana district of the assemblies of god
brother swaggart has submitted to the terms of rehabilitation as follows:
1. brother swaggart will begin a two-year rehabilitation period effective immediately
2. brother swaggart will be required to refrain from preaching for a minimum of three months, except in fulfillment of present commitments involving foreign governments during that period
3. during the time of rehabilitation, brother swaggart will be relieved of his duties as co-pastor of family worship center, retaining the right to preach in the family worship center after the period described in paragraph 2
4. brother swaggart will receive counsel and supervision in weekly conferences with three members of the louisiana district presbytery during the period of rehabilitation
5. brother swaggart will submit quarterly written reports to the district superintendent and monthly written reports to his sectional presbyter
again, no doubt much speculation and rumor will find its way into the secular media. but, for the church, the body of christ, such speculation and rumor has no place
we urge brother swaggart and his associates to resist the request of those outside the church to respond to questions. brother swaggart has been in complete cooperation with the assemblies of god and has pledged to work within the structure of the church. superintendent says</head> with plaintiffs reax; picks up 10th graf pvs, `state attorney ...'</note>
the u.s. supreme court's rejection of a suit challenging what a tennessee fundamentalist group calls godless textbooks will enable schools to get on with teaching children, an education official says
we've been relieved of a lot of pressure, pressure that's been on our shoulders since 1983,'' robert cooper, hawkins county school superintendent, said monday
the lawsuit was filed that year by seven born-again christian families, who objected on religious grounds to the list of required reading textbooks for grades 1-8. the books included passages in ``the wizard of oz'' and ``cinderella,'' works by science fiction writer isaac asimov, hans christian andersen and anthropologist margaret mead
after a trial, u.s. district judge thomas hull ruled in 1986 that the families' religious freedom had been violated, awarded them $50,000 in damages and allowed their children to avoid the reading classes
but the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals reversed that ruling and threw out the families' lawsuit
on monday, the high court dismissed the families' appeal of that decision
at this time we have no alternative other than to accept the supreme court ruling,'' said vicki frost, one of the plaintiffs
her husband, roger, said the high court's action left fundamentalists across the country persecuted
farley meade, another plaintiff, said: ``there are a lot of poor christian parents who can't send their children to religious schools. to me that's a sad day for religious freedom in america.''
the president of the organization that financed the lawsuit called the supreme court action ``the most coercive ruling in the history of religious liberty litigation.''
we are confident that this dreadful ruling will eventually be overturned,'' said beverly lahaye, president of concerned women of america, in a statement issued in washington, d.c
state attorney general w.j. michael cody praised the court action, saying, ``any alternative disposition would have been the cause of chaos in the school system.''
cooper said the protracted case did not particularly disturb the county's 6,800 public school students ``but as far as administrative personnel, school board members and even some teachers, it was very disruptive.'' he said making copies of records and testifying in court took time that could have been better used in teaching
the seven children involved in the lawsuit have long since transferred from to private schools, he said, adding that about 4,700 children in grades 1-8 were affected by the lawsuit
robert sharp, legal counsel for the state education department, said the case never interfered with the state's selection of approved textbooks or otherwise changed operation of the department
the one issue that could have caused turmoil was ... whether there would be other parents who would seek to `opt out' of reading programs in other schools,'' he said. ``none did.''
a u.s. military commander today charged north korea with destroying a civilian airliner to wreck the 1988 olympic games and accused communist officials of being ``criminals.''
rear admiral william t. pendley of the united nations command traded accusations and taunts with north korean military representatives over the destruction of the plane. the two sides also accused each other of fomenting tension and preparing for war
i want you to tell those who are responsible for killing 115 innocent civilians that their objective, to discourage the community of nations from coming to the seoul olympics, will not be met,'' pendley said
maj. gen. li tae ho, the chief north korean delegate, said the communist country had nothing to do with the attack. he charged that south korean military authorities destroyed the plane as part of a scheme to retain power and to discredit the north. ``you are stirring up confrontation and leading the situation on the peninsula to the brink of war,'' li warned
the united states, south korea and other nations have charged that north korea was behind the nov. 29 bombing of a korean air boeing 707 over the andaman sea with the loss of all 115 people on board. north korea has denied it had anything to do with the attack. the wreckage of the plane was never found
the charges were made at the first meeting of the military armistice commission since the loss of the plane. the panel polices the cease-fire that ended the korean war between north and south in 1953
the united nations command delegation presented a videotape of a televised confession made last month in seoul by kim hyon hui who said she was a north korean agent and that she destroyed the plane with a bomb as part of attempts to disrupt the olympic games that start in seoul in september
ms. kim rode on an early leg of the kal flight and she and a male companion took poison when they were detained in bahrain. the man later died
li and other north korean and chinese officials did not watch the tape and studiously stared at the ceiling or out of windows
pendley said the confession was damning evidence that the north could not refute. ``you thought you had committed the perfect crime, but, like all criminals, you made a mistake,'' he said
north korea has been demanding to co-host the olympic games. the international olympic committee and south korea have rejected the demand
the north korean delegation replied with a rambling accusation charging that the south korean government bombed the plane to frighten people into voting for the government in the dec. 16 elections
pendley rejected the north korean accusations and repeated a demand that those responsible for the attack be punished and north korea apologize for the incident. ``you should honestly admit this terrible act,'' he said
north korea called the military armistice commission meeting to demand the united states and south korea abandon plans for annual ``team spirit'' military exercises involving 200,000 men next month
it was the first military armistice commission meeting since october
the north korean delegates charged the exercises were preparations for an american nuclear attack and warned that the divided peninsula was being pushed toward war. ``you have nuclear war plans worked out,'' li charged
pendley dismissed the north korean accusations and said the exercises were lawful military activities intended to guarantee the safety of south korea. he said the united nations command had no intention of starting a war and posed no threat to north korea or peace in the region
team spirit exercises will continue as long as the threat of aggression exists,'' he said
the united states maintains 40,000 troops in south korea and heads the united nations command, which represents the 16 nations that fought under un auspices against north korea and china during the korean war
a man who fought city hall to keep his seven-tiered tree house in his back yard can continue to use the structure as long as he makes some safety improvements, city officials say
i feel just fine with all of this,'' mark tucker said after officials announced the outcome monday. ``my kids feel fine that they can play in their tree house.''
st. louis park officials had objected to the tree house last may, saying it was unsafe and exposed the city to possible lawsuits
the dispute was taken to hennepin county district court, where an agreement was reached during a hearing in minneapolis on feb. 5. judge daniel hart approved the compromise on feb. 8, ruling that tucker can continue to use the structure for his children and a few friends as long as the safety improvements are made
tucker, 38, gained national publicity during his fight over the tree house and for a pair of 10-day jail sentences he served in november 1987 and in january for housing code violations at minneapolis apartment buildings he owns
the city said the agreement states that only the five tucker children, who range from age 4 to 18, and up to four other people can use the tree house at any one time
tucker may not use the tree house as a business office anymore or hold any more open houses, such as one last year to solicit support in his fight with the city, the agreement said
the agreement requires tucker by june to provide the tree house ladder with safety cages and hand grips approved by a structural engineer. the structure must be inspected for safety every year and after unusually severe weather, such as winds in excess of 40 mph, heavy snowstorms and ice storms, the city said
gary kasparov leaned on the table, staring at the chess board. he scratched his head, studied some more and accepted a draw
eleven-year-old josh waitzkin smiled and shook the world champion's hand. this memory would last
well done,'' wrote kasparov as he autographed the boy's score sheet, which josh will frame
it was a heady day for all concerned monday as kasparov, the 24-year-old soviet hero, spent his first full day in the united states. and 59 even younger chess buffs got a chance to face the champ in a simultaneous exhibition in a bronx elementary school gymnasium
i was surprised at how long i stayed in _ 42 moves is a lot against the world champion,'' said benjamin shuldiner, a freckled 10-year-old who was checkmated two hours
kasparov, dapper in a gray-and-tan sweater, tan slacks and green scarf, arrived at the inner-city school smiling and joking, taking time to embrace curious students and pose for pictures
asked how he expected to do against the children _ a routine exhibition for any grandmaster _ he laughed
it is not a serious competition, it is a joke,'' he said in accented english. ``it's a special exhibition for children. ..
i will be happy if i am upset. if i am upset, they will be every happy, this is the main goal of the `simul,' to make people happy.''
his opponents managed two draws
when kasparov left, he resembled an american sports hero, working his way through a knot of admirers, signing autographs, posing for more pictures, shaking hands and ducking into a limousine
it's a great day for chess,'' said the champion. ``this is the beginning of the promotion of chess in the u.s.a.''
kasparov said such exhibitions to spark children's interest in the game are ``a very important tradition'' in chess
i think it is the duty of the world champion,'' he said. ``if we get a lot of boys and girls into chess, we can hope that in the nearest future we will find a new wave of talent.''
he'll spend five days in new york, playing two more exhibitions and meeting mayor edward koch on thursday
i have just seen the city from the window,'' he said. ``i'll try to find some time to see something amazing.''
he spent sunday evening at the manhattan chess club, where he played 24 games of speed chess, winning all but one, which he drew
he played blitz chess,'' said club president doug bellizzi. ``offhand, not serious games, with some very strong players. i saw two brilliant combinations. this is mozart, this is beethoven.''
or, as 14-year-old k.k. karanja said, ``it's like playing larry bird or michael jordan one-on-one.''
karanja, however, a former national elementary school champion, managed one of the two draws allowed by kasparov on monday. in most of the games, kasparov moved instantly, working his way around the large square of tables. at times _ against waitzkin, for instance _ he had to stop and think
i was pretty confident the whole way. i played a few inaccuracies,'' said waitzkin, a student at manhattan's exclusive dalton school
classes of students were led through the gym for a glimpse of kasparov
kasparov's opponents ranged in age from 7 to 15, and came from such disadvantaged neighborhoods as the south bronx, harlem, east new york and brownsville, as well as more affluent areas of manhattan
catherine w. ingold, the provost of gallaudet university in washington, d.c., has been named president of the american college in paris
the board of trustees chose ms. ingold on monday to replace daniel j. socolow, president for the past five years. she starts this summer
ms. ingold, 38, studied at the university of paris and received a doctorate in french from the university of virginia in 1979. she joined the staff of gallaudet university, a university for the deaf, in 1973, and became provost in 1986
the american college, founded in 1962, is a fully accredited four-year american university, with 1,000 students, half of them u.s. nationals
pierre salinger, the veteran abc news correspondent who is chairman of the american college board of trustees, said 125 candidates were considered during a six-month search
the ventura freeway's dubious claim to fame as the world's busiest piece of road is not only dubious _ it's false, say transportation officials. and some smog-choked motorists are unhappy about it
how did this happen? i appreciated its reputation even as i was caught in its snarls,'' said steve gediman, 26. ``it was worthwhile just sitting there because i was sort of participating in a global event.''
 the stretch of freeway, also known as route 101, through the san fernando valley may never have been the busiest, despite a listing that says so in the guinness book of world records, california department of transportation officials admitted monday
that's because counting monitors on two other freeway stretches were out of commission for nearly five years and human guesses calculating traffic flow there were much too low, said nick jones, an associate transportation engineer
aficionados of los angeles' fabled congestion should not despair, however. the busiest portion of freeway in the world has been determined to be the santa monica freeway not far away, jones said. coming in second is the san diego freeway
with the monitors fixed, new calculations show an average of 315,000 cars traveled on one stretch of the santa monica freeway every day during 1987, while 300,000 cars a day were logged on a portion of the san diego freeway, compared with only 277,000 on the ventura
any time you get over 250,000 cars per day, what's the difference?'' jones asked
ron sexton's reward for winning a school contest was nothing to snort at
sexton, a history teacher and wrestling coach at wilmington high school, came in first in a school project to raise money for children's hospital in columbus. his payoff _ he had to kiss a pig
he put his mouth where his money was in what was dubbed the ``squeal of fortune'' contest, laying a kiss on the snout of a sow during a pep rally last friday while the students and faculty of the high school watched
sexton won a contest in which students and teachers put money in gallon milk jugs as their way of choosing someone for the porcine pucker. there were 45 teachers up for votes, which cost 25 cents to cast, according to home economics teacher bonnie hansen
the contest raised $246.40. leader or higgins located, militia saying leader escaped southern lebanon, background on higgins abduction and videotape. adds byline. no pickup. ^by rodeina kenaan</note>
the nation's mainstream shiite moslem militia captured the three gunmen who kidnapped a u.s. marine officer in southern lebanon last week, security sources said today
the sources said the three gunmen are among dozens of suspects the amal militia rounded up while searching for lt. col. william r. higgins but that the man who masterminded the u.n observer's abduction remained at large
the gunmen, who were not identified, could not give their leader's whereabouts or say where higgins was being held, said the sources, who spoke on condition of not being further identified
reporters in southern lebanon last week reported that the amal militia had detained more than 40 suspects, but this was the first indication that the three gunmen were among those held
the same sources said today that at least two israeli soldiers were killed and several wounded when their armored patrol was ambushed by arab guerrillas in the southern lebanese village of braachit at sundown monday
it was not clear whether the ambush and kidnapping were related
higgins, 43, of danville, ky., was kidnapped south of the ancient port of tyre on wednesday. the security sources said the three gunmen were captured in a dragnet in the two days following the abduction
among the detainees are the three gunmen who seized col. higgins and forced him into the first getaway car,'' one source said
another three suspects who were being held monitored higgins' his movements before the abduction, the same source said
the source provided the information when asked for confirmation of an nbc news report that the three kidnappers had been captured
the gunmen were being held by amal in tyre and had been interrogated, but they were unable to provide useful information because their leader had kept them in the dark, the source said
the security source played down the significance of the gunmen's detention, saying the unidentified person who masterminded the kidnapping already had slipped out of south lebanon
the operation was a masterpiece from a professional standpoint,'' the source said. ``the mastermind used five identical brown volvo cars plus two additional getaway cars, a white peugeot and a red mercedes, in the abduction. the squad in each car did not know who was in the other car.''
the organization of the oppressed on earth, a pro-iranian shiite moslem group, released a videotape monday in which higgins recited its demands for his release, including an israeli pullout from a border zone in south lebanon
the organization charged that higgins was a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the claim
higgins heads a 76-man u.n. observer group drawn from 16 nations that monitors border violations of a 1949 armistice signed by lebanon and israel
the group was attached to the 5,800-strong united nations interim force in lebanon in 1978, when the nine-nation force was deployed to keep peace on the lebanon-israel border
timur goksel, the force spokesman, said the search continued for higgins today in the tyre region, 50 miles south of beirut
goksel said 20 officers of higgins' observer group have been withdrawn to u.n. posts along the israeli border
the kidnapping increased friction between shiite forces vying for dominance in southern lebanon
it pitted the moderate amal, which is backed by syria and is trying to rescue higgins, against the extremist hezbollah, or party of god, which is loyal to iran and has declared support for the kidnappers, calling higgins a ``filthy american.'' hezbollah is believed to be an umbrella for groups holding most of the 25 foreigners missing in lebanon
amal's spokesmen say a total of 42 fundamentalists have been rounded up in the tyre region since higgins' abduction. hezbollah claims more than 150 fundamentalists were arrested by the amal militia
higgins is the ninth american missing after being kidnapped in lebanon since march 1985. the other foreign hostages are four frenchmen, three britons, two west germans, a swede, a norwegian, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
the longest-held hostage is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, who was kidnapped march 16, 1985
gale warnings continued today over parts of the great lakes and new england, after high winds in the midwest and rockies cracked windows, knocked down electrical poles and fanned wildfires
advisories for blowing and drifting snow were posted over upper michigan, where snowshowers were scattered early today
light snow also fell over western minnesota, the eastern dakotas, and from eastern montana across eastern wyoming into north-central colorado
rain fell from north-central kentucky across ohio and northern new york state
gale warnings were posted today over lakes huron and erie, and in much of new england
ninety windows cracked or shattered in chicago's sears tower early monday when winds gusting to 56 mph flung gravel and debris against the world's tallest building, a sears spokesman said. no injuries were reported
broken glass forced authorities to block traffic during the morning rush hour on the four streets surrounding the 110-story building, police said
gusts up to 120 mph were clocked at mines peak, colo., early monday. power outages were reported in southwestern missouri and at fort smith, ark., where gusts reached 52 mph
a 64-year-old man died monday when the truck he was driving went off a road to avoid a fallen tree near garwood, mo., police said
firefighters in missouri responded to about a dozen wind-fanned grass fires monday, including one that destroyed a farm building just east of springfield, authorities said
elsewhere, damage was estimated at more than $1 million monday from a wildfire whipped by winds of up to 70 mph, that blackened 2,400 acres of southwestern montana on sunday, destroying 39 buildings, including four homes, before being brought under control. no one was injured, officials said
a snowstorm monday helped douse a 200-acre blaze near boulder, colo., and 90 mph gusts that fanned the fire sunday subsided
today's forecast called for scattered snow showers in upper michigan and northern new england; rain across central and southern new england, eastern new york, new jersey, pennsylvania, the upper ohio and tennessee valleys; strong, winds over the northern plains, the upper mississippi valley, along the great lakes and across northern new england
highs should reach the single digits and teens from the eastern dakotas across minnesota, northern wisconsin and upper michigan; 20s and 30s across northern new england, much of the great lakes region, the lower ohio and central mississippi valleys, the remainder of the northern plains, and the northern rockies; 40s and 50s from central new england across northern virginia, the upper ohio valley, the tennessee valley, arkansas, oklahoma, the southern rockies, and the pacific northwest; near 80 over the desert southwest; 60s and 70s over the remainder of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 6 degrees below zero at international falls, minn., to 71 degrees at both homestead and miami, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 49 fair; boston 44 windy; buffalo 34 snow; charleston, s.c. 42 fair; cincinnati 33 snow; cleveland 37 showers; detroit 37 partly cloudy; miami 71 cloudy; new york 40 fair; philadelphia 44 fair; pittsburgh 46 showers; portland, maine 36 fair; washington 48 windy
_central: bismarck 13 windy; chicago 32 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 53 windy; denver 25 partly cloudy; des moines 22 fair; indianapolis 36 cloudy; kansas city 31 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 14 partly cloudy; nashville 57 windy; new orleans 60 partly cloudy; st. louis 39 partly cloudy
_west: albuquerque 43 fair; anchorage 20 cloudy; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 51 foggy; phoenix 59 fair; salt lake city 30 fair; san diego 56 cloudy; san francisco 47 cloudy; seattle 40 fair
_canada: montreal 39 rain; toronto 36 partly cloudy
the soviet union has promised to be more flexible in granting emigration visas to its citizens, secretary of state george p. shultz said after conducting two days of talks with kremlin officials
however, foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze said the matter of emigration was not open to negotiation
soviet officials traditionally define emigration policy as an internal matter. to improve relations with washington, however, they may have agreed privately to a more lenient look at applications
shultz said at a news conference monday that his meetings with shevardnadze and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev produced ``helpful clarifications'' on human rights. shultz described humanitarian concerns _ divided families, jews refused permission to emigrate, and free expression and practice of religion _ as the most important subject on his agenda
shevardnadze, in contrast, said the meetings focused on ``the pivot of soviet-u.s. relations'': prospects for concluding a treaty by late spring that would reduce the strategic nuclear weapons of both nations by 50 percent
he said human rights questions ``are being resolved by us more forcefully than before,'' and characterized discussion of emigration and personal freedoms as a kremlin initiative the american delegation welcomed
last year 8,011 soviet jews were allowed to emigrate _ eight times the number granted exit visas the previous year
jewish emigration activists in the west claim fewer visas have been issued since the december summit in washington between gorbachev and president reagan
jewish emigration reached a peak of about 51,000 in 1979, but dropped off as u.s.-soviet relations worsened
shultz told reporters, ``we got some helpful clarifications, particularly on emigration policy, where we were assured there would be flexibility on applications requiring potential immigrants to have first-degree relatives abroad.'' emigration regulations that took effect in january 1987 allow soviets to seek reunification only with spouses, siblings and parents
refuseniks, those denied permission to leave, complain that the new laws make it more difficult for those seeking to join grandparents, cousins and other relatives
the secretary said: ``there had been some misunderstanding about this and that has been straightened out, at least for the balance of this year
i'm glad that foreign minister shevardnadze confirmed quite categorically that the only barrier to emigration is past work involving state secrets.''
soviets who have performed work considered of vital national importance, or that makes the worker privy to classified information, are routinely denied exit visas
according to shultz, his assistant secretary of state for humanitarian affairs, richard schifter, had encouraging meetings with soviet counterparts, including representatives of the communist party central committee secretariat and the interior ministry, which oversees the visa-issuing office
shevardnadze held a news conference later and was asked whether the promised ``flexibility'' meant the year-old regulations would be revised, or the understanding was an informal one between the two governments
he responded: ``as far as the internal legislation of our country is concerned, we are not discussing these matters with the secretary of state.''
shevardnadze acknowledged ``reassessments'' were in progress on emigration and other policies western officials define as humanitarian concerns, but declined further comment
princess anne of britain arrived today to start a 12-day swing through east africa that will include stops in somalia and mozambique in her capacity as president of the save the children fund
during her four-day stay in uganda, the 37-year-old princess, queen elizabeth ii's only daughter, is to visit several hospitals and clinics set up by the international charity and hold talks with president yoweri museveni
it is the first official visit to this former british colony by a member of the royal family since 1965
delaware sen. joseph r. biden jr., who is recovering from surgery to repair an aneurysm in a blood vessel in his brain, will be discharged from walter reed army medical center around the middle of the week, a hospital spokesman says
biden left the hospital for a few hours over the weekend to have dinner with his brother, jim, in washington, hospital officials told the news journal of wilmington, del
he had an excellent weekend. he's doing really well,'' hospital spokesman peter esker said monday. he said biden continues to be listed in good condition
the 45-year-old democrat had surgery feb. 12 to correct an aneurysm in an artery
the senator has been undergoing a series of neurological tests. he is not expected to have any lasting effects from the surgery, officials said
he's sitting up, eating regular meals, but his visits are still limited to his family because he needs rest,'' esker said. ``and he'll continue to need rest after he leaves.''
biden, had announced his candidacy for the democratic nomination for president last june but dropped out of the race in september after he admitted committing plagiarism in law school, acknowledged that he exxagerated his academic record, and was criticized for lifting sections of other politicians' speeches without attribution
biden plans to recuperate at his home near wilmington
well-wishers continue to send flowers, which biden has asked be passed along to the children's ward
the london stock exchange posted further gains early today following the previous day's strong performance
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index opened 17.4 points, or 1 percent, higher at 1,764.6
by 9:45 a.m., the index had advanced to 1,770.4, up 23.2 points, or 1.3 percent, compared with monday's close
the market rose 17.4 points on monday, its best performance since an 18.7-point rise on jan. 28
in early trading today, 90 of the 100 shares comprising the index were showing gains, with the remainder unchanged
brokers linked the rise to wall street's recent gains
a pit bull terrier unhappy with the smell coming from shipping crates full of oriental statues led u.s. customs officials to up to $1.8 billion worth of heroin at o'hare international airport, authorities said
it was the largest inland port seizure of heroin in united states history,'' u.s. attorney anton valukas said monday after authorities announced the arrest of six people on drug charges
spike, a pit bull terrier trained to locate drugs by the u.s. customs service, sniffed suspiciously at the seven shipping crates destined for new york from bangkok, thailand, on british airways on feb. 5, said his handler, customs officer jeff gabel
gabel alerted superiors, and the statues were uncrated and put through x-ray machines and other scans. inside, authorities found 165 pounds of high-quality asian heroin worth up to $1.8 billion
agents opened the crates, cracked the statues and removed most of the heroin. then they repaired the figures, put them back into the crates and followed the shipping orders that said the crates should be sent to a house in norridge, near o'hare, said barry elden of the u.s. attorney's office in chicago
agents watched as four people rented a truck and drove the statues to new york, elden said
six suspects were arrested in new york on sunday and charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute heroin, elden said
the suspects, who were held without bond, were identified as prasit maneerat of bangkok; chang zhu-yu and kaw ting-ti, both of ocean, n.y.; chen woi-kong of new york; eng chuck jor of yonkers, n.y.; and tang chi-lap of brooklyn, n.y
the latest seizure and recent record seizures of cocaine and hashish indicate that chicago has become a major shipment point for drugs, valukas said
congress plans to hold hearings regarding allegations that haiti's top military officers have been smuggling cocaine into the united states, according to a published report
the san francisco examiner reported in today's editions that alfred cumming, a legislative aide to sen. bob graham, d-fla., said the hearings are scheduled to start in mid-march
cumming said the hearings, to be headed by sen. joseph biden, d-del., or sen. john kerry, d-mass, will be in response to concern ``about the allegations of haitian cocaine trafficking.''
the hearings will investigate reports that haiti, with the participation of top military officials, has become a major shipment and refueling point for drugs and guns since february 1986, when former haitian president jean-claude duvalier was replaced by a military junta
a federal source, familiar with a current probe by the u.s. attorney's office in miami, said that haiti was ``probably another example of a military that is up to its earlobes in drug operations,'' the newspaper said
for the last year, a federal grand jury has been focusing on police chief col. jean-claude paul, whose ranch and airstrip 90 miles from port-au-prince has been used by cocaine smugglers, said u.s. drug enforcement agency investigators
the examiner reported that a congressional source who has been briefed on the federal probe said an indictment against paul and several relatives and associates is imminent
the dollar fell in light european trading early today as markets waited for clearer signals of how the u.s. economy was performing
gold prices also declined
the dollar was trading at lower levels against all major foreign currencies at midmorning, but was fluctuating within a narrow range
many traders stayed on the sidelines ahead of federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's scheduled testimony later in the day before the u.s. house banking committee, traders said
they said the testimony might provide a better insight into u.s. monetary policy, which could give the dollar some direction
also, the markets were awaiting a new batch of u.s. economic reports due later this week, including the government's latest revised estimate of fourth-quarter economic growth
midmorning dollar rates in europe compared with late rates monday:
_ 1.6922 west german marks, down from 1.6955
_ 1.3882 swiss francs, down from 1.3930
_ 5.7255 french francs, down from 5.7500
_ 1.8983 dutch guilders, down from 1.9040
_ 1,246.50 italian lire, down from 1,252.25
_ 1.2713 canadian dollars, down from 1.2738
the british pound rose to $1.7665 from $1.7630
the dollar closed in tokyo at 128.50 japanese yen, down from monday's close of 129.95 yen. in london trading later today, the u.s. currency traded at 128.70 yen
london's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $443.95 a troy ounce, down from $446 late monday. a trader said the market was extremely thin
in zurich, gold was bid at $443.50, down from $446.50
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $446.80, down from $447.12
silver bullion traded in london at a bid of $6.38, down from $6.41 late monday
an unemployed handyman visiting his old neighborhood was chased by a furious, crack-crazed mob and fatally shot after he was accused of being an undercover narcotics agent, police said
daniel t. foster, 30, was shot as he fled from the jeering crowd, according to a published report monday
these people were so afraid that he was there to take their dope away that they killed him on the spot,'' police inspector earl sanders told the san francisco examiner
they killed him because he was a stranger. it wasn't his neighborhood anymore,'' sanders said
foster once lived in the hunters point district but left the city in 1978 to move to virginia, authorities said. he returned to san francisco only a few weeks before his death
just after midnight jan. 22, foster got off a bus in his old neighborhood, where he was going to visit his sister, and found himself in the crowd of about 20 men and women. some of them, police said, were high on crack cocaine, a potent and dangerous form of the drug
the same crowd had just fought police and forced officers to retreat under a barrage of rocks and bottles, investigators said
they were full of crack, and at least one of them had a gun,'' said sanders' partner, inspector napoleon hendrix. ``foster stepped right into it.''
when foster began walking toward his sister's apartment, people in the crowd ``asked him if he was a cop,'' said sanders
he told them `no' and kept walking. then they asked him if he was from sunnydale (the turf of a rival gang), but when he said `no,' someone in the crowd said he was lying. then, they began to chase him,'' he said
foster ran down the block and had nearly reached the corner when someone in the crowd fired a pistol at least four times, police said. foster was hit once in the back and was pronounced dead at san francisco general hospital
his killer has not been found, authorities said
the home he came back to was not the same one he left,'' sanders said. ``crack cocaine had claimed his friends. as near as we can tell, he never touched the stuff, but in the end, it got him, too.'' 1955.'' to add background on commemoration. pickup 3rd graf pvs, ``austrian television...</note>
the government's plan to have president kurt waldheim address a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation by nazi germany is becoming a major point of dispute
german troops marched into the country nearly 50 years ago, officially linking this alpine nation with adolf hitler's third reich. austria did not become independent again until 1955
austrians are marking the annexation _ called the anschluss in german _ as a time of reflection on a troubled period when throngs cheered hitler, jews were harassed and resistance fighters executed
austrian television and radio, along with many of the country's newspapers, are giving much attention to the march 11 commemoration. the issue is especially sensitive because of the widely held opinion in austria that the country was a ``victim'' of the third reich
now, with waldheim under fire for his role as a first lieutenant in the german army in the balkans during world war ii, it is increasingly uncertain what the bickering coalition government will do on the march 11 anniversary
many austrian socialists have made it clear they are against the ceremony during which the 69-year-old waldheim is scheduled to deliver a speech
i have misgivings about this event,'' fred sinowatz, the socialist party chief and former chancellor, told reporters at a news conference monday after a meeting of the party's leadership suggested that waldheim should step down
the socialists, senior partner in the government, adopted a resolution saying a report on waldheim's wartime record released earlier this month has ``badly shaken the president's moral authority at home and abroad.''
it has become obvious that ... waldheim ... cannot realize the most important aims he has set for himself, that is to promote domestic peace in austria and to increase austria's prestige in the world,'' the resolution said
the leadership at the meeting, which included chancellor franz vranitzky, stopped short of asking for waldheim's resignation
the report on waldheim's wartime record presented no evidence that would clearly back allegations that he committed wartime atrocities, but it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
the report, written by an international panel of historians, said he was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt ot prevent them
it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it
waldheim has denied any wrongdoing
instead of a commemoration ceremony, sinowatz called for reflection of ``what happened on march 11, 1938, and what must be done so that such a thing never happens again.''
but deputy chancellor alois mock, a leader of the conservative people's party, the junior member in the coalition government, rejected the idea of scrapping the ceremony and the waldheim speech in vienna's hofburg palace
that's a suggestion that will never be accepted by the people's party,'' said mock, waldheim's most vigilant public defender, at a separate news conference monday where he spoke on behalf of the party
fritz koenig, another people's party leader, urged a suspension of the political debate until after the nation commemorates the anniversary
i think that after the ceremonies on march 11, there must be a discussion on how to achieve greater cooperation ... among the federal president, the government and the parliament,'' koenig said on behalf of the party
newspapers are giving the dispute prominent play:
with increasing frequency, there are suggestions that the government should simply call off the planned commemoration ceremonies for march 11,'' the conservative die presse said in its lead story monday
a day earlier, economics minister robert graf, a people's party member, became the latest of several politicians to make such a suggestion
he told a roundtable tv discussion that he had made the suggestion ``out of concern about further polarization.''
on account of waldheim, the 1938 commemorations are on shaky ground,'' the socialist az tabloid of vienna said in a front-page headling on monday
the socialists and the people's party made plans for the hofburg ceremony before the historians' report on waldheim's wartime past was issued
waldheim was the conservative candidate in the presidential election. he became president with 53.6 percent of the votes in a june 8, 1986 runoff. his term is scheduled to end in 1992
in austria the president is head of state, a largerly ceremonial position. vranitzky runs the government
he tried and tried and tried through prayer and fasting and everything he could do to lick it and it beat him.'' _ the rev. glen cole, describing what he said was tv evangelist jimmy swaggart's account of his struggle against a sexual obsession
if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building.'' _ navy secretary james webb, who resigned abruptly and blamed defense secretary frank carlucci for pentagon infighting that sank the administration's dream of building a 600-ship fleet
the idea that a man could blow out part of his frontal lobe and have his pathological symptoms cured is quite remarkable, but it is not beyond belief.'' _ thomas ballantine, a psychiatrist at massachusetts general hospital in boston, after a young mentally ill man apparently cured his phobia of germs and obsession for handwashing by shooting himself in the head
cholera has infected 51 people in northeastern thailand and killed a 7-year-old girl, a health official said today
dr. chin yuwachit, public health chief of udon thai province, said the disease has been brought under control since cases were first reported in several districts on feb. 8. eleven victims remain hospitalized, he said
cholera is prevalent in areas in asia where public sanitation is poor. the acute infectious disease is caused by a bacteria found in fecal-contaminated food and water. its main symptom is severe diarrhea. immediate comment on report.</note>
guerrillas using rocket-propelled grenades ambushed an israeli armored patrol in south lebanon, killing two soldiers and wounding several others, security sources said today
the sources, speaking on condition they not be identified further, said the patrol of one tank and an armored personnel carrier was ambushed near the village of braachit at sundown monday
both vehicles were raked with rocket-propelled grenades that set off a chain of ammunition explosions in the tank,'' said one source. ``no one could have escaped alive from the burning tank.''
the source said there were several other serious casualties in addition to the two fatalities in the ambush, but no specific figures were available
the source said the guerrillas were either shiite moslem fundamentalists or pro-syrian leftists. both groups operate in that area. the source said there was not yet enough information available to be more specific
the israeli army had no immediate comment on the reported attack
braachit is five miles west of israel's border in an area where an israeli ``security zone'' overlaps with the area of operations of the u.n. interim force in lebanon, known as unifil
the scene is about seven miles east of the area where unifil troops and shiite moslem amal militiamen have been searching for u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins. higgins, 43, of danville, ky., was kidnapped south of the port of tyre last wednesday. talks. trims thereafter to tighten. no pickup. ^by m.h. ahn</note>
kim young-sam and rival opposition leader kim dae-jung met today to discuss merging their two parties in time for the parliamentary elections, but they only agreed to discuss the issue again
the surprise, two-hour private meeting was proposed by kim young-sam after he emerged today from two weeks of near seclusion and told reporters a merger would ensure an opposition victory in the balloting expected be held in april
kim dae-jung, president of the party for peace and democracy, immediately agreed to the meeting, which was held at a seoul hotel
we will do our best to make the opposition merger successful at any cost,'' kim young-sam said afterward. kim dae-jung said he was not as optimistic. no specific date was set for another meeting
repeated efforts to reunite the two parties have failed and several rounds of talks in recent weeks have not produced any progress. neither party indicated today that the situation had changed
on feb. 8, kim young-sam resigned as president of the reunification democratic party, purportedly to help reunite the opposition before the national assembly elections
the meeting was the two kims' first since oct. 29, when they split in disagreement over which of them should run as the opposition candidate in the dec. 16 presidential elections. each insisted on running, giving government party candidate roh tae-woo victory despite roh's failure to win a plurality
after the defeat, the two kims came under strong pressure to retire from politics. many people accused them of putting personal ambition ahead of their avowed campaign goals of ending military rule
when he quit as president of his party, kim young-sam said he had expected the rival opposition groups could agree on a merger
kim young-sam today said he believed that ``the merger of the opposition bloc is the only way to crush the ruling democratic justice party's plot to perpetuate its rule and revive democracy in this country. so, it must be achieved with the people's power.''
he said the new cabinet formed by roh, who is to take office thursday, is merely an extension of that of outgoing president chun doo-hwan. the new cabinet includes several key holdovers from chun's administration
kim young-sam said he had a ``great deal of doubt about roh's implementing democratic reforms.'' roh, a former general like chun, has pledged to an end to the long tradition of authoritarianism in south korea
the governing and opposition parties, which have been squabbling over the number of lawmakers to be elected from each district, have failed to rewrite the election law and to set an exact date for the national assembly election
a former police officer convicted of torturing a 17-year-old boy with a 50,000-volt stun gun was sentenced to two years in prison by a judge who called his action ``a gross betrayal of public trust.''
former huntington park police officer william lustig jr., 32, was convicted in december of one count of felony assault under color of authority because of the methods used during questioning of jaime ramirez. another former officer, robert rodriguez, 27, was found guilty of aiding and abetting in the crime
superior court judge michael berg on monday sentenced lustig to two years in state prison and rodriguez to six months in county jail as a condition of three years' probation
in our society, a suspect in police custody has the right to be free from torture,'' berg said. ``these acts constituted a gross betrayal of the public trust.''
it's an embarrassment to everyone in the community, this type of behavior,'' said deputy district attorney james koller
ramirez, who attended the hearing with his parents, said of the sentencing: ``i think it's fair. it's the law.'' he has filed a $10 million federal lawsuit claiming his civil rights were violated during the nov. 30, 1986, incident
in december, jurors convicted the two former officers of using a 50,000-volt electric stun gun similar to a cattle prod to torture ramirez, who had been arrested for questioning about stereo components he was carrying as he walked along a street in huntington park, a los angeles suburb
ramirez testified during the trial that lustig used the stun gun to burn his thighs through his clothing several times during interrogation
lustig's attorney, richard levine, said his client's actions ``were not criminally motivated'' and he has endured enough punishment through the public humiliation he has had to withstand
lustig had a ``misplaced belief that the ends justify the means in a criminal investigation,'' levine said.the attorney said he did not know whether he would file an appeal
rodriguez's lawyer, william hadden, said he would appeal, and the judge agreed to stay rodriguez's sentence pending the outcome, setting bail at $3,000. ^by tom sharp</byline>
conspiracy charges against a woman whose boyfriend parachuted to his death with 77 pounds of cocaine strapped to his body were dropped at the request of the prosecution
the motion to dismiss the charges against rebecca sharp, 32, of lexington, ky., was filed friday by assistant u.s. attorney james r. dedrick and approved without comment monday by u.s. district judge james h. jarvis
dedrick declined to meet with a reporter or return telephone calls monday. his motion to dismiss the charges came a week after he lost a battle to use against ms. sharp statements she made to a government undercover agent
the trial of ms. sharp, a paralegal, on charges of conspiring with former lexington narcotics officer andrew thornton ii to import cocaine and to distribute the drug had been set to begin march 1
dedrick's motion asked that the charges be dismissed without prejudice, which allows him to seek another indictment
rebecca was very happy over that, as you might imagine,'' her attorney, w. thomas dillard iii, said of the dismissal of charges. ``hopefully, that will be the end of it.''
dedrick's motion did not specify why he wanted the charges dismissed, and dillard said he would not care to speculate, but it seemed likely that the ruling disallowing ms. sharp's statements was a direct cause
those statements were suppressed, meaning they could not be used as evidence against her, on feb. 12 by u.s. magistrate robert p. murrian
murrian ruled the statements ``were made in a situation so inherently coercive that they must be considered as involuntary and compelled'' because the undercover agent posed as a representative of violent colombian drug dealers who wanted either their cocaine or their $12 million
thornton's body was found on a knoxville driveway the morning of sept. 11, 1985. he carried bags with 77 pounds of cocaine in them, and federal authorities have linked him to some 200 pounds of the drug found in duffel bags scattered across northern georgia
a few days after thornton's death, kieran kobell, a special agent with the federal drug enforcement agency, visited ms. sharp in lexington
kobell, using an alias, and a government informant now listed as a fugitive took ms. sharp on a car ride during which, kobell said, she revealed an intimate knowledge of the cocaine-smuggling operation and promised the deal would go through even if she had to kill somebody
during testimony in the suppression hearing, kobell said he did not force ms. sharp to say anything during the car ride. however, murrian also noted that kobell threatened both ms. sharp and her attorney in kentucky, fred partin, in a telephone call to the lawyer the next day, according to partin's testimony at the suppression hearing
nine police officers taken hostage during a violent clash with separatist rebels were freed today, and members of the dominant conservative party demanded that the separatist faction be outlawed on this french-ruled island
about 100 protesters battled french gendarmes at a hospital construction site on the east coast city of poindimie, holding nine officers for about 13 hours before releasing them. officials said 17 officers were injured during the fracas
authorities who spoke on condition of anonymity said all the protesters involved escaped arrest
the gendarmerie, a police force under the french military, said in a statement that at least 20 people were injured by sticks or stones in the battle and four police cars set on fire
the rally for caledonia in the republic, a local party with close links to french premier jacques chirac's rally for the republic party, adopted a resolution today calling on overseas territories minister bernard pons to dissolve the separatist kanak socialist national liberation front
dissolution would make the party illegal. the resolution also called for party leaders responsible for the clash to be expelled from the island
yewene yewene, a separatist leader, said the resolution showed ``a logic of intolerance, a policy of contempt and a desire to humiliate the kanak people.''
yewene said the protesters did not object to the building of a hospital, but not at the site chosen, which he said was vital to the local tieti tribe
the kanak group supports independence for new caledonia, a territory of 145,000 people about 1,100 miles east of australia
in a referendum last september, a majority voted against independence. the kanak front boycotted the election, saying immigrants who arrived in new caledonia in the past three years should not have been eligible to vote
kanaks make up 42.6 percent of the population and europeans 37.1 percent. other nationalities make up the rest
regional elections, which the separatists say they will boycott, are scheduled for march. helms, made inquiry</note>
sen. jesse helms is asking the cia to investigate charges that the agency provided personal data to panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega about helms and sen. edward m. kennedy
in a letter to cia director william webster, helms said he had received reports that the cia had provided similar information on other senators to officials in other foreign countries
the north carolina republican said maintenance of files on members of congress would be ``illegal and improper.'' the transfer of such information to another government would ``call into question the integrity'' of u.s. intelligence institutions, helms wrote
the letter, a copy of which was made available to the associated press on monday, was sent to webster following testimony by jose blandon, a former noriega associate turned critic of panama's defense chief
blandon, testifying before a senate subcommittee on feb. 9, said the cia passed to noriega data about helms, kennedy, d-mass., and two of their aides. the senators have been among noriega's strongest critics on capitol hill, citing allegations of noriega's involvement in drug trafficking
at the time of blandon's testimony, the cia said it ``categorically denies'' his allegations
a cia spokeswoman, sharon foster, had no comment monday on helms' letter except to say that communications from members of congress are confidential but are taken seriously and responded to
blandon's testimony reinforced the notion that the cia had maintained close ties with noriega despite strong evidence dating back several years that he was involved in drug trafficking activities
two federal grand juries have indicted noriega on drug related charges
kennedy has said it was ``unconscionable that the cia knew about noriega's drug trafficking activities and continued to work with him for such a long time, but it is even worse to think that the cia would provide information about noriega's leading american critics to the general himself.''
blandon spent monday at u.s. district court with prosecutors investigating the iran-contra affair. although no details were provided, blandon presumably was questioned about his testimony that noriega agreed to provide training for nicaraguan contras after receiving a request from former white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north in 1985
helms, in a separate letter to fbi director william sessions, asked if the agency had ever passed on data about members of congress or their staffs to the cia and whether it had engaged in wiretaps or surveillance on him or members of his staff
in his letter to the cia's webster, helms asked whether the cia had maintained information on members of congress or their staffs and whether such information was ever passed on to any official of a foreign government, specifically the panamanian defense forces
helms indicated he was skeptical about the cia's denial, contending that it made an inquiry afterward to cia field offices and to the heads of u.s. agencies involved in national security issues as to whether the denial was accurate
ms. foster of the cia said she was unable to comment on that allegation
helms asked webster not to rely on cia files because the information alleged to have been passed on may have gone through a ``back channel'' without files being maintained
it is imperative that an internal investigation be conducted and all employees in contact with panamanian government or military officials be questioned,'' helms wrote. details from news conference in brussels. picks up 5th graf, `the garrisoning ...' subs grafs 11-13 pvs, bgng, `also today .. ., with 6 grafs to update with details of travel plans, comments on star wars. picks up 14th graf, `on human ...' edits to tighten.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz left moscow today without a firm timetable for a soviet pullout from afghanistan, but u.s. intelligence sources said the red army is taking initial steps to leave
soviet troops are retreating to defensive positions and dependents are being withdrawn, a solid sign the soldiers will not be far behind, a senior u.s. official said
in addition, soldiers in the 115,000-man soviet force are not being replaced when they complete their tours of duty, said the official, who briefed reporters on shultz's flight to brussels on condition of anonymity
shultz said monday at the end of two days of talks in moscow that he did not have ``the slightest doubt'' the red army would depart. and after briefing nato officials in brussels today, he reaffirmed his expectation the soviets would quit afghanistan
but he evidently did not get a specific timetable from soviet communist party general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev or soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
the garrisoning of soviet troops and departure of dependents is ``solid evidence'' the eight-year military intervention in afghanistan will soon end, the u.s. official said
on feb. 8, gorbachev offered to begin the pullout may 15 if pakistan and afghanistan reach a settlement by march 15 in negotiations due to resume in geneva next week. he said the withdrawal could be achieved within 10 months
the soviets have, however, accused pakistan of obstructing a settlement by insisting an interim coalition government be created in kabul to prevent the protracted civil strife islamabad says would otherwise ensue
shultz has said such a government could facilitate the troop withdrawal and return of about 3 million refugees from pakistan. but another senior u.s. official said washington does not endorse pakistan's position. referring to the anticipated withdrawal, the official told reporters: ``we wouldn't want to miss the bus. we've been trying to get the soviets out for years.''
gorbachev has said moscow would not make the composition of the government it leaves behind a condition of withdrawal
shultz stopped at nato headquarters in brussels today to brief the western allies, who were especially interested in the steps taken on arms control
from brusssels, shultz was flying back to washington for a 26-hour respite before heading for the middle east try to push arabs and israelis into negotiations
i don't think many people give me much chance,'' shultz said with a smile. but, he added, ``even if the chances are small, it's worthwhile trying.''
also today, shevardnadze left moscow for prague, czechoslovakia, to brief warsaw pact foreign ministers, the soviet news agency tass said
on monday, u.s. and soviet negotiators were directed to prepare within a month three draft agreements for a treaty to reduce long-range, or strategic, nuclear weapons by 30 percent to 50 percent. such missiles have a range of more than 3,400 miles
the drafts will deal with verifying compliance with the cutbacks, disposing the weapons, and exchange of information. they are to be ready for the next shultz-shevardnadze meeting, in washington on march 22-23
shultz told reporters in brussels that the two sides were still far apart on the u.s. strategic defense initiative. ``i think we moved it a little bit in moscow, maybe imperceptibly,'' he said of the disagreement over the u.s. program to develop a space-based defense against ballistic missiles
on human rights, shultz persuaded the soviets to drop for the rest of the year, at least, a requirement that jews who want to emigrate have a close relative living abroad
a senior u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said about 90 percent of jews who have applied for exit visas do not have close relatives in israel
in the past several months, the official said, the soviets for the first time provided the united states with figures on applications waiting to be processed. on feb. 1, he said, there were 1,042 on file
soviets who have performed work considered by the government to be of vital national importance or that involved classified information are routinely denied exit visas
shultz told a news conference in moscow on monday that he gave a ``good mark'' to the two-day talks with shevardnadze, that they had moved the two sides closer to a strategic arms agreement and a spring summit in moscow
no specific date for a fourth summit between president reagan and gorbachev was agreed to, but shevardnadze told reporters monday that both sides want the summit in late may or early june
defense minister dmitri t. yazov said monday the soviets will begin withdrawing shorter-range ss-12 missiles from east germany and czechoslovakia late this month as a ``display of good will.''
the missiles must be eliminated under the intermediate-range arms pact signed in december. such missiles have a range of about 300 to 3,000 miles
a dutch tourist who was believed to have died in a hotel fire that killed five other people has been found alive, the official bulgarian news agency said today
the news agency bta said 37 people from britain, the soviet union, west germany, the netherlands, greece and denmark were injured in the blaze in the ski resort of borovets, 22 miles southeast of sofia
on monday, bta reported six people were killed in the fire, but today the agency said one man, from the netherlands, ``has since been discovered in good condition.'' it did not elaborate
according to bta and the sas insurance organization in the dutch city of arnhem, the dead tourists included two dutch women, identified only as ms. ever van den berg and mrs. stekelenburg. two other victims have not been identified and the fifth was identified as a bulgarian tourist, roumen roussev
of the 37 injured, bta said 17 were british, four soviet, five west german, seven greek, two danish and two dutch
bta said preliminary reports suggest the fire started on the ground floor and then quickly spread to the first and second floors of the hotel, which was made of wood
nineteen people were undergoing treatment at the pirogov emergency aid institute in sofia, bta repoted, adding two of them were in ``severe'' condition
the other injured tourists are at another hospital in the bulgarian capital and in a hospital in the town of samokov, the agency said
the cost of living the high life in new york rose last year at more than twice the rate of the consumer price index, with beluga caviar showing the most increase, according to a champagne producer's survey
whereas the cpi rose 4.4 percent last year, the life of luxury in the nation's most expensive big city went up 9 percent, according to the ``moet index.''
the survey has been compiled since 1983 by moet and chandon champagne
largest increases included: 14.7 percent for 30 grams of beluga caviar, up from $29 in 1986 to $33.25 last year; 11.7 percent for a wash, cut and blow dry at a top hair salon, from $60 to $67; and 10 percent for a day's maid service, from $80 to $88
luxuries with lower price hikes included: 3 percent for a round trip new york-paris flight on the concorde, up from $4,296 to $4,424; 4.8 percent for a full-length mink coat, from $15,750 to $16,500; and 5.3 percent for a limousine rental, from $38 an hour to $40 an hour
it was the fourth consecutive year the moet index exceeded the cpi. in 1986, the index rose 6.1 percent, while the cpi rose only 1.9 percent
cbs plans to launch a late-night talk show with ``wheel of fortune'' host pat sajak next season that would compete with nbc's ``the tonight show starring johnny carson.''
meanwhile in new york, nbc announced monday it is launching ``later with bob costas'' in august, a half-hour talk show that will follow ``late night with david letterman.''
the sajak show means cancellation of the network's late-night lineup of action shows and music, said a source at cbs. the shows are expected to remain on the air until at least september, said the source, who is close to the productions and spoke on condition of anonymity
they include the original series ``adderly,'' ``night heat,'' ``diamonds'' and ``top of the pops'' and reruns of ``hunter.''
at least 20 percent of the cbs affiliates are not carrying the late-night shows,'' the source said. ``cbs is turning to sajak in hopes of finding a format all its affiliates will stay with.''
sajak is host of ``wheel of fortune,'' the most successful syndicated show ever
cbs entertainment president kim lemasters said recently he wanted the network to increase its late-night visibility with a talk show and confirmed that the network was talking with sajak. sajak also discussed the possibility of a cbs talk show recently when he was a guest on nbc's ``late night.''
the costas show would be a half-hour addition to nbc's schedule, following ``late night.'' costas is a sportscaster with nbc, but his show would feature interviews with people ``from all walks of life,'' nbc said
the show will originate from new york, except in the summer when it will be based in costas' hometown of st. louis
sajak, host of both the nbc daytime version and syndicated nighttime version of ``wheel of fortune,'' is expected to leave the daytime show sometime this year, though he will stay with the nighttime show, said betsy vorce, a spokeswoman for king world, which distributes ``wheel'' for syndication
a 16-year-old boy has been arrested in the deaths of his parents, whose bodies were found buried in a shallow grave in the family's back yard, authorities said
a neighbor told police that the boy's father had recently shown him a drawing by his son depicting a man with an ax in his head. the boy reportedly told his father, ``that's what i feel like doing to you.''
the bodies of peter and karen overhand were discovered about midnight sunday by police who went to the residence to check out confidential information they had received
mitchell overhand, 16, the couple's only child, was being held at the juvenile detention center, the bernalillo county sheriff's department said. a second 16-year-old youth, whose name was withheld, also was taken into custody. no charges have been brought against the two
the overhands, who were believed to be in their mid-30s to 40s, were killed between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m. thursday, probably while they slept, said sheriff's capt. dan houston
an autopsy indicated peter overhand was shot with a .38-caliber handgun, houston said. an autopsy had not been completed on mrs. overhand monday night, but houston said she also appeared to have been shot
four handguns were seized as evidence, but authorities would not say where they were found or to whom they belonged
james bradley, a neighbor, said mitchell overhand told friends his parents were in california for the weekend attending his grandfather's funeral
sheriff's department spokeswoman ronni crago said police received information that ``something of a suspicious nature'' had happened at the overhand home in a subdivision on albuquerque's west mesa
police obtained a search warrant and found the bodies, she said
c.d. youngblood, who lives next door to the overhands, said peter overhand spoke to him often about problems he was having with mitchell
overhand, youngblood said, recently told him of finding a drawing in the garbage depicting a man with an ax in his head. when peter overhand confronted his son with the drawing, the younger overhand said, ``that's what i feel like doing to you,'' youngblood recalled
mitchell overhand, bradley said, spent the weekend with friends and had attended a party friday night at an albuquerque hotel. he said the boy also had invited a number of friends to his home over the weekend
youngblood also said peter overhand told him his son hated him so much, ``he wouldn't be surprised if he tried to kill him.'' pickup.</note>
a member of the senate armed services committee said today that the resignation of navy secretary james h. webb will force congress to take a closer look at the pentagon budget and the future size of the navy
i think what his resignation will do will cause us to look at our commitments,'' sen. william cohen, r-maine, said on ``cbs this morning.'' ``can we, in fact, afford to keep the commitment that we've made without spending the money necessary to put out a fleet to do it?''
the senator later added that webb's decision ``may spur very critical analysis of exactly where we're going with the defense budget.''
webb, in announcing his resignation monday, said he quit because defense secretary frank c. carlucci made budget decisions that mean the target of a 600-ship navy will never be met
the resignation ... may be right for him but a bit premature for us,'' cohen said. ``after all, secretary carlucci has to come before capitol hill, present the budget
we might disagree. we might agree with secretary webb that perhaps the allocation of the cuts should not have come out of shipbuilding, perhaps they should come out of some other service or some other way of achieving those cuts,'' cohen said
in 1981, president reagan promised to build the navy to a total of 600 deployable ships from the 450 the service had at that time
the navy was given large increases for shipbuilding as part of the record military spending buildup in reagan's first term. although overall defense spending has slowed sharply during the last three years, navy shipbuilding continued to grow, although more slowly
navy officials had said they would meet the target by next fall, but carlucci ordered the service to mothball 16 aging frigates, leaving it with 580 ships
the defense secretary ordered the cuts as part of a package of $33 billion worth of reductions carlucci had to find under an agreement reached by reagan and the democratic-controlled congress to cut federal spending
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., said monday that webb's decision ``has obviously launched an important new stage of the debate about pentagon priorities and the size and type of navy we need.''
sen. carl levin, d-mich., said, ``i never believed that there was anything magic about the number 600.''
while carlucci ordered 16 older ships cut, the navy's budget includes money for 17 new ships. among them are one missile-firing submarine, two more 688-class attack subs, the first of a new class of ``seawolf'' attack subs, and three destroyers
carlucci declined to respond monday to webb's criticism, but he noted last week that he had to make ``tough choices'' in cutting the budget
speed skater bonnie blair set a world record while becoming america's second gold medal winner at the winter olympics
blair's time of 39.10 seconds in monday night's 500-meter race nipped the record set minutes earlier by her east german archrival christa rothenburger
i think i just got it on guts,'' blair said
on saturday, brian boitano of california won a gold medal in figure skating. u.s. athletes also have won one silver and one bronze medal
rothenburger lowered her own world record by 0.27 second, skating in the second pair in the women's 500 meters and finishing in 39.12. two pairs later, blair, of champaign, ill., trimmed an additional 0.02 second off the mark, winning the gold in 39.10. karin kania of east germany won the bronze
the soviet union leads with seven golds, and east germany has six
china's economy grew by a robust 9.4 percent in 1987, but rising prices caused by high consumer demand lowered living standards for one out of five city dwellers, the state statistics bureau said today
china's gross national product for the year was $295 billion, ranking it seventh in the world. the report said industrial output was up 16.5 percent, while agriculture output increased 4.7 percent
the bureau, in an annual report, said china's 200 million urban dwellers made an average of $248 last year, up 10.6 percent before inflation. its 800 million peasants averaged $125 each, up 5.3 percent
but zhang zhongqi, director of the bureau's comprehensive statistics department, also said at a news conference that a nationwide survey showed 21 percent of urban households had less to spend last year because of an 8.8 percent rise in the cost of living index
he said retail prices rose 7.3 percent nationwide, compared to about 6 percent rise in 1986. in the cities, however, inflation hit 9.1 percent
he said the main factor was the inability of the nation's producers, particularly of food and consumer goods, to meet the growing demands of a more affluent society
meat, poultry and egg prices climbed 16.5 percent, and fresh vegetables and aquatic products rose about 17 percent. pork and sugar were rationed for the first time in decades in many cities because farmers, discouraged by rising prices for raw materials, cut back production
wage earners who received no salary raises and retirees on fixed incomes suffered the most from the price spiral, he said
zhang said the government was trying to overcome supply-demand imbalances by promoting production of non-staple commodities, controlling excessive investment that has led to an overheated economy and subsidizing some prices where consumers and producers are particularly hard hit
he said 10 percent of china's urban residents were economically distressed, defined as having an annual income of less than $108
in rural areas, 8.2 percent, or about 60 million people, were under the poverty line of $54 a year. zhang said poor people in the countryside fell from 80 million in 1986, but he gave no comparative figures for the urban poor
zhang said unemployment hovered around 3 percent in 1987. he said underemployment _ millions of workers in factories and offices with little or nothing to do _ was an even more serious problem
the chinese government has acknowledged that inflation, unemployment and income disparities are all problems that china will have to live with as it adjusts from a rigid central planning system to a state-controlled but increasingly decentralized market economy
among the strong points were the nation's foreign trade, with exports rising 27.8 percent to $39.5 billion. the trade deficit fell from $12 billion in 1986 to $3.7 billion last year
it said new foreign investment in 1987 totalled $7.57 billion, up 4.3 percent, of which $5.33 billion was from borrowing and $2.4 billion from direct investment
the vampire,'' a painting by norwegian artist edvard munch that was insured for $2.3 million, was stolen today, the munch museum reported
curator arne eggum said thieves broke through a ground floor window of the museum and fled with the picture, which depicts a woman with her mouth on a man's neck
after the museum alarm sounded, the theft was quickly discovered and reported to the police by a caretaker who lives in the museum building,'' he said
wheel tracks outside the building indicated the culprits fled in a small car, he told ntb news agency. police said border checkpoints were alerted
the vampire'' was one of three paintings with the same theme rendered by munch in 1893 and 1894. a second painting also is in the museum and a third is in goteborg, sweden
munch, who died in 1944, bequeathed his private collection of his art to the city of oslo, including 1,100 paintings, 4,500 drawings and 18,000 prints
the munch museum has had several unresolved thefts since it opened in 1963, and experts have called for improved security
florida citrus growers have filed suit in federal court to prevent texas from enforcing its emergency quarantine of the fruit
the suit called the feb. 11 quarantine unconstitutional and invalid
texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower said he had ordered the 30-day quarantine on fruits and plants to protect texas' $65 million-a-year citrus industry from the canker which had infected some florida citrus groves
the u.s. department of agriculture, hightower charged, had bowed to pressure from florida growers earlier this month when it lifted a ban on shipments of florida citrus to other citrus-producing states. the ban was imposed in 1984 following an outbreak of citrus canker in florida
the suit by non-profit florida citrus mutual and tuxedo fruit co., a citrus grower and shipper, alleged that texas' quarantine would cost the florida citrus industry millions of dollars
the florida petition, which seeks a preliminary injunction, said an amended quarantine in florida permits interstate movement of fruit from florida under certain rigorous federal standards
max woodfin, spokesman for the texas department of agriculture, said texas agriculture officials were prepared to defend the quarantine in ``any peaceful forum available.''
woodfin noted that a public hearing has been scheduled for thursday in mcallen. testimony is expected from florida, california, arizona, louisiana and u.s. department of agriculture officials, as well as texas producers and experts on citrus disease
weinberger reax; picks up 8th graf pvs: the united..
caspar weinberger received an honorary knighthood from queen elizabeth ii today, the highest royal honor britain has bestowed on an american
the brief, private ceremony at buckingham palace didn't mean the former u.s. defense secretary would become sir caspar. that accolade is reserved for the queen's own subjects. but it was britain's way of saying thanks to an exceptionally good friend
asked why he got the knighthood, weinberger modestly replied: ``i haven't the faintest idea.''
but the announcement feb. 1 cited his ``outstanding and invaluable contribution'' to anglo-american defense cooperation, and his ``unfailing support and assistance'' during the 1982 falkland islands war between britain and argentina
the 70-year-old weinberger, who counts winston churchill among his heroes, did not have to kneel before the queen as a commoner and be tapped on both shoulders with a sword, as is the custom for british subjects
her majesty was nice enough just to present it to me.'' he said, adding: ``i'm very honored, very pleased, and still very astonished.''
he received a red ribbon with the badge of the order of the british empire, and a separate silver star signifying the title knight grand cross _ the highest order of chivalry for a foreigner
it means he can now call himself caspar weinberger gbe
weinberger, wearing a gray suit, was accompanied by his wife, jane, and foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe, who had recommended him for the honor
the 25-minute ceremony was held without reporters or photographers present in the small, blue-walled queen's audience room where the 61-year-old monarch often receives official visitors
she was very gracious as always, and very generous in her remarks,'' weinberger told reporters afterward. he politely avoided mentioning what they discussed
he carried his new insignia in a blue presentation box which he opened for photographers just before driving away to a luncheon hosted by u.s. ambassador charles h. price ii
when weinberger's award was announced, reporters asked him whether he was ready to be called ``sir cap.'' he replied: ``good god, no. our constitution has some harsh words about titles. but i really am flattered.''
asked after the ceremony whether he was now more of an anglophile, he replied: ``well, it's hard to be not.''
weinberger retired nov. 5 after nearly seven years as president reagan's defense chief
the united states provided critical intelligence and logistical support to britain during its 74-day campaign to oust argentina's invasion force from the british-ruled south atlantic islands. weinberger insisted monday that his role was ``a comparatively modest, small one.''
buckingham palace said only a very few of the 55 other americans who have received honorary knighthoods were made gbes. the most famous americans who have received honorary knighthoods were made knights of the british empire or kbes, a lower order of chivalry
they include former secretary of state dean rusk, industrialist henry ford iii, philanthropists paul mellon and john paul getty ii, actors douglas fairbanks jr. and sidney poitier, former sen. j. william fulbright, d-ark., and food magnate henry j. heinz ii
american-born violinist yehudi menuhin also received an honorary kbe, but his award was changed to a full knighthood after he gained dual british-u.s. citizenship in 1985, and he is now known as ``sir yehudi.''
weinberger has longstanding links with britain and has visited often, finding strong support from prime minister margaret thatcher for reagan's military buildup at home and his drive to modernize nato and keep it unified
the anglo-american relationship, he said, is ``critically important'' to the western alliance
weinberger gave up an invitation to the white house last november to make his debut as a british television commentator on the treaty eliminating medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles, which he helped secure _ and had some candid assessments of the soviet leadership
last month, he was appointed a distinguished visiting professor at edinburgh university, where he will spend four weeks this summer participating in a special project investigating the interplay among technology, communications and the humanities
weinberger often cites churchill, especially the late prime minister's early warnings in the 1930s that europe must rearm in response to the growing military threat from germany
weinberger says he sees ``some rather deadly parallels'' today, and warned monday that nato must remain strong ``to deal with increasing soviet threats.''
the cuban government plans to release a significant number of political prisoners in an effort to block a formal united nations investigation of human rights in cuba, u.s. officials say
fidel castro will ``release thousands of political prisoners mixed in with common prisoners'' to persuade member nations to vote down the american proposal for the u.n. investigation, said armando valladares, chief of the u.s. delegation to the u.n. human rights commission in geneva
a spokesman for a cuban delegation in geneva was quoted today by the fort lauderdale news-sun sentinel as saying a major announcement would be made in cuba on wednesday, but he would not elaborate
a state department official who closely follows cuban affairs said the ``thousands'' suggested by valladares, who spent 22 years in cuban prisons, may be overly optimistic, but a good chance exists the cubans will free enough prisoners to make the action appear significant
even if it is for cosmetic purposes, we love it,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified. ``we're talking about human lives here. even if a release is done cynically, people are still out of prison.''
the united states placed a similar resolution before the u.n. human rights commission's annual session last year. it failed by one vote on a procedural motion 19 to 18, with five nations abstaining. the state department again expects a close vote
although the resolution does not condemn cuba's human rights record, a u.n. investigation of human rights practices on the communist island would be politically embarrassing to castro
estimates of cuban political prisoners range from as few as 500 to as many as 10,000. the state department official said castro himself has acknowledged holding 1,000 to 2,000 such prisoners. scandal, charge of `dirty tricks' against bush campaign; picks up 9th graf pvs, bgng, `two weeks.'</note>
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson said today that charges of jimmy swaggart's sexual misconduct had been known for a few months, but somebody planned the scandal to embarrass him before the super tuesday elections
swaggart, a television evangelist accused of sexual misconduct, was ordered monday by the hierarchy of his church in baton rouge, la., to limit his preaching and enter counseling
robertson, who bristles at the label of former television evangelist, said today that evidence showing that swaggart had been involved with prostitutes had ``lied dormant since last october.''
it ``stretches the imagination and stretches credulity'' that it came two weeks ``before the most important primary in the nation,'' the republican candidate said during a news conference in columbia. a round of primaries and caucuses will be held super tuesday, march 8, in 20 states
nothing happens to people by accident,'' robertson said in an interview monday with the anderson, s.c., independent-mail. ``it is kind of funny this came up two weeks before the most important primaries in the nation. people probably wonder what went on
i think somebody had something to do with it,'' said robertson. ``somebody else planned all these things, i am afraid.''
asked again today whether he had any evidence to show that the scandal broke just before super tuesday, robertson replied: ``i have no knowledge. it's certainly a coincidence.''
on monday, robertson offered no proof of his contention, and declined to say to whom he was referring. however, in the same interview he accused the campaign of vice president george bush of ``dirty politics'' and ``trickery'' directed at him
a bush campaign official, asked about the remarks, said robertson had apparently adopted a new campaign strategy of ``making bizarre statements in order to make news.''
to suggest that we had something to do with (the swaggart affair) borders on the outlandish,'' said jay morgan, bush's deputy southern political director, in a telephone interview from his home in atlanta
robertson repeated his charge today that the bush campaign plans ``dirty tricks'' in south carolina, saying he was told that the vice president's campaign plans to run some television ads ``dealing with religious bigotry in the few days before the (south carolina primary) elections.''
bush campaign ad director sid rogich said today the only ad running in south carolina is a biographical commercial
two weeks ago, robertson scolded nbc anchor tom brokaw, who interviewed him live on the night of the iowa caucuses, for referring to him as a former television evangelist
robertson, who founded the christian broadcasting network and for years hosted its flagship program ``the 700 club,'' says he wants to be described as a former religious broadcaster, or a television businessman
earlier monday, robertson had said swaggart's troubles were ``unfortunate,'' but had nothing to do with him
he said the swaggart case will have ``no more effect on me than gary hart'' had on other candidates, referring to hart's problems following reports of his relationship with a miami model. hart dropped out of the presidential race in may but rejoined it in december
it (the swaggart controversy) will not affect me because it has nothing whatsoever to do with me,'' robertson told the anderson newspaper. ``but i want to tell people to ask george bush what he thinks about all this
i have been told of bush's dirty tricks and i expect to see them in south carolina,'' he said. ``his campaign will use every kind of dirty trick against me because this state is important and i have a lot of support and george bush knows that.''
south carolina holds its primary march 5, three days before 20 states, mainly in the south, hold primaries and caucuses
the fbi today denied it had conducted a political investigation of anti-reagan activists, saying it had information that members of the targeted group planned or discussed disrupting the 1984 republican convention and shutting down a public utility
the fbi's executive assistant director, oliver b. revell, came before a senate panel to defend the probe of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador. the probe was ended without any charges being filed
the group has said it was investigated because it opposes president reagan's central america policies
documents previously released in the march 1985-june 1985 probe show that fbi agents and informants sent to spy on cispes collected so much information on peaceful protest activities that bureau headquarters was worried that the investigation had gone too far
the documents, released under the freedom of information act, have shown that while the investigation was targeted at cispes, the files eventually included information on hundreds of other individuals and groups, ranging from roman catholic nuns to union leaders who opposed reagan policies
in defending the probe, revell told the senate intelligence committee that in addition to possible violence, cispes was involved in circulating forged u.s. documents and had strong ties to the u.s. communist party
some have insinuated that this investigation was politically motivated as many individuals associated with cispes were opposed to reagan administration policies in central america,'' revell said. ``nothing could be further from the truth
we did find indications that some cispes members were at least discussing and planning violence. our investigtions uncovered one cispes member who was tasked to determine response times of emergency services in a major american city; another cispes member stated he had developed a system to shut down a public utility in a major midwestern city; as well as plans to violently disrupt the 1984 republican convention.''
the bureau initiated the investigation under foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence guidelines, designed to protect the united states against crimes such as espionage and terrorism, in which foreign powers or groups are involved
these guidelines allow the fbi to focus more on politically oriented groups and their missions than on specific crimes that are planned or carried out. because of this wider latitude, some lawmakers and the american civil liberties union warn that it is easy to cross the line and investigate free speech and peaceful assembly
fbi director william s. sessions said the investigation in this case ``was predicated on information received from several sources that certain leaders and key members of cispes were involved in covertly furnishing funds and materials to a foreign terrorist organization.'' the group was identified as the fmln, the group fighting a war against the u.s.-backed government of el salvador
jerry berman, chief legislative counsel for the american civil liberties union, said the investigation should have started under the most strict guidelines, those for general criminal investigations
these investigations can only begin ``when facts or circumstances reasonably indicate that a federal crime has been, is being, or will be committed.'' if the crime has already been committed, the probe focuses on who committed the act and on securing evidence
the fbi is given greater leeway for a domestic ``intelligence'' investigation, which can focus on groups in the united states trying ``to further political or social goals through activities that involve criminal violence.''
the bureau did not place the cispes investigation under either the intelligence or general guidelines, but under the foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence rules that involve participation by foreign entities
these rules remain largely classified, but officials familiar with them say they provide the widest latitude among the different sets of guidelines
on july 26, 1984 _ some 16 months after the investigation began _ fbi headquarters sent 32 field offices a message that suggested some of them were going beyond the guidelines
some offices have reported information recently regarding political statements and political lobbying by cispes or cispes affiliates,'' it said. ``supervisors in recipient offices must carefully monitor this and related investigations and asset operations within your respective divisions to ensure appropriate direction, targeting and reporting.''
but messages from the field showed that bureaus were still confused
in august 1984 the denver office told headquarters, ``the field is still not sure of how much seemingly legitimate political activity can be monitored.''
and prior to the july directive, fbi headquarters received messages like this one from cincinnati: ``the bureau is requested to furnish cincinnati with guidelines regarding investigation of captioned matter, vis-a-vis religious organizations _ specifically the roman catholic church.''
rep. don edwards, d-calif., chairman of the house judiciary civil rights subcommittee, said he does not fault the fbi for starting the investigation under foreign intelligence guidelines, but for ``a management problem'' in not shutting it down much sooner
we want it narrow, and stopped when criminal conduct is not found,'' he said in an interview. ``the cispes investigation went on for years and there was no criminal conduct. somebody should have blown the whistle.''
berman, of the aclu, said the field offices became ``a vacuum cleaner for collection of first amendment activity.''
they never began to narrow it,'' he said. ``they ended up sweeping up the first amendment activity and broadly targeting cispes all over the country.'' now reporting poland sent its deputy foreign minister, sted foreign minister. no pickup.</note>
soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze briefed warsaw pact colleagues today on his talks in moscow with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, the state news agency ctk said
shevardnadze arrived in prague this morning to a welcome from foreign minister bohuslav chnoupek, then went to the foreign ministry in the cernin palace to inform colleagues of the latest superpower talks on arms reduction and afghanistan
ctk quoted foreign ministry spokesman dusan rovensky as saying shevardnadze briefed warsaw pact colleagues ``in a profound and all round manner'' about his talks with shultz
the foreign ministry reported two hours after the session began that the warsaw pact ministers had ended their talks
shultz and sheverardnadze concluded two days of talks in moscow earlier today, when the secretary of state departed for brussels to brief nato foreign ministers. the superpower ministers said their negotiating session moved the superpowers closer to a strategic arms agreement and a spring summit in moscow
besides chnoupek, foreign ministers attending today's session in prague included romania's ioan totu and bulgaria's peter mladenov
poland sent deputy foreign minister henryk jaroszek. east germany and hungary were represented by their state secretaries, herbert krolikowski and gyula horn
panamanian officials detained 25 u.s. military personnel here for two hours and then released them without filing charges, a u.s. embassy spokesman said today
but a top panamanian military official denied the personnel were detained, and said police officers only briefly stopped them to check for drivers' licenses
the u.s. embassy spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the asociated press that panamanian officials detained the 25 troops as they were driving monday to u.s. military installations located in the former panama canal zone
most of the troops were driving motorcycles but two were in cars and one was walking, the spokesman said. panamanian officials released all 25 after two hours without charges, the embassy official said
col. leonidas macias, chief of police for the defense forces of panama, denied police had detained the u.s. personnel. macias said local police momentarily stopped them to ask for drivers' licenses and to remind them that u.s. troops are prohibited from wearing their uniforms outside the former canal zone
relations between panama and the united states have been strained since last june, when protests started here against the leadership of gen. manuel antonio noriega, chief of the defense forces and the power behind the civilian government. kabul</head>
the afghan guerrilla alliance today announced a plan to form a coalition cabinet that would replace the communist government of president najib and ensure the withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan
western diplomats in kabul, meanwhile, reported a bomb went off in the soviet embassy compound, indicating the guerrillas are intensifying their attacks in the capital
the seven-party islamic unity of afghan mujahedeen announced the plan in a statement telexed from the pakistani border city of peshawar. it stipulates that afghanistan would have a 28-member cabinet to replace najib's peoples democratic party of afghanistan
the statement said the government would be made up of 14 ministers from among the guerrilla leadership, seven representatives from among the 3 million afghan refugees in pakistan and ``seven moslems presently living in kabul.''
earlier, guerrilla leaders said these ``moslems'' would include non-communists in the kabul administration who have not committed serious offenses ``against the people'' during the eight-year war
the proposal, which would allow the guerrillas to control the afghan government, was not expected to be accepted by the soviets or the current administration in kabul
diplomatic sources said today that moslem guerrillas have stepped up attacks in kabul, where communist officials and soviet advisers reportedly are preparing to leave
western diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said at least 18 explosions were heard during the past week in the afghan capital, including one in the soviet embassy compound and one near radio afghanistan
one source said a bomb inside the soviet compound feb. 19 caused some injuries, but there were no further details
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced early this month that the red army could begin pulling its 115,000 troops out of afghanistan by may 15 if kabul and islamabad sign a u.n.-sponsored accord by mid-march
a new round of indirect talks between islamabad and kabul is scheduled for march 2 at geneva. pakistan insists an accord should be linked to an agreed plan on formation of a transitional government
islamabad and the guerrillas are pushing this point because they fear an outbreak of fighting between various afghan groups and the communists if no government is in power
the soviets, however, disagree, charging that such an insistance on setting up an interim government is obstructing soviet plans to withdraw
guerrilla leaders have rejected any power-sharing with the current kabul officials and today's statement from peshawar backed up that position
the statement said a shoora-ali or supreme council would also be formed to oversee the cabinet. it would consist of the leaders of the seven-party alliance and would provide ``joint leadership during the interim period.''
the insurgents said the ``broad-based transitional government will represent all sections of the afghan nation.''
the alliance said there would be a consultative council of 75 members consisting of two members from each of afghanistan's 28 provinces and 19 members from among moslem religious scholars, intellectuals and technocrats. the council would frame the interim laws to administer the country until an elected constituent assembly writes a constitution
the country would adopt the name, the islamic state of afghanistan, ``wherein the koran ... will be supreme,'' the statement added. `authorities say ....'</note>
a police crackdown on street gangs has been applauded by some black leaders tired of the violence that claimed 300 lives last year, but the arrest of an off-duty black officer also raises the question of harassment
black and hispanic leaders accused police of largely ignoring the gang violence until a woman bystander was killed jan. 30 in street-gang crossfire in an upscale neighborhood
but two weeks after the shooting, an off-duty black policeman from a blue-collar suburb was arrested by los angeles police as he stood on a street corner in the same neighborhood, accompanied by six black youths. the officer said his group was conducting an informal ``sting'' operation to investigate alleged harassment by city police
both the arrest and the killing of 27-year-old karen toshima occurred in westwood village, a theater and restaurant district that soaring housing prices have turned into a relatively wealthy neighborhood
authorities say there were more than 300 gang-related murders in los angeles county in 1987 and the rate is increasing. but gang violence usually is confined to the predominantly black and hispanic southside neighborhoods of the nation's second-largest city where turf battles between drug dealers have led to drive-by shootings
five people were killed and five others were injured in gang shootings last weekend even as police staged a crackdown. deputy chief glenn levant, newly appointed as the city's anti-gang czar, said the more than 50 arrests were part of a strategy to prevent murders by taking gang members out of circulation
children playing in parks and a 67-year-old woman sitting in a wheelchair have been killed when gang hitmen missed their targets
and that's not the way it should be. we should be able to live normally,'' said barbara thomas, spokeswoman for the south central organizing committee, which says it represents thousands of black families
city councilman nate holden, who is black and represents a largely black district, said the yearning for more police protection crosses racial lines
i've had white people complain about the gangs. they all just want to feel secure in their community and their homes,'' he said
at the same time, the sting by sgt. don jackson of the hawthorne police department called into question the racial sensitivity of the los angeles police
none of those kids did anything except stand on that corner and be black _ and that was enough,'' said jackson, who was released on his recognizance after being arrested on a misdemeanor charge of resisting an officer
the police department defended the arrest of jackson and frisking of the others, saying the group, dressed like gang members, was blocking the sidewalk and refused to move
the question of police harassment is among the issues being considered as the city moves ahead with a plan to hire 150 more officers, increasing the force to its largest strength ever, 7,500 officers
police chief darryl gates on monday declined to say anything about how he will deploy his forces until after a march 8 hearing of the city's advisory police commission
mayor tom bradley, as he approved the new hiring last week, said the additional forces would help ``return this city to a drug-free, gang-free atmosphere.''
john p. kenney, a criminologist and former police commission member, said more police officers is not the answer. ``it wouldn't solve the problem. it would for a few days or for a few weeks. then you get complaints of overpolicing and harassing,'' he said
historically, there's a resentment to an excessive show of force,'' said garrett capune, professor of criminology at the university of southern california. ``it has a racist overtone, you know, there seems to be more crime because there's more officers. it becomes a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy.''
but holden replied: ``these guys can sit in some classroom and think what it's supposed to be like. but they haven't seen the real world. i resent them. let them come into the black community and see what it's like.''
hundreds of southside residents demonstrated at police headquarters after extra officers were deployed in westwood this month, primarily at the request of merchants who were afraid their business would be hurt by news of the gang shooting
minority activists later publicized a study by the independent public administration service in virginia that appeared to show police responded more slowly to crimes in poor areas
the police department on friday released a letter from the principal author of the report stating that it had been widely misinterpreted. the letter said the study concluded the department takes too long to respond to emergencies, but that geographical differences are not significant
a british soldier ordered jailed for life for killing a belfast roman catholic has been freed and returned to his regiment after serving only three years in prison, the army said today
the disclosure came amid anglo-irish tensions following the killing of a catholic man on sunday by a british soldier and the irish government's decision to conduct its own investigation of the slaying, which occurred in northern ireland
the announcement that the convicted killer, pvt. ian richard thain, was back in uniform, although not in northern ireland, provoked sharp reactions from leaders of the province's catholic minority. at the same time, leaders of northern ireland's protestant majority were angered by dublin's announcement that it will probe sunday's killing
thain was jailed for the fatal shooting of thomas reilly, road manager of the pop group bananarama, on aug. 9, 1983. thain claimed in court that he fired because riots were going on and he believed reilly was about to pull a gun on him
but the judge found him ``deliberately untruthful'' and said he did not believe thain truly feared reilly was about to shoot at him. thain was the first soldier sentenced to life imprisonment for actions in northern ireland
an army statement said thain was then 18 and ``while the army in no way condones his action, we consider the incident to have been a tragic error of judgment made by a young man in very difficult circumstances.''
the home office said thain was released on a life license, a form of parole whereby he can be reimprisoned ``should his behavior give rise to concern.'' it said he was freed after a review by the state parole board
sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army, said thain's release showed there was no justice in northern ireland. the victim's father, jim reilly, said: ``i'm very, very shocked and distressed. i can't believe this has happened.''
meanwhile, the irish government sent deputy police commissioner eugene crowley to monaghan, on the border with northern ireland, to launch an investigation into sunday's shooting of 23-year-old aidan mcanespie
mcanespie was killed by a bullet from an army observation tower at a checkpoint near aughnacloy, half a mile from the frontier in county tyrone
relatives said he was walking to a weekly gaelic football game and had passed through the checkpoint when he was shot
mcanespie was a sinn fein supporter, and his former parish priest said he was harassed whenever he passed through the checkpoint. press association, the british news agency, said the soldier who fired at mcanespie told his interrogators it was an accident. the soldier is in military custody
the irish move was seen as a calculated slight to britain, since its police force in the province was conducting an inquiry. british authorities stressed that the irish investigation would be confined to ireland's side of the border
the european court of justice today voided a 1985 european economic community law banning the marketing of hormone-treated meat in the 12-nation trade bloc
the eec high court said the common market states had not followed correct procedures when they enacted the ban, which was passed by a written procedure that required unanimity
denmark and britain had opposed the ban and the british took the issue to court
the ban on the use of cattle-fattening hormones took effect jan. 1 for meat produced in the eec. it was to take effect in january 1989 for imported beef
the united states has called the ban an unfair trade practice and threatened retaliation. it also disputed the contention of eec consumer groups that there was enough scientific evidence to show that the hormones posed a human health threat
proponents ontended the ban did not discriminate against the united states because it applied to all nations, including those of the eec
u.s. beef exports to the eec total about $130 million a year
a judge has ordered a quick trial of a lawsuit that could affect whether an 11-year-old boy with leukemia lives or dies
the suit was filed by the boy's father, jim lacina of geneva, to regain health insurance coverage he contends was mistakenly canceled
doctors say the boy, jamie, needs a bone marrow transplant by march 15 to survive more than a few months. but the fred hutchinson cancer research center, the seattle hospital that could treat the boy, requires patients to have insurance coverage or $100,000 in hand before it will perform the procedure, said hospital spokeswoman susan edmonds
cuyahoga county common pleas judge carl j. character declined monday to decide the case without a jury, but set a jury trial date for monday so a verdict could be issued in time for jamie to get the treatment
we've definitely advanced this case more than a year,'' character said. ``they (the lacinas) came in and indicated the condition of the young man had become more critical. ... hopefully it can be resolved in a timely fashion.''
lacina says chemotherapy no longer is an effective treatment for his son
in the lawsuit, filed in 1986, lacina said nationwide life insurance co. of columbus terminated his health insurance without notifying him
a nine-year agent for nationwide, lacina lost his job in 1983 because of company cutbacks. attorneys for both sides agree that he paid to continue his policy after he lost his job
lacina's attorney, gerald jeppe, told character that lacina didn't receive a copy of his policy, a notice that his premium was due, or a termination notice in late 1983. he asked the judge to rule in lacina's favor without a jury trial
jeppe said lacina is applying for medicaid while he awaits a decision on the case. meanwhile, a fund for the boy has been established at a bank, he said
nationwide's attorney, edward e. duncan, told character that the company mailed lacina the documents in question. a jury should decide whether lacina received them, he said
the facts of this case are indeed tragic. a little boy through no fault of his own may be denied care,'' duncan said. ``the long and the short of it is whether mr. lacina is telling the truth when he says he didn't receive either of those letters or that policy.''
duncan said nationwide will prove at the trial that lacina's behavior was inconsistent for a man who thought he had health insurance coverage. lacina ran up large hospital bills for his son and filed for bankruptcy, duncan said
the lawsuit wasn't filed until the summer of 1986,'' duncan said. ``what was mr. lacina doing between 1983 and 1986 with these hospital bills if he had coverage?''
jeppe declined to discuss the case aside from the comments he made in court. 02-23 0504</first> spokesman for state health commissioner as saying her comments to newspaper were misunderstood and that she still opposes needle exchange. picks up in 8th graf, `a proposal ...'</note>
boston mayor raymond flynn has written to city councilors seeking approval of an experimental sterile needle exchange for drug addicts in hopes of curbing the spread of aids
flynn said addicts, their sex partners and their babies ``are the fastest growing group of aids victims,'' and that conventional anti-drug measures ``do not go far enough in the short term'' to curb the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome
dr. george a. lamb, the city's director of clinical and community health services, was prepared to outline the proposed program at a closed meeting this morning at city hall, according to the boston globe. he recently toured several european cities to examine needle distribution programs
addicts could enter the program on their own or by referral, lamb said
flynn is seeking approval by the city council of a home rule petition to the legislature, the newspaper said. the move would bypass any applicable state laws against possession of hypodermic syringes by drug addicts or against dispensing such equipment to drug addicts
gov. michael s. dukakis has opposed any needle exchange program, as had state public health commissioner deborah prothrow-stith
the globe quoted prothrow-stith as suggesting monday night that if the state wanted to consider ``something really radical,'' it could supply addicts not only with sterile needles but also with heroin
but department of public health spokesman john stobierski said today the comment ``was in no way a policy recommendation or proposal,'' but was made by the commissioner in explaining why she believed the needle exchange proposal was ``very, very wrong.''
in a statement today, prothrow-stith said the department remains opposed to a needle exchange for iv drug users'' and that the state should continue to concentrate on drug treatment and rehabilitation programs
a proposal by new york city to supply a small number of addicts with clean needles on an experimental basis awaits formal approval from the state health commissioner, dr. david axelrod, who had opposed the idea but said last month that he would approve it
new york wants to supply 200 to 400 addicts with syringes. the recipients would have to turn in used needles to get fresh ones. the needles would be tested for aids and to ensure that they weren't shared
although the test period would last a year, the city's health commissioner, dr. stephen joseph, has said he expected solid indications of success or failure within six months
aids is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. it is spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
a dog named tootsie awakened her master with a whine and led him outside to a snowdrift, where he found his 90-year-old mother curled up in her nightgown
ethelyn preston, who has alzheimer's disease, was listed in stable condition today at swedish medical center in suburban englewood, where she is being treated for a broken right arm and cuts
if tootsie hadn't notified me, she would have died,'' said roy preston, mrs. preston's 58-year-old son, who lives with her
preston said his 3{-year-old boxer woke him up friday morning, ``whining, like she wanted to tell me something,'' he said. ``then she ran right out to the back yard.''
he followed the dog and found his mother lying on her right side, slightly curled up in a snowdrift near the back door. she was wearing a nightgown and was barefoot
when i saw her there, i was frantic,'' her son said. ``i couldn't lift her. her body was stiff. she was all dead weight from lying out in the cold.''
she had been outside about 15 minutes, he said
preston got help from a neighbor and an ambulance
when the ambulance arrived, tootsie pitched in again
she was running back and forth from where she (ethelyn preston) was and the ambulance,'' her son said. ``it seemed like she (tootsie) wanted to tell them where my mother was.''
preston said his mother probably was trying to get to the bathroom, next to her bedroom, when she lost her way and ended up in the yard
he said he will hire round-the-clock supervision for her when she gets home from the hospital. 2nd graf pvs, it is. edits throughout to conform.</note>
the united states will be able to provide military help to nato allies despite the new u.s.-soviet treaty banning medium-range nuclear weapons from europe, the chief u.s. negotiator for the pact told a senate committee today
if it is not prohibited by the treaty, we can do it,'' maynard glitman told the senate armed services committee
glitman was testifying about the effect of article 14, a provision which says that neither side shall do anything, now or in the future, to undercut the pact
sen. dan quayle, r-ind., told glitman that ``i'm concerned about article 14'' because it might limit future u.s. aid to nato nations
the provision is a standard clause added to other treaties which simply restates the intention of both nations to abide by the pact, glitman said
the treaty spells out in great detail what each side cannot do and anything is permitted if it is not prohibited, said glitman
for example, said glitman, the treaty doesn't ban the transfer of u.s. technology to nato nations such as great britain to develop ground-launched cruise missiles. those u.s. missiles will be banned by the treaty but the british could go ahead and build their own, he said
glitman said u.s. negotiators resisted soviet efforts to block u.s. help for nato. ``we knew their goal was to find a way to put a brake on nato activities,'' he said
president reagan pledged today that the united states will do its part to ensure that the nato alliance remains strong, saying in an address broadcast to europe that ``our destiny is coupled with yours.''
in the address, which came a week before a nato summit meeting, reagan reaffirmed the alliance agreement that an attack on any member nation is an attack against all of them. ``simply put, an attack on munich is the same as an attack on chicago,'' he said
glitman's testimony was part of a detailed examination of the pact, a line-by-line scrutiny which legislators said was necessary to avoid possible conflicts with future administrations over the treaty's meaning
it is very regrettable that we have to go through this,'' armed services committee chairman sam nunn, d-ga., said monday to glitman
nunn and other democrats noted that the scrutiny arises from congressional distrust of the executive branch, a skepticism born of the fight over the meaning of an earlier treaty
nunn noted the state department had delivered 31 volumes of records about how u.s.-soviet negotiators reached the intermediate-range nuclear forces pact signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
committee staffers spent 300 hours reviewing only three volumes of records that preceded the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, nunn said
the armed services panel is one of three senate committees examining the inf treaty. ratification by the full senate is expected but the votes will be delayed until after nunn's committee finishes it close examination, nunn told his colleagues monday
ratification would require a two-thirds vote
the distrust arose from a dispute between the democratic-controlled congress and the reagan administration over the meaning of the abm pact, particularly how it would affect reagan's star wars missile-defense research program
the existing ``narrow'' interpretation of the abm pact would ban some tests of the strategic defense initiative, as star wars is formally known. but reagan has asserted that his administration has the right to unilaterally move to a ``broad'' view of the pact that would permit sdi tests
nunn led a congressional fight to block the move to a ``broad'' view of the abm pact and promised to delay the inf ratification until the administration promised that current testimony on the inf pact was ``authoritative.''
administration officials had argued that the 1973 executive branch testimony on the abm pact wasn't ``authoritative.''
nunn told glitman that committee staff members had drawn up 135 questions, many of them technical, about possible ambiguities in the treaty
two other democrats on the committee supported nunn's decision to scrutinize the inf pact
sen. john glenn, d-ohio, said, ``i'm sorry there was a reinterpretation of the abm treaty that made this necessary.'' sen. james exon, d-neb., said, ``it's sad we have to go through the exercise we're going through here.''
meantime, dr. edward teller, the physicist who is considered the father of both sdi and the hydrogen bomb, supported the treaty in testimony before the foreign relations committee
teller noted that he deeply distrusts the soviets and said, ``my personal approach (to the treaty) is careful, doubtful, yet positive.''
teller termed the fights over the meaning of the treaty ``senseless debates.''
new york _ a 70-year-old man reputed to be the underboss of the gambino crime family has been sentenced to 15 years in prison and fined $820,000 for a racketeering conviction
u.s. district judge jack b. weinstein said monday he sentenced joseph armone to prison despite his age because he was convinced the defendant was a high-ranking member of the crime family
weinstein also cited armone's lengthy criminal record, which he said began when the defendant was 15 years old
armone, of brooklyn, was convicted dec. 22 of racketeering conspiracy involving extortion, bribery and illegal interstate travel to commit bribery
he was jailed after his conviction when he refused to renounce any organized crime ties, a condition for his release from detention
he had faced a maximum sentence of 20 years for the most serious charge, racketeering
one of the bribery charges accused armone and a co-defendant, joseph n. gallo, of plotting to give a $20,000 bribe so that gallo's son would be transferred from a state prison to a federal prison, where presumably he would receive better treatment. the plot was unsuccessful
gallo, 76, the reputed former consigliere of the gambino family, was sentenced earlier this month to 10 years in prison and fined $300,000 for his racketeering conviction. weinstein stayed the sentence pending appeal
two other co-defendants were also sentenced monday. anthony vitta, 49, of queens, a reputed gambino soldier, was given a 10-year prison sentence and fined $250,000. vitta was convicted of racketeering conspiracy, loansharking and other charges
salvatore migliorisi, 49, of brooklyn, was sentenced to three years in jail and fined $25,000 for his extortion and obstruction of justice conviction
the four defendants were among 16 people with alleged ties to the gambino family who were indicted in june 1986
of the 16 defendants, 11 have now been convicted or have pleaded guilty, two were acquitted, charges against one defendant were dismissed, another defendant is missing and believed dead, and one is awaiting trial
armone faces additional federal charges of extortion and racketeering in fort lauderdale, fla., where he and 12 other people with alleged ties to the gambino family were named last month in a 22-count indictment
a criminal suspect's rights are not violated when a witness who is unable to identify the suspect in court testifies about an earlier identification of the accused, the supreme court ruled today
the justices, voting 6-2, ordered the reinstatement of the conviction of a california prison inmate in the beating of a prison guard who suffered memory loss because of the attack
justice antonin scalia, in his opinion for the court, said a defendant's right to cross-examine his accusers is not violated by admission of a prior, out-of-court identification statement from a witness who is unable to explain in court the basis for the identification
scalia said defense lawyers have ample power to attack the credibility of such witnesses when they take the stand
the weapons available to impugn the witness's statement when memory loss is asserted will of course not always achieve success,'' scalia said. ``but successful cross-examination is not the constitutional guarantee.''
the decision is a victory for the reagan administration, which urged the court to reinstate the federal conviction of james joseph owens for assault with intent to murder john foster, a guard at a federal prison in lompoc, calif
owens, a prisoner there at the time of the attack, was sentenced to an additional 20 years for the assault
the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals overturned owens' assault conviction on grounds he was denied the right to cross-examine foster effectively
foster was attacked on april 12, 1982, with a metal pipe. he suffered numerous injuries to his head, face, arms and hands
on may 5, 1982, shortly before he was released from a hospital, foster told an fbi agent that owens had attacked him. foster also picked owens' photograph from several mug shots
but at the trial, foster said he was unable to recall who assaulted him or whether he actually saw his assailant. he did testify that he remembered identifying owens when questioned in the hospital by the fbi agent but said he no longer remembered why he said owens was the assailant
the 9th circuit court said foster may have been influenced by visitors who spoke with him during his hospital stay
three inmates testified that owens was the attacker. there also was evidence that owens attended a meeting the day before the assault of the moorish science temple of america, a prison religious group that discussed attacking foster
in a dissenting opinion today, justice william j. brennan said the high court ruling ``reduces the right of confrontation to a purely procedural protection, and a markedly hollow one at that.''
he was joined by justice thurgood marshall
justice anthony m. kennedy, who became a member of the court thursday, did not take part in the decision
the case is u.s. vs. owens, 86-877. weekly and the british journal of psychiatry are two different publications.</note>
a young mentally ill man egged into a suicide attempt by his mother apparently cured his phobia of germs and obsession for handwashing by shooting himself in the head, doctors said
the .22-caliber slug destroyed the section of the brain responsible for his disabling obsessive-compulsive behavior without causing any other brain damage to the man, a straight-a student, his doctor said
the afflicted man tried to kill himself five years ago, when he was 19, said psychiatrist leslie solyom of shaughnessy hospital in vancouver, british columbia
victims of the disorder typically have an inexplicable compulsion to repeat activities over and over
the man, identified only as george in a report in physician's weekly and the british journal of psychiatry, washed his hands hundreds of times a day and took frequent showers, solyom said. the behavior forced him to drop out of school and quit his job
solyom treated george for more than a year before he attempted suicide
george was also very depressed and told his mother that his life was so wretched that he would rather die,'' solyom said. ``parents of obsessive-compulsives, particularly mothers, often have cruel streaks,'' he said
she said, `so look george, if your life is so wretched, just go and shoot yourself.' so george went to the basement, stuck a .22-caliber rifle in his mouth and pulled the trigger.''
the bullet lodged in the left front lobe of the brain. surgeons removed it, but could not get out all the fragments
when he was transferred to our hospital three weeks later, he had hardly any compulsions left,'' solyom said
after brain surgery to remove the bullet he showed no signs of his former obsession, the doctor said. he returned to school, got a new job and is now in his second year of college, having retained the same iq as he had before the illness struck, solyom said
monday's edition of physician's weekly wryly described the failed suicide attempt as ``successful radical surgery.''
the story was also reported in today's editions of the los angeles times
the idea that a man could blow out part of his frontal lobe and have his pathological symptoms cured is quite remarkable, but it is not beyond belief,'' said psychiatrist thomas ballantine of massachusetts general hospital in boston
what made the case so very interesting was that we had measured iq and done a lot of other tests before the suicide attempt,'' solyom said. ``afterward, we compared results and he had not lost anything. we used very sensitive tests to measure brain damage and could find none.''
new research indicates that as much as 3 percent of the u.s. population displays some obsessive-compulsive behavior, according to psychiatrist michael jenike of harvard university
conventional psychotherapy is useless in such victims, jenike said. the disorder is most effectively treated with a combination of antidepressant drugs and behavioral therapy
as a last resort, neurosurgeons will occasionally remove part of the left front lobe of the brain, where the obsessive behavior is thought to originate. the operation is probably performed between 10 and 30 times per year in the united states, ballantine said, with mixed results
time is running out for long-term illegal aliens to apply for amnesty under a yearlong program, u.s. attorney general edwin meese warned
the deadline for applications under the legalization program is may 4, and meese said monday there probably won't be an extension
we have 73 days, and that's plenty of time for anybody who is eligible to get their application in,'' meese said at a news conference at a san diego neighborhood ins office. he refused to discuss topics other than immigration
the immigration reform and control act of 1986 allows aliens who have lived continuously in the united states since 1981 or before to apply for residency with the immigration and naturalization service
my hope in being here today is to dramatize both the importance of the process, the desire of the u.s. government to confer legalization on everybody who is eligible, and to urge everyone in the category to apply as soon as possible,'' meese said
meese, who oversees the ins as the nation's top domestic law enforcement official, refused to comment on israeli foreign minister shimon peres' recent assertion that he wrote the attorney general in 1985 about a controversial iraqi oil pipeline project
i'm here to talk about immigration today, and that's the only topic that's appropriate,'' meese said
immigration officials have made ``tremendous strides'' in handling amnesty applications from nearly 1.3 million people nationwide, said meese, who called the program one of the justice department's key activities
the attorney general handed temporary residency cards to eight aliens who now must wait 18 months before completing the legalization process
the supreme court today limited the job protection for government workers fired for lacking security clearances
by a 5-3 vote, the justices agreed with the reagan administration that the merit systems protection board lacks authority to decide whether the denial of security clearance is justified
justice harry a. blackmun, writing for the court, said, ``it should be obvious that no one has a right to a security clearance.''
he said judgments about who should receive clearance ``must be made by those with the necessary expertise in protecting classified information'' and he said the board lacks that expertise
the court ruled against thomas e. egan, who was hired in 1981 as a laborer at the trident naval refit facility in bremerton, wash., on the condition he subsequently receive a security clearance
the facility is used to test and repair trident submarines. all jobs at the facility require security clerance
when he was denied the clearance because of two past criminal convictions, egan was fired in 1983
egan challenged the firing in an appeal to the merit systems protection board, which was created by the civil service reform act of 1978 to protect federal civilian employees from unfair disciplinary treatement
the board concluded that it lacked the authority to review egan's case. but a federal appeals court here overturned the board's decision and sent egan's case back to the board for further study
the reagan administration argued that the appeals court ruling threatened the government's ability to protect national security
dissenting today were justices byron r. white, william j. brennan and thurgood marshall
white, writing for the three, said the government's interest in protecting its secrets would not be jeopardized by granting egan a hearing before the review board
the majority's decision frustrated ... congressional intent by denying any meaningful hearing to employees such as (egan) who are discharged on national security grounds,'' he said
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the high court thursday, did not take part in today's decision
in other action, the court:
_ ruled that a criminal suspect's rights are not violated when a witness who is unable to identify the suspect in court testifies about an earlier identification of the accused
the justices, voting 6-2, ordered the reinstatement of the conviction of a california prison inmate in the beating of a prison guard who suffered memory loss because of the attack
_ ruled unanimously that businesses may not be sued in federal court for refusing to contribute to multi-employer union pension funds after a collective bargaining agreement expires
in an 8-0 ruling, the court rejected reagan administration arguments that barring lawsuits in such cases could undermine the solvency of the multi-employer pension plans
the security case is navy vs. egan, 86-1552
the marine corps has charged two women officers with ``fraternization and indecent acts'' with other female troops at the training base here, a spokesman said
maj. robert w. mclean, public affairs officer at the marine corps recruit depot at parris island, said a sergeant and a captain in the fourth recruit training battalion were charged friday with violations of several articles under the uniform code of military justice
he said charges against other women are being considered
an article 32 hearing, which is similar to a grand jury hearing, has been scheduled for next week,'' mclean said. ``the purpose of this hearing is to inquire into the allegations and charges and recommend disposition.''
the spokesman said the hearing could result in a recommendation for court-martial, administrative action or a recommendation that the charges be dropped
charged were capt. judy a. gretch, administrative officer for the battalion, who has been in the marines since 1981, and sgt. mary p. kile, a former drill instructor who has been in the marines since 1983, mclean said
earlier this month, the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled the army's ban on homosexual soldiers unconstitutional
but mclean said the charges are not affected by the ruling
they are not being charged with lesbianism, but with indecent acts,'' he said
capt. joanne schilling, a public information officer for marine corps headquarters in washington, said monday the corps' policy on homosexuality is the same as that of the department of defense
the uniform code states that homosexuality is ``incompatible with military service,'' and that certain overt acts are prohibited
the marines do not knowingly enlist people who are homosexual, and the type of action they take against marines who are found to be homosexual is left up to the commanding officer, said lt. col. john shotwell. it can range from an administrative discharge, under honorable conditions, to court-martial, which can include a military prison sentence
three women who said they were being investigated told the state newspaper of columbia that the marine corps had planned to court-martial or discharge as many as 10 women who train female recruits. none of the women interviewed by the state were charged friday
the women, who spoke to the newspaper on the condition they not be identified, said they and others have been accused of homosexuality, sodomy and fraternization but have not yet been formally charged. they said they are not homosexual
parris island is one of two boot camps in the country where recruits are sent for an 11-week basic training program, and the only one to which women are sent
of the 200,000 marines, roughly 10,000 are women, officials said. it deprives.</note>
a new york city law aimed at forcing some large private clubs to admit women and racial minorities as members violates ``the fundamental right of our citizens ... to choose who their friends will be,'' the supreme court was told today
alan mansfield, a lawyer for the new york state clubs association, said the city's method _ not its objective _ was based on ``a fundamentally incorrect analysis of the freedom to associate.''
the court's decision, expected by july, could carry an impact well beyond new york's borders. at least five other major cities have similar ordinances
peter l. zimroth, chief lawyer for new york city, argued that mansfield's clients have fabricated a constitutional case
it's their burden to show there are real clubs out there that would get hurt, and they haven't,'' zimroth said
both mansfield and zimroth had their arguments repeatedly interrupted with questions from the justices, including justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday and only recently resigned from a men-only club
kennedy appeared particularly interested in the fact that the city law exempts some clubs, such as the american legion and the protective order of elks
justice harry a. blackmun, who also recently resigned from a male-only club, did not ask a question during the 60-minute session
at one point, justice thurgood marshall suggested that the city law may be a valid attempt to battle bias, pointedly telling mansfield, ``you want to torpedo it.''
the city law exempts ``distinctly private organizations'' from its anti-bias requirements
but it deprives non-religious groups of that designation if they have more than 400 members, provide regular meal service and regularly receive payment of member dues from non-members such as employers
similar ordinances were enacted recently in buffalo, chicago, detroit, los angeles and san francisco
new york's highest court upheld the law, rejecting arguments that it unconstitutionally creates an irrefutable presumption that such organizations are not truly private
in previous rulings, the supreme court has ruled that states, through their public accommodations laws, may force the u.s. jaycees and rotary international to admit women as members
in ruling unanimously in the rotary case last may, the justices suggested that numerous other male-only or female-only private organizations may have to comply with laws requiring equal access to public accommodations
after assessing may's ruling, kiwanis international voted to end its men-only tradition and allow its 8,200 clubs worldwide to admit women
the new york state club association is composed of about 125 private clubs and associations. many of its groups are male-only or are organized along national origin or other ethnic lines
its challenge of the new york city law has been supported in the supreme court by, among others, the benevolent and protective order of elks, the loyal order of moose, the improved order of red men and the club managers association of america
the city law was defended by, among others, the u.s. conference of mayors, the council of state governments, the national association of counties, the national league of cities, the american civil liberties union and the american bar association
kennedy, the court's newest justice, was criticized during his recent senate confirmation hearings for his past membership in exclusive private clubs
kennedy quit san francisco's all-male, all-white olympic club, after he was mentioned as a possible supreme court nominee. he had been a member since 1962
he quit the all-male sutter club in his hometown of sacramento, calif., eight years ago
blackmun recently quit the cosmos club in washington, d.c., where he had held a longtime membership. the club bars women from becoming members
the case is new york state club association vs. new york city, 86-1836
a 32-year-old woman was reported missing today from a bahamas-bound cruise ship, and the coast guard sent a jet and a cutter to search for the woman
the husband of cheryl wainscott of woodstock, ga., told the captain of the carnivale that he last saw his wife at 12:30 a.m. today when she went for a walk, said coast guard petty officer joe dye
the husband said his wife had been depressed, dye said
the cruise ship radioed the coast guard at about 9 a.m. today. a falcon jet and the 95-foot cutter cape current were immediately dispatched to search an area 70 miles northeast of miami, near great isaac light, dye said
the 640-foot, miami-based carnivale is owned by carnival cruise lines. it routinely makes three- to four-day trips to the bahamas. it set sail for nassau at 4 p.m. monday on one of those voyages, said company spokesman tim gallagher
a 26-year-old pipe fitter was arrested in connection with a series of 19 sexual attacks in the san diego area blamed on a ``bolder-than-most'' rapist, police said
alvin ray quarles was arrested monday at a motel staked out by police, said officer brian monahan of the suburban national city police department
quarles was questioned by investigators at san diego police headquarters for several hours and booked into the county jail, said san diego police spokeswoman linda zweig
the series of rapes and burglaries began 14 months ago. the attacker was dubbed ``bolder-than-most'' because of the audacity of his demands and because he frequently attacked women when they were with a boyfriend or husband
quarles was charged in the investigation of two rapes and six robberies and burglaries, zweig said. the investigation is continuing and more charges may be filed, she said
quarles was arrested about 5 a.m. monday after a police detective spotted him peeking in windows and checking doors of the motel, police said, adding that a 13-inch kitchen knife was found hidden under his shirt
the arrest came an hour after a man forced his way into a room at a motel in east san diego where two elderly women were sleeping and robbed the women but did not assault them
at least 16 of the sexual assaults occurred in san diego, half of them at small motels
selection of the site to house the planned $4.4 billion ``super collider'' atom smasher has been delayed from july until late in the year, energy secretary john herrington told congress today
i would guess a preferred site would be selected in november or december,'' herrington told the interior subcommittee of the house appropriations committee
he was answering a question on whether the site would be chosen before or after the committee acts on the department's request for $363 million in construction funds for the fiscal year beginning oct. 1
i don't see us making the decision'' before the committee must act, herrington said
but he said there was little risk in appropriating the money before site selection since ``there is nothing new in the technology.''
outside the hearing room, spokesman phil keif said ``they need more time,'' but the department still hoped to hold to its original schedule of confirming the selection in january 1989
the eagerly sought scientific installation would probe the secrets of matter by whirling beams of protons into each other at an energy 20 times what is available with current machines
the most powerful current machine is the accelerator at batavia, ill. not far from the chicago district of subcommittee chairman rep. sidney yates, d-ill
yates asked herrington to comment on a newspaper report of a study from a local group claiming that locating the new machine next to the batavia installation would save the government $3.3 billion over the years through savings on components, buildings, computer programs and other facilities. but herrington said he was unfamiliar with the study
illinois, texas, arizona, colorado, michigan, tennessee and north carolina remain in the competition to house the collider
federal agents have given city police officials the names of 18 miami officers, including that of a former assistant police chief, in the latest move in an ongoing investigation of corruption in the department
since 1985, about 75 miami officers have been arrested, suspended or fired for a variety of misdeeds, from homicide to cocaine possession to prostitution and drunken driving
police chief clarence dickson has predicted that as many as 100 officers, nearly 10 percent of the force, could be involved in some level of corruption
alfredo bared, whose name was on the list fbi agents gave to miami police internal security detectives monday, is the highest-ranking person whose conduct is under scrutiny
in 26 years in the miami police department, i never did anything illegal,'' he said monday night. ``i can tell you that _ 100 percent. al bared did not do anything wrong, be it civilly, criminally, ethically or whatever.''
none of the 18 has been relieved of duty, police said monday. bared, 49, resigned in 1986
although police and the fbi have refused to discuss specific allegations, the miami herald reported that unidentified sources said they all involve drugs. 11th graf pvs, the latest</note>
former tv evangelist pat robertson is borrowing heavily going into the critical super tuesday primaries, taking out a massive $5.5 million loan for his presidential campaign, financial reports show
robertson ended january with $5.5 million in the bank, but his campaign had $6 million in debts as he far outspent any other candidate on the super tuesday contests involving 20 states on march 8
rival gop contenders george bush and bob dole, on the other hand, remained in good shape
bush, the overall fund-raising leader, ended january with $9.2 million in cash on hand and $811,029 in obligations, while dole had $4.2 million and $654,269 in bills to pay, their latest financial statements show
neither had any loans outstanding, but the other gop contender, rep. jack kemp of new york, took out $750,000 in loans to get through the iowa and new hampshire contests this month
among democratic candidates, money leader michael dukakis had the most cash available, $4 million
besides his loan, robertson reported contributions of $1.3 million during january. his report also listed as receipts the $6.5 million in federal matching funds that he applied for but had said he might not use
robertson had said he was philosophically opposed to the public financing system and his staff said he would only use matching funds if he needed to stay competitive
robertson's campaign did not return calls monday night to answer questions about the loan, by far the biggest borrowing of any campaign for the 1988 election
robertson paid off a short-term loan of $1.5 million that his attorney has said was secured with his matching funds, hisreport showed
the latest financial reports were due at the federal election commission on saturday, but robertson's was not filed until late monday
it showed that the new loan was taken out in january from sovran bank in chesapeake, va., at an interest rate of prime plus 1 percent and was due to be repaid on feb. 28
the sizable expenditures on this month's iowa and new hampshire contests and subsequent spending toward super tuesday are not reflected in the new reports, which cover the period through jan. 31
robertson has spent more than any other candidate against the overall spending ceiling which is set by election law at $27 million for the primary season. he reported spending $17.6 million against the cap
bush, conversely, while raising more money than any other candidate, has been watching his budget and has spent the least of any republican contender against the cap
he reported spending $10.7 million against the ceiling, compared with kemp's $12.8 million and dole's $13.5 million
robertson also spent the most of any campaign in a single state _ $1 million in texas, compared with bush's $335,743 and dole's $81,645
wealthy campaigns must keep from spending too much early in the campaign, because they could leave themselves unable to spend money on later contests without going over the limit
on the democratic side, none of the candidates approached the cap, with dukakis spending the most at $7.8 million
the massachusetts governor also had the biggest democratic bank account at the beginning of this month, $4 million with $511,789 in bills to pay, while the next nearest democrat, sen. al gore jr. of tennessee, had $2 million with $84,248 in obligations
sen. paul simon, d-ill., borrowed $523,674 in january and ended the month with a $691,069 debt and only $401,176 in the bank. he raised $534,259 in contributions for the month, $1.9 million in matching funds, and $523,674 in loans
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., entered february with $820,260 in debts and $172,477 in cash on hand. he collected $212,702 in contributions and $1.9 million in matching funds during january
aides for both gephardt and simon have said that fund-raising picked up this month and that they have whittled down their debts
gore had ignored iowa to concentrate on the super tuesday states, but he raised very little money during the time the other candidates were campaigning hard in iowa and new hampshire
he collected only $180,746 in contributions during january, in addition to the $1.8 million in matching funds he got, his report showed
dukakis raised $804,839 in contributions and got $3.5 million matching funds
democratic contender jesse jackson reported raising $610,036 in donations, plus $598,021 in matching funds during january, ending the month with $509,978 in cash on hand and $354,881 in obligations
former colorado sen. gary hart ended the month with $615,547 in cash on hand and $24,484 in debts after collecting $70,303 in contributions and $937,325 in matching funds
kemp continued a hand-to-mouth campaign, ending january with a debt of $1.3 million after raising $1 million for the month. however, his political director, charlie black, said the debt would be wiped out when kemp's federal mathching funds come in this month
he insisted the campaign is not in financial trouble, saying a heavy mail solicitation program and fund-raising events are reaping about $400,000 a week
dole raised $1.2 million in contributions for january and got $5.6 in matching funds, while bush collected $767,892 privately and got $6.4 million in matching funds
most candidates got very large matching fund payments in january because that was the first months the money was released, and the sums were based on the candidates' fund raising for all preceding months
candidates can get matching funds from the federal treasury for each contribution of $250 or less that they raise in private funds. the matching fund is supported by the $1 checkoff on individual income tax returns
the supreme court, rejecting claims by private landowners, ruled today that the state of mississippi owns thousands of acres of oil- and gas-rich land near the state's gulf coast
by a 5-3 vote, the justices said states may claim title to land beneath waters subject to the tie's influence _ and not only land under navigable waters
the ebb and flow of the tide, not navigability, determines the state's ownership, said justice byron r. white for the court
states have interests in lands beneath tidal waters which have nothing to do with navigation,'' white said. those interests range from protecting fishing to setting aside submerged land for reclamation for urban expansion, he said
it would be odd to acknowledge such diverse uses of public trust tidelands and then suggest that the sole measure of the expanse of such lands is the navigability of the waters over them,'' white said
the court rejected an appeal by private landowners and companies that included phillips petroleum and a partnership called cinque bambini
they challenged the state's claim to some 2,400 acres of undeveloped property in hancock county, miss
the mississippi supreme court ruled in 1986 that the state has control over the land based on a grant from the federal government when mississippi became a state in 1817
the private landowners and companies based their claims on spanish land grants of 1813
the state leased 600 acres of the land to saga petroleum u.s. inc. in 1977 for oil and gas exploration
the mississippi court said the state's title extends to all land subject to tidal influence, inland to the mean high water mark
the lands in question underly non-navigable bayous and streams several miles north of the gulf coast. they are influenced by the tide since they are affected by the ebb and flow of an adjacent navigable river that flows into the gulf
dissenting today were justices sandra day o'connor, john paul stevens and antonin scalia
o'connor, writing for the three, said today's ruling will break ``a chain of title that reaches back more than 150 years'' and ``will disrupt the settled expectations of landowners not only in mississippi but every coastal state.''
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court on thursday, did not take part in the decision
the case is phillips petroleum vs. mississippi, 86-870. from new york post interview with ms. giancana.</note>
people magazine paid judith campbell exner $50,000 for interviews in which she claimed to have served as a courier and contact for president kennedy and a chicago mobster, the author of the article says
kitty kelley said monday that she and exner, who claims to have arranged at least 10 meetings between kennedy and mafia boss sam giancana in the early 1960s, split a fee of ``about $100,000.''
parts of exner's story were questioned today by giancana's daughter antoinette, the author of ``mafia princess.''
ms. giancana said on ``cbs this morning'' that she never met exner but knew that she was her father's girlfriend. and she said that her father wanted to help in the alleged assassination plot against cuban leader fidel castro
but she said that as far as she knew, her father never spoke to kennedy during his time in the white house
he always told us about people he'd been with and met,'' she told the new york post in an interview. ``but not once did he say anything about meeeting kennedy. i'm sure dad would have said something.''
moreover, ``my father had an utter contempt for the kennedys. why would he ever want to meet with jfk in the white house or anywhere else?'' she said on the cbs program
ms. giancana said her father did not need kennedy's help, but that kennedy needed giancana's help in chicago while he was running for president
she told cbs it was possible that kennedy asked exner to go to giancana and ask for help, ``but how, probably, i really don't know.''
questioning exner's account that giancana gave her a note to deliver to kennedy, ms. giancana said her father did not put things in writing. ``the man had at least a little class. he never put anything in writing where they could bring it up or show it from the day he had written it.''
kelley said she first arranged to talk to exner about kennedy and giancana in 1983, but plans fell through after exner demanded at the last minute to be paid
i told her, `i don't pay for interviews. don't you just want to be honest and tell the truth?''' kelley recalled. ``but i didn't get the story because i wouldn't pay. this time, people did it.''
kelley said payment was justified now because exner has terminal cancer and ``the story is a little piece of history.''
elizabeth wagner, publicity manager at people, said the magazine had no comment on the fee
columnist liz smith reported in her column in today's new york daily news that she put kelley and exner together. smith said she did not pursue exner's story herself because ``for exner's sake, i couldn't afford to
she is suffering from terminal cancer, she needs the money to live out her days and pay medical bills, and only a magazine like people can pay the big bucks needed to offer up such a story.''
in a 1975 appearance before the senate intelligence committee, exner said she had an 18-month affair with kennedy before and after he entered the white house, and that she later had an affair with giancana. but she said she knew of no ties between the two, and that kennedy never knew of her friendship with giancana, which predated her affair with kennedy
in an interview monday on abc's ``good morning america,'' exner said she changed her story because ``things have changed dramatically for me. i've had two bouts with cancer and i've just had my lung removed and i've been given a fairly short length of time (to live.) and i was being very uncomfortable with not being able to tell the truth.''
in 1975, ``i was afraid for my life so i was afraid to tell the truth,'' she said. ``my husband and i made a very coscious decision not to tell the story.''
exner said she witnessed one of the giancana-kennedy meetings, and that she carried envelopes on many occasions between kennedy and giancana and johnny roselli, giancana's lieutenant in las vegas, nev., and southern california. she said giancana once told her he had met kennedy in the white house
kelley said kennedy apparently wanted mob assistance to win the presidency in 1960, and later to eliminate cuban leader fidel castro
giancana was murdered in 1975, roselli a year later
kelley said exner produced airplane tickets, hotel bills and appointment books from 1960 through 1962 to support her story. white house telephone logs show she had more than 70 conversations with kennedy
jeff smith, spokesman for sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., said, ``there has been no comment and there probably will not be a comment'' from the kennedy family
g. robert blakey, a professor of law at the university of notre dame and an expert on organized crime, said he found exner's story ``incredible.''
the president of the united states dealing directly with a mobster and no one knowing around him knowing about it?'' he asked
blakey, a former justice department lawyer who worked for the house committee that investigated kennedy's assassination, said congressional investigators in the 1970s verified exner's reports of her affair with kennedy
but, he said, ``my judgment was that she gave all the information she had at that time.'' pvs, swiss oilman. edits throughout to shorten.</note>
president reagan stands behind attorney general edwin meese iii in the face of disclosure of a memo to meese about payments to israeli officials ``which would be denied everywhere,'' the white house said today
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater was questioned by reporters about the memo, which was disclosed on monday. lawyers for meese said the memo gave no reason to conclude that the attorney general knew of any plans to bribe israeli officials
ed meese has been a friend and adviser (of the president) for years and years going back to california,'' fitzwater said. ````he knows him to be a man of integrity and he stands behind him.''
the memo from longtime meese friend e. robert wallach described a plan to funnel a portion of some $650 million-$700 million from an iraqi pipeline project to the israeli labor party of then-prime minister shimon peres
the wallach-meese memo is the focal point of a criminal investigation of the attorney general. at issue is whether meese knew of a possibly improper payment plan involving the israeli political party and, if so, why he did nothing about it
fitzwater turned aside most questions about the case, saying it was inappropriate to comment while it was under investigation by the independent counsel
asked whether reagan wanted meese to remain as attorney general, fitzwater said, ``absolutely. he's a good man who does good work.''
the president has full confidence in the attorney general and we don't have any comment on the documents or the case,'' the spokesman said
swiss oilman bruce rappaport was a partner in the proposed pipeline and wallach was his lawyer. backers of the project were seeking assurances that israel would not bomb the $1 billion pipeline, which was to run through iraq and jordan
wallach's sept. 25, 1985, memo to meese said that rappaport had confirmed with peres that ``israel will receive somewhere between $65-$70 million a year for ten years out of the conclusion of this project.''
what was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor,'' said the two-page memo which wallach marked ``personal &amp; confidential _ for your eyes, only.''
meese's lawyers released the memo monday, along with a handwritten note from peres to meese in which the israeli leader said of the pipeline project: ``i would go a long way to help it out. but then discretion is demanded on our part.''
peres said today that israel never opposed laying an iraqi pipeline through jordan, ``so why would anyone need to use bribes?''
the foreign minister told reporters as he toured a west bank city that ``no new documents were published that cause me concern and i have nothing to say.''
but he added, ``we all agree that we favor the laying of the pipeline. so why would anyone need to use bribes? nobody said he (meese) gave the labor party anything or proposed anything to the labor party.''
peres, who had initially denied that he had written a letter to the u.s. attorney general, said sunday that he used the highly unusual diplomatic channel of going through meese ``because i was approached by people who told me that the attorney general will deal with it.''
in his letter to meese, peres said ``i have asked my friend bruce (rappaport) and bob (wallach) to let you know the whole story and i shall depend on your judgment about the best way to handle this matter.''
peres denies he was offered a bribe or anything of value in connection with the pipeline project
independent counsel james mckay, who has been investigating the attorney general since last may 11, is trying to determine whether meese violated the foreign corrupt practices act. that law prohibits u.s. citizens from bribing foreign officials and gives the attorney general responsibility for enforcing the ban
in releasing the memo, one of meese's lawyers, nathan lewin, said in a lengthy statement that ``no one can fairly infer that mr. meese or anyone else reading the document should have understood that there was a `bribe' or `payoff' scheme to obtain the israeli labor party's support for the pipeline project.''
the words `which would be denied everywhere' did not imply illegality of any kind,'' lewin added
the fact that rappaport intended to provide large amounts of financial support to the labor party, or that through some other governmental arrangement the labor party would be receiving indirectly some of the project's proceeds, could cause political embarrassment in israel and was obviously not a matter to be publicized,'' the statement said
mr. wallach frequently used colorful phrases suggesting intrigue and secrecy in his memoranda, even on subjects that were patently innocuous.''
lewin said ``the most reasonable inference'' is that ``bruce rappaport, who had been a substantial financial supporter of the labor party, would be sharing the large amounts of money he would receive as a result of the `oil lifter rights' he held with the government of israel and with the labor party.''
the oil lifter rights placed rappaport in control of the actual production and sale of the oil. in return, rappaport was to make available to israel substantial amounts of the oil generated from the pipeline
iraq eventually backed out of the pipeline project and it was not built
meese has said he doesn't recall reading the reference in the wallach memo to payments to peres' political party. meese declined to comment on the newly released documents at a news conference monday in san diego, calif., where he was attending a meeting of u.s. attorneys
meese's lawyers said they decided to release the material because ``speculation in the media ... has so greatly exceeded reasonable bounds that the usual policy of confidentiality gives the public a misleading impression.''
the documents reveal that wallach was urging meese to take an active role in the project
in a second wallach-meese memo released monday, wallach hinted that meese might speak to secretary of state george shultz about the project and that the involvement of then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane was needed
i know it goes without saying that a discussion of this subject with the president would be most desired, and i would think most effective,'' said wallach
meese's lawyers said the attorney general ``took none of the initiatives suggested by mr. wallach.'' in a note to peres dated oct. 7, 1985, meese referred peres to mcfarlane, saying shultz had removed himself from the matter because he had worked for bechtel group inc., which was planning to build the project. river reservoirs</head>
the supreme court, in a victory for three midwestern states, today limited the secretary of the interior's authority to allocate water stored in missouri river basin reservoirs
the justices ruled unanimously that the interior secretary exceeded his authority when in 1982 he approved a contract authorizing energy transportation systems inc. (etsi) to take water from lake oahe in south dakota for a coal slurry pipeline project
the court, in an opinion written by justice byron r. white, said the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals was correct when in 1986 it ruled that the secretary lacks the power to allocate for industrial use water stored in the river basin reservoirs
the reservoirs are not reclamation projects as defined by a 1944 federal flood control law giving the interior department power to regulate reclamation and irrigation projects, white said
agreeing with the 8th circuit court, white said the army corps of engineers was given primary authority over flood control and navigation under the 1944 act. federal officials had to get permission from the corps of engineers before removing water from lake oahe in 1982, white said
the decision is a victory for officials in missouri, iowa and nebraska, three states in the lower missouri river basin. those states had blocked the now-scraped pipeline project
as envisioned by the interior department, etsi would have moved lake oahe water to wyoming, where it would have been mixed with locally mined coal. the slurry then would have been piped for use in coal-fired steam generating power plants in the southeast
three states in the upper missouri river basin _ north and south dakota and wyoming _ opposed the 8th circuit court's ruling and had supported the reagan administration and etsi. the upper basin states said the appeals court ruling deprived them of using water within their boundaries
when the case was aired before the justices last november, one lawyer portrayed it as a dispute ``between upper and lower basin states.''
the case is etsi pipeline project vs. missouri, 86-939 and 86-941. for senator; original version moved in advance</note>
spring is right around the corner and that can only mean one thing: car dealers putting on an extra push for sales
well, ok, there are other signs of spring, among them the arrival of the first seed catalog, followed by robins and other birds to munch the seeds. but sales by auto dealerships are right up there
the average new car costs more than $12,000 and is generally the second most costly purchase made by americans. and when that much money is involved, some time and effort is called for to get the most for the money
as with most things, be prepared. car salesmen have a lot more practice at selling than most people do at buying, and allowing them to push you into a hasty decision can be a costly error
think in advance about what kind of car you want and how much you can afford to pay, and make a trip to a library to check books and magazines on new car features and prices
shopping around is important to get prices from various dealers, and make notes of the base cost they cite and the extra costs for options plus any dealer charges and other costs
if the car you want isn't available consider ordering one. it may take longer, but you can avoid paying for a lot of options you don't want
and insist on negotiating on the price. check with consumers union, publisher of consumer reports magazine, for car prices. for a charge, cu will provide a printout on any type of auto, citing the dealer's actual cost for the car and options. knowing this information can give you a real negotiating edge
the federal trade commission has put together a new car buying guide for shoppers, which includes a handy worksheet for shoppers to compare prices and options they want. copies of the ``new car buying guide'' are available at no charge from the public reference branch, federal trade commission, 6th street and pennsylvania ave., washington, d.c., 20580
a variety of auto-related booklets are also available from the consumer information center, pueblo, colo., 81009. these include ``buying a used car,' item 440t, 50 cents; ``a consumer's guide to vehicle leasing,'' item 441t, 50 cents, and ``cost of owning and operating autos and vans,'' item 442t, 50 cents
the ftc's new car guide includes a helpful list of price terms that you should know when negotiating. these include:
invoice price: the manufacturer's initial charge to the dealer. this is usually higher than the dealer's final cost because dealers often receive rebates, allowances, discounts and incentive awards. the invoice price always includes freight (also known as destination and delivery). if you are buying a car based on the invoice price, be sure freight is not added to the sales contract
base price: the cost of the car without options, but including the standard equipment, factory warranty and freight
monroney sticker price: this is the price on the label attached to the car window and is required by law. it shows the base price, the manufacturers installed options with the manufacturer suggested retail price, the manufacturer's transportation charge and the fuel economy. this label may not be removed by anyone other than the buyer
the monroney sticker price was named for the late sen. mike monroney, d-okla., who sponsored the legislation requiring it
dealer sticker price: usually on a supplemental sticker, this is the monroney sticker price plus the suggested retail price of dealer-installed options, additional dealer markup, additional dealer profit, dealer preparation and undercoating
congressional auditors said today a very preliminary survey indicates taxpayers are getting correct responses only 61 percent of the time when they telephone tax questions to the internal revenue service
however, the general accounting office, which conducted the survey, acknowledged that it is so incomplete that the results may not be valid
irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs told a house ways and means subcommittee that a much more thorough check, by the irs itself, has found telephone ``assistors'' are giving the correct answer 74.8 percent of the time
we are obviously not satisfied with answering three out of four questions correctly at this time,'' gibbs said. ``we are not, however, totally surprised by our figures . ... the large number of tax law changes this year was bound to challenge our assistors despite our training and planning efforts.''
the commissioner noted that it is not just irs employees who are having trouble finding all the correct answers. he cited a survey of 50 tax professionals who came up with 50 different answers when asked by money magazine to calculate the taxes owed by a hypothetical family
gibbs noted that the 74.8-percent accuracy rate by irs telephone answerers this year compares with a 79-percent mark in a gao survey last year, before most provisions of the landmark 1986 tax overhaul had taken effect
jennie s. stathis, associate director of the gao, an investigative arm of congress, told the subcommittee that ``under the circumstances, we believe irs did a good job in trying to prepare its employees and the taxpaying public for the 1988 filing season.''
she said auditors found that 84 percent of taxpayers who visited irs walk-in facilities for help with their tax returns were satisfied with the assistance and that 74 percent received help within 15 minutes
however, ms. stathis said, the gao found ``the need for irs to improve the accuracy of telephone assistor responses to assure that returns are completed accurately and processed timely
she ackowledged that the gao, in checking the accuracy of irs telephone assistors, had made only 224 calls over six days, and said the results were so preliminary that they could not be projected as an accurate sampling. those calls produced correct responses 61 percent of the time, although 4 percent were not complete
the gao survey is continuing, as is the irs' own effort to check how its employees are doing. in contrast, the irs finding of 74.8 percent accuracy is based on more than 5,000 calls. suspect's id, charges; subs 9th graf, `the man ...,' with 2 grafs to udpate with comment from hostage, delete outdated material.</note>
a drifter shot two plainclothes policemen with one of their guns in a struggle on a downtown street, then took refuge in an office building where he held six hostages before surrendering, police said
police officer ed gorrell, 33, was shot in the head and was in serious condition today after surgery at brooke army medical center, hospital spokesman staff sgt. king lance said
officer onofre serna, 26, suffered a graze to the chest area and was in stable condition at medical center hospital, hospital spokeswoman ruby salazar said
the suspect, identified as david johnson, 28, was charged with two counts of attempted capital murder and was in bexar county jail in lieu of $1 million bond, said police spokesman sgt. paul buske
after the scuffle monday night with the policemen, the gunman ran into a nearby office building and took the hostages, buske said
the officers stopped the individual ... and a struggle ensued. one of the officers lost his weapon. (the suspect) picked up the weapon and several shots were fired,'' buske said
police chief william gibson said the man made no demands when he took the hostages. gibson said he didn't know immediately why the officers stopped him
the gunman fled into the travis park plaza building, took two people hostage on one floor, released them, and then took three other people hostage on the third floor. the three escaped when the gunman walked into another area to take a sixth hostage, buske said
the gunman surrendered to police shortly before 10 p.m., about an hour after he released the last hostage, following talks with police negotiators, said buske
he seemed disoriented at first, despondent, that he had gotten framed,'' hostage jerry renaud said today. ``he said he wasn't there to hurt us. he said he just needed a place to hide out for the night.''
the man was described as a street person by city manager lou fox
my understanding is he (the gunman) had some mental problems and it's your typical downtown problem that we've been faced with,'' fox said
gorrell and serna were part of a downtown foot patrol aimed at deterring street crime; buske described the patrol as effective in combating downtown muggings
last month, a mentally ill homeless man shot and killed a dallas police officer in a downtown parking lot. the killing touched off a wave of public support for police when dallas police chief billy prince blamed some city council members for creating an atmosphere that led to the shooting by criticizing police
a group of legislators has nominated the overseas radio service of the british broadcasting corp. for this year's nobel peace prize
bbc chairman marmaduke hussey announced the nomination of the corporation's external services on tuesday. the bbc said there are at least 100 other nominations from around the world for this year's prize
the nobel peace prize normally is awarded to individuals, but the london-based human rights group amnesty international received it in 1977
the bbc's overseas radio services are headed by the flagship english-language bbc world service and broadcast in 37 languages to an estimated world audience of 120 million
the 22 house of commons legislators, who come from different parties, said in their letter to the oslo-based nobel peace prize committee the nomination was in recognition of the bbc's 55 years of international broadcasting
police arrested 75 people suspected of illegal drug trafficking in this northern city, authorities said tuesday
police chief umberto lucchese said the sweep was made at dawn sunday. he said warrants had also been issued to 27 people already in jail, while police were unable to track down seven others to serve the warrants
police said those arrested were suspected of involvement in small or medium-size drug operations
they said sunday's operation had no connection with the seizure last week of 187 pounds of nearly pure heroin found in two garages in a village just outside verona. police arrested three men in that case
the house foreign affairs committee today approved a resolution of support for el salvador's upcoming elections, but only after lawmakers expressed reservations about the country's human rights record
on a voice vote, the panel approved a resolution noting el salvador's efforts since 1979 to establish a constitutional system that institutionalizes an electoral process, and recognizing the large turnout in 1984 for the election of president jose napoleon duarte, despite threats of violence
the resolution, sent to the full house for a vote, ``expresses confidence that the people of el salvador will reject efforts to disrupt the election'' scheduled for march 20 to select national legislators and local officials
past elections have been plagued by threats of disruption and warnings to voters not to participate made by the leftist farabundo marti national liberation front, which is waging a guerrilla war against the duarte government
the bill was watered down slightly after rep. ted weiss, d-n.y., objected to phrasing flatly stating that el salvador has achieved a system ``which respects human liberties.'' the bill was changed to say only that the country has ``sought to'' establish such a system
give them a little credit for trying, ted,'' said committee chairman dante fascell, d-fla
weiss referred to reports that rightist death squads have resumed their activities in recent months, and noted that the country's judicial system has failed to live up to u.s. hopes
a west german living in denmark applied for political asylum after bonn requested his extradition for neo-nazi activity, a justice ministry spokesman said tuesday
thies christophersen, 70, applied for asylum on the grounds of ``political persecution'' in west germany, said spokesman clas nilas. ``we are presently considering the case according to normal procedures.''
west german authorities submitted an extradition request two weeks ago for christophersen, who has lived in denmark for two years
christophersen has published works saying there were no gas chambers in the nazi concentration camps, no mass murders and no medical experiments on humans
such material is outlawed in west germany, but not in denmark. the justice ministry, however, has expressed willingness to meet the extradition request
christophersen owns a publishing company in the town of kollund just north of the west german border that produces nazi literature. his residence and work permit was extended for five years in september
a federal judge ruled today that a confession by a suspected lebanese shiite terrorist that he had led the 1985 hijacking of a jordanian airliner was illegally obtained by the fbi
u.s. district judge barrington d. parker, who sharply criticized the fbi's interrogation, suppressed the oral and written confessions that fawaz younis made to federal agents following his sept. 13, 1987, arrest in the mediterranean after he was lured aboard an fbi-chartered yacht off cyprus
younis, a former member of the shiite amal militia, is scheduled to stand trial march 22 on charges he had led the june 11, 1985, hijacking of a royal jordanian airliner from beirut international airport
the plane was flown to several points in the mediterranean and destroyed by explosives the next day after passengers and crew were taken off the jetliner
parker ruled that fractures younis suffered on both wrists when he was slammed to the deck of the yacht by fbi agents, plus seasickness, made it impossible for him to waive rationally his rights against self-incrimination
the judge also noted that the fbi deliberately kept younis aboard a navy ammunition ship for four days during which he underwent ``relentless interrogation.''
the defendant's will was overborne by the interrogation and his capacity for self-determination was critically impaired,'' the judge said
the judge sharply criticized the fbi for taking four days to transport younis from the yacht where he was seized to an aircraft carrier from which he was flown to washington for arraignment before a federal magistrate
the slow voyage across the mediterranean appeared to serve only the government's purposes _ ample time to educe a confession. this was a clear abuse of the obligation to bring the defendant before a judiciali officer immediately following his arrest,'' parker said
justice department spokesman patrick korten said the agency had no immediate comment on parker's decision
federal prosecutors have other evidence against younis, including a videotape of him reading a statement to reporters before the plane was blown up at the beirut airport
two americans who were aboard the plane when it was stormed by five gunmen carrying ak-47 assault rifles have identified younis as leader of the hijackers
in addition, the prosecutors will be able to use the testimony of jamal hamdan, a friend of younis who lured him to the fbi-chartered yacht off cyprus on the pretext of completing a drug deal
parker found that younis ``was in an extremely weakened physical condition at the very time when he was explained his rights. in an uncertain physical condition, in an oppressive environment, and subject to relentless interrogation, younis lacked the will necessary to voluntarily waive his rights.''
the judge noted that ``the government had deliberately scheduled four days for the voyage across the mediterranean; four days which younis would be subjected to constant questioning by agents.''
while ruling the confession was illegally obtained, parker dismissed a defense motion that younis's arrest was illegal
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from south dakota to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: caucus
date: saturday, march 12
presidential filing deadline: tuesday, december 29, 1987
non-binding presidential primary: tuesday, february 23
candidates filed: bruce babbitt, michael dukakis, richard gephardt, albert gore, gary hart, jesse jackson, paul simon
pledged delegates: 15
super delegates: 4
total delegates: 19
delegates allocated: saturday, march 12
selection of delegates: saturday, march 12 and saturday, april 23
south dakota democrats choose pledged national convention delegates through a one-tiered caucus system put in place after the national party determined the state's presidential primary was being held in violation of the rules
the primary on feb. 23 will be a non-binding ``beauty contest,'' although state party officials said they would feel bound by honor _ if not by rules _ to honor the wishes of the voters in awarding national convention delegates to presidential candidates
south dakota, which has just one congressional district, will choose 10 congressional-district delegates at a statewide caucus to be held in mitchell on march 12. the party has been compelled to provide bus transportation to any democrat needing a ride to the caucus
the state's remaining five pledged national convention delegates will be picked by the state committee on april 23 and will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the results of march 12 caucus
method: primary
date: tuesday, february 23
presidential filing deadline: tuesday, december 29, 1987
candidates filed: george bush, bob dole, jack kemp, pat robertson, pete du pont, alexander haig
delegates: 18
delegates allocated: tuesday, february 23
selection of delegates: tuesday, february 23
all of south dakota's 18 delegates to the republican national convention will be elected directly from the primary ballot. since the state has one congressional district, all delegates will be elected at-large
delegates will be awarded to presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary. a candidate must receive at least 20 percent of the vote to qualify for any delegates. unrest</head> `ellison testified ...,' with 7 grafs to add more from today's testimony. deletes last graf to tighten</note>
a white supremacist group considered dumping enough cyanide to kill 440,000 people into the water supplies of new york or washington, d.c., to create civil unrest, the group's former leader testified
james b. ellison, a key prosecution witnesses in the trial of 10 men accused of plotting the violent overthrow of the government, said one of the defendants, robert miles, gave him a 30-gallon barrel of cyanide and declared:
the ones who would be killed would not really matter. it would be a good cleansing.''
ellison also testified that in 1983, members of a white supremacist group he led had participated in a murder, robberies and attempts to blow up utility facilities
ellison is serving 20 years for racketeering and weapons violations committed when he led the arkansas-based religious-military group, called the covenant, the sword and the arm of the lord. he was arrested in 1985 after a four-day standoff
ellison, 47, said monday he agreed to cooperate with prosecutors after the government agreed to relocate and give new identities to the two women he considers to be his wives and to his nine children
miles and nine others are charged with conspiracy to overthrow the government by force. the government alleges that they and four others on trial, including aryan nations leader richard butler, espouse white supremacist goals or belong to white supremacist groups
those four, and one of the accused conspirators, are charged with plotting to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent. two are also accused of interstate transportation of stolen money. all the defendants face maximum sentences of 20 years in prison and $20,000 fines on each charge if convicted
returning to the witness stand today, ellison said that richard wayne snell, a member of his group, murdered william stumpp on nov. 11, 1983, in the robbery of a pawn shop that stumpp operated in texarkana, ark
this is what they were doing at that time,'' ellison said, referring to occasional forays involving robberies and attempts to disrupt utilities
ellison said he asked snell later why snell had killed stumpp
he said that he was an evil man, he was a jew, and that he just needed to die,'' ellison testified
snell, one of the defendants in the case, is on death row in arkansas for the murder of stumpp, and is serving a sentence of life without parole for the 1984 slaying of state trooper louis bryant
ellison said the robberies were undertaken because of an agreement made in 1983 at hayden lake, idaho, by himself and leaders of other white-supremacist groups to take action designed to bring down the government so that an all-white state could be established in the nation's northwest
in his testimony monday, ellison described how defendants william wade and his son ray wade solicited the group's help to find and kill u.s. district judge h. franklin waters and fbi special agent jack knox, both of fayetteville
he said the wades wanted to avenge the slaying of a fugitive tax protester, gordon kahl, who was killed along with an arkansas sheriff in a 1983 shootout with federal authorities at a house on land owned by william wade
knox helped prosecute people who harbored kahl, and waters presided over the trial
ellison said ray wade urged that local officials involved in kahl's death ``be hanged publicly from the lamp post there in smithville.''
the idea, ellison said, was to make an example of them so that other officials would not take similar actions
ellison testified that miles, 63, of cohoctah, mich., gave him the barrel of cyanide after ellison participated in a survivalist conference in dearborn, mich., in 1981. ellison said he also received some chemicals to make explosives and rocket propellant
he said he was wary of transporting it, but miles told him, ``you might need it sometime. it will kill a lot of people.'' the government says the cyanide was enough to kill 440,000 people
ellison testified that he, miles and defendants louis ray beam jr., 41, of houston and butler, 69, of hayden lake, idaho, discussed in 1983 using the cyanide to poison the water supplies of new york or washington, d.c., in an attempt to create public unrest and show the government was powerless. wheels; subs penultimate graf, `even though...' to correct that wallach a spokesman sted sponsor of toyota trucks; also moved for pms.</note>
eli wallach has deemed barbra streisand nuts
not exactly. but as dr. herbert a. morrison in the movie, ``nuts,'' wallach portrays a psychiatrist who is truly convinced that claudia draper, a former call girl accused of murder, is insane and therefore must be locked away. streisand, as draper, believes otherwise
as a heavy i am not well liked in the movie,'' wallach said. ``but i approached the character with the conviction that he is a professional and he made this diagnosis based on years of experience. the more this girl rants and raves, the more i am convinced of my diagnosis.''
the consummate professional, wallach has brought to the screen more than 40 years of acting experience
you know, originally i prepared for a teaching career, but due to several circumstances i missed the exam,'' he said. ``so i decided to do what i most wanted to do and that was to act.''
he began his career with a scholarship to the neighborhood playhouse in new york and made his first appearance in the equity library production of tennessee williams' ``this property is condemned.''
this became an important turning point in wallach's life, for the only other performer in the show happened to be the actress, anne jackson, who later became his wife
wallach made his broadway debut in 1945 in ``skydrift'' a short-lived production. but soon thereafter, he was cast in the broadway production of ``mister roberts,'' which starred henry fonda and ran for two years
he then went on to receive a tony award for tennesse williams' ``the rose tattoo.''
it's a shame that shows have become so expensive here in new york, because we would have less problems if everybody were able to go to the theater _ rich, poor, black, white, minorities _ everbody,'' he said
theater is not a luxury but a necessity, for theater helps people understand the human condition.''
this belief in the power of theater to reach out to people has led wallach through many plays in his long career, including ``camino real,'' ``henry viii,'' ``antony and cleopatra,'' ``waltz of the toreadors,'' ``luv'' and ``the teahouse of the august moon.''
wallach's movie career began with elia kazan's debut as a director in ``baby doll'' in 1956, for which he won britain's highest film acting honor
i used to sneer at the screen,'' wallach said, ``then i realized how hard it is
a movie has many layers _ the director wields the baton and i play the instrument. although it's a lot of hard work, i have fun and that's important
let me tell you this,'' he continued. ``the most important things in life are the right partner and your work. if you find a lifelong partner and you love your work, you are a most fortunate person.''
the 72-year-old wallach has indeed been fortunate. he and jackson have raised two daughters and a son. he has also appeared in aproximately 50 motion pictures since ``baby doll.'' he is most recognized for his role in the spaghetti western, ``the good, the bad and the ugly.''
people all over the world still come up to me on the streets and mention that movie with clint eastwood,'' he said
his other films include ``the magnificent seven,'' ``the misfits,'' ``how the west was won,'' ``cinderella liberty,'' ``the deep'' and ``tough guys.''
his most recent tv appearances include ``the executioner's song'' and an hbo movie, ``the impossible spy.''
even though he's busy with films and television _ he's also a spokesman for toyota trucks _ he still manages to keep one foot in the theater
i am like a farmer who rotates his crops, i always allocate a certain period of my time to go back to my roots _ the theater.''
president yoweri museveni reshuffled his cabinet for the second time since coming to power in 1986 and created three new posts for deputy prime ministers, radio uganda reported tuesday
the state-owned radio gave no reason for the shake-up, in which museveni kept on all 44 ministers, but transferred 32 of them to new posts
among those receiving new portfolios was stanislas okurut, the former minister of culture, sports and youth, who has not been heard from since his kidnapping two months ago by rebels in eastern uganda. okurut was named minister of labor
the new deputy prime ministers are former minister of state eriya kategaya, former foreign affairs minister paul ssemogerere, and former minister of internal affairs abubakar mayanja. samson kisekka retained his post as prime minister
museveni seized power in this east african nation in january 1986 after leading a five-year bush war. his first cabinet reshuffle was in november 1986
the week's campaign marked something of a break between new hampshire's intensive leadoff primary a week ago and the highly visible southern contests ahead
but for dole, it marked an opportunity to demonstrate strength on the heels of his new hampshire loss, and he taunted the vice president for not competing
i don't know where george bush is,'' he said in duluth. ``we're going to send him a map of minnesota so at least he gets a little idea where it is.''
but bush's aides wanted no part of two states so close to iowa, where the vice president finished a humbling third in caucuses two weeks ago. instead the vice president spent his time in south carolina, which votes on march 5, and in several super tuesday states
dole enjoyed the support of sen. larry pressler and gov. george mickelson and was a prohibitive favorite in south dakota
he looked for a boost from minnesota, as well, but sounded less confident of a victory there
party officials said minnesota was tailor-made for a robertson surprise, noting his earlier success in organizational contests such as iowa, where he finished a surprising second, and in hawaii, which he won. robertson also was well known in the state because his one-time television program was viewed widely
kemp, his candidacy on the ropes after a weak third place finish in new hampshire, purchased television advertising at the last minute in south dakota. his aides conceded in advance that minnesota looked like a lost cause because of robertson's presumed strength
among the democrats, new hampshire primary winner dukakis dreamed of a two-state sweep midwestern sweep that would clearly establish him as a candidate with national appeal
his rivals said he spent a fortune organizing minnesota, leaving gephardt, jackson and simon in his wake
south dakota was another story _ and a heated one
gephardt, anxious for a victory, aired television commercials attacking the governor. the missouri congressman also won the endorsement of sen. tom daschle, and rushed a commercial onto the air trumpeting the news
dukakis responded with a late radio advertisement responding to the attacks and pointing out that gephardt accepts political action committee campaign funds
gore also invested in television advertising in south dakota to redeem his earlier declaration that he needed to demonstrate strength outside the south
despite his initial statement that he needed a win this week to stay in the race, simon changed course and vowed to fight for the ``heart and soul'' of the democratic party until the convention. his aides conceded no victories were likely in either minnesota or south dakota
jackson made little effort in south dakota, but worked hard in minnesota in hopes of matching his double-digit showing in the iowa caucuses next door
hart said in advance he would stay in the race no matter where he finished
british travelers will no longer need a visa to visit the united states next year, officials of both countries said tuesday
the decision soothes a long-standing british irritation, since britain does not require u.s. visitors to have similar visas
officials said the change is part of a pilot program to drop visa requirements for eight countries, beginning with britain and japan. they would not identify the other six
there are a number of technical issues to be settled but we hope the new arrangement can come into force at the turn of the year,'' said a spokesman for britain's foreign office, speaking anonymously in keeping with british custom
a u.s. embassy official said less than 2 percent of british and japanese visitors cause problems on u.s. visits, such as abusing the length of stay
when the program is implemented, british travelers will be required to have only a valid passport and a return ticket and can stay in the united states for a maximum of 90 days. they will still be required to apply for a visa to work or live in the united states
the u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, that last year the embassy issued 690,000 non-immigrant visas to britons. he said the number of british visitors was even higher because some traveled on multiple-entry visas
this year, the embassy expects to process 900,000 such visas, he said. contempt, picking up 7th graf pvs, `on monday ...</note>
a four-day sickout by 110 providence firefighters ended today when the firefighters returned to work after being threatened with contempt of court
but 35 of the firefighters were cited with contempt anyway by superior court judge americo campanella because they did not show up in court monday to explain why they were absent over the weekend
campanella said there was no evidence that the firefighters had not acted in concert to stay off the job in violation of a back-to-work order issued saturday by another judge. he said he would decide on penalties at a later time
the city had asked for the contempt citations even though the sickout was over in order to prevent something similar from happening in the future, said city labor attorney vincent ragosta jr. state law prohibits public safety employees from striking
everything's back to normal,'' fire chief michael f. moise said today
eighty-seven firefighters who reported for duty friday evening were kept on the job during the sickout over a contract dispute. no major fires occurred in the city during the four-day period
on monday, campanella postponed a hearing after ragosta and leo j. miller, president of the providence firefighters union, indicated that relatively few members of the union had been notified of the temporary restraining order issued by another superior court judge at the city's request saturday
miller testified he was only able to reach about half the 50 firefighters scheduled to work sunday
ragosta said the city served notices of the restraining order on 129 firefighters. another 36 were notified of monday's contempt hearing
the union represents 450 of the city's total uniformed force of 479
the dispute apparently concerns language in a contract ratified by firefighters in december that the city has yet to sign
miller asserts the city is trying to renege on a provision that calls for an officer to be placed in charge of each rescue unit. union members also complain that promises to replace worn-out or damaged equipment like boots, helmets and firecoats have not been fulfilled
all but one of the 51 firefighters scheduled to report for work at 8 a.m. saturday called in sick, moise testified monday. sixty others called in sick for the shift that was supposed to begin at 6 a.m. sunday, moise said
gov. evan mecham is as stubborn as a mule and can't govern the state, former sen. barry goldwater said today as he became honorary chairman man of john rhodes' republican gubernatorial bid
goldwater, who backed mecham, a fellow republican, during the 1986 campaign, said at a news conference today that the endorsement was a mistake
he screwed up too much ... he turned out wrong,'' goldwater told reporters
you look back over all the governors that we've had in this state,'' said the senator, who has been considered the patriarch of the arizona gop. ``we''ve had some darn good ones and we've had some mediocre ones, but it took us a long time to get a really bad one.''
nonetheless, goldwater said mecham will be difficult to beat in the may 17 recall election because he still has a strong core of support despite the governor's indictment on criminal charges and upcoming impeachment trial
rhodes, a former 30-year congressman, will face mecham and democrat carolyn warner in the recall vote
goldwater contended mecham was too wrapped up in defending himself against the impeachment and criminal charges during recent months to spend much time governing the state
mecham gave up the acting governorship to democrat rose mofford when he was impeached on feb. 5. his senate trial is scheduled to begin monday on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
even if he could solve his legal problems, however, goldwater said he does not believe mecham can govern the state
he is a very obstinate man,'' goldwater said. ``i used to drive mules and he's a lot like a mule.''
goldwater said he doesn't see much difference between rhodes and mrs. warner, except that he believes rhodes has more experience
hank williams jr., country music's rowdy outlaw, and gentle ex-frycook and grammy nominee randy travis swept today's academy of country music nominations
williams, last year's acm entertainer of the year, and travis, who swept the awards show in 1987 with four trophies, will face each other in entertainer of the year, top male vocalist, single song, album and video categories
the surprise was the poor showing of the multiple grammy nominee ``trio'' album, which got the academy's best album nomination but no other mention for singers dolly parton, linda ronstadt and emmylou harris
williams led with six nominations. travis had five and gentleman cowboy george strait had four, including top male vocalist, single, song and album nominations
other multiple nominees included perennial favorite alabama and newcomers k.t. oslin and ricky van shelton with three each, and the bellamy brothers, crystal gayle, the judds, reba mcentire and restless heart with two apiece
the nominees were announced during a news conference at the hollywood roosevelt hotel. ballots go into the mail to about 2,500 academy members this week, and finalists will be announced during a nationally televised two-hour nbc-tv special march 21 from knott's berry farm in buena park
the show will be hosted by williams and miss mcentire
in addition to williams and travis in the entertainer of the year category are alabama, miss mcentire and willie nelson
in the male vocalist category, williams, travis and strait are joined by ronnie milsap and steve wariner
female vocalist contenders include rosanne cash, miss gayle, miss mcentire, tanya tucker and kathy mattea
miss gayle is also in the top vocal duet category with gary morris. other contenders are foster &amp; lloyd, sweethearts of the rodeo, the bellamy brothers and the judds
the top vocal group category includes alabama, exile, highway 101, restless heart and the oakridge boys
williams' ``born to boogie'' lp got him nominations for best single, song and album of the year. travis' ``forever and ever, amen'' got nods for best single and song and his lp ``always and forever'' got him an album of the year nomination
also in the top album category is ``heart land'' by the judds and ``oceanfront property'' by strait
other top single contenders are strait's ``all my ex's live in texas,'' restless heart's ``i'll still be loving you,'' and van shelton's ``somebody lied.''
other best song nominees are miss oslin's ``80's ladies'' and van shelton's ``somebody lied.''
in the best new artist category, female contenders include miss oslin, nanci griffith, libby hurley, k.d. lang and dana mcvicker. male nominees are van shelton, larry boone, marty haggard, lyle lovett, and jo-el sonnier
in the video category, which is voted by the academy's board of directors, contenders include miss oslin's ``80's ladies,'' travis' ``forever and ever, amen,'' williams' ``my name is bo cephus,'' the bellamy brothers' ``santa fe,'' dwight yoakam's ``little sister'' and alabama's ``tartop.''
indian troops shot and killed 20 tamil civilians tuesday after four soldiers died in a ambush by tamil rebels, sri lankan military officials said
the civilians were killed after an indian army officer and three soldiers died in the ambush in kuthukudiuppu, a northeastern village in the mullaitivu district about 173 miles northeast of colombo, the officials said
the sri lankan officials could not be identified in accordance with briefing rules
a spokeswoman for the indian high commission, or embassy, denied any tamil civilians were killed. she said the body of one tamil rebel was recovered and at least 10 more rebels were believed killed
authorities clamped an indefinite curfew on the district after the violence broke out, the sri lankan officials said. they said there were reports of heavy air activity by indian troops
more than 45,000 indian troops are stationed in sri lanka to disarm tamil militants opposed to a peace accord signed last july, which grants some autonomy to minority tamils. the tamils constitute 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people
tamils say they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese, who control the government and the army
the most powerful tamil rebel group, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, has been battling indian troops since last october in the northern and eastern provinces, where most of the tamils live
also on tuesday, sinhalese extremists stabbed a police constable and a security officer guarding an injured sinhalese militant inside the colombo general hospital, a police spokesman said. he said both victims were in serious condition
the attackers are believed to be members of the people's liberation front, an ultra-nationalist organization of the majority sinhalese people that also opposes the peace accord. they escaped with their injured comrade
on monday, liberation front members raided a sri lankan army camp northeast of colombo, killing two soldiers. the attackers escaped with two chinese-made t-56 automatic rifles and 120 rounds of ammunition
the group has vowed to kill anyone who supports the indian-sri lankan accord, claiming it grants too many concessions to the tamils. sinhalese extremists already have killed more than 150 people since the accord was signed
last year, attackers believed to be members of the liberation front killed a popular sri lankan film stars and politician, vijaya kumaranatunga, who supported the peace pact. with dnc has ended and to include material on second vote being compiled on caucus night.</note>
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from minnesota to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: caucus
date: tuesday, february 23
presidential filing deadline: none
pledged delegates: 78
super delegates: 9
total delegates: 87
delegates allocated: tuesday, february 23
selection of delegates: sunday, may 1 and sunday, june 12
minnesota democrats plan to pick national convention delegates through a four-tier caucus-convention system, beginning with precinct caucuses on feb 23. the precinct caucuses will elect delegates to the county conventions, which elect delegates to the congressional district and state conventions
under an agreement reached with the national party, the results of the presidential preference vote at the precinct caucuses will not be tabulated until march 8. this was to end a confrontation over the state's insistence on holding its leadoff event on feb. 23, two weeks earlier than allowed by national party rules
the two sides remained at odds until a few weeks ago over a plan by minnesota's secretary of state to compile a poll of the presidential preferences of delegates elected to the county conventions. the state democratic party has agreed it would lend no help to conducting the poll on precinct caucus night. those figures, which technically have no binding effect, were to be gathered by thousands of volunteers recruited by the secretary of state
the state's 51 pledged national convention delegates from congressional districts will be chosen and allocated at the congressional district conventions scheduled for april 29-may 1
the rest of the state's 27 pledged delegates will be chosen and allocated among presidential candidates at the state party convention june 10-12
former vice president walter mondale, the democratic presidential nominee in 1984, automatically will be seated as a delegate because of his position as a former party leader
method: caucus
date: tuesday, february 23
presidential filing deadline: none
delegates: 31
delegates allocated: friday, april 15 and thursday, june 16
selection of delegates: friday, april 15 and thursday, june 16
minnesota republicans begin the four-step process of picking national convention delegates with precinct caucuses on feb. 23
participants in the caucuses elect delegates to county conventions to be held between march 5-26. these conventions pick delegates to the congressional district conventions to be held between april 15-may 7; and to the state convention to be held june 16-18
the eight congressional district conventions each will choose three delegates to the national convention. the state convention will choose minnesota's remaining seven delegates at-large
minnesota gop rules do not require that participants in the state caucuses or conventions bind themselves to any presidential candidate
officials have a big selling job to do in this improverished town if 30 families are to get new homes, the mayor says
the families living in old shacks, rusting trailers and leaning houses on tchula's north side are to get new homes in about a year, but mayor david cotten says it is going to be hard to convince some that officials are trying to improve their quality of life and not swindle them
they're scared and you can't blame them,'' cotten said. ``the most devastating thing to fight is ignorance.''
cotten and u.s. rep. mike espy were on hand monday for a ground-breaking ceremony on the site of a burned-out house in the middle of a four-block strip targeted for revitalization
we're going to be tearing these down,'' cotten said of the stretch of homes. ``but this a drop in the bucket. we want to change the face of tchula. we want everyone to be a homeowner.''
when farmworkers are idle, unemployment in the central mississippi town of 2,000 can reach 85 percent, cotten said. poor housing conditions are easily visible from the road
with a $695,832 community development block grant _ federal money allocated by the state _ city and state officials are to begin razing some homes in march and refurbishing others. in place of the homes to be torn down, 30 new single-family dwellings will be built
residents who already own their land and homes will get the new homes free, and renters will have a chance to buy homes through low-interest programs, cotten said
the city also will use the money to pay half the rent of displaced homeowners during the renovations
lillie may brooks, 67, who lives alone in a home just a few feet from where ground was broken for the first new house, was suspicious of the plans
this house belongs to me and i don't want my house torn down,'' said brooks as she sat on her porch. ``this house suits me all right.''
another resident, jesse riley, watched curiously from the road while officials spoke
can they really take someone's home?'' he asked a bystander. ``it's nice but i don't see why they should take people's property.''
the mayor said many will change their minds as they understand the program
we have a lot of people here with no education,'' cotten said. ``there are many who think you're going to steal their land.''   
energy secretary john herrington told a house subcommittee tuesday he had been dealt a low blow by interior secretary donald p. hodel through hodel's interpretation of why herrington opposes one of hodel's ideas
herrington recommended that the panel not consider hodel's request for funds for what he called the ``frivolous'' idea of removing the o'shaughnessy dam in hetch hetchy valley in california's yosemite national park and draining the reservoir behind the dam
the dam provides three-quarters of san francisco's water. the city earns about $38 million a year selling water and electricity from the reservoir
rep. sidney yates, d-ill., chairman of the house appropriations interior subcommittee, said he found hodel's idea ``strange,'' and he had been ``shocked if not surprised'' that hodel proposed it last year
yates read the opening paragraph of a news article about the feud between the two cabinet secretaries describing hodel's belief that herrington was opposing removal of the dam because herrington was concerned about what it would do to his job prospects in california
that's a low blow, isn't it?'' yates said
it really is,'' herrington replied
what about this job you're going to get?'' yates asked
i don't know who fabricated that,'' herrington said
hodel has said the hetch hetchy valley, filled by the reservoir from 1913 to 1923, could relieve some of the visitor pressure on yosemite valley, which attracts more than 2 million people a year. he has said the project could not be begun for years, but is asking for $600,000 in his budget for further studies
yates asked herrington, ``your recommendation to this committee would be not to consider an appropriation which would result in a change in the status of hetch hetchy?''
herrington replied, ``that's my recommendation.''
as energy secretary, i am concerned about destroying an infrastructure that produces a substantial amount of electricity,'' he added
the generating capacity _ about 150 megawatts _ eventually will have to be replaced, ``and i just don't think enough thought has been given to the economic consequences,'' herrington said
herrington said his department estimated that removal of the dam and restoration of the valley could cost $5 billion to $6 billion, ``a lot of money for a frivolous idea.''
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken tuesday by the supreme court

security clearances

the court limited the job protection for government workers fired for lacking security clearances
by a 5-3 vote, the justices agreed with the reagan administration that the merit systems protection board lacks authority to decide whether the denial of security clearance is justified
the case is navy vs. egan, 86-1552

criminal identification

the court ruled that a criminal suspect's rights are not violated when a witness who is unable to identify the suspect in court testifies about an earlier identification of the accused
the justices, voting 6-2, ordered the reinstatement of the conviction of a california prison inmate in the beating of a prison guard who suffered memory loss because of the attack
the case is u.s. vs. owens, 86-877

pension funds

the court ruled that businesses may not be sued in federal court for refusing to contribute to multi-employer union pension funds after a collective bargaining agreement expires
in an 8-0 ruling, the court rejected reagan administration arguments that barring lawsuits in such cases could undermine the solvency of the multi-employer pension plans
the case is welfare trust fund vs. advanced lightweight concrete, 85-2079

gulf coast

the court, rejecting claims by private landowners, ruled that the state of mississippi owns thousands of acres of oil- and gas-rich land near the state's gulf coast
by a 5-3 vote, the justices said states may claim title to land beneath waters subject to the tie's influence _ and not only land under navigable waters
the case is phillips petroleum vs. mississippi, 86-870

missouri river basin

the court, in a victory for three midwestern states, today limited the secretary of the interior's authority to allocate water stored in missouri river basin reservoirs
the justices ruled unanimously that the interior secretary exceeded his authority when in 1982 he approved a contract authorizing energy transportation systems inc. (etsi) to take water from lake oahe in south dakota for a coal slurry pipeline project
the case is etsi pipeline project vs. missouri, 86-939 and 86-941
afghan insurgents announced plans tuesday to replace the communist regime with an islamic government, which they said would promote peace and ensure the safe withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan
the guerrilla alliance said the civil war would not end until such a government was established to guide the way to a nation called ``the islamic state of afghanistan.''
president najib responded that a new government should be formed after the soviets withdraw, and is a matter for ``afghans alone.''
kabul radio quoted najib as saying: ``no one can direct the afghans on this ... or give their views.''
his comments appeared to reflect the government's position that the issue of a coalition government should be settled within afghanistan, not by guerrilla leaders in neighboring pakistan
afghan guerrillas began fighting after a communist coup in april 1978 and soviet soldiers entered the country in december 1979. an estimated 115,000 now are in the country helping fight the insurgents
on feb. 8, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev offered to begin withdrawing troops may 15 if pakistan and afghanistan reach agreement by march 15 in u.n.-sponsored negotiations that resume in geneva next week. he said the pullout could be accompalished in 10 months
islamic unity, an alliance of seven guerrilla groups, announced its plans for a government in a statement telexed from the border city of peshawar, pakistan, calling for a 28-member cabinet to replace najib's government
it said the government would consist of 14 ministers from the guerrilla leadership, seven representatives of afghan refugees and ``seven moslems presently living in kabul.''
insurgent leaders have said the moslems in kabul would include non-communists in the current administration who have not been closely involved in the war
in a separate statement, alliance leader yunis khalis said: ``as long as a single communist remains in power in kabul, the regime will have to face the mujahedeen resistance. until we have established an islamic government, we will never lay down our arms.''
about 3.5 million afghan refugees live in pakistan. most are in border cities and camps that serve as bases and supply points for the guerrillas known as mujahedeen, or holy warriors
the alliance statement said a ``supreme council'' would be the government's highest body and oversee the cabinet. its members would be leaders of the seven-party alliance based in pakistan, who would provide ``joint leadership during the interim period'' after moving to kabul
this government is proposed to replace the present regime in kabul before the signing of the geneva accords under the auspices of the united nations,'' and would ``represent all sections of the afghan nation,'' the announcement said
it said the chief cabinet minister also would be the head of state, but it did not say who would hold the post or name proposed cabinet members
another organ of government would be a consultative council of 75 members _ two from each of the 28 provinces and 19 moslem religious scholars, intellectuals and technocrats, the statement said. it said the council would make interim laws to apply until a new constitution was written
provincial councils would be in charge of regional affairs
the statement said an independent election commission would supervise the election of a constituent assembly immediately after the soviet withdrawal
in ``the islamic state of afghanistan,'' the statement said, ``the koran and sunnah (teachings and practices of the prophet mohammed) will be supreme.'' it said the country would be governed by an elected head of state and legislative assembly
a federal judge has ordered an investigation into why a doctor waited two months to disclose that one of three hemophiliac brothers exposed to the aids virus had been diagnosed with aids-related complex
u.s. district judge elizabeth kovachevich said in a court order monday that she has ``grave concerns'' with dr. jerry barbosa's statements to the press that he withheld the diagnosis out of respect for the privacy of the family of clifford and louise ray
in a medical report filed feb. 12, barbosa said ricky, 11 and the oldest of the brothers, was diagnosed with arc, aids-related complex
barbosa, a physician at all children's hospital in st. petersburg, told the st. petersburg times that he knew of the diagnosis in december but didn't report it out of concern for the rays' privacy, the times said tuesday
i left out a number of things on purpose,'' the times quoted the doctor as saying
in her order, ms. kovachevich asked a magistrate to find out what the doctor told a times reporter and who was aware of barbosa's ``intentional omissions from the medical reports and when they were aware of the omissions.''
in addition, she said she wanted to know whether attorneys told the court any contradictory medical information and whether an independent doctor should be appointed
last august, the judge ordered the desoto county school board to reinstate the three ray boys _ ricky, robert and randy. the brothers, all hemophiliacs, were barred from class after they tested positive for antibodies associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome
during a hearing last summer, doctors said the boys probably were contaminated through plasma products used to clot their blood and showed no symptoms of having the disease
the aids virus can remain dormant for years. arc is found when the virus causes a set of symptoms that usually are considered a precursor to aids
barbosa said in his feb. 12 report that ricky's condition appeared to be stable. the boy has been treated with azt, an anti-aids drug
the ray boys' medical records are supposed to be on public file as a condition of the august injunction that returned them to school. the family, however, fled desoto county a week after classes began because of a parental boycott, bomb threats that emptied the school and a deliberate blaze that destoyed their home
they now live in sarasota, where the boys enrolled in school without objection from school officials, although some parents objected
aids is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. it is spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
u.s. ambassador to ireland margaret heckler prayed at the churchyard where her grandparents are buried and visited the cottage where her father lived before he emigrated to the united states
the visit by mrs. heckler was supposed to be a secret, but people in ballysteen, a village of 200 people near the river shannon 14 miles west of limerick, found out in time to spruce up the ancestral cottage
in the tiny two-bedroom house, mrs. heckler, who has been ambassador to ireland for two years, found a loaf of home-baked bread, scones and tea laid out on the table by the villagers
limerick county council chairman paddy sheehy, who happens to be mrs. heckler's cousin, greeted her when she arrived, and the local folk music band regaled her with songs of welcome
it's a moment i've long waited to cherish,'' said mrs. heckler, 56. ``it's fascinating to see the country roads where my family once walked and to see the hills where they probably once roamed.''
mrs. heckler, a former congresswoman from massachusetts, served as the federal secretary for health and human services before being posted to dublin in january 1986
american rock star tina turner arrived here tuesday for two performances this week, accompanied by an eight-piece band and 10 tons of equipment
turner, with four grammy and two american music awards to her credit, said that she plans to concentrate on acting, which means she can't keep traveling at the same time
however, the 48-year-old singer said, she will try to satisfy her rock fans by continuing to do recordings and television specials
motherhood makes amy irving pine to play the title role in ``the taming of the shrew,'' the actress says in the march issue of vogue
since i had (3-year-old) max, my work has changed. there's less naivete to it,'' said irving, 34. ``i'm not being sent the sweet young thing parts any more.''
now, she wants to conquer a roster of illustrious roles. ``i want to play the shrew, all the shaw women. i want to do a st. joan,'' she said
when ms. irving is working, her husband, director steven spielberg, stays home with their son. when spielberg is on location, the family goes with him.  
faye dunaway, divorced from british photographer terry o'neill and back in new york after living for several years in england, says she's found new satisfaction in living alone
i am happier now than i've ever been, more centered on who i am and what i want to do, and much less dependent on whoever's around and whatever their opinions are,'' the actress says in an interview in the march issue of vogue magazine
her return to america came with the movie ``barfly,'' a film about the life of writer charles bukowski and shot in seedy locations around los angeles
speaking of her role, played opposite mickey rourke, she says, ``i found myself at a place in my life, and there was wanda at the same place
that's what i want _ to connect in my work with who i actually am. god knows i've had a lot of artifice,'' she says. ``i don't want to play any larger-than-life monsters, grotesques. i don't want to play any more queens.''
miss dunaway, who lives with her 7-year-old son, said she's not ready to make any long-term commitments in her private life
britain's princess anne met with president yoweri museveni and visited hospitals and health clinics tuesday, hours after arriving on the start of a 12-day swing through east africa
the 37-year-old princess, queen elizabeth ii's only daughter, is visiting hospitals and clinics in uganda, mozambique and somalia established by the save the children fund
the princess, who has been president of the international charity since 1971, is the first member of britain's royal family to visit this former british colony in 23 years
former defense secretary caspar weinberger became an honorary knight tuesday, joining the illustrious ranks of the defenders of queen elizabeth ii's realm
the queen herself bestowed the medals on weinberger in a simple ceremony at buckingham palace, but it doesn't mean he can call himself ``sir caspar.'' ``caspar weinberger gbe'' will have to do
in recommending him for the highest royal honor britain gives to foreigners, prime minister margaret thatcher's government was thanking weinberger for his defense of british interests, especially during the 1982 falkland islands war with argentina, when washington provided britain with crucial intelligence and logistics support
but the unassuming weinberger professed amazement at the accolade. when a reporter asked why he thought he had received it, he replied: ``i haven't the faintest idea.''
weinberger skipped the pomp and pageantry of a public investiture at buckingham palace, in which the queen would have placed a ribbon of medals over his head before an audience of hundreds
instead, he chose a 25-minute private audience with the queen attended only by his wife, jane, and foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe, who had recommended him for the honorary knighthood
as a foreigner, weinberger didn't have to bow or scrape before the queen
her majesty was nice enough just to present it to me,'' he said, pointing to the blue box he was holding
weinberger opened it for photographers, showing them the gold cross of the order of the british empire and the silver star of a knight grand cross, the highest order of chivalry for a foreigner. he did not put them on
i'm very honored, very pleased and still very astonished,'' said weinberger, who retired nov. 5 after nearly seven years as president reagan's defense chief
when the award was announced on feb. 1, reporters asked 70-year-old weinberger whether he was ready to be called ``sir cap.'' he replied: ``good god, no! our constitution has some harsh words about titles. but i really am flattered.''
actually, the title of ``sir'' is reserved for british subjects
weinberger was the 56th american to receive an honorary knighthood but only the second to receive a gbe. the other knight grand cross was awarded in 1976 to hugh bullock, president and chairman of pilgrims of the usa, an anglo-american friendship society
other americans who have been made knights of the british empire, a lower rank of chivalry, include president dwight d. eisenhower, former secretary of state dean rusk, industrialist henry ford ii, philanthropists paul mellon and john paul getty ii, actors douglas fairbanks jr. and sidney poitier and former sen. j. william fulbright, d-ark., who headed the senate foreign relations committee
the foreign office said weinberger was being knighted for his ``outstanding and invaluable contribution'' to anglo-american defense cooperation, especially his ``unfailing support and assistance'' during britain's 74-day campaign to oust argentina's invasion force from the falklands
weinberger refused to say whether the queen had spoken about the falklands or defense. ``she was very gracious as always and very generous in her remarks,'' he said, without elaborating
the private meeting took place in the queen's audience room, where the 61-year-old monarch has weekly talks with mrs. thatcher and occasionally meets other officials. it contains a piano and the blue walls are filled with paintings including two canalettos and two gainsboroughs
weinberger, who counts winston churchill among his heroes, has longstanding ties to britain
he made his debut as a british television commentator in december, when the treaty which he helped secure eliminating shorter- and medium-range missiles was signed, and he will be spending four weeks this summer as a distinguished visiting professor at edinburgh university
asked whether the honorary knighthood had made him more of an anglophile, weinberger replied: ``well, it's hard to be not.''
he then drove off with his wife to celebrate at a luncheon given by u.s. ambassador charles price ii
a judge has temporarily blocked enforcement in new york state of a federal regulation denying funds to family planning agencies that make abortion referrals
u.s. district court judge lewis stanton granted attorney general robert abrams a temporary injunction friday in its attempt to block the government from cutting funds to agencies that tell clients where they can obtain abortions
the regulation, issued earlier this year to cover title x of the public health services act of 1970, also is being challenged in other states. it was supposed to take effect march 3
city health commissioner dr. stephen joseph has called the regulation ``the worst set of federal guidelines i've seen in 25 years'' and said it would ``spread the aids virus in our community'' by barring women with aids from having abortions
the u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles from europe won't hurt u.s. efforts to provide high-tech military help to nato, the chief u.s. negotiator said tuesday
this treaty does not prohibit the transfer of technology,'' maynard glitman testified before the senate armed services committee
glitman's detailed analysis was part of a thorough examination of the pact signed 10 weeks ago by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. the treaty will eliminate all nuclear-tipped missiles with ranges of about 300 to 3,000 miles
committee members say the detailed scrutiny is needed because of disputes about the meaning of past treaties, particularly the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
the current treaty is being considered by the senate amid a fight between the democratic-controlled congress and the reagan administration over the precise meaning of the 1972 pact and whether it banned futuristic weapons such as those being developed under the strategic defense initiative
article 14 of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty says neither side shall do anything, now or in the future, to undercut the pact
sen. dan quayle, r-ind., told glitman that ``i'm concerned about article 14'' because it might limit future u.s. help to other nato nations
if we don't spell out what the future obligations are,'' said quayle, ``down the road i can foresee some problems ... now is the time to give us as much running room as possible in the future for our technology.''
but glitman took the opposite approach, noting that the treaty is extremely specific in spelling out prohibited weapons, along with their components
if it is not prohibited by the treaty, we can do it,'' said glitman. later, he added that ``we're best protected by stating what we cannot do.''
glitman said the voluminous negotiating record is the best defense against future disputes about what is, and is not, covered by the treaty
he opposed suggestions by quayle and other senators that some type of amendment is needed to clarify article 14
the section is a standard clause which has been added to other treaties and it simply restates the intention of both nations to abide by the pact, glitman said
glitman cited one method in which he said u.s. aid to nato would not be affected. the treaty bans cruise missiles, he said, but it doesn't block the transfer of u.s. technology to nato nations such as great britain to develop cruise missiles
glitman said the u.s. negotiating team resisted soviet efforts to block u.s. help for nato. ``we knew their goal was to find a way to put a brake on nato activities,'' he said
reagan promised tuesday that the united states will do its part to ensure that the nato alliance remains strong, saying in an address broadcast to europe that ``our destiny is coupled with yours.''
in the address, which came a week before a nato summit meeting, reagan reaffirmed the alliance agreement that an attack on any member nation is an attack against all of them. ``simply put, an attack on munich is the same as an attack on chicago,'' he said. last 5 grafs pvs to trim.</note>
a top fbi official admitted today that some agents came ``very close'' to conducting a political investigation of anti-reagan activists, but denied they intended to do so or received any instructions from the reagan administration
oliver b. revell, executive assistant director, told a senate panel there were legitimate reasons to investigate the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador, including possible links with salvadoran-based terrorists, and discussions by cispes members of committing violent acts
the investigation was closed down without any charges being filed, and the bureau has now begun an investigation of its agents' conduct. cispes has said it was investigated because it opposes president reagan's central america policies
several members of the senate intelligence committee told revell they remained skeptical of the fbi information that triggered the investigation in march 1983 and fueled it until it closed in june 1985
sen. arlen specter, r-pa., the former district attorney of philadelphia, said he has ``grave questions'' about revell's justifications, adding ``you have to proceed on the basis of tangible hard facts and evidence'' _ which he indicated were lacking in this case
revell, noting this was a terrorism investigation, testily replied that if the fbi always waited ``until there was tangible evidence, you would have been picking up the pieces of the bombs.''
documents previously released in the probe show that fbi agents and informants sent to spy on cispes collected so much information on peaceful protest activities that bureau headquarters was worried that the investigation had gone too far
the documents, released under the freedom of information act, have shown that while the investigation was targeted at cispes, the files eventually included information on hundreds of other individuals and groups, ranging from roman catholic nuns to union leaders who opposed reagan policies
revell said that more than a year after the investigation began, top fbi officials warned field offices about investigating legitimate political activity, beause they ``sensed'' the conduct of some agents was ``very close to the line.''
we may have seen some wavering over that line,'' he said, but maintained that the investigation was legitimate under the fbi's foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence guidelines
he flatly denied that the administration ever tried to influence the investigation, commenting, ``there's been absolutely no contact by anyone in the administration concerning tasking, opening or closing of the investigation.''
in defending the probe, revell testified that in addition to possible violence, cispes was involved in circulating forged u.s. documents and had strong ties to the u.s. communist party
some have insinuated that this investigation was politically motivated as many individuals associated with cispes were opposed to reagan administration policies in central america,'' revell said. ``nothing could be further from the truth
we did find indications that some cispes members were at least discussing and planning violence. our investigtions uncovered one cispes member who was tasked to determine response times of emergency services in a major american city; another cispes member stated he had developed a system to shut down a public utility in a major midwestern city; as well as plans to violently disrupt the 1984 republican convention.''
the bureau initiated the investigation under foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence guidelines, designed to protect the united states against crimes such as espionage and terrorism, in which foreign powers or groups are involved
these guidelines allow the fbi to focus more on politically oriented groups and their missions than on specific crimes that are planned or carried out. because of this wider latitude, some lawmakers and the american civil liberties union warn that it is easy to cross the line and investigate free speech and peaceful assembly
fbi director william s. sessions said the investigation in this case ``was predicated on information received from several sources that certain leaders and key members of cispes were involved in covertly furnishing funds and materials to a foreign terrorist organization.'' the group was identified as the fmln, the group fighting a war against the u.s.-backed government of el salvador
jerry berman, chief legislative counsel for the american civil liberties union, said the investigation should have started under the most strict guidelines, those for general criminal investigations
these investigations can only begin ``when facts or circumstances reasonably indicate that a federal crime has been, is being, or will be committed.'' if the crime has already been committed, the probe focuses on who committed the act and on securing evidence
the fbi is given greater leeway for a domestic ``intelligence'' investigation, which can focus on groups in the united states trying ``to further political or social goals through activities that involve criminal violence.''
the bureau did not place the cispes investigation under either the intelligence or general guidelines, but under the foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence rules that involve participation by foreign entities
these rules remain largely classified, but officials familiar with them say they provide the widest latitude among the different sets of guidelines
on july 26, 1984 _ some 16 months after the investigation began _ fbi headquarters sent 32 field offices a message that suggested some of them were going beyond the guidelines
some offices have reported information recently regarding political statements and political lobbying by cispes or cispes affiliates,'' it said. ``supervisors in recipient offices must carefully monitor this and related investigations and asset operations within your respective divisions to ensure appropriate direction, targeting and reporting.''
but messages from the field showed that bureaus were still confused
in august 1984 the denver office told headquarters, ``the field is still not sure of how much seemingly legitimate political activity can be monitored.''
marijuana and small traces of cocaine and methamphetamine were detected in the system of an amtrak switchman who fled his post after a washington-to-boston train derailment, officials said tuesday
thomas connor, 30, of aldan, pa., tested positive for marijuana in his blood and urine, the federal railroad administration said after receiving results from the center for human toxicology at the university of utah
in addition, there was evidence of cocaine and methamphetamine in connor's urine, but the levels were so low that the fra declined to even say they represented a ``positive'' finding under normal circumstances
connor, who has since resigned, was on duty in a control tower when the train struck a work vehicle in chester, pa., near philadelphia, injuring 25 people on the train. officials said he left his post after realizing he had failed to take the train off a stretch of track undergoing maintenance
connor did not submit to blood or urine tests until more than 72 hours after the accident. for that reason, the fra said it instructed the laboratory to test the specimens to seek the ``smallest detectable amount,'' even if it fell below the normal reporting range
fra administrator john riley said the case illustrated the importance of urine and blood tests being conducted on members of train crews involved in major accidents. that program was struck down two weeks ago by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals, and the reagan administration is appealing
 under the provisions of the recent 9th circuit decision, it is unlikely that we could have performed these tests. neither we nor the national transportation safety board would have the benefit of the information the tests were able to provide,'' riley said
arthur donato, connor's attorney, was said to be in a meeting and unavailable for comment tuesday
marijuana can remain in the system and be detected for as long as 30 days after use. cocaine and amphetamines have much shorter detection ranges _ roughly two to five days and two to seven days, respectively
the tests found connor had 89 nanograms per mililiter of marijuana in his urine. a nanogram is one billionth of a gram. it normally takes a finding of at least 20 nanograms per mililiter to confirm the presence of the drug
fra spokesman bill loftus declined to interpret the findings, but said they will be considered in investigations of the accident by his agency and the ntsb
this does not determine what level may have been in his system at the time of the accident. it does not determine impairment. it does not determine cause,'' loftus said
an assistant conductor on the amtrak train also tested positive for marijuana, but he was not believed to have had played any role in the accident, the fra said
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent67 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,5
gore 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
undecided, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 p - 12 percent
martin-trigona, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
didonato, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
williams, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
masters, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses tuesday. the votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus

1 of 1 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

103 of 201 precincts reporting - 52 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

45 of 45 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

917 of 917 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
note: no timely results are available from the washington democratic precinct caucuses. reservations</head> signing letter sted 43; deletes old 18th or penultimate graf, `delaware gov.' as redundant; subs last graf to delete word `proposed'</note>
the national governors' association voted after a spirited debate today to support the u.s.-canada free trade agreement despite fears that some state industries could suffer
the vote was 30 to 5, with the governors of kentucky, michigan, north dakota, west virginia and wyoming in the minority
the governors also adopted policies urging the federal government to take action on child care, including a ``modest'' commitment of funds to help poor working families
the fight against the resolution supporting the free trade agreement was led by wyoming gov. michael sullivan, who charged that american energy producers, fisheries, precious metal miners and others ``are left at a disadvantage.''
we can express our support for free trade without endorsing the agreement,'' sullivan said. he said it was premature and governors should wait until their next meeting in august to take a stand
but wisconsin gov. tommy thompson replied, ``i don't like the beer, you don't like the energy, governor sullivan, but how are we going to have some input'' in the senate ratification debate
an aide to the wisconsin governor explained that some american brewers have licensees in canada, but wisconsin's heilemann's does not and could be left at a disadvantage
but thompson said it would be ``a terrible mistake'' to spurn the agreement
illinois gov. james r. thompson said that if the governors did not put aside ``partisanship and parochial fears for the greater good of the country'' on this issue, ``then i have to say my voice would be a little softer'' when he asked congress to lay aside politics in dealing with the deficit or welfare reform
the governors, who were concluding their three-day winter meeting, did add an amendment to their resolution offered by gov. garrey e. carruthers of new mexico which said: ``the governors have significant concerns about issues created or not fully resolved by the agreement and ask to be consulted as the implementing legislation or other measures are developed to ameliorate these problems. the administration should enter into additional negotiations to address inequities regarding subsidies.''
the governors adopted a policy two years ago supporting the u.s.-canada free trade negotiations. the new policy says the governors' support ``is contingent upon canada and the u.s. doing nothing'' before the final treaty ratification to jeopardize or undermine ``the spirit and benefits of the free trade agreement.''
the governor of guam, joseph ada, expressed concern that u.s. territories were left out of the initial agreement
the governors of hawaii and maine abstained from the vote, which did not include all the state leaders, because of their concerns about the agreement, which was signed by president reagan and canadian prime minister brian mulroney on jan. 2. the agreement, which must be ratified by congress and the canadian parliament, would eliminate all tariffs between the two countries by 1999. it also would set up a new tribunal to settle future trade disputes
forty-four governors signed a letter urging the senate to pass a welfare reform bill this year and the governors also asked congress to extend through 1992 their right to issue mortgage revenue bonds. a provision in the 1986 tax reform law forbids their issuing new mortgage revenue bonds after 1988
on monday the governors went to the white house to hear president reagan make a pitch for a no-frills, $1.1 billion republican alternative to the $4.3 billion house-passed version of welfare reform. he also cautioned them to ``tread carefully'' on the issue of child care
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, a democratic presidential hopeful, called reagan's speech a disappointment. he said the president should have joined the governors' call for passage of new york sen. daniel patrick moynihan's welfare reform bill in the senate
reagan instead said he still strongly supports the less costly republican alternative that the house rejected two months ago, which would give states more flexibility in running their welfare programs. unlike the democratic bill passed by the house, it would not provide any big increase in aid to families with dependent children
the governors' policy on child care calls for the public and private sectors to work in concert on the problem, and says that despite the deficit, ``the governors believe that the federal government should begin to take action to improve child care.''
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses tuesday

6,176 of 6,176 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 56

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 3

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt 10
biden 10
dukakis 10
gephardt 10
gore 10
jackson 10
uncommitted 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
undecided, 10
total at stake - 136

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 20

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 18

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 55

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
ahern, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 63

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 67

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
larouche, 10
didonato, 10
total at stake - 98   

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 40

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 16

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 46

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 22

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 70

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
larouche, 10
williams, 10
total at stake - 183

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 75
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 38   

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 27

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 48

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 52

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 31

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 47

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 54

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
masters, 10
total at stake - 36

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 21

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 33

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 111
no delegates are at stake in the virginia gop primary
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

babbitt, 67
dukakis, 67
gephardt, 67
gore, 67
hart, 67
jackson, 67
simon, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 21 events, 1,307
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

bush, 67
dole, 67
du pont, 67
haig, 67
kemp, 67
robertson, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 17 events, 712
disabled americans express greater interest in politics than other citizens, but they register and vote at a rate considerably lower than the general public, says a survey released tuesday
our findings suggest that barriers, either external or internal or both, prevent many disabled americans from converting their exceptionally high political interest into actual electoral activity,'' said humphrey taylor, president of louis harris and associates, which conducted the poll
the telephone poll of 536 disabled people nationwide found that 53 percent said they follow government and public affairs most of the time
in comparison, only 26 percent of all u.s. adults pay attention to politics much of the time, according to a 1984 national election study by the university of michigan
during the 1984 presidential campaign, 46 percent of the disabled americans were ``very much interested'' in the contest compared with 35 percent of all adults, according to the new survey, conducted in june and july 1987 by louis harris and associates
however, the interest did not translate into equal levels of registration and voting,
disabled people registered at a rate that is six points lower than the general population and voted at a rate that 12 points lower, the poll said
the most common barrier cited for disabled people was lack of transportation and difficulty in getting to the polls, problems noted by 29 percent of the respondents. twenty-one percent said it was difficult to stand or walk
the survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percent
taylor said he expects the number of disabled voters to increase as states comply with federal law to make areas accessible to the nation's approximately 35 million disabled
the survey defined disabled as people with a health problem that prevented them from working, attending school or participating in other activities; people with a physical disability such as blindness, or people who considered themselves disabled
the announcement of the survey results coincided with the start of the national organization on disability's public service campaign to encourage the disabled to register to vote
the campaign included magazine ads featuring photos of former texas rep. barbara jordan and presidential press secretary james brady, and the words, ``we're here promoting voter registration for the 1988 elections.''
the ad also carries a toll-free number for registration information: 1-800-248-able
one-minute television spots also promote the hotline number
leaders of austria's three main political parties called tuesday for a reconsideration of plans to have president kurt waldheim address a ceremony on the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation by nazi germany
the debate over the solemn ceremony march 11 is the latest round in the international controversy surrounding waldheim and his role in the german army under adolf hitler
several high-ranking politicians have suggested the event should be called off, saying a waldheim speech is not the way for the country to reflect on the atrocities of the nazi era
none of the officials tuesday called for a cancellation and none said that waldheim should be barred from speaking. still, it was clear that the politicians were not satisfied with the structure of the ceremony as it stands
waldheim has consistently denied that he committed wrongdoing as a first lieutenant serving in the german army in the balkans in world war ii
an international historians' commission report released earlier this month left open the question of whether waldheim committed nazi wartime atrocities
however, the report said waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt ot stop them. it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past
the commission, which started work in 1987, was formed after the u.s. government placed waldheim on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens, effectively barring him from the united states
at a joint news conference tuesday, the parliamentary leaders of the conservative people's party, the socialists and the rightist-oriented freedom party said organizers should rethink plans for the cermony which include a waldheim speech
parliament president leopold gratz, a socialist, said it is not a question of canceling the ceremony. but he emphasized a meeting of the organizers is needed ``because high officials have gone public with their questioning of the sense of the planned official ceremony.''
several thousand protesters are expected to gather outside the hofburg palace, where the ceremony is set to take place, to demonstrate against waldheim and demand his resignation
protesters, many of them opposed to waldheim, also have promised to flood heroes' square next to the hofburg on march 12, the day after the scheduled waldheim speech
gerulf stix, parliamentary leader of the freedom party, also called tuesday for a rethinking of the commemoration plans, while the tiny greens party has called for its scrapping altogether
several other political leaders also have expressed their reservations
i have misgivings about this event,'' socialist party chief fred sinowatz told reporters at a news conference monday
the former chancellor called, instead, for reflection of ``what happened on march 11, 1938 and what must be done so that such a thing never happens again.''
german troops marched into austria nearly 50 years ago, officially linking this alpine nation with hitler's third reich
austrians are marking the annexation, called the anschluss in german, as a time of reflection on the troubled past
austrian television and radio, along with many of the country's newspapers, have started programs leading up to the march 11 commemoration date. there also are films and exhibitions
u.s. ambassador to ireland margaret heckler prayed at the churchyard where her grandparents are buried and visited the cottage where her father lived before he emigrated to the united states
the visit by mrs. heckler was supposed to be a secret, but people in ballysteen, a village of 200 people near the river shannon 14 miles west of limerick, found out in time to spruce up the ancestral cottage
in the tiny two-bedroom house, mrs. heckler, who has been ambassador to ireland for two years, found a loaf of home-baked bread, scones and tea laid out on the table by the villagers
limerick county council chairman paddy sheehy, who happens to be mrs. heckler's cousin, greeted her when she arrived, and the local folk music band regaled her with songs of welcome
it's a moment i've long waited to cherish,'' said mrs. heckler, 56. ``it's fascinating to see the country roads where my family once walked and to see the hills where they probably once roamed.''
mrs. heckler, a former congresswoman from massachusetts, served as the federal secretary for health and human services before being posted to dublin in january 1986
american rock star tina turner arrived here tuesday for two performances this week, accompanied by an eight-piece band and 10 tons of equipment
turner, with four grammy and two american music awards to her credit, said that she plans to concentrate on acting, which means she can't keep traveling at the same time
however, the 48-year-old singer said, she will try to satisfy her rock fans by continuing to do recordings and television specials
motherhood makes amy irving pine to play the title role in ``the taming of the shrew,'' the actress says in the march issue of vogue
since i had (3-year-old) max, my work has changed. there's less naivete to it,'' said irving, 34. ``i'm not being sent the sweet young thing parts any more.''
now, she wants to conquer a roster of illustrious roles. ``i want to play the shrew, all the shaw women. i want to do a st. joan,'' she said
when ms. irving is working, her husband, director steven spielberg, stays home with their son. when spielberg is on location, the family goes with him
faye dunaway, divorced from british photographer terry o'neill and back in new york after living for several years in england, says she's found new satisfaction in living alone
i am happier now than i've ever been, more centered on who i am and what i want to do, and much less dependent on whoever's around and whatever their opinions are,'' the actress says in an interview in the march issue of vogue magazine
her return to america came with the movie ``barfly,'' a film about the life of writer charles bukowski and shot in seedy locations around los angeles
speaking of her role, played opposite mickey rourke, she says, ``i found myself at a place in my life, and there was wanda at the same place
that's what i want _ to connect in my work with who i actually am. god knows i've had a lot of artifice,'' she says. ``i don't want to play any larger-than-life monsters, grotesques. i don't want to play any more queens.''
miss dunaway, who lives with her 7-year-old son, said she's not ready to make any long-term commitments in her private life
britain's princess anne met with president yoweri museveni and visited hospitals and health clinics tuesday, hours after arriving on the start of a 12-day swing through east africa
the 37-year-old princess, queen elizabeth ii's only daughter, is visiting hospitals and clinics in uganda, mozambique and somalia established by the save the children fund
the princess, who has been president of the international charity since 1971, is the first member of britain's royal family to visit this former british colony in 23 years. patients</head>
doctors, dentists and other health-care workers can face penalties under the city's civil rights laws if they refuse to treat people with aids, an administrative law judge has ruled
judge william kirchgaessner, in a 17-page decision handed down monday, said that the city human rights commission's ban against discrimination in public accommodations included health-care services
the ruling in the case of john campanella, who was diagnosed as having aids two years ago, clears the way for him to file a complaint with the commission against his dentist, dr. david hurwitz. hurwitz had sent campanella a letter a year ago saying he would no longer treat campanella because of the disease
this ruling puts all health-care workers in the city, including dentists, doctors and nurses, on notice that they cannot refuse to treat people with aids,'' said lisa bloom, an attorney who represented campanella
arnold weiss, hurwitz's attorney, had filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, arguing that the commission did not have ``the authority to call a professional office a place of public accommodation.''
weiss declined to comment monday on the ruling, saying he had not yet read it, or to say whether it would be appealed
no date has been set for a hearing on campanella's complaint, ms. bloom said
aids is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. it is spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
soviet president andrei gromyko was welcomed tuesday by his hungarian counterpart karoly nemeth at the beginning of a five-day visit to this reform-minded but economically stagnant soviet ally
the only official business on the calendar of the former longtime soviet foreign minister, who became soviet president three years ago, was the signing of an agreement establishing a hungarian cultural center in moscow
but a hungarian official said privately that gromyko and hungarian leaders could be expected to discuss ``everything'' about relations between the two countries
the visit officially was to mark the 40th anniversary of the feb. 18, 1948, mutual assistance pact between the two countries. and on thursday, gromyko is to give a major address to the hungarian parliament
gromyko, 78, was accompanied by a large soviet delegation, including deputy foreign minister vadim loginov and victor karpov, head of the soviet writers union. the soviets are staying until saturday morning
in a brief but ornate welcoming ceremony in the square in front of the parliament building situated along the danube, gromyko inspected an honor guard of troops and listened to a military band play the anthems of the two nations
he and nemeth then departed, presumably for private talks. representatives of the soviet delegation were to meet with reporters in the evening
the government newspaper in a banner headline across its front page tuesday said, ``we greet with sincere respect and friendship comrade andrei gromyko.''
the newspaper, magyar hirlap, noted that it was gromyko's first state trip abroad since assuming the presidency of the supreme soviet in 1985 after his long career as soviet foreign minister
the reason he chose hungary, the newspaper said, may be ``that our own efforts and initiatives are being recognized'' and that ``soviet bodies are showing a well-meaning interest in our country.''
hungary under party chief janos kadar has been a leader of economic and political reform among soviet bloc nations, and its policies in many ways parallel the changes advocated in the soviet union by mikhail s. gorbachev
but the economic success of hungary in the 1960s and '70s has given way to stagnation in the 1980s
hungarians are facing double-digit inflation and a foreign debt burden of $16 billion for a country of only 10.6 million people, the highest per capita debt in the east bloc
the economic problems and the question mark hanging over the nation as it waits the eventual retirement of kadar, who will be 76 in may, are seen as two possible topics that would come up during the gromyko visit
kadar has been general secretary of the hungarian socialist workers (communist) party since 1956
officials of the christian broadcasting network said tuesday it will stop showing ``the jimmy swaggart telecast'' while the assemblies of god minister is under church-supervised probation
cbn will air, this coming sunday, a piece we did on reverend swaggart's service last sunday,'' said benton miller, a cbn spokesman. ``after that point, we will not be airing any swaggart programming during the probation.''
swaggart, a baton rouge, la., televangelist, told his congregation sunday that he had sinned but gave no specifics following allegations of sexual misconduct
the louisiana presbytery of the assemblies of god voted monday to bar him from preaching for three months and have him undergo two years of rehabilitation. the national presbytery will make the final decision
miller said cbn would decide after the three-month probation whether to resume carrying the program
pat robertson, founder of cbn and a republican presidential aspirant, said monday that the weekend revelations about swaggart were planned by parties unknown to embarrass his campaign. robertson offered no proof to back up his allegations
the red sorghum field'' _ an epic film about seduction and war in china _ won the best-picture award tuesday at the 38th berlin film festival
the best-director prize went to canadian norman jewison for his romantic comedy ``moonstruck,'' and holly hunter was named best actress for her portrayal of an ambitious tv producer in ``broadcast news.''
joerg pose and manfred moeck shared the best-actor honors for their work in the east german entry ``bear ye one another's burden.''
twenty films from 15 countries competed for top prize at the festival, considered europe's second-most prestigious movie competition next to the cannes film festival
the red sorghum field,'' the first feature for director zhang yimou, is set in a remote province of china during the late 1920s and early 1930s. it tells the story of a young married girl who is seduced by a distillery worker and bears his child. her life is then engulfed by the japanese invasion of china
this is the first time that a chinese film has received such a great honor in europe,'' zhang said. ``i am especially happy for my friends and co-workers.''
zhang, who studied at the beijing film institute, won the best acting award at the 1987 tokyo film festival for his role in the film ``the old well.'' he belongs to a new generation of chinese movie-makers whose films examine sexuality and human emotion more realistically than past chinese films
this generation of movie-makers was very young when the cultural revolution broke out in china,'' zhang told the ap
they are the young people who experienced the cultural revolution for 10 years,'' he said. ``because of this special experience, they have an unusual point of view. they are more-future-minded, they have different expectations. they want to break with china of the past and represent the modern chinese society.''
moviegoers packed west berlin theaters during the 12-day festival, and many films were sold out several hours before their showing. long lines of people waited to buy tickets for ``broadcast news'' and ``wall street.''
the festival was to end tuesday night with a showing of steven spielberg's ``empire of the sun,'' which was not an entry in the competition
the supreme court, in a defeat for private landowners, on tuesday buttressed the power of states to control inland and coastal property affected by shifting tides
in a 5-3 ruling involving mississippi's claim to 42 acres of underwater land, the justices hotly disputed the effect of the decision
the dissenters said it threatens private property in every coastal state in the nation
but justice byron r. white, writing for the majority, said, ``we are doubtful that this ruling will do more than confirm the prevailing understanding. our ruling today will not upset titles in all coastal states.''
the ruling, involving oil- and gas-rich land near mississippi's gulf coast, said states own land beneath waters subject to the tide's influence _ and not only land under navigable waters
the ebb and flow of the tide, not navigability, determines the state's ownership as long as it previously has not relinquished a public trust claim to the tidelands, white said
states have interests in lands beneath tidal waters which have nothing to do with navigation,'' he said. those purposes range from protecting fishing to setting aside submerged land for reclamation for urban expansion, he said
it would be odd to acknowledge such diverse uses of public trust tidelands and then suggest that the sole measure of the expanse of such lands is the navigability of the waters over them,'' white said
he said tuesday's ruling is in line with longstanding tradition giving states control over tidelands
the court rejected an appeal by private landowners and companies that included phillips petroleum and a partnership called cinque bambini
the private interests challenged mississippi's claim to some 2,400 acres of undeveloped property in hancock county. lower courts granted most of the land to the private companies
but the courts said the state owns 42 acres underlying the north branch of bayou lacroix and 11 small drainage systems, about five miles from the gulf. the state leased the land to saga petroleum u.s. inc. in 1977 for oil and gas exploration
the mississippi supreme court in 1986 upheld the state's ownership of the land based on a grant from the federal government when mississippi became a state in 1817
the state court said the state's title extends to all land subject to tidal influence, inland to the mean high water mark
the mississippi land is influenced by the tide since it is affected by the ebb and flow of an adjacent navigable river that flows into the gulf
the private landowners and companies traced their claims to the underwater land back to spanish land grants of 1813
in a dissenting opinion tuesday, justice sandra day o'connor said the ruling could have sweeping impact
the court holds today that the public trust includes not only tidewaters along the ocean shore, but also discrete bodies of water that are influenced by the tide but far removed from the ocean or any navigable tidal water,'' she said
breaking a chain of title that reaches back more than 150 years, the court today announces a rule that will disrupt the settled expectations of landowners not only in mississippi but in every coastal state.''
o'connor was joined by justices john paul stevens and antonin scalia
in other decisions, the court:
_limited the job protection for government workers fired for lacking security clearances. in a 5-3 ruling involving a fired laborer at a navy installation in washington state, the court agreed with the reagan administration that the merit systems protection board lacks authority to decide whether denials of security clearance are justified
_said, 6-2 in a california case, that a criminal suspect's rights are not violated when a witness who is unable to identify the suspect in court testifies about an earlier identification of the accused
_in a victory for the states of missouri, iowa and nebraska, unanimously limited the authority of the interior secretary to allocate water stored in missouri river basin reservoirs
_unanimously ruled in a case from california that businesses may not be sued in federal court for refusing to contribute to multi-employer union benefit funds after a collective bargaining agreement expires
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday, did not take part in any of the decisions
a 21-year-old white man ``taught to hate black people'' was sentenced tuesday to perform 200 hours of community service for the naacp after he admitted chasing two blacks with a baseball bat
cook county circuit judge stuart nudelman said he hoped that by working with blacks, james kalafut would overcome his prejudice
he has been taught to hate black people for some reason,'' nudelman said after the sentencing. ``i'm trying to put him in an environment where he can perhaps do some good and learn something about the people he thinks he hates and perhaps learn that his feelings are misguided.''
kalafut was charged aug. 16 after he and other whites brandishing baseball bats, throwing bottles and shouting racial slurs chased two blacks from a transit stop in gage park, a predominantly white neighborhood on chicago's southwest side
the plumbing company laborer could have been sentenced to a year in prison on his plea of guilty to aggravated assault and ethnic intimidation, the judge said
kalafut's brother, larry, is serving a six-year prison term after pleading guilty to firebombing the home of a black family who had moved into gage park, said barry silver, james' attorney
silver said the order for his client to work for national association for the advancement of colored people is ``a good sentence given the fxhat he's basically pleaded guilty to hating a minority group.''
by being with black people, he will have a chance to learn they are no different than he is except that the color of their skin is different. i think that is an important lesson for anyone to learn, especially someone who has been involved in this kind of activity,'' silver said
the attorney said james kalafut, who declined to be interviewed, was willing to give the sentence a try but was ``concerned about his own personal safety when he is in the neighborhood of the naacp,'' located on chicago's south side
he also said kalafut was concerned about being rejected by naacp officials and being ``made the scapegoat in a sort of reverse discrimination.''
the naacp plans to work hard to make sure that doesn't happen, said edward mcclellan, president of the group's south side branch
certainly we don't presume there are only white racists or what have you,'' mcclellan said. ``racism can be engendered by anyone inclined to that sort of prejudice.''
he said it wasn't the civil-rights group's job to punish kalafut. he also said he wasn't sure what type of work the group would ask him to perform
i can only hope his attitude is such that he's willing to come here and pay his debt to society,'' mcclellan said. ``i would hope that he would have some positive reflections from this experience that maybe he's been hating the wrong thing.''
nudelman said that trying to help kalafut overcome his prejudice made more sense than sentencing him to jail, ``where he won't learn anything except more hatred.''
but the judge warned, ``if he screws up and doesn't do what he's supposed to, he'll come back before me and i'll sentence him to jail.''
abc took the gold for its coverage of the winter olympics, winning the week, moving into the lead in the february sweeps and taking over second place for the season, ahead of cbs
olympics events took six places among the top 20 shows, forcing nbc into second place for the week ending feb. 21 and for the sweeps, which help determine the rates local stations charge advertisers
the opening chapter of nbc's much-ballyhooed miniseries ``noble house'' ended up 16th. however, it did beat out abc's olympics coverage for sunday night as well as the cbs movie ``bring me the head of dobie gillis.''
coverage of the olympics in calgary, canada, gave abc its first weekly victory since super bowl week, ending jan. 31. its only other first place for the season was during the world series, the week ending oct. 25
abc's coverage of the tuesday night events were first in the ratings. nbc's ``the cosby show'' was second and abc's saturday coverage was third. wednesday's coverage was seventh and thursday's was ninth
abc won the a.c. nielsen co. ratings for the week with an average of 19.4. nbc was second with 15.0 and cbs was third with 12.8. the rating is the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with television
the new season-to-date ratings: nbc 16.3, abc 13.8, cbs 13.6
the top 10 shows were: abc's tuesday olympics, nbc's ``the cosby show,'' abc's saturday olympics, nbc's ``a different world,'' cbs' ``60 minutes,'' nbc's ``cheers,'' abc's wednesday olympics, cbs' ``murder, she wrote,'' abc's thursday olympics, and nbc's ``family ties'' and ``alf,'' tied for 10th
abc's evening news show, benefiting from the olympics viewership, remained ahead of its rivals with a rating of 12.0. cbs was second with 11.1 and nbc third with 10.0
the lowest-rated network show was cbs' ``48 hours: campaign trail.'' here are the five bottom shows in descending order: cbs' ``houston knights,'' cbs' ``ringling brothers circus: 20th anniversary of the clown college,'' cbs' ``west 57th street,'' nbc's ``decision: 88, new hampshire,'' and cbs' ``48 hours: campaign trail.''
meanwhile, the fox broadcasting co. was also enjoying good ratings for its sunday night shows. ``21 jump street'' had its highest rating to date with 6.6, which would place it ahead of three network shows. ``married with children'' got a 5.7 rating, its highest ever. that would place it higher than the two bottom network shows. ``werewolf'' got its highest rating ever in its 8 o'clock time period, 5.1, which would give it a tie with the network's' lowest-rated show
adel ali massoud said tuesday that when soldiers took him to the mediterranean beach near his home here, beat him and buried him in the sand, they told him: ``don't think you are going to return alive.''
the 18-year-old youth and a gaza lawyer want to take the army to court over the brutality massoud says was inflicted on him. it is the second time this month palestinians have reported being buried alive by soldiers
the israeli army says it is investigating both incidents
they took me to the beach'' about a mile and a half away, massoud said. ``they attached me to a jeep and dragged me behind it through the sand and the water.''
massoud said he saw another youth on the beach, whom he identified as saleh hamad, receiving the same treatement
they put sand in my mouth and covered me with sand, then they covered me up, using their hands,'' he said
the youth said he did not know how deeply he was buried, but the weight on his chest was very heavy and he lost consciousness
the next thing i remember, i was in the hospital,'' he said
lying under a blanket on a mattress spread on the floor of his spare home in the khan yunis refugee camp, the young palestinian recounted how israeli soldiers burst into his home at 4 a.m. feb. 14
they used ladders to climb over the wall'' into the tiny courtyard in front of the house, massoud said
as family members and neighbors began to gather in the small room, he said: ``i was sleeping, here, like this. i suddenly saw soldiers. they shined a strong light in my face. they started to beat me with sticks.''
the youth said the soldiers put a chain around his neck to raise him to his feet, beat him to the ground and used the chain to raise him again
aisha ali massoud, 40, mother of adel and nine other children, said the soldiers also entered her room. she said about 15 entered the one-story house
ms. massoud said soldiers also grabbed her 10-year-old son sami, and one of them stuck a gun in sami's mouth
i grabbed for him, and they hit me here,'' she said, pointing to a fading mark on her forehead
she said neighbors told her later the soldiers had raided many houses in the neighborhood, a maze of winding, narrow alleys. they were looking for teen-aged boys, she said, but her son adel was the only one in the area
after the soldiers took adel to the beach, buried him in the sand and left, families living near the beach rescued him
of course i'm angry,'' he said. ``this is no way to treat people. they told me on the road, on the way to the beach, `don't think you are going to return alive.'''
on feb. 5, soldiers grabbed four palestinian youths and covered them up with a bulldozer in the village of kfar salem, near nablus, 40 miles north of jerusalem. the army detained two soldiers in the case, but the investigation is continuing
gaza attorney mohammed abu shaaban wants to press the case in the supreme court in jerusalem
i think we will have some problems because he and his family will be afraid,'' shaaban said. ``the military police have threatened people in other cases.''
the medical report at khan yunis' nasser hospital indicate the youth was treated in the emergency room but suffered only bruises. x-rays showed no broken bones. a doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity, said massoud's family refused to allow him to be admitted for fear the army would come for him
we aren't going to court for justice,'' shaaban said. ``we are going to court because we know all the newspapers will talk about it. that's useful. but we know we'll never get justice.''
the boy's father, ali mohammed massoud, said he too wants to push the case in the courts, but is afraid
if we go to court, the next day they will come and beat him,'' the father said. ``maybe, after it is in the press, i'll discuss it with the lawyer. ``if it makes trouble for us, we won't do it.'' warsaw pact briefing in prague; subs 17th graf ``the secretary ...'' to make shevardnadze reference conform.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz said tuesday the soviet union has made a ``very clear'' commitment to withdraw its troops from afghanistan, even though no firm timetable has been announced
u.s. sources said the red army had begun preparations to leave. soviet soldiers were sent to afghanistan in december 1979 and an estimated 115,000 are in the country helping the communist government fight moslem insurgents
north atlantic treaty organization officials who attended a closed meeting with shultz described him as hopeful of a soviet withdrawal, but said he did not mention specific evidence that preparations were under way
shultz told reporters, when asked why he was optimistic about soviet intentions: ``their statements are very clear and very public and unequivocal, unadorned.''
a senior u.s. official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity, said soviet troops are taking up defensive positions and dependents are being sent home. he said this was ``solid evidence'' that the soviet military intervention would end soon
the official also said soviet soldiers are not being replaced when they finish tours of duty. he spoke on shultz's flight to brussels from two days of talks in moscow
while shultz was in brussels, the kremlin's warsaw pact colleagues were briefed on the moscow talks by eduard a. shevardnadze, the soviet foreign minister
after a 2{-hour meeting with the nato allies, shultz flew to washington to prepare for a trip wednesday to the middle east, where he will meet with arab and israeli leaders about efforts to revive peace negotiations
in his remarks to reporters, shultz said he had encountered ``intense skepticism'' about the chances of a breakthrough on middle east negotiations, but the united states has ``a few ideas'' that could help end the deadlock. he was not more specific
i believe that if there are chances, even if the chances are small, it's worthwhile trying,'' he said. ``you can't be too afraid of failing.''
europeans who attended the nato meeting said the allies praised shultz and the reagan administration for making an effort on middle east peace
there was the feeling expressed that of course the situation appears deadlocked, but that nonetheless it would be worth trying now,'' one said, on condition that his name not be given
shultz said a complete soviet withdrawal from afghanistan would boost prospects for resolving other regional issues
i certainly have the sense ... that they do regard their presence in afghanistan as counterproductive at this point and they would like to leave,'' he said
on feb. 8, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev offered to begin the withdrawal may 15 if pakistan and afghanistan reach agreement by march 15 in u.n.-sponsored negotiations that resume in geneva next week. he said the pullout could be accomplished in 10 months
kremlin officials have accused pakistan of obstructing a settlement by insisting an interim government be created in kabul to prevent protracted civil strife. about 3.5 million afghan refugees have fled to neighboring pakistan, which is eager for a solution
shultz told the nato allies the soviets decided to withdraw because they realized they could not defeat the guerrillas, who get much of their support from the united states
the secretary also reported progress on arms control in his moscow talks with gorbachev and shevardnadze
on monday, u.s. and soviet negotiators were directed to prepare within a month three draft agreements for a treaty to reduce long-range, or strategic, nuclear weapons by 30 percent to 50 percent
draft accords on verification, disposing of weapons and exchange of information are to be ready for the next shultz-shevardnadze meeting, march 22-23 in washington. the goal is for gorbachev and president reagan to sign the final treaty at a summit in moscow late this spring
cities may not promote equal opportunity by imposing blanket restrictions that force private clubs to admit women and racial minorities as members, the supreme court was told tuesday
alan mansfield, a lawyer for the new york state clubs association, said such a new york city law violates ``the fundamental right of our citizens ... to choose who their friends will be.''
but peter l. zimroth, the city's chief lawyer, said the clubs affected by the law are not intimate associations but bastions of the ``old-boy'' network where business deals are consummated
citing the example of the 10,003-member new york athletic club, zimroth asked the justices, ``can you imagine someone saying `here are 10,002 of my most intimate friends.'''
the court seemed to be confused by the widely varying views expressed by mansfield and zimroth about the law and a ruling by new york's highest state court upholding it
the justices' decision, expected by july, could carry an impact well beyond new york's borders. at least five other major cities _ buffalo, chicago, detroit, los angeles and san francisco _ have enacted similar ordinances recently
the new york city law banning discrimination by public accommodations exempts ``distinctly private organizations.''
but it deprives non-religious groups of that designation if they have more than 400 members, provide regular meal service and regularly get their members' dues paid by non-members such as the members' employers
mansfield said the city law wrongly treats any organization that meets the three criteria as non-private. ``three prongs and you're out,'' he said. ``this law incorporates a fundamentally incorrect analysis of the freedom to associate.''
mansfield said each club affected by the law should have a chance to prove that, even if it meets each of the three criteria, it is a truly private entity
zimroth said no such club has come forward. ``i don't think this is a real case,'' he said. ``the city council wasn't talking about hypothetical clubs. it was talking about real clubs.''
both lawyers were interrupted repeatedly by questions from the bench during the 60-minute argument session
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday and only recently resigned from a men-only, whites-only club in san francisco, appeared troubled by the fact that the law also exempts certain ``benevolent orders'' such as the masons, loyal order of moose, protective order of elks and the knights of columbus
mansfield argued that treating various private organizations differently violates equal-protection guarantees
zimroth said new york city officials were not concerned about such organizations being used as extensions of the business office
justice harry a. blackmun, who recently resigned from a men-only club in the nation's capital, did not ask a question
one of the more animated exchanges occurred when justice thurgood marshall suggested that the challenged law was a valid civil rights measure and then said to mansfield, ``you want to torpedo it.''
the u.n. command rejected north korean charges tuesday it is building up forces for a nuclear attack and it demanded the communist nation admit it ordered the bombing of a civilian airliner
the united nations command dismissed a north korean demand that the united states and south korea call off joint military exercises, called ``team spirit.'' it accused north korea of fomenting tension on the divided korean peninsula and trying to sabotage the 1988 olympic games in seoul
the united states maintains 40,000 troops in south korea and heads the command, which represents the 16 nations that fought under u.n. auspices against north korea and china during the korean war
don't miscalculate ... the will of the world to react, with appropriate action, to continued barbaric acts of terrorism which result in the deaths of innocent people,'' said u.s. rear adm. william t. pendley, the chief u.n. command delegate
pendley demanded north korea punish those involved in the bombing last november of a south korean airliner and apologize to the world. all 115 people aboard the korean air jet were killed when it blew up nov. 29 over the andaman sea near burma
chief north korean delegate maj. gen. li tae ho said pyongyang had nothing to do with the attack and charged south korea with destroying the plane in a scheme to retain power and discredit the north
the charges were made at the first meeting of the military armistice commission since the loss of the plane. the commission polices the ceasefire that ended the korean war between north and south in 1953
north korea called the meeting to demand the united states and south korea abandon the annual ``team spirit'' exercises that start next month, charging the exercises were preparations for an american nuclear attack
you have nuclear war plans worked out,'' li charged
pendley dismissed the north korean accusations and said the exercises were lawful military activities intended to guarantee the safety of south korea
the u.n. command's delegation presented a videotape of a televised confession last month in seoul by kim hyon hui, a woman who claimed she was a north korean agent and destroyed the plane to disrupt the olympic games that start in seoul in september
ms. kim, who rode an early leg of the kal flight, took poison along with a male companion when they were detained in bahrain. the man died but she recovered
pendley said the confession was damning evidence that the north could not refute. ``you thought you had committed the perfect crime, but, like all criminals, you made a mistake,'' he said
north korea has been demanding to be a co-host of the olympic games. the international olympic committee and south korea have rejected the demand
while hundreds of university of massachusetts students discussed racism in class, a small group at neighboring hampshire college on tuesday occupied a dormitory office to protest racial attitudes at that elite school
the takeover came nearly a week after the end of a six-day occupation of a university of massachusetts building by more than 100 people protesting racial violence on campus
that occupation ended when protesters reached an agreement with the chancellor, joseph duffey, which included increased hiring of minority faculty and staff
penny premdas, a spokeswoman for the hampshire group, students of underrepresented cultures, said up to 40 students occupied the office of the dakin house dormitory, a traditional meeting place for minority students, at 8 a.m. to work on a list of demands, including that an office in the dormitory be converted into a third world cultural center
we have been to the administration several times over the past three years with our demands and concerns and nothing has been done,'' said ms. premdas, who is black. ``it's been all lip service. it seemed this was the only way to get something done.''
unlike the university of massachusetts, which has been the scene of attacks on blacks, ``we have never had any blatant physical harassment here,'' ms. premdas said. ``it has all been emotional and mental and institutional.''
a dakin house resident, marston chickering, said the occupation was ``particularly hard at this school, which has an image of being politically correct and aware.''
no one's ever satisfied at this school,'' said karen bagninm, a freshman from new york city who lives across the yard from dakin. ``everyone's always feeling belittled or discriminated against. if it's not minorities, it's females ... this is what they (the protesters) feel they have to do to get attention.''
about 100 of the 1,100 undergraduate students at the private college are minorities, said petez gluckler, a spokesman for the administration
a consultant hired by the school last year to investigate racial attitudes on campus is preparing his final report, gluckler said
the school planned to provide the protesters with food and sleeping bags, said hampshire spokeswoman lee wicks
hundreds of students at the 25,000-student university of massachusetts campus across town from hampshire attended class discussions on racism on tuesday
at least 35 classes were devoted to the topic in response to a call by the graduate student association to boycott all classes tuesday and wednesday in lieu of forums on racism, said school spokeswoman jeanne hopkins
duffey had warned in a statement against students boycotting classes and had suggested that racism discussions be held in classes. wars</head>
william l. ball iii, president reagan's new choice to pilot the navy through the shoals of pentagon budget cutbacks, was described tuesday as savvy coalition builder with years of experience at the white house and capitol hill
all of us who know him here at the white house know that the navy is getting a strong advocate and a strong fighter,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said in announcing reagan's decision to nominate ball
ball, a stocky, 39-year-old who has served as the president's chief lobbyist on capitol hill since 1986, was tapped tuesday to succeed james h. webb as secretary of the navy
webb abruptly handed in his resignation monday after accusing defense secretary frank c. carlucci of scuttling administration dreams for a 600-ship navy
fitzwater, a long-time friend of ball's, described him as ``the kind of guy who knows how to build coalitions and work with people. ... he has a great love and respect for the navy and he knows how to get things done.''
the spokesman said webb's resignation had caught the administration by surprise, but that ball was easily recognized as a top candidate for the job due to naval, congressional and white house experience
he's a known quantity. everyone instantly recognized him as the perfect choice,'' fitzwater said
the spokesman said ball earned carlucci's respect in the wake of the iran-contra affair, when the legislative liaison helped the former national security adviser forge a new relationship with congress and its intelligence oversight committees. ball also worked with carlucci on the formulation of the latest budget policies, fitzwater said
he earned frank's respect. ... he knows intimately the problems frank is facing,'' the spokesman observed
fitzwater said the south carolina native has a ``wry sense of humor'' and ``is personable and savvy'' when it comes to working with congress and the military
he should have no problems,'' the spokesman predicted
prior to working in the white house, ball was assistant secretary of state for legislative and intergovernmental affairs
in 1981, he served as the chief clerk of the senate armed services committee. earlier, he had worked as the administrative assistant for former sens. herman talmadge, d-ga., and john tower, r-texas
ball was commissioned as a regular officer in the navy in 1969 and served three years aboard the guided missile destroyer uss sellers, followed by three years of service in the department of the navy
he graduated from the georgia institute of technology with a degree in industrial management
ball is married to the former patricia adkins of memphis, tenn., and has two daughters
people's court'' judge joseph wapner's word is the law on television, but not necessarily off camera, where the popular show's lawyers have agreed to pay a $2,500 settlement to a man the judge ruled against
the show's producers said the $2,500, awarded to 72-year-old former mr. america rex ravelle, marked the first time the judge has settled out of court with someone who has sued over a tv decision
the judge's decision was so bad it was unbelievable,'' said ravelle, who had sought $2,000 in back rent and return of a bedroom set he said was taken by a woman he evicted from his house
ravelle said in a recent interview that he was set up to look like a bully and a buffoon and then wapner ruled against him for dramatic effect when the show was taped dec. 4, 1985
i was instructed to project my voice and assert myself, while the defendant was submissive and scarcely audible,'' ravelle said. ``this obvious ploy clearly established me as the big, macho villain.''
wapner said he couldn't recall ravelle's case and was unaware of the settlement, but added he tries to be fair to all people on the show
i try to be fair, and our track record is there,'' said wapner, former presiding judge of los angeles superior court. ``i try to make sure that each side gets a fair shot.''
ravelle, who had sued the show for $1 million, agreed to drop the suit in exchange for the settlement last week
of approximately 2,000 small claims cases wapner has heard during the show's seven years, ravelle is one of only three disgruntled litigants to sue, said james b. pollock, vice president for ralph edwards productions, the show's producer. he is the only one to win a settlement, pollock added
participants on ``people's court'' are selected from among those who file for damages in small claims courts in 36 southern california localities. since files are open to the public, researchers can read cases and get in touch with those filing claims. those selected after phone interviews appear for personal interviews and are selected by producers for the program
all participants volunteer to take part and sign papers making it legally binding under california's law on arbitration. wapner has a private arbitration practice
the executive staff of the u.s. bureau of prisons has decided federal inmates should not have the privilege of begetting children through artificial insemination
if such a police were allowed, the government believes ``that numerous other inmates from regular prison institutions of all security levels would desire to beget children,'' according to the government's response filed monday in the case of a federal prisoner
the response was filed monday in the case of steven james goodwin, 31, a prisoner in the medical center for federal prisoners in springfield
goodwin had filed a lawsuit against the government and received a favorable ruling from u.s. magistrate james england. the judge recommended in november that u.s. district judge william r. collison rule that the bureau's lack of a policy on artificial insemination isn't a constitutionally sufficient reason to prohibit the procedure
goodwin had asked in his lawsuit that doctors be allowed to collect his sperm at the prison so it could be frozen and sent to his wife's doctor in st. louis
the executive staff of the bureau met earlier this month to consider a policy on the issue, assistant u.s. attorney david c. jones said in the government's response
if the procedure were allowed in one case, all 48 federal prisons would be affected. the prisons either would have to develop collecting, handling and storage procedures for semen, or private medical personnel would have to be allowed into the institutions, jones said
as result, the response said, the bureau believes the situation could be extremely costly or create substantial security risks
the government disagreed with england's ruling that begetting or bearing children is a fundamental right that survives incarceration. actually, begetting or bearing children is one of the many rights that is restricted by imprisonment, jones said
goodwin is serving a 14-year sentence on a charge of conspiracy to distribute cocaine
eighty-seven firefighters who had been on duty for more than three days were sent home tuesday as colleagues ended a sickout and returned to work under threats of contempt of court citations
more than 100 firefighters called in sick saturday, sunday and monday, despite a judge's order saturday that they report for duty
thirty-three firefighters who defied the order were held in contempt tuesday by another judge, americo campanella of superior court, for failure to show up in court to explain why they were absent
the firefighters had been served notice by the city to appear in court on monday
campanella's ruling stunned attorneys for local 799 of the international association of firefighters. they told campanella it was their impression he only wanted union president leo j. miller and secretary-treasurer richard kless in court
attorney harry j. hoopis said he thought his representation of the union membership as a whole, as well as miller's, was good enough to constitute the presence of the absent members
campanella, who continued the hearing on the status of the rest of the firefighters who called in sick, said he would decide later what penalty to assess against the 33
mayor joseph r. paolino urged that no jail time be imposed. however, the city continued to press for contempt citations, even though the sickout ended with the start of tuesday's day shift, to prevent something similar from happening in the future, according to city labor attorney vincent ragosta jr
the sickout, which the city is trying to prove is an illegal job action by municipal employees, cost the city about $84,000 in overtime and related expenses, estimated fire chief michael f. moise
it also meant a long haul for firefighters who went to work at 6 p.m. friday. moise kept them on duty through the sickout, but they went home tuesday
the sickout apparently stemmed from a dispute over language in a contract ratified by firefighters in december but yet to be approved by the city council
miller contends the city is trying to renege on a provision that calls for an officer to be placed in charge of each rescue unit. union members also say the city is not replacing worn-out or damaged equipment as promised
then-fbi director william webster was kept unaware of problems with a probe of anti-reagan activists, even when it became clear that some agents were investigating legitimate protest activities, a top agency official said tuesday
oliver b. revell, executive assistant fbi director, also told the senate intelligence committee that no one in the administration told the bureau to conduct the investigation
revell's testimony offered the first in-depth look at the fbi's investigations of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador, or cispes, which began in 1981 and ended in 1985. leaders of cispes maintain that the inquiries were politically motivated, but revell denied that charge
nothing could be further from the truth,'' he said. ``we have investigated a number of groups on the other side of the political spectrum. ..
the focus of the fbi investigations has been and is criminality, or the collection of intelligence which will keep our nation and citizens safe from terrorism,'' he said
at another point, revell said, ``i have no knowledge of any political taskings by anyone in the reagan administration of the fbi's cispes investigation.''
no criminal charges ever have been filed against cispes or any of its members
several members of the committee told revell they remained skeptical of the fbi information that triggered the investigation of cispes
sen. arlen specter, r-pa., said he had ``grave questions'' about revell's justifications, adding, ``you have to proceed on the basis of tangible hard facts and evidence'' _ which he indicated were lacking in this case
but revell noted that it was a terrorism investigation, and added that if the fbi always waited ``until there was tangible evidence, you would have been picking up the pieces of the bombs.''
earlier, specter asked revell the extent of webster's involvement in the cispes probe
he was aware of several cables sent to him for informational purposes,'' revell said. ``he did not authorize any of the activities. the supervision was at the sectional level.''
revell added that it is impossible for the fbi director to keep up with all the investigations the bureau conducts. however, he did say that in the wake of revelations about the conduct of the cispes case, ``we have taken interim steps to increase the level of review'' of sensitive probes
webster, who now directs the cia, has had no public comment on the investigation
sen. william cohen, r-maine, vice chairman of the intelligence panel, joined specter in criticizing the fbi probe
it is apparent that whatever the rationale for its initiation, it resulted in the fbi subjecting many americans and u.s. organizations to various types of scrutiny without any basis other than the exercise of their first amendment rights,'' cohen said
he later asked revell why the fbi headquarters had to send a memo on july 26, 1984, cautioning the field offices against reporting legitimate political activities by cispes
revell replied that the memo was sent because top fbi officials ``sensed'' the conduct of some agents was ``very close to the line.''
we may have seen some wavering over that line,'' he said, but he maintained that the investigation was legitimate under the fbi's foreign intelligence and counterintelligence guidelines
revell said the fbi opened its investigation into cispes on sept. 3, 1981, after the justice department requested the bureau examine whether the group was supplying money and material to leftist rebels in el salvador and therefore was required to register under the foreign agents registration act
revell described that probe as ``just a records check,'' and it was closed in february 1982
a little more than a year later, on march 30, 1983, the counterterrorism section at the fbi authorized a new investigation of cispes. this probe, revell said, was into whether members of cispes were ``engaged in international terrorism, activities in preparation therefor, or knowingly aiding and abetting the terrorists in el salvador and other countries in the conduct of international terrorist activities.''
that investigation continued for more than two years, during which time, revell said, ``we did find indications that some cispes members were at least discussing and planning violence.''
he cited an instance of a cispes member given the job of determining response times of emergency services in a major american city, another of a cispes member saying he had developed a system to shut down a public utility in a major midwestern city and a third of discussion of plans to disrupt the 1984 republican convention in dallas
angela sanbrano, executive director of cispes, who attended the intelligence committee hearing, denied afterward that any of the charges were true. she suggested that the comments about possible violent activities might have been made by someone ``planted'' at cispes meetings
revell said the fbi closed the investigation in june 1985 ``when we found there was insufficient evidence to continue the investigation.''
he said ``part of the reason for that was the disinformation and misinformation supplied to us'' by frank varelli, who told a house subcommittee last year hat he was paid by the fbi to infiltrate the dallas chapter of cispes and told the bureau what it wanted to hear
revell said earlier that the dallas fbi agent who directed varelli was investigated for ``mishandling documents, funds and direction.''
varelli has sued the fbi in an attempt to get pay he claims he is owed for his work
orders to u.s. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods fell 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year, reflecting sharp drops in demand for aircraft and primary metals, the government reported tuesday
the commerce department said that orders for durable goods fell to a seasonally adjusted $112.23 billion last month, a drop of $3.28 billion from december
the steep decline, only the third setback in the past 13 months, followed a big december advance of 4.1 percent, the strongest rise since march
analysts said the january setback reflected a return to more normal levels of demand in both aircraft and primary metals, two categories which had seen unusually big advances in december
both the reagan administration and federal reserve chairman alan greenspan noted that the overall decline also masked pockets of strength, particularly in non-defense capital goods
the numbers that were released on durable goods, if one subtracts some of the temporary fluctuations, were really quite strong,'' greenspan said during an appearance before a house banking subcommittee
many economists are predicting that growth will slow in the first half of 1988 because of an unusually high buildup of unsold inventories which occurred at the end of 1987. but greenspan said he did not think this slowdown would deteriorate into a recession, in part because of the strength being shown in manufacturing
while we envisage sluggish growth for the period immediately ahead, there just are very few signs that we're about to tilt over'' into a recession, greenspan said
at the white house, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said that the administration continues to believe that the trend in manufacturing ``is still healthy.''
the administration is forecasting that half of overall growth this year will come from rising factory production
private economists said they were not alarmed by the january setback, which was the biggest drop since an 8 percent fall in january 1987. they pointed to a 1.6 percent increase in orders for non-defense capital goods, the category which reflects business plans to expand production facilities
that is an encouraging sign that businessmen are not backing off from their investment plans,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc., of lexington, mass
even with the setback last month, new orders were still 15.5 percent ahead of a year ago, reflecting the strong export demand caused by the decline in the value of the dollar
demand in transportation industries fell by 12.4 percent to $27.21 billion last month following an 8.6 percent advance in december, a surge which was attributed primarily to new aircraft orders placed with the boeing co. of seattle
orders for primary metals fell 15.5 percent to $10.19 billion after having shot up 10.5 percent in december. analysts said that the big december jump in orders came because of fears of pending price increases
demand for military hardware fell 12.1 percent in january to $7.86 billion
orders for electrical machinery rose 5.5 percent in january while demand for non-electrical machinery rose 5.8 percent
shipments of durable goods fell 3.3 percent to $109.26 billion following a 4.3 percent increase in december
israel's parliament on tuesday elected irish-born chaim herzog to a second five-year term as the country's president
eighty-two members of the 120-member knesset, or parliament, voted to re-elect herzog, who was unopposed. two voted against him and 18 did not vote, israel radio reported. other members were not present
the office of president is a largely ceremonial one in israel and the president has no formal party affiliation
i heartily thank the members of israeli knesset for their trust and their vote and (i) accept the knesset's decision with appreciation and gratitude,'' he said on israel radio. ``i am proud to serve the people.''
herzog, 69, was first elected to the post in march 1983
his first term in office was marked by a controversial decision to pardon shin bet security agents, including the former head of the service, avraham shalom, who were found guilty of lying in court about the beating deaths of two captured palestinian hijackers
herzog was criticized for the decision, but won praise when he took a strong moral stand against a ring of jewish terrorists jailed for crimes against arabs. he rejected a call from right-wing israelis to pardon all of them, although he did lessen the sentences of some
herzog was also praised for his behind-the-scenes efforts to end an election stalemate in september 1984 between shimon peres' centrist labor party and yitzhak shamir's conservative likud bloc. his efforts contributed to the forming of israel's unusual coalition government
herzog headed israel's military intelligence from 1959 to 1962. in 1967, he became the first military governor of the occupied west bank, captured by israel from jordan in that year's middle east war. he also served as israel's ambassador at the united nations from 1975 to 1978
a british soldier sentenced to life in prison for slaying a belfast catholic has been released from jail and returned to his regiment after only three years in prison, the army said tuesday
pvt. ian richard thain was not, however, returned to active service in northern ireland
an army statement tuesday said thain killed the man when he was 18
while the army in no way condones his action, we consider the incident to have been a tragic error of judgment made by a young man in very difficult circumstances,'' the statement said
the rev. denis faul, a roman catholic priest and human rights campaigner in northern ireland, said he had no objection to the release, but asked why similar clemency could not be shown to civilians serving life sentences for actions committed in their youth
sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army, claimed thain's release showed there was no justice in northern ireland
i'm very, very shocked and distressed. i can't believe this has happened,'' said the victim's father, jim reilly
the announcement of thain's release came amid new tension between britain and ireland
on sunday, a catholic was killed by a british soldier in northern ireland. the irish government announced it would undertake its own investigation of the slaying, even though the incident occurred in northern ireland outside dublin's jurisdiction
the irish move was seen as a calculated slight to britain, since its police force has already announced its own inquiry and the soldier has been placed in military custody
sunday's shooting of 23-year-old aidan mcanespie occurred near aughnacloy, half a mile from the frontier in county tyrone
mcanespie was killed by a bullet from an army observation tower at a checkpoint as he walked to a football match
mcanespie was a sinn fein supporter, and his former parish priest said he was harassed whenever he passed through the checkpoint. press association, the british news agency, said the soldier who fired at mcanespie told his interrogators it was an accident
thain was convicted of killing thomas reilly, road manager of the pop group bananarama, on aug. 9, 1983. he claimed in court that he fired because he believed reilly was about to pull a gun on him
the judge found thain ``deliberately untruthful.'' the private was the first soldier sentenced to life imprisonment for actions in northern ireland
thain was released on a life license, a form of parole whereby he can be reimprisoned ``should his behavior give rise to concern,'' the home office said
it said he was freed after a review by the state parole board
anglo-irish relations are already under strain on a series of issues including disputes over the extradition of ira suspects and british anti-terrorism laws which dublin sees as discriminatory toward ulster catholics
the worst tension, however, is being generated by britain's announcement last month that it will not prosecute northern ireland police officers involved in the shooting of six unarmed catholics in three incidents in 1982, despite evidence of a police conspiracy to pervert the course of justice
a memo to attorney general edwin meese iii from his friend e. robert wallach broached a proposal to bolster israel's moderate labor party against the rival likud bloc
in his september 1985 memo, made public monday, wallach stressed the need to encourage soviet leaders to allow greater jewish emigration to israel because russian jews, once they are voters in israel, tend to support the labor party
israel contends that 400,000 jews want to emigrate from the soviet union _ enough to make a difference in an israeli election, if all were allowed to resettle in israel
wallach's idea was based on the assumption that israel would call early elections no later than march 1986, but it is unclear whether an influx of russian jews could have brought about a labor victory. no election was held, and in october 1986, then-prime minister shimon peres switched jobs with foreign minister yitzhak shamir in a power-sharing arrangement
there is a need to provide israel with a increasing flow of ashkenazi jews to help balance the influx of sephardic-oriental jews who have a natural affinity and affiliation with likud,'' wallach wrote
from the standpoint of american interests, the advantage is evident,'' he added without elaboration
ashkenazi jews are those whose origins are in europe, while sephardic jews came from asia and africa. voter breakdown shows that sephardim, who constitute some 60 percent of israel's 3.5 million jewish population, tend to support likud more than they do labor
u.s. leaders in the past have said privately they feel more comfortable with labor, which exhibits greater willingness to cede lands to israel's arab neighbors in return for a peace settlement. likud is more hardline, refusing any territorial concessions
but publicly, the united states has consistently veered away from taking any stand that could be viewed as interference in internal israeli politics
the wallach-meese memo is the focal point of a criminal investigation of the attorney general. at issue is whether meese knew, from reading the memo, of a plan to pay a bribe to the labor party, and, if so, why he did nothing about it
wallach wrote that his business associate, israeli-born oilman bruce rappaport, had commissioned several public opinion polls that indicated a ``high probability'' of early elections and growing support for labor
rappaport, who resides in switzerland and is a generous contributor to the labor party, confirmed an arrangement with peres that israel would receive some $700 million over 10 years from the pipeline that would pass near the israeli border on its way from iraq to the red sea port of aqaba
what was also indicated to me ... is that a portion of those fund will go directly to labor,'' wallach wrote
the emigration issue, as outlined by wallach, revolves around soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's promise to peres to consider increasing emigration levels if the jews went directly to israel rather than to the united states, wallach said
the united states has refused to take any stand in support of direct soviet emigration to israel, saying it was up to the jews to decide where they want to live. exchange</head>
mayor raymond flynn sought the approval of the city council on tuesday for an experiment to provide sterile needles to drug addicts in an effort to curb the spread of aids
drug-users would make periodic visits to facilities yet to be established for the program and would get up to seven marked needles each time, depending on how many they returned from the previous visit
when entering the program, addicts would be offered a place, if available, at a drug treatment center. rejected offers would be renewed periodically
no one initiative to contain the virus can be the answer, other than finding a vaccine or a cure for the disease itself,'' said flynn, in a prepared statement at a closed morning meeting attended by city councilors
conventional anti-drug measures ``do not go far enough in the short term'' to curb the spread of aids, he said
addicts, their sex partners and their babies ``are the fastest growing group of aids victims,'' flynn said
among the 1,230 massachusetts aids cases reported so far, about 20 percent have involved intravenous drug users. more than 25 percent of boston's estimated 14,000 intravenous drug addicts are thought to be infected with the virus already, state officials said
council president christopher iannella is expected to assign the measure to a council committee for review at the council meeting wednesday, according to flynn spokesman arthur jones
flynn also is seeking city council's approval of a petition to the state legislature to by-pass state laws against possession of hypodermic syringes by drug addicts or against dispensing such equipment to drug addicts
reaction was mixed among city councilors. some like councilor david scondras, said after the meeting tuesday that he backed the plan because ``my instincts tell me this is a medical crisis and (politicians) should not stand in the way of what a doctor prescribes for a patient.''
councilor james kelly said he has ``strong objections.''
first, i don't think the city should be giving the appearance that we're condoning drug use, which we clearly are,'' said kelly. ``second, i don't think it'll work.''
gov. michael s. dukakis has opposed any needle exchange program and so does state public health commissioner deborah prothrow-stith
i don't think we ought to be encouraging people to shoot up with heroin. i am against it,'' dukakis told a news conference tuesday. ``if we can get people into methadone maintenance programs, needles cease to be a factor. and that is a much, much better to deal with this, in addition to treatment.''
last month, the state of new york announced a plan to distribute free needles to drug addicts in new york city
acquired immune deficiency syndrome, which has no known cure, has been found to be spread through sharing of infected intravenous needles as well as through sexual contact. it damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer
as of jan. 4, the centers for disease control in atlanta had received reports of 50,265 americans with aids, 28,149 of whom had died
a delta air lines jetliner bound from boston to salt lake city made an emergency landing tuesday at o'hare international airport after the flight crew shut down one engine, a federal aviation official said
delta flight 235, a boeing 757 flying from boston to salt lake city with 127 people on board, made an unscheduled landing at o'hare at 9:22 a.m. cst, said marjorie kriz, a spokeswoman for the federal aviation administration
no injuries were reported, she said. the jetliner landed safely and taxied on its own to a terminal, she said
they're designed to fly on one engine,'' ms. kriz said
the plane's 120 passengers and seven crew members remained on board while repairs were made, and the craft left for salt lake about 11:20 a.m., said delta spokeswoman christa anderson
the crew shut down the engine as a precaution because an indicator gauge showed low oil pressure, said a delta official reached at the company's marketing office in suburban schaumburg
the official, who declined to be identified, said that the incident would not be termed an emergency landing and that the passengers were never in danger
the active-duty strength of the nation's military services in january was virtually unchanged from the previous month but more than 12,000 below the same period last year, the pentagon said tuesday
as of jan. 31, the army, navy, marine corps and air force had 2,167,378 men and women on active duty, up 767 from dec. 31 figure
that combined total represents a decrease of 12,023, however, compared with the jan. 31, 1987, tally. the armed services reported active-duty strength of 2,179,401 a year ago
it is not unusual for military strength to swing up and down on a monthly basis during the year, primarily because of differences in the flow of new recruits. the strength totals are expected to vary even more widely than normal this year, though, because the pentagon is reducing its active-duty strength in a budget-cutting move
according to the latest ``military strength'' assessment, two of the four armed services reported declines in personnel in january from december
the marine corps reported 198,243 men and women on active duty, down 194 from december. the air force reported 604,574, down 755
the army had an active-duty strength of 778,835 as of jan. 31, up 1,155 from december. and the navy reported 585,726 on active duty last month, up 561 from december
western nations are luring away tens of thousands of poland's most skilled professionals, causing a costly ``brain drain'' of its best and brightest young people, the government charged tuesday
government spokesman jerzy urban said the west is cashing in on poland's costly investment in education and threatening to prolong his country's economic crisis
he said more than 500,000 poles emigrated to the west between 1983 and 1987, including nearly 60,000 university graduates. the losses include 19,000 engineers, 5,500 physicians, 4,800 economists and 4,000 scientists
there is a brain drain in the western emigration policy'' that makes it difficult for unskilled workers to remain abroad but which ``eagerly retains experts in demanded specialties,'' urban said
the rich west, which is criticizing socialism, is sucking from poland a part of socialism's achievement,'' he said. ``we are suffering these losses in favor of countries which in general ... are very reluctant to undertake economic cooperation with poland which would back our reforms.''
the educations of the doctors and engineers who have fled the country between 1983 and 1987 is about $100 million, urban said
urban's comments, read from a text at the beginning of his weekly news conference, mirrored charges made in november by soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
in an interview with nbc news, gorbachev replied to a question on the soviet policy toward jewish emigration by saying u.s. officials are trying to solve their problems by ``organizing a brain drain from the soviet union.''
urban did not specify what steps the government might take to stem the wave of emigration, saying he was only appealing to all poles to express their views on a problem ``for which there is no simple remedy.''
urban did say that western countries should take the consequences of the brain drain into consideration ``in balancing mutal economic relations and commitments,'' an apparent reference to poland's efforts to obtain new economic credits and a favorable debt payment rescheduling from its western creditors
urban's remarks reflect growing concern in the country to the large numbers of young professionals fleeing the country's economic crisis for greener pastures in the united states, west germany, italy and france, among other countries
last month, a joint government and roman catholic church commission expressed concern about what it called an ``alarming phenomenon'' and called for measures to convince young poles that they can satisfy their aspirations in their native country
official newspapers have printed articles about emigration, including letters from young professionals explaining why they want to leave. government polls have shown that more than half poland's youth would like to stay in the west to work for two years or more
emigration has grown since the lifting of martial law in 1983, when the government liberalized regulations for obtaining a passport to travel abroad. urban said poles made 4.2 million trips to western countries from 1983-87
he said those staying abroad were motivated by economic rather than political reasons, describing their attitude as ``mean-spirited ... turning the back on the homeland instead of working in favor of improving living conditions.''
but he added the government did not intend to withdraw from its liberalized passport policy
some soviet bloc countries, such as romania, have demanded that would-be emigres repay the cost of their education before departing
from 1983 to 1987, urban said, 58,500 people emigrated legally from poland, including 5,000 university graduates
another 117,000 people, including 16,500 university graduates, traveled to the west on business or tourist trips and then stayed permanently abroad without consent of polish authorities
he said 328,000 people, including 38,000 with university degrees, extended their stay abroad, although many were expected to return to poland, he said
bruce smart, the commerce department's top trade official since mid-1985, is resigning to return to the private sector, officials announced monday
commerce secretary c. william verity said the departure resulted from a ``difference of management styles'' between the two men
smart had been one of the leading candidates to become commerce secretary when malcolm baldrige was killed in a horse riding accident last summer. however, president reagan chose verity for the job. verity took office on oct. 19
smart had served as undersecretary for international affairs since july 1985. he reportedly had been in line to take over the no. 2 job at the commerce department as the deputy secretary, which became vacant with the departure earlier this month of clarence brown
however, in his statement, verity said, ``a difference of management styles developed between bruce smart and myself and i asked him to agree to have his name withdrawn for the position of deputy secretary.''
verity said he asked smart to continue in the trade job but that smart had declined
smart's office said he was not commenting on the announcement
a commerce department spokesman said no decision had been made on the exact date of smart's departure. the spokesman said smart did not have a specific job yet in the private sector
state prosecutors said monday they won't seek criminal charges against contractors of an apartment building that collapsed during construction in bridgeport last year, killing 28 workers
chief state's attorney john kelly and bridgeport state's attorney donald browne said investigators determined that the cause of the collapse ``did not involve intentional criminal conduct on the part of any contractor involved in the construction.''
while investigators have disclosed the most probable cause of the building collapse, we do not believe that they have demonstrated either a gross deviation from a reasonable person's standard of conduct or that the prosecution could demonstrate responsibility for criminally negligent homicide beyond a reasonable doubt,'' the prosecutors said in a statement
richard bieder, an attorney representing families of some collapse victims, said authorities probably don't know all there is to know about the accident because some people with information may not have come forward
my experience is that more of them with information will begin singing like canaries as the pressures (of lawsuits) mount,'' he said
i think there's more behind this story,'' echoed anthony petta, general manager of the waterbury foundation co. inc., which was a concrete subcontractor for the l'ambiance project and lost 11 workers in the accident. ``who knows what will happen after all of the court proceedings?''
l'ambiance plaza, a multi-story apartment complex in bridgeport's downtown, was being built in the lift-slab method. in that method, huge concrete floor slabs are poured and allowed to harden in a stack on the ground before they are jacked into place on steel columns
federal authorities concluded the april 23, 1987, collapse was triggered when a small bracket that was part of the lifting system bent under pressure
the national bureau of standards concluded that builders failed to conduct stress-analysis tests to find out if the lifting brackets, steel pieces measuring about 4 by 12 inches, could hold up the concrete slabs
the labor department assessed a record $5.1 million in fines against five companies for violations at the apartment complex. the heaviest fines went to tpmi-maycomber, a joint venture of tpm international of darien and b.h. maycomber of boston, which was the primary contractor and project manager, and texstar contruction co. of san antonio, texas
the decision announced monday by kelly and browne affects only state prosecution
a regional administrator for the u.s. occupational safety and health administration, john miles, said recently he has recommended federal criminal charges be filed as a result of the collapse. the federal review process could take months
joe egan, business agent for ironworkers local 424, which lost seven men in the collapse, said he couldn't understand the state prosecutors' decision
if there has to be criminal intent, than most manslaughter cases would have to be thrown out of court,'' egan said
bridgeport mayor thomas w. bucci declined to comment on monday's announcement except to say, ``they (kelly and browne) are both excellent prosecutors and i'm not going to second guess their decision in this matter.''
in a lawsuit filed oct. 28 by the victims' families, the city was accused of negligence in issuing a building permit for l'ambiance plaza and in inspecting construction of the building
david turlington, a lawyer for texstar construction co. of san antonio, texas, said connecticut's decision verifies ``that ... the cause of the disaster has not been determined and texstar continues to dispute the findings by the national bureau of standards and osha.''
they had the goods on bucky. even if he'd had an alibi, he wasn't in a position to tell anyone about it
but when hamilton county sessions court judge h.l. smith handed down his sentence monday, maybe he took into account this was bucky's first offense. and that he was only 3 years old. and also that he was a deer
bucky is a white-tailed buck judged too tame to survive in the wild after being illegally raised on a farm since he was a fawn. smith ordered him to spend the rest of his life in chattanooga's warner park zoo
the sentence satisfied hershel bradshaw, a 70-year-old birchwood, tenn., man who had taken care of the deer since its mother and another fawn were accidentally killed by a combine he was operating
bradshaw was concerned that tennessee wildlife resources agency officials wanted to destroy the seven-point buck
for a while, they were talking about taking it out in the woods and shooting it,'' he said. ``i just don't think that would have been right.''
bradshaw's attorney, bob moon, said his client was charged with illegally taking and possessing a class iv animal. wildlife officials were told about the deer by a group of hunters who became angry when bradshaw would not let them shoot the animal, which was caged, moon said
tennessee law prohibits anyone except ``zoos and transient circus acts'' from possessing or displaying a class of wildlife that includes such as white-tailed deer, black bears, bobcats and wild turkeys
the judge said he had no intention of fining bradshaw
now that michigan's 150th birthday is over, the state office in charge of the bash has to figure out what to do with nearly 10,000 birthday cards and letters
many were placed by staff of the sesquicentennial office in a large laundry hamper, but some can't be filed away so easily
for example, there is the 150-pound, 4-foot by 4-foot ceramic tile state map, a joint venture of detroit's vernor primary school and pewabic pottery
there also are 28 6- by 4-foot birthday cards sent in by michigan shopping malls, some of them bearing more than 9,000 signatures
some communities sent in birthday scrolls up to 20 feet long and signed by hundreds of residents. most of the cards are hand made. many are from kindergartens and elementary schools, but there's even one from ``all of us at the eaton county jail.''
the state's 18-month-long celebration of its 150th birthday ended jan. 26
things are popping out on the farm, thanks to a jump in consumption of the fluffy white snack americans devour by the ton each year
production of popcorn statewide has doubled since the early 1980s when the last official estimate was made, said john unger, statistician for the illinois agricultural statistic service in springfield
consumption of popcorn has increased with the popularity of microwave ovens,'' unger said. ``the price of popcorn is up, and i think some farmers see it as an alternative crop that will make them a little more money.''
scott talbott of manito is hoping to take advantage of the popcorn craze. he and his father, gnile, grow up to 800 acres of popcorn each year near this town of 1,900 located 20 miles south of peoria
unger estimated illinois farmers grow upwards of 35,000 acres of popcorn each year, more than double the 15,000 acres reported in 1981 in the last census
indiana leads the nation, with about 53,000 acres of popcorn, and nebraska and ohio rank about even with illinois
deirdre flynn, spokeswoman for the popcorn institute in chicago, said industry sales started climbing in 1984, and a reported 700 million pounds were sold in 1986
u.s. and soviet diplomats will have a tough time meeting a one-month deadline for drafting portions of a treaty to slash superpower nuclear arsenals, government and private experts said tuesday
the aspects of the agreements that they have agreed to draft within 30 days are important, but they are appendages to the main treaty,'' said albert carnesdale, a former arms control negotiator now at harvard university
and another former negotiator, james hackett of the conservative heritage foundation in washington, cautioned that ``the best way to get a bad agreement is to give your negotiators a deadline. thirty days is an incredibly short time for an agreement that should take years to negotiate.''
both the soviets and americans would have to make major changes in their bargaining positions to produce an agreement before a summit planned for moscow in late may or early june, said carnesdale, hackett and administration sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
secretary of state george p. shultz and his soviet counterpart eduard a. shevardnadze set the 30-day deadline at their meeting in moscow on monday, directing their staffs to reach draft agreements dealing with verifying compliance with the cutbacks, disposing the weapons, and exchange of information
shultz and shevardnadze meet again in washington on march 22-23. defense secretary frank c. carlucci and soviet defense minister dmitri yazov are also scheduled to discuss the issues at a meeting in bern, switzerland, on march 16-17
the foreign ministers announced no major breakthroughs in the strategic arms reduction talks (start), which president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev have agreed should cut superpower nuclear arsenals to 6,000 warheads, a reduction of 30 percent to 50 percent, depending on how the weapons are counted
among the major points of disagreement are a u.s. proposal to limit the number of soviet land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (icbm's) to 3,300, no more than 1,630 of which can be on rockets carrying seven or more warheads. and the soviets are demanding limits on the number of cruise missiles aboard submarines and aircraft
one administration source said, ``it's going to be tough to get a deal unless the two sides agree to mix and match,'' the formula adopted in the second strategic arms limitation treaty, signed in 1979. that pact set overall limits on warhead levels but did not achieve the limits on land-based soviet icbm's that the administration has been seeking under start
some analysts believe that no start deal is possible unless the superpowers reach agreement on the degree to which the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty limits the testing of weapons developed under reagan's strategic defense initiative
however, congress has barred the administration from spending any money through next september on tests that would break the abm pact, and u.s. experts believe that enthusiasm for star wars will wane after reagan leaves office
star wars is probably a moot point,'' said an administration source
a spokesman at the soviet embassy, boris malkhov, said tuesday that ``we are confident that technical obstacles can be overcome. we have the political will, and we think that president reagan does, also,'' to produce a start accord before the summit
----
editor's note: bryan brumley writes on national security issues from washington
post-operative trembling endured by half the 25 million people who undergo surgery each year results from the use of anesthetics, not from decreased body temperature as had been assumed, according to a new study
the finding could lead to improved treatments to prevent the unpleasant and uncontrollable tremors that in some cases resemble a seizure and can be dangerous to patients, researchers said tuesday
we now know that a very dramatic side effect of surgery has been misinterpreted for more than 35 years,'' said daniel i. sessler, assistant professor of anesthesia at the university of california-san francisco and head of the study
sessler, along with researchers at ucla and the university of minnesota, compared electrical signals produced in the muscles during normal shivering to those in nine women recovering from anesthetic after surgery. they found the post-surgical tremors were not related to body temperature, but matched tremors produced in people with severed spinal cords
anesthetic, they found, wears off in the spine while the brain remains asleep, essentially disconnecting the spine from the brain's chemical messages
if the patient's skin gets cold, triggering shaking, the brain cannot signal the muscle reflex to stop, sessler said. after about 15 minutes, when the brain wakes up, the tremor stops, he said
people have been trying to do something for years about post-surgical tremors, but generally without success because they have been treating it as a thermo-regulatory problem,'' said sessler, who reported the finding at last year's meeting of the international anesthesia research society. the study will be published in the journal anesthesiology this year
dr. richard stein, vice president of the american society of anesthesiologists, said the finding will not drastically alter current practice at hospitals, which already use lamps or blankets once tremors begin
but according to sessler, warming the skin with infrared heating lamps or even something as simple as a hair dryer while the patient is still asleep should prevent the tremors altogether
infrared heating lamps are used empirically in some hospitals and have already been shown to work ...,'' said sessler. ``but most don't treat this except with blankets. routinely keeping the patient warm would prevent this, even a modest increase in the warming system.''
the shaking, which can occur with almost all general anesthetics in use today, can raise the patient's heart rate and blood pressure, in addition to pulling apart incisions and damaging teeth, sessler said
stein differed with sessler's estimate that half of all surgical patients experience some tremors, from mild to severe. he said such cases are rare and are usually not serious
the condition is most common among patients treated in cold operating rooms, such as those receiving hip or knee replacement, he said. orthopedic surgeons keep the temperature at around 62 degrees because of the heavy gowns they must wear and the air conditioning system, both designed to prevent infection, he said
in a separate study, sessler's research team disproved another assumption _ that surgery patients lose all ability to control body temperature. anesthetics do not eliminate control but instead lower the threshold for cold. the regulatory reaction occurs, but at a much lower body temperature than normal, they found
selection of a site for the $4.4 billion ``super collider'' atom smasher will be delayed by up to four months to prepare a draft environmental impact statement before, instead of after, the choice, the energy department said tuesday
word of the delay, from july to november or december, came in budget questioning of secretary john herrington before the interior subcommittee of the house appropriations committee
he was asked whether he would pick the site before or after the committee acts on his request for $363 million in construction funds for the fiscal year starting oct. 1
i don't see us making the decision'' before the committee must act, herrington said. ``i would guess a preferred site would be selected in november or december.''
the department has planned for more than a year to chose the final site in july and confirm it in january, subject to preparation of an environmental impact statement
department spokesman jeff sherwood said later that doe now believes it is better to do more work on the environmental impact statement and complete a draft covering all possible sites before chosing the final site
that will be on the street and people will be able to comment on it, and we'll have the benefit of the comments in choosing the fon to delay announcement of a final site recommendation
the longer you go in with this project without getting the funding committed, the more risk there is it won't get funded,'' blanchard said at the national governors' association winter meeting in washington. ``the more you narrow down the site selection, the less likely congress is to fund it.''
if congress builds it, the superconducting super collider will investigate exotic scientific theories of the origin of matter by whirling beams of protons into each other at an energy 20 times greater than what is now possible
believed to be the largest scientific instrument ever built, state governments are anxious to win the contest for the 53-miles-around tunnel because it will create 3,000 jobs and have an annual operating budget of $270 million
besides michigan, illinois, texas, arizona, colorado, tennessee and north carolina remain in the competition to build the collider
a two-pack-a-day woman who said she smokes just to annoy her husband was ordered not to light up in front of him or their three children and to confine her smoking to one room of their house, according to court papers made public tuesday
the court order, from state supreme court justice ralph diamond, says elizabeth roofeh, 41, of kings point on long island, can be held in contempt if she breaks the rules
mrs. roofeh's husband, jahanshah, a non-smoking orthopedic surgeon, went to court in an attempt to get his wife to stop smoking around the family
he claimed she had made a promise to that effect when they married in 1976. she said she broke the promise in 1984 only because of stress after suffering a stroke
she filed for divorce last may from her iranian-born husband, whom she called ``an ayatollah.''
i smoke just to annoy him,'' mrs. roofeh said last year. ``i'll quit when i get him out of the house.''
in the suit, roofeh claimed his wife's habit was ``offensive and detrimental to the health of the children,'' aged 6, 7, and 9
the husband had argued that smoking was as bad as punching or spitting and asked for an order of protection, but diamond said such orders are designed to protect family members from domestic violence and would be too severe a remedy
instead, he ordered that she never smoke in front of her husband or children and never smoke at home except in the family's small tv room
mrs. roofeh said tuesday that the ruling, dated monday, was ``nothing new.''
she said she had already been refraining from smoking in front of the children and confining her smoking to the tv room
in an affidavit, she had agreed that smoking is ``detrimental to the health of the smoker and those who passively inhale the smoker's smoke.''
constance navesky, a spokeswoman for the judge, said extensive research into state law had not found any similar ruling
the sisters of kidnapped marine lt. col. william higgins said he appeared well on a tape released monday by his lebanese extremist kidnappers
he looks good, considering what he's been through in the last few weeks, but he is under a lot of stress,'' said his sister, mary fisher, of the jefferson county suburb of okolona
it's strange to be seeing this. it's something you think can never happen to you,'' said another sister, linda lee miller of memphis, tenn., who is visiting mrs. fisher
on the scratchy tape, higgins, who was born in danville, ky., and grew up in nearby garrard county, read a list of demands that had to be met in order to obtain his release, including withdrawal by israel from its border ``security zone'' in south lebanon
higgins, 43, head of a united nations observer force in lebanon, was kidnapped last wednesday as he drove alone in a jeep on the higihway south of tyre, about 50 miles from beirut
a group calling itself the organization of the oppressed on earth, which claimed responsibility for the abduction, released the 70-second tape
i don't believe he thought it could happen to him. i believe he thought he was safe,'' mrs. fisher said of her brother
both mrs. fisher and mrs. miller said their brother would not want the united states to give in to the kidnappers' demands
he would want them to take a hard line, not give in to them, to stand up for the rights that the u.s. believes in,'' mrs. miller said
while both sisters said they were glad to see that their brother was alive, they realized it could be a long wait. currently, there are eight other americans being held hostage in lebanon, for as long as nearly three years
he wouldn't want us to just stop our lives because he's in this situation,'' mrs. fisher said
mrs. fisher said she would like to be able to get word to her brother of the death of their father, william higgins sr. the elder higgins died thursday, the day after his son's abduction, without knowing what had happened to the marine
mrs. fisher said she also had a message for her brother's kidnappers
please let him come home. please release him.'' when younis arrested, insert one graf after 9th graf pvs, bgng: ``the slow''; picks up 10th graf pvs, bgng: younis' ``capacity</note>
the fbi illegally obtained a suspected shiite lebanese terrorist's confession to leading a 1985 airplane hijacking during ``relentless interrogation'' that violated his rights, a judge ruled tuesday
u.s. district judge barrington d. parker suppressed oral and written confessions that fawaz younis gave to agents after he was lured aboard an fbi-chartered yacht in the mediterranean last sept. 13
parker ruled the statements were inadmissable as evidence because younis was denied his constitutional protection against self-incrimination and his right to legal counsel during four days of questioning aboard a navy ship in the mediterranean
somehere along the way, in its zeal and determination to indict and prosecute an alleged hostage-taker and hijacker under recent congressional enactments, and in securing fawaz younis' written confession, the fbi failed to comply fully with constitutional restraints and predecential supreme court decisions,'' parker said in a 47-page opinion
law enforcement agencies must follow the letter and the spirit of the law, even though the accused is not a citizen of the united states,'' parker said. the fbi ``failed to do so in september 1987 when it interrogated the defendant.''
younis was arrested when a friend who had become a government informant lured him onto an fbi-chartered yacht with the prospect of making a drug deal. prosecutors say they have a videotape and other statements from witnesses that place younis at the scene of the june 11, 1985, hijacking of a royal jordanian jetliner from beirut international airport
he is scheduled to go to trial march 22 before parker on charges that he led hijacking, during which the plane was blown up after passengers and crew were taken off the aircraft
although parker declined to rule that the arrest was illegal, he concluded that the fbi deliberately kept younis aboard the uss butte for four days to obtain a confession in ``a clear abuse of the obligation to bring the defendant before a judicial officer immediately following his arrest.''
the slow voyage across the mediterranean appeared to serve only the government's purposes _ ample time to educe a confession,'' parker said. ``that deliberate action coupled with the lengthy and relentless interrogation was all to the defendant's prejudice and detriment.''
the fbi launched its plan to abduct younis early last year under the direction of oliver revell, the bureau's executive assistant director, who witnessed the arrest and was aboard the butte for part of its four-day voyage, according to testimony
younis' ``capacity for self-determination was critically impaired'' by seasickness and throbbing pain from wrists that were fractured when agents slammed him to the deck of the yacht, skunk kilo, following his arrest, parker said
the judge noted that the fbi kept younis in windowless, overheated room aboard the ammunition ship as it steamed slowly from waters off cyprus to a rendezvous with the uss saratoga four days later. younis was then flown from the carrier to andrews air force base, md
the defendant had been advised of his rights to remain silent once during his interrogation, but ``in an uncertain physical condition, in an oppressive environment, and subject to relentless interrogation, younis lacked the will necessary to voluntarily waive his rights,'' parker said
we are reviewing the decision carefully within our office and with our colleagues in the department of justice,'' timothy j. reardon iii, principal assistant u.s. attorney, said in a statement. fbi spokeswoman susan schnitzer said the bureau would not comment on the decision
parker also criticized the ship's doctors for providing inadequate medical treatment and ``negligent diagnosis'' despite younis' ``constant complaints'' about the pain
younis was given ice packs but his wrists were not x-rayed and put into casts until after he was flown to washington
parker said he was ``extremely troubled'' by the fbi's failure to provide younis with a defense lawyer ``despite the meticulous detail of operation goldenrod'' _ the fbi's code-name for the effort
if the fbi could arrange to have a medical surgical team of five doctors and several tons of medical equipment aboard the butte, would it have been too difficult to arrange for a competent and detached attorney?''
besides the confession, prosecutors also have the testimony of two americans who identified younis as one of five men who boarded the plane with ak-47 assault rifles. they also have the testimony of jamal hamdan, younis' one-time friend who had several conversations with him about the hijacking
in addition, prosecutors have a videotape of younis reading a statement to reporters before the plane was blown up in the background
the state supreme court on tuesday declared west virginia's $1.49 billion budget unconstitutional because it contains a deficit, and the state auditor's office said all state spending would cease immediately
we've got to quit everything right now,'' said don adams, chief clerk for auditor glen gainer
adams said no further expenditures of state money can be made until the $26 million deficit in the current budget is corrected
there was a unanimous reaction of shock at the decision, which had been pending for months
the governor has been saying it's unconstitutional since june. i'm sure he'll be interested to hear that,'' said gov. arch moore's press aide, john price
moore was in washington at a governor's conference tuesday and could not immediately be reached for comment
the court ruled in a 3-2 decision, in an opinion written by justice darrell mcgraw, did not tell gov. arch moore and the legislature what to do about the unconstitutional budget
 ... we presume the governor and legislature will do their duties,'' mcgraw wrote
the decision resulted from a lawsuit brought by the west virginia education association last year that challenged cuts in funding for education. the association did not seek to have the budget declared unconstitutional but asked that moore be forced to call a special session to address the problem
in his response, moore did not contest the allegations and said the legislature budgeted $26 million more than he had said would be available in revenues. he said the document was unconstitutionally out of balance
the state constitution's requires ``that the estimate of revenue and the budgeted appropriation be in balance so as not to create a deficit.''
but the high court said it refused to tell the legislature and the governor what they should do to correct the problem and rejected the education association's request that a special legislative session be ordered
it said the branches of government are equal and the court presumes that the executive and legislative branches will do what they are supposed to do
the national park service affirmed the dream of a former boy scout tuesday by dedicating a national trail he conceived to show tourists landmarks that illustrate the rich history of blacks in the nation's capital
the black history national recreation trail winds from a 179-year-old cemetery in the exclusive georgetown neighborhood to the home of 19th century black leader frederick douglass in the city's poor anacostia section
the trail is a continued and living legacy to the achievements of black americans,'' said willard andre hutt, 27, who started the drive for the trail as his eagle scout project in 1979
dedicated to the memory of late black historian carter g. woodson, the tour through washington is part of a series of national park service trails, such as the appalachian trail, that represent periods in american history
the trail includes such landmarks as lincoln park on capitol hill; the downtown home of educator and presidential advisor mary mcleod bethune; the metropolitan african methodist episcopal church, the first ame in washington, created in 1822 when a group of dissatisfied blacks broke away from a predominantly white church; howard university, founded after the civil war to provide higher education to blacks; and the preserved home of abolitionist douglass
interior secretary donald hodel, urging tourists to visit the sites, wrote in a letter that the trail ``will surely contribute to an increasing awareness of the vitality and rich history of the black community in washington d.c.''
our young people need to see these sites,'' mayor marion barry jr. said at a dedication ceremony. ``they need to understand we didn't get to where we are because of who we are, but because of the struggle of these people.'' becoming law</head> ... ''</note>
two republicans said tuesday their $375 million child care improvement bill is far more likely to become law than a multibillion-dollar alternative sponsored by democrats
it's closer to what the president is going to sign than anything else on the table or under discussion,'' said rep. nancy johnson, r-conn., house sponsor of the gop bill. ``it is practical. it is realistic. it is doable.''
the plan sponsored by johnson and sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, relies on state regulation and private initiatives. the $2.5 billion democratic proposal requires federal regulation and, among other things, provides more direct aid to low-income families
there's no way they can get that past a democrat president, let alone this president,'' hatch said
hatch said he would have to ``sit down and negotiate'' with sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., sponsor of the democratic bill in the senate. he predicted no child care bill would pass unless it comes close to what he has proposed
but dodd said he and hatch already have had ``numerous conversations'' about the two child care proposals, with little to show for them
i frankly feel that under any of the presidential candidates, i would fare better with my child care proposal than under this administration,'' dodd said. ``so unless i sense that sen. hatch and others are willing to move more in our direction to really target low- and moderate-income families, i am going to be unwilling to necessarily reach a compromise this year.''
hatch initially introduced his bill last year, saying conservatives had to take a leadership role in resolving the child care problems faced by many working families. he reintroduced it tuesday with some refinements and johnson's companion measure in the house
the bill provides $250 million for state grants to projects designed to improve or expand child care or make it more affordable, $100 million for liability pools that any licensed provider could join and $25 million for capital improvements to regulated day care homes
in addition it would limit provider liability, give tax credits to employers with on-site child care and offer a double tax exemption to families in which a parent stayed home for six months to care for a newborn. the break would be worth about $500 to $600 to the average family
though some experts have said state regulation of day care is inconsistent and in some cases very poor, johnson said that would change because the bill requires state regulation and will stimulate debate
when that debate becomes public ... it results in good standards,'' she said
johnson also said the bill would decrease the incidence of ``underground'' providers because it addresses the liability problem and simplifies taxes for family day care providers
if you don't deal with those disincentives, you're not going to bring people into the regulated system,'' she said
the national governors' association, meanwhile, urged the federal government tuesday to take action on child care, including a ``modest'' commitment of funds to help poor working families
the governors, ending their three-day winter meeting in washington, called for the public and private sectors to work in concert on the problem, and said that despite the deficit, ``the federal government should begin to take action to improve child care.''
but president reagan on monday cautioned the governors to ``tread carefully'' on the issue of child care
maybe it's my conservative bent, but i can't help but feel uneasy sometimes'' about proposals to seek government solutions to such problems, reagan said
hatch and johnson described their bill as bipartisan, although most democrats are supporting the dodd bill, introduced in the house by rep. dale kildee, d-mich
proponents of the democratic measure say a strong federal role is needed to unify and strengthen the current piecemeal system and to give the private sector a framework in which to invest
only 5 percent of employers currently offer day care services or direct financial aid to pay for them
eds: deletes `a' in 7th graf `the government' to make spelling nagorno-karabakhskaya
thousands of people marched in soviet armenia on tuesday to demand control of territory assigned to another republic, dramatically illustrating tensions among the nation's 100 nationalities
demonstrations in yerevan, capital of the southern soviet republic, followed protests in the disputed area, a small mountainous region just north of turkey
a former political prisoner said from yerevan that the protesters want the small area _ part of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan _ to be made part of the republic of armenia because many armenians live there
other problems between different nationalities have led to demonstrations in the republics of kazakhstan, estonia, lithuania and latvia
nationalist demonstrations have increased since mikhail s. gorbachev gained power in march 1985 and adopted a policy of ``glasnost,'' or openness on selected social issues. on feb. 10, he said developing a nationalities policy is ``the most vital, fundamental issue of our society.''
dissidents in moscow said tuesday at least 100,000 demonstrators took to the streets in yerevan, but a participant claimed later the number was 200,000. in either case, it appeared to be one of the largest unofficial gatherings ever reported in the soviet union
the government acknowledged ``breaching of public order'' took place in the the disputed area, nagorno-karabakhskaya, and said the territorial demands were against the public interest
tamara grigoryants, a moscow dissident whose husband is armenian, said the disputed area in the caucasus was given to neighboring azerbaidzhan in the early 1920s although most of its inhabitants are armenian
paruyr ayrikyan, a 38-year-old former political prisoner, said in a telephone interview from yerevan that protests began late monday and continued tuesday. yerevan is 1,100 miles south of moscow
no one slept all night,'' he said. ``we gathered at the opera house at about 11 p.m. and stayed out demonstrating until 5 a.m. about 200,000 people massed outside the council of ministers, the central committee headquarters and the supreme soviet.''
about one-third of armenia's 3.3 million people live in yerevan
ayrikyan led an underground armenian nationalist group called the national unification party and was jailed for 17 years beginning in 1969. he said he now is chairman of a nationalist group called alliance for national determination
earlier this month, he said, the nagorno-karabakhskaya government council asked that the region be made part of armenia, citing the constitutional guarantee of the right of self-determination. the communist party central committee rejected the request, and demonstrations followed in nagorno-karabakhskaya and yerevan, ayrikyan said
soldiers brought in tanks to quell protests in nagorno-karabakhskaya and rumors circulated that some demonstrators were killed, he said
the government made its comment through the official news agency tass, and the dispatch was read later on the national evening news program
breaching of public order was provoked as a result of irresponsible calls by extremist individuals,'' tass said of events in nagorno-karabakhsaya
it said the central committee ``holds that the actions and demands directed at revising the existing national and territorial structure contradict the interests of the working people in soviet azerbaidzhan and armenia and damages inter-ethnic relations.''
the central committee urged residents ``not to yield to provocations by nationalist elements'' and said all measures would be taken to ``safeguard public order,'' tass reported. it did not give the number of demonstrators or say what actions were taken to stop the protest
alexander ogorodnikov, a former political prisoner who lives in moscow, said demonstrators in yerevan chanted the slogan, ``one nation, one republic!''
karen s. demirchyan, the armenian communist party chief, went on television monday night asking people to be calm, but thousands gathered outside the opera whistled and jeered, ogorodnikov and ayrikyan said
police followed the demonstrators as they marched through yerevan but did not detain or harrass the protesters, ayrikyan said
he added that rumors were circulating of authorities sending martial arts experts to the city to cause disorder and provide police with a pretext for intervention
problems of nationalities gained prominence last summer in the baltic republics, and there were street demonstrations in latvia, lithuania and estonia to mark the anniversary of a secret german-soviet agreement that led to the soviet takeover of the three countries in 1940
on feb. 16 in vilnius, the capital of lithuania, there was a heavy presence of police patrolling the streets and squares in an apparent move to prevent any demonstrations on the 70th anniversary of lithuanian independence
estonian dissidents plan more protests wednesday
in the central asian republic of kazakhstan, at least 3,000 people rioted dec. 17-18, 1986, in the capital alma ata to protest appointment of an ethnic russian to replace a kazakh as the republic's party leader
network news stories on vice president george bush were generally negative before the iowa republican caucuses but became much more favorable after his poor showing there, a media analyst said tuesday
there were 157 on-air evaluations of bush as a candidate on evening newscasts from jan. 1 to feb. 16, said robert lichter, who has been logging and analyzing television coverage of all the contenders since early last year
from jan. 1 to feb. 8, before bush's third-place iowa finish, 61 percent of the evaluations were negative. from feb. 9 through feb. 16, between the iowa and new hamphire contests, only 34 percent of the evaluations were negative
lichter called the trend ``a dramatic upturn'' that illustrates the media tendency to treat front-runners more critically than the rest of the pack
as bush's prospects dim ... suddenly for the first time in this campaign he starts to get good press,'' lichter said
part of the shift involved the virtual disappearance of stories about bush's role in the iran-contra affair, lichter said. before the iowa caucuses feb. 8, there were twice as many stories about iran-contra as there were about any other policy issue. then iran-contra ``dropped from sight,'' he said
lichter showed snippets of pre-iowa campaign coverage that included several pointed comments from bush's chief rival, senate minority leader bob dole of kansas
in one nightly news clip, dole said bush never said anything at leadership meetings. ``i don't know, maybe he was just holding back,'' he said. in another, dole said he had ``a record of leadership. ... i can't help it if he (bush) can't provide any.''
after the iowa caucuses, sample clips showed barbara bush calling her husband ``wiser and smarter'' than the other candidates. nbc correspondent tom pettit said bush was ``not a quitter. he's a very determined man.'' and a new hampshire truck driver told an interviewer that bush ``seems a lot taller and sterner than i thought he would be.''
lichter said most positive comments come from candidates and their families while negative ones come from others in the race. the trend worked to the disadvantage of democrats because they kept picking on each other _ particularly during debates, he said
sample clips of the democrats included some acerbic comments on the so-called massachusetts miracle touted by gov. michael dukakis as evidence of his successful economic policies
i went to divinity school and they have a tougher definition of the word miracle,'' sen. albert gore, d-tenn., said during one debate
rep. dick gephardt and sen. paul simon provided many instances of democratic sniping picked up by network news. among the clips:
it is legitimate for me to say where are you going? who is the real dick gephardt?'' said simon, defending an anti-gephardt television ad
i asked sen. simon to take those ads off television,'' gephardt said. ``and if he doesn't, he should take off his bow tie because he's just another politician.''
lichter said abc and nbc coverage of bush stayed just about the same after bush's confrontation with dan rather on cbs. but bush's positive evaluations on cbs dropped sharply from about 50 percent to 27 percent after the set-to, lichter said
lichter said the negative cbs coverage may have been ``one blip'' attributable to ``a lot of anger'' over the incident. he said bush stories on cbs since iowa are in the same ballpark as other networks _ about 60 percent positive
horse-race'' comments about a candidate's chances were not included in the tallies of positive and negative evaluations. comments that were counted came from candidates, their families and aides, network correspondents, independent experts and others
lichter is a fellow at the american enterprise institute and co-director of the center for media and policy studies. besides tracking network news coverage of the candidates, he is also monitoring election-year political humor on the johnny carson and david letterman shows
federal monitors of state-run family assistance programs should penalize only those states with excessive rates of overpayments, a congressional study said tuesday
moreover, the report by the nationa research council said the current federal monitoring system should be replaced with one that measures state efforts to accomplish the social purposes of the programs rather than just financial accountability
recommendations of the panel, an operating arm of the national academy of sciences, are based on an 18-month study ordered by congress
the new report focuses on aid to families with dependent children and medicaid. a similar report issued last may concentrated on the food stamp program
the underlying call for different ways of measuring effectiveness applied to all three programs, which account for about 40 percent of total federal spending on the poor
nevada is the only state that has escaped sanctions that are expected to total $3 billion by 1989. nearly all of the 49 states facing sanctions are appealing and some are challenging them in court
intended to deter overpayment errors in the three programs, penalties are imposed if a state's error rate exceeds 5 percent of its food stamp payments and 3 percent of its afdc and medicaid payments
the panel endorsed the concept of imposing sanctions for improperly run programs, but said the overpayment error rate should not be the sole criteria of a state's performance
it said the present monitoring system does not provide the ``detailed data that are needed for identifying and correctioning problems at the service-delivery level.''
because of uncertainties in the available information, sanctions should be limited to ``extremely bad performers'' until a more comprehensive method of measuring performance is developed, the panel said
it said federal officials should measure the states against each other, rather than the present absolute gauge, and penalize only those with ``excessively large'' error rates
however, the report did not specify a cutoff point as being ``exessively large'' and said, ``there is no absolutely reliable way of determining, say, the 10 states with the highest error rates.''
massachusetts and wisconsin receieved top scores tuesday in a ranking of state environmental protection programs by an advocacy group, the fund for renewable energy and the environment
the two states received 45 points out of a possible 60 in the group's subjective assessments of programs in six areas: surface water protection, pesticide control, highway safety, land use planning, indoor pollution and pollution from energy production and use
not far behind in the rankings were california and new jersey with 44 points each and connecticut with 43. at the bottom of the list were nevada, oklahoma and texas with 19 points, arkansas and mississippi with 17 and wyoming with 15
in the separate areas, the group put these states first: north carolina in surface water protection; california in pesticide protection; oregon in land use planning; new jersey in combating indoor pollution; maryland in highway safety; and massachusetts in energy pollution control
in an introduction to the report, denis hayes, chairman of the fund, said, ``slowly, the environmental community has come to recognize that our responsibility is not discharged simply by passing sweeping legislation. ... the real success must be won in the trenches
the purpose of this study is to share information on how the battle is going in the trenches.''
this is the second report from the fund. last year's examined outdoor air pollution, soil conservation, solid waste and recycling, hazardous waste management, groundwater protection and renewable energy and conservation. the fund said it plans to look at each area every three years
the rankings tried to account for the existence of state legislation, the scope of programs, financing, monitoring and enforcement and indications of progress
the report singled out massachusetts, which imposed $697,000 in penalties for water pollution under a new state program
among other points, the report said:
_arkansas, idaho, indiana, louisiana, maryland, minnesota, ohio and washington ``have more than one-fifth of the major municipal public treatment works in significant non-compliance'' with their water pollution discharge permits
_most states rely on local government zoning ordinances for controls on land use, and statewide programs were found only in oregon, florida, vermont, colorado, hawaii and new jersey
_forty-two states have passed laws limiting smoking in public places, and 22 states and more than 200 local governments restrict smoking to some degree on the job
_though not one of the traditional environmental issues, ``highways are one of our most dangerous daily environments,'' and ``the automobile is also the machine with the single greatest impact on our environment,'' accounting for half of air pollution. 02-23 0841</first> ...'' to update with hopkins comments.</note>
the army announced tuesday it intends to build incinerators at eight ammunition depots around the country to destroy old chemical weapons because it doesn't want to risk moving the munitions
i think we could do it either way,'' said james r. ambrose, the under secretary of the army and the official who made the final decision
but it is my judgment in rendering this decision that it is much more sensible in every respect, and far less complex and i think on the whole ... less risky, to do it where it is
we think we can exercise much better control on a combined federal reservation than we can transporting this stuff over many states and through cities and the like,'' he said
ambrose's decision was hardly a surprise. the army has favored on-site destruction of its old chemical stocks ever since it began studying the matter more than two years ago, and just last december released an environmental impact study supporting that approach
some members of congress, however, including rep. larry j. hopkins, r-ky., have contested the army's plans, saying the service hasn't demonstrated the safety of incinerating chemical weapons at storage depots located near population centers
hopkins said tuesday he was not surprised by ambrose's decision, but thought the army had reneged on an earlier agreement to conduct a more ``site-specific'' study of each depot
in my view, on-site incineration is unsafe and unthinkable in madison county, ky.,'' hopkins said. ``we have the most amount of population and the least amount of chemicals.''
the service is now constructing a prototype incineration plant on johnston atoll in the pacific ocean _ where another chemical weapons depot is maintained _ to demonstrate the safety of the destruction process, ambrose noted
we think these plants are extremely safe,'' he said at a pentagon briefing. ``we think the safety is greatly in excess of that required by any of the known rules and laws.''
the army's no. 2 civilian leader said the service now hopes to begin building the eight incineration plants by 1989 or 1990, but conceded that timetable could be slowed by litigation or by congress
while ambrose said he was comfortable with his decision, he said he fully expects to see lawsuits challenging the move
i've had even some people i won't identify assure me that they'll sue me either way,'' he said to laughter
the army's stockpile of so-called unitary chemical weapons, in which shells and bombs are filled with a variety of nerve gases and poisons such as mustard gas, is now on average more than 25 years old. although the army won't say how large the stockpile is _ citing secrecy classifications _ published estimates have ranged from 25,000 tons to 40,000 tons
the weapons are stored at the aberdeen proving ground, md.; anniston army depot, ala.; lexington-blue grass army depot, ky.; newport army ammunition plant, ind.; pine bluff arsenal, ark.; pueblo army depot, colo.; tooele army depot, utah, and umatilla army depot, ore
the army is under orders from congress to begin destroying the old stock as it begins producing a new type of chemical weapon considered to be more safe. those new ``binary'' weapons are made with two harmless chemicals that are kept separate until after the artillery round or rocket is fired, mixing then to form a lethal gas
ambrose said tuesday he had closely studied the army environmental impact study before accepting its rejection of four alternatives to on-site incineration
those alternatives included transporting the weapons by rail for destruction at plants to be built at tooele and anniston; transporting by rail to a single national disposal center at tooele; airlifting the lexington and aberdeen weapons to tooele for destruction, with on-site destruction at the other locations, and continued storage at the current sites
these devices are there,'' ambrose said. ``they've been there for some time. they will not go away. they should be gotten rid of. they will not turn into something completely harmless by themselves
i have simply concluded that the ability to control (transportation) actions and to take the necessary precautions in large-scale movements ... is just much more of a formidable, complex and uncertain task than to keep these materials under close control at these locations and to perform the incineration there.''
the army could probably save about $200 million if it built a single large incineration plant instead of eight small ones, but the risk of large-scale movement of the weapons is not worth it, ambrose added
if all goes well, ambrose said it would cost between $2 billion and $2.5 billion to dispose of the old weapons and that the job could be completed by 1996 or 1997. it would then take another year or so to dismantle the eight incineration plants, he said. term</head> mccloskey's first election but his second; subs penultimate graf to correct number of votes cast in 1984 election to 230,000, sted 260,00.</note>
connecticut attorney general joseph i. lieberman announced monday he will challenge maverick republican sen. lowell p. weicker jr.'s bid for re-election, while democratic rep. frank mccloskey of indiana _ who won re-election in 1984 in a disputed recount _ said he would seek a fourth term
and in augusta, maine, longtime congressional aide edward s. ``ted'' o'meara said he would run for the gop nomination in the 1st congressional district, challenging l.l. bean heiress linda bean-jones in a primary. the seat is held by democrat joseph e. brennan, the former governor
lieberman, 45, a democratic former state senator who ran unsuccessfully for congress in 1980, attacked weicker for using the senate as ``a debating society'' for his own agenda
weicker, 56, who announced his candidacy for a fourth term earlier this month, has made a name for himself as a liberal republican, frequently at odds with his party and president. he has championed constitutional issues and civil rights and worked against school prayer and balanced budget amendments
the candidates will be determined at state party conventions this summer. so far, weicker is unopposed and lieberman has only token opposition from gary johnson, who describes himself as a veterans' rights advocate
mccloskey said he expected another tough campaign in the 8th congressional district, which is situated in southwestern indiana. in 1984, mccloskey won by just four votes in a hotly disputed recount after a race with republican candidate rick mcintyre of bedford in which more than 230,000 votes were cast
so far, two republicans have filed to challenge mccloskey _ john smith, a bloomington businessman, and john myers, an odon newspaper publisher. workers told they could be laid off, sted would be. picks up 13th graf pvs, `the international ...'; a longer version moved on the business wire.</note>
flight attendants at northwest airlines have voted overwhelmingly to strike the airline this weekend unless a contract dispute over wages and benefits is resolved, a union official said monday
jeff musto, a spokesman for teamsters local 2747 representing 6,500 northwest attendants, said 94.4 percent of the more than 5,000 attendants participating voted to strike saturday. strike authorization required a two-thirds majority
the strike authorization of 94.4 percent reflects the deplorable state of labor relations at northwest airlines,'' musto said at a news conference, reading a statement prepared by the local
northwest airlines labor relations does not comprehend the severity of the labor situation at this carrier,'' the statement read
northwest spokesman redmond tyler said he was not surprised by the strike vote and said the airline expected to continue operating most of its flights if a strike occurred
meanwhile monday, the teamsters union at pan am corp. threatened to disrupt the airline over a contract impasse but stopped short of calling a strike
the strike deadline for the union, which represents 4,500 pan am baggage handlers, reservations clerks and other ground personnel, passed at 12:01 a.m. sunday. no negotiations were scheduled for monday
teamsters officials said they would use tactics such as sending baggage to the wrong airports and canceling reservations
tyler said northwest officials and the union would hold a negotiating session tuesday ``with the cooperation of the national mediation board and we continue to remain optimistic that our contract will be resolved.''
the two sides have not negotiated since the national mediation board released them from mandatory negotiations last month, when they deadlocked over wages, fringe benefits and work rules. a 30-day cooling-off period ends at 12:01 a.m. est saturday, at which time the attendants may strike and northwest may impose a new contract
about 2,000 northwest managers are qualified to be flight attendants and would be used during a strike, according to the airline, which also advertised earlier this month for flight attendants
but northwest last week told 5,300 mechanics and baggage handlers they could be laid off if the flight attendants went on strike
the international association of machinists, which represents 20,000 ground workers at northwest, and the pilots' union have not said if they would honor a strike by the flight attendants
in the last strike against northwest, the machinists union walked out for 27 days in may 1982
northwest merged with the minneapolis-based republic airlines in 1986 and the company and its major unions have been involved in talks on new contracts ever since
many former republic employees are paid less than their northwest counterparts, a cause of friction between labor and management
northwest's latest proposal to the teamsters offers immediate elimination of pay gaps between former northwest and former republic flight attendants and deals with the other areas of disagreement
the proposed five-year agreement calls for pay increases for former republic flight attendants ranging from 17 percent to 26 percent, according to terry erskine, northwest's vice president of labor relations. senior flight attendants earn about $35,000 annually; starting pay is about $15,000 a year, he said
but musto said monday that ``even though it does show a pay raise for the republic people, the end result would be a pay cut if you put a dollars and cents figure on things being taken away form the republic people.''
musto said the proposal would mean less vacation pay and, ``in the long run, you would get less retirement benefits.'' cleanup</head> to update with comment from occidental, other reaction, picking up 8th graf, `curtin's ruling...'. subs graf 10, `occidental, formerly...', to include history of occidental acquisition of company</note>
a federal judge ruled tuesday that occidental chemical corp. is liable for the cost _ estimated at more than $250 million _ of cleaning up the love canal landfill that became synonymous with environmental disaster
after nine years of deliberations, u.s. district judge john curtin said occidental produced the wastes and stored them in a way that would eventually result in toxic leakage
it is beyond dispute that occ's disposal practices were at least partially responsible for the release, or threatened release, of the chemicals from the love canal landfill,'' curtin said
curtin said occidental's liability would be determined in further court proceedings involving claims against occidental by other parties, including the state of new york and some residents. previous estimates have ranged above $250 million
frank ashley, a spokesman for occidental petroleum corp., the parent of occidental chemical, said the company would appeal
although we believe we are protected by insurance, we intend further to protect our rights by appeal from this extraordinary decision,'' ashley said
at last someobo~ has been assigned some responsibility,'' said sister marjeen hoffmann, director of the ecumenical task force which has been an advocate for people in the love canal neighborhood
this is what we've been waiting for,'' she said
lois gibbs, a former love canal resident who now runs the citizen's clearing house for hazardous wastes in alexandria, va., said she hopes the company will be found liable for the full $250 million. ``that will at least make them blink,'' gibbs said
roger j. marzulla, acting assistant attorney general in charge of the justice department's land and natural resources division, said the ruling shows occidental ``cannot insulate itself from liability by blaming others.''
curtin's ruling upholds the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, which the judge said was designed to compel the waste disposal industry ``to correct its past mistakes and to provide a solution for the dangers posed by inactive abandoned waste sites.''
the law was passed 27 years after occidental yielded ownership of the landfill, transferring it to the niagara falls school board
occidental, formerly hooker chemical and plastic co., contended that it was not responsible for the site after 1953 when it sold the property to the school board, which built a school on the grounds. occidental petroleum had acquired hooker in 1968 and changed the name to occidental chemical
occidental said the construction broke a clay seal on the dump and allowed the chemicals to leach into the environment. the company acknowledged dumping 20,000 tons of chemical wastes into the canal during the late 1940s and early 1950s
martin littlefield, assistant u.s. attorney for the buffalo district, said the decision was ``a great victory for the state because it means companies are indeed responsible for what they've done in years past.''
littlefield said occidental would be liable for the ``bottom line'' on the cleanup costs. he said, however, the ruling allows occidental to sue other parties the chemical giant contends should share the responsibility
nunzio loverdi, president of the love canal environmental action committee, said, ``i think occidental should accept the decision and not take action against the city and school board because if it does we will all suffer. we want to get on with our lives and put this behind us.''
ten years ago, love canal became synonymous with environmental disaster when state officials ordered an evacuation of children and pregnant women from the area because of leaking chemicals. president carter designated the 10-block site as a federal emergency area in 1978
the federal environmental protection agency began the suit against the company in 1979
during the next two years, 728 families were evacuated. many of those were among the 1,300 former residents who accepted a $20 million damage settlement from occidental in 1984
today, there are some 175 families awaiting the results of a state habitability study to decide whether they can return to their homes
occidental has since proposed construction of a multimillion-dollar incinerator complex and offered to destroy dioxin-contaminated wastes. the offer marks the first time since the federal and state governments took over the cleanup in 1979 that the company has proposed any direct action or involvement in cleanup measures
occidental officials are scheuled to make a formal proposal at a meeting march 2 in washington at the u.s. environmental protection agency. graf bgng ``but he said ... ''</note>
former secretary of state henry a. kissinger grudgingly supported senate ratification of the new u.s. soviet medium-range arms reduction agreement on tuesday, saying it never should have been agreed to in its present form
but kissinger said the treaty should be approved without crippling amendments because failure to do so would ``magnify all difficulties'' within the nato alliance
the removal of american intermediate range missiles (from europe) is now irreversible,'' because of the pressures of european public opinion and other factors, kissinger told the senate foreign relations committee
because of that, he said, defeat of the treaty in the senate ``would generate a crisis in the atlantic alliance which in the end would almost certainly lead to the unilateral withdrawal of u.s. missiles from europe and undermine the cohesion of the alliance.''
my concerns cannot be removed by the refusal of the senate to ratify the agreement,'' kissinger said. ``failure to ratify ... cannot cure its defects
meanwhile, because they had ``manuevered themselves into a position where they think they now have no choice but to stand by proposals they never thought would be agreed to in the first place.''
the treaty is the result of nato's 1979 ``dual-track'' decision to deploy u.s. weapons to counter soviet ss-20 medium-range missiles while at the same time negotiating their removal
they felt the obligation to imply that these weapons were there for arms control purposes and were therefore open to negotiation,'' kissinger said of the european political leaders
kissinger said he believes the treaty is flawed because it will not reduce in any significant way the ability of the soviet union to devastate europe with other nuclear weapons and because it substantially reduces the ability of the united states to retaliate with nuclear weapons based in europe
nuclear deterrence in europe will now rely primarily on weapons based in the united states and kissinger said that creates ``a psychological and political imbalance,'' especially when weighed against soviet superiority in conventional forces
but he said rejection of the treaty would severely undermine confidence in american leadership, demoralize the alliance, and ignite neutralism
sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the intelligence committee, said his committee has ``high confidence'' in the ability of the united states to verify soviet compliance with the treaty
but ``there's a very big question mark about our ability to verify'' a separate treaty providing deep cuts in long-range nuclear weapons, boren said in an interview
the problem there is one of money, not technical ability,'' he explained. ``we have the capability, but the administration has to come forward and propose a budget plan to pay for it.''
the intelligence committee has been holding closed-door hearings for three weeks about verification capabilities
in his testimony, glitman provided a detailed analysis as part of the senate's thorough examination of the pact signed 10 weeks ago by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. the treaty will eliminate all nuclear-tipped missiles with ranges of about 300 to 3,000 miles
armed services committee members say the detailed scrutiny is needed because of disputes about the meaning of past treaties, particularly the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
the current treaty is being considered by the senate amid a fight between the democratic-controlled congress and the reagan administration over the precise meaning of the 1972 pact and whether it banned futuristic weapons such as those being developed under the strategic defense initiative
article 14 of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty says neither side shall do anything, now or in the future, to undercut the pact
sen. dan quayle, r-ind., told glitman that ``i'm concerned about article 14'' because it might limit future u.s. help to other nato nations
if we don't spell out what the future obligations are,'' said quayle, ``down the road i can foresee some problems ... now is the time to give us as much running room as possible in the future for our technology.''
but glitman took the opposite approach, noting that the treaty is extremely specific in spelling out prohibited weapons, along with their components
if it is not prohibited by the treaty, we can do it,'' said glitman. later, he added that ``we're best protected by stating what we cannot do.''
glitman cited one method in which he said u.s. aid to nato would not be affected. the treaty bans cruise missiles, he said, but it doesn't block the transfer of u.s. technology to nato nations such as great britain to develop cruise missiles
glitman said the u.s. negotiating team resisted soviet efforts to block u.s. help for nato. ``we knew their goal was to find a way to put a brake on nato activities,'' he said
reagan promised tuesday that the united states will do its part to ensure that the nato alliance remains strong, saying in an address broadcast to europe that ``our destiny is coupled with yours.''
in the address, which came a week before a nato summit meeting, reagan reaffirmed the alliance agreement that an attack on any member nation is an attack against all of them. ``simply put, an attack on munich is the same as an attack on chicago,'' he said. secretary</head> after 13th graf pvs, bgng: fitzwater said; picks up 14th graf pvs, bgng: `it is</note>
president reagan on tuesday picked a veteran capitol hill infighter, william l. ball iii, to step into a simmering dispute over pentagon budget cuts as his new secretary of the navy
the white house said the president will nominate ball, a former capitol hill aide who has been chief lobbyist for both the state department and the white house, to succeed james webb, who resigned as navy secretary on monday with a blast at secretary of defense frank c. carlucci
we look to will ball to continue working aggressively for a strong u.s. navy,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, noting webb's charge that carlucci had needlessly sacrificed the administration's goal of a 600-ship fleet
fitzwater said the administration still seeks a 600-vessel navy, but now expects that the goal will be reached in fiscal year 1992, more than two years after reagan leaves office, rather than in fiscal 1989 as originally planned
the budget restructuring under way at the pentagon now is a difficult and painful process,'' fitzwater said. ``secretary carlucci is doing an admirable job. he's quite capable and suitable to the task, and he's carrying out thepresident's policies in that regard.''
of ball, he said, ``all of us who kfw him here at t z/e house know that the navy is getting a strong advocate and a strong fighter both on the hill as well as in any of the other courts of public opinion around the country.''
ball, 39, a soft-spoken southerner who came to washington as an aide to former sen. herman talmadge, d-ga., has a reputation for skill at the behind-the-scenes compromises and maneuvers needed to steer legislation through congress
webb, on the other hand, was more noted for outspoken advocacy of such controversial positions as his criticism of the service academies' admission of women and his ruling that the navy would no longer accommodate officers who want to play professional sports
ball has been assistant to the president for legislative affairs since february 1986. before that he had been assistant secretary of state for legislative and intergovernmental affairs. from 1981 to 1985 he was administrative assistant to`hen sen. john tower, r-texas, serving also as chief clerk of the senate armed services committee in 1981. he was talmadge's administrative assistant in 1978
a native of south carolina, he is a graduate of the georgia institute of technology and was a regular officer in the navy from 1969 to 1975
as secretary of the navy, ball will oversee approximately 584,000 navy personnel and 199,000 marines
he will be succeeded at the white house by a deputy, alan kranowicz, who has been primarily responsible for white house lobbying efforts in the house. kranowicz served as chief of staff to former rep. tom loeffler, r-texas, while loeffler was in congress
fitzwater said webb ``did the honorable thing'' in resigning when he could no longer support the president's policies. he said webb's service was ``distinguished and the president appreciates it very much.''
later the white house released a letter from reagan to webb accepting the resignation ``with regret'' and saying, ``as your service to this administration comes to a close, i want to thank you for the selflessness and loyalty that you have always personified.''
defense department spokesman dan howard said, ``the pentagon is very pleased that someone with such positive credentials has been named so quickly.''
it is a painful restructuring they are having to go through to absorb some of those reductions in spending levels,'' the presidential spokesman said. ``the president has been a strong advocate of the military and has worked hard to build it up over many years and feels that pain no less than anyone else.''
the budget cuts being carried out by carlucci, the former white house national security adviser who succeeded caspar w. weinberger at the pentagon late last year, result from a compromise reached by reagan with the democratic-controlled congress
in his budget message delivered last thursday to congress, reagan said he had kept his part of the bargain and expected them to keep their part by appropriating the full amount agreed upon for pentagon spending
ball's nomination requires confirmation by the senate. he is expected to have little difficulty since the nomination will be reviewed by the senate armed services committee, many of whose members know him as a former aide to the panel and to tower, who is a former member and chairman
in announcing his resignation monday, webb charged that carlucci had instructed him to deny news stories reporting that it was the defense department, not the navy, that wanted to mothball ships
he also said carlucci needed to ``spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building (the pentagon),'' but instead had been ``spending a lot of time with the state department and a lot of time on the hill.''
carlucci declined to respond, saying only that he had learned of webb's resignation with ``regret.''
pat robertson suggested on tuesday that political motivations lay behind the timing of sexual-misconduct allegations against tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, and he also accused george bush's campaign of planning religiously bigoted television commercials
he provided no evidence to support his accusation on the timing of the swaggart story, and he declined to say who might be behind any such effort. however, he said the vice president's campaign was the only one in the gop presidential race that has been engaging in ``dirty tricks.''
robertson's comments brought heated denials from bush~ others in the vice president's campaign
asked about robertson's charge during a campaign stop in st. louis, bush challenged him to ``prove it.''
later, in london, ky., bush was asked if he could say his campaign had no connection with the timing of the swaggart story
that's a hundred percent accurate,'' he replied
bush said he saw no reason anyway to connect the swaggart story with robertson, himself a former television evangelist
i don't think it's fair to burden pat robertson with something with jimmy swaggert. i don't think that's fair play,'' bush said. ``on the other hand, if he accuses me of something, i'm perfectly prepared to defend us.''
in washington, south carolina gov. carroll campbell, bush's state campaign chairman, said, ``if somebody makes a specific charge then they certainly ought to have to come forward with some proof. i think it's a rather ridiculous charge myself.''
robertson said evidence indicating swaggart had been involved with prostitutes had lain ``dormant since last october.''
it ``stretches the imagination and stretches credulity'' that revelations of such allegations came two weeks ``before the most important primary in the nation,'' the republican candidate said during a news conference. he was referring to the primaries and caucuses that 20 states will hold on march 8, known as super tuesday
i think somebody had something to do with it,'' said robertson. ``somebody else planned all these things, i am afraid.''
he also said bush's campaign was guilty of dirty tricks against him and was planning more in the form of advertisements before the super tuesday primaries
they will attack my religious beliefs and practices and i'm going to call them before it happens,'' robertson said
bush officials said that accusation wasn't true
robertson declined to say what led him to make the charge
concerning his statement that the swaggart controversy was politically orchestrated, he said a prominent journalist, whom he declined to name, ``told me something like that might have gone on.'' he said it was the news media's duty to determine whether or not it was true. firm</head>
a space agency engineer who pressed for a delay in the launch of the ill-fated space shuttle challenger started work monday at the private aerospace company that built the shuttle booster rocket
judson a. lovingood, 51, joined several other top-ranking officials in leaving the marshall space flight center since the seven crew members died in the challenger explosion two years ago
lovingood retired saturday from the national aeronautics and space administration, where he had worked for 25 years, instead of taking an assignment at nasa headquarters in washington as deputy director of systems engineering and analysis for the shuttle program
he elected to retire in lieu of accepting the assignment for economic and other reasons,'' said a marshall spokesman, dave drachlis. ``dr. lovingood has said that he has worked on the shuttle since 1969. the challenger accident has exacted a great personal toll and he felt it was time for a change.''
lovingood's new job is technical director of morton thiokol
he said through a thiokol spokeswoman that he will be responsible for ``overseeing some technical activities'' at the huntsville division of morton thiokol, whose main shuttle plant is in utah. his activities were not specified, but he said the company's huntsville operation has little connection with the shuttle program
lovingood was deputy manager of the shuttle projects office at marshall when morton thiokol engineers recommended against launching the shuttle in cold weather at cape canaveral on jan. 28, 1986
i was contacted about 4:30 that afternoon (jan. 27) by a guy from the cape,'' lovingood said
a point was being made and the point being that i heard that thiokol people were recommending that we not launch,'' he said. ``i felt like with a recommendation like that that we shouldn't launch, period.''
a presidential commission that investigated the disaster concluded that the decision-making process prior to the launch was flawed, with the views of morton thiokol engineers overruled and critical concerns not relayed to top nasa levels, where officials were pushing for a launch
the commission said flawed o-rings in the booster rocket allowed hot gases to leak through to the external fuel tank
pat robertson's campaign lawyer contended tuesday that the campaign has not used the $6.5 million it received in federal matching funds even though its financial report shows it has less than that on hand
the matching funds were used to secure a $5.5 million loan during january, said campaign attorney marion harrison, but he added that the campaign does not consider that was using the money
the matching funds are 100 percent in an escrow account,'' and none has been spent, harrison said in a telephone interview
when asked why the campaign's financial statement filed with the federal election commission showed $5.5 million in cash on hand, $1 million less than the matching funds he said were in the bank, harrison said he did not prepare the report and could not explain it
campaign aides did not return calls monday and tuesday to answer questions about the report
whether or not the robertson campaign has accepted the matching funds is significant because presidential candidates who are declared eligible for such funds must abide by spending limits under federal regulations
the robertson campaign contends that it does not have to abide by the limits unless it actually uses the money, and considers that although it put the funds into its bank, it still has the option of sending the money back and bypassing the spending limts, said harrison
that will be our contention if we decide not to accept them,'' harrison said. ``it's a decision that hasn't been made yet.''
fec spokesman fred eiland said, ``that's sort of a dubious argument, but the commission would have to answer that.''
he noted that candidates must sign an agreement to abide by the spending limits even before they actually get the matching funds
the spending cap issue is more important for robertson than for any other presidential candidate because he is by far the closest to the limit
the cap is $23 million for the primary season plus another 20 percent, or $4.6 million, allowed for fund-raising expenses
as of the end of january, robertson reported spending $17.6 million against the $23 million cap, plus $4.3 million against the fund-raising cap
those figures did not include february's spending toward the iowa and new hampshire contests, tuesday's south dakota and minnesota contests or the super tuesday primaries in 20 states on march 8
harrison said the $5.5 million loan from sovran bank in virginia was secured, but neither he nor the bank's regional executive officer, earl slattum, would disclose what collateral was required
the loan was bigger by far than any taken out by the other candidates
election law requires that banks treat presidential campaign loans in the normal course of business, with no special considerations applied
slattum cited customer privacy considerations and refused to divulge any information about robertson's loan, the bank's general lending practices, or even the cities included in the region slattum heads
slattum and harrison also declined to give the date the loan was taken out although fec spokesman eiland said that is required on the disclosure reports. the report listed the date only as january 1988
robertson also used his matching funds to secure a $1.5 million loan in december from sovran bank. that loan was paid back on jan. 10
robertson reported spending during january of $7.9 million, more than any other presidential campaign, and ended the month with $5.5 million in cash on hand and $6 million in outstanding debts
a new election system in which people vote for candidates by lining up behind them led to one death and widespread charges of fraud, kenya newspapers reported tuesday
the purpose of monday night's voting was to choose parliamentary candidates for kenya african national union of president daniel arap moi, kenya's only legal political party
john matere keriri, who was assistant transport minister but failed in his nomination bid, called the vote ``an absolute sham, a fraud not an election.''
keriri and a few other losing candidates claimed they or their agents were arrested and harassed by partisan officials the night before the monday vote and that several agents were barred from polling stations
one man identified as a keriri supporter died and two other people were hospitalized in the northern kirinyaga district, where violence was used to keep some people from voting, newspapers reported
the elections marked the party's first test of the new system and a much-criticized regulation that allows nominees with more than 70 percent of the vote to enter parliament unopposed
at least 30 candidates received more than 70 percent
church leaders, lawyers and a few politicians have called the line-forming system as intimidating and said the 70-percent rule disenfranchizes non-party members
under the new system, voters lined up behind candidates and officials took a head count
government officials contend the new system will prevent corruption and give the party rank and file a greater voice. candidates previously were chosen by the party chairman, secretary-general and treasurer
preliminary results indicated poor turnouts in many constituencies. the standard, an independent nairobi newspaper, reported hundreds of eligible voters milled outside some voting locations and only a few lined up to vote
it appeared more people came as spectators than as voters,'' it said
anglican bishop david gitari accused election officials of trying to rig the ballots. he said the election official at one polling station refused to count heads when more people lined up behind keriri than behind his opponent
official tallies were expected later this week in the week
presidential nominations are due saturday but no-one is expected to challenge moi. he has held the office since the death of the first president, jomo kenyatta, a decade ago
sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., said tuesday that most u.s. intelligence agences now believe the soviet union is hiding hundreds of potent medium-range missiles in europe. the reagan administration said his assertion is incorrect
helms, commenting as the senate foreign relations committee continued its examination of the new treaty banning all medium-range missiles in europe, has repeatedly said estimates from the defense intelligence agency indicate the existence of at least 300 more ss-20 missiles than those declared by the soviets
the senator, who opposes the treaty, said on tuesday he now has been told a majority of u.s. intelligence agencies support that view
but sen. claiborne pell, d-ri., the committee chairman, read an administration statement denying that
the statement called the helms assertion incorrect, and added: ``the majority of the national intelligence community does not support the view the soviets have withheld a number of ss-20s.''
the statement said that all data on the number of such weapons will be reviewed when the soviets submit an updated report on their medium-range missile force after the new treaty is ratified by the senate
that report will be verified by on-site inspection, the statement said
it said that cia director william webster, ``speaking for the entire intelligence community, has said the (submitted) soviet data ... `falls within (u.s.) intelligence estimates.'''
the ss-20 is a mobile, highly accurate, medium-range missile, each of which carries three nuclear warheads. background on role of assistant judges, wheel, picking up 7th graf pvs, `the charges...'.</note>
a former county assistant judge who was the focus of misconduct charges against three state supreme court justices has been convicted of lying under oath
a vermont district court jury found former chittenden county assistant judge jane wheel guilty late monday after more than six hours of deliberations, said court spokeswoman harriett eitapence
an attorney for wheel, found guilty of three counts of lying under oath, said he would try to have the verdict set aside
wheel, 55, was charged in october 1986 for her actions during an inquest earlier that year into allegations that she had padded her paycheck
the prosecution maintained she lied when asked if she had altered court files to indicate that she was sitting in court on days she actually was elsewhere. judges are paid for time spent hearing cases
assistant judges in vermont are elected lay people, while regular judges are lawyers appointed by the governor. wheel was a high school english teacher until her election in 1974 and had long been active in democratic politics
lay judges, who make up the state's superior court system, hear mostly civil cases, although before court reorganization several years ago they also often heard criminal cases
the charges against wheel, who was defeated in a september 1986 election, rocked the state's judiciary because of her association with three vermont supreme court justices
misconduct charges were filed in january 1987 by the judicial conduct board against wheel, former supreme court justices william hill and thomas hayes, and justice ernest gibson iii, accusing them of using their influence to help wheel while she was under investgation by the attorney general's office in the paycheck-padding case
hayes died last year, and charges against gibson were dropped. wheel and hill await proceedings before the conduct board
the board is slated to take up 12 counts against hill on march 7
one of the misconduct counts alleges that hill berated an employee of the chittenden county superior court when she walked into a room and saw wheel's arms around hill
another alleges that wheel's friendship with hill was so open that an employee of the court called hill at home and warned him that unless he altered his behavior in front of wheel it could do serious damage to his reputation
another charge alleges that hill talked improperly outside the courtroom with wheel about a case that had been tried in her court and was being appealed before him at the supreme court level
during the trial, assistant attorney general david suntag portrayed wheel as someone who had been caught in a web of lies and deceit as she signed her name to the court folders to cover up the fact she had hardly sat in court on cases for a year
she lied under oath, and no amount of talking about lots of other things and no amount of changing stories ... can change that,'' suntag told the jury
wheel's attorney, richard davis, said he would move to have monday's verdict set aside on grounds that the evidence did not support a guilty finding
during the trial, which began jan. 25, davis had argued that wheel was the victim of a vendetta by court personnel
wheel faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in jail and a $10,000 fine for each of the three counts. no sentencing date had been set
snow fell tuesday from michigan to new york, while rain dampened areas from the gulf coast to new england
clear to partly cloudy skies prevailed west of the mississippi river
snow fell in southeastern kentucky, west virginia, and western sections of pennsylvania and new york, mixed with rain across parts of northern new england and central new york
heavier snowfall tuesday morning included 6 inches at coopers rock state park in west virginia; 5 inches in laurel village, pa.; and 3 inches at somerset, pa., and chalke hill, pa
snow showers dusted the michigan shore of lake superior between marquette and sault ste. marie
rain was scattered from southern new england across southeastern new york and eastern pennsylvania, and the tennessee valley, and fell in portions of the central gulf coast and central florida
gale warnings were posted along the new england coast, where winds were clocked at 20 to 35 mph. winds of 20 to 35 mph also were common from the northern plains to the upper great lakes, resulting in sub-zero wind chill readings
ice jams prompted flood warnings along streams near buffalo, n.y
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 9 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 84 degrees at homestead, fla. the morning low was 14 below zero at gunnison, colo
wednesday's forecast called for sunny skies over most of the nation, with snow showers in parts of the great lakes region and a few rain showers in the florida peninsula
high temperatures were expected to reach the 20s and 30s from wyoming and colorado across the northern half of the plains, the middle-mississippi valley, the great lakes and the ohio valley to new england; the 60s in much of california, southern new mexico, southern texas, northern florida and southern georgia; the 70s and low 80s in the desert southwest and southern and central florida; and the 40s or 50s elsewhere
yugoslavia denied tuesday that it had granted political asylum to the son of former egyptian president gamal abdel nasser, who is wanted for terrorism in egypt
in a statement read to the associated press over the telephone, a yugoslav foreign ministry spokesman also denied that khaled abdel nasser is a permanent resident of belgrade
it is true that he periodically visits yugoslavia like any visitor who has a tourist visa,'' said the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity
nasser and 19 others were indicted in egypt last week in connection with four shooting attacks on israeli and u.s. diplomats and embassy workers in cairo between 1984 and 1987. two israelis died and six israelis and two americans were wounded in the shootings
nasser, 38, and 10 other defendants face possible death sentences. the other nine could receive life sentences
arab reports said nasser had been living in belgrade with his family for four months and that yugoslavia granted him political asylum
we want to emphasize that he has never asked for nor was granted political asylm'' in yugoslavia, said the statement. ``he (nasser) is not engaged in any political activity in yugoslavia.''
the spokesman said that nasser possesses a multiple-entry tourist visa given to all those who have diplomatic passports
he has an egyptian diplomatic passport,'' he added
cairo newspapers reported that authorities in yugoslavia had been notified that nasser is a fugitive sought by interpol, the international criminal police organization
the daily al-akhbar also said ahmad el-khawaga, a defense attorney and head of the egyptian bar association, went to belgrade to bring nasser back from exile
yugoslavia's late leader josip broz tito was a co-founder of the non-aligned movement with gamal abdel nasser. egypt and yugoslavia have no extradition treaty
an israeli tank was attacked while on patrol in south lebanon, and two israeli soldiers were killed and two wounded, the military command announced tuesday
lebanese security sources said earlier tuesday that guerrillas using rocket-propelled grenades ambushed an israeli armored patrol consisting of one tank and one armored personnel carrier near the south lebanese village of braachit, killing two soldiers and wounding others
the israeli army announcement said the tank was hit by an explosive device at 6 p.m. monday near braachit, six miles north of the israeli border in israel's self-designed security zone in south lebanon
the explosive device was activated and as a result of that, two soldiers were killed and two others suffered light wounds and were rescued,'' the brief announcement said. it said israeli soldiers launched a search in the area
the announcement gave no details. the military command did not explain why the announcement was delayed for over 24 hours
the israeli fatalities in south lebanon were the first this year
both vehicles were raked with rocket-propelled grenades that set off a chain of ammunition explosions in the tank. no one could have escaped alive from the burning tank,'' said one of the lebanese sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
he said the guerrillas were either shiite moslem fundamentalists or pro-syrian leftists. both groups operate in that area
israel created its six- to 10-mile-wide security zone when it withdrew the bulk of its troops from lebanon in june 1985, ending a three-year occupation
the zone is patrolled by about 1,000 israeli soldiers assisted by about 1,000 militiamen from the mostly christian south lebanon army, which is trained and backed by israel
st-jean, quebec (ap) _ andre bissonnette, who was dismissed from the federal cabinet after news reports linked him to a questionable land deal, was acquitted tuesday of four charges of fraud, breach of trust and conspiracy
normand ouellette, bissonnette's close friend and political associate, was convicted of one count of fraud but acquitted of one charge of breach of trust, one count of conspiracy to commit fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit breach of trust
charges were filed after a series of sales that tripled the price of a piece of land in st-jean from $800,000 to $2.98 million in 11 days of january 1986. the canadian dollar is worth about 79 u.s
oerlikon aerospace inc. contracted to buy the land 13 weeks before the federal government awarded it a $600 million contract to build canada's low-level air defense system
prime minister brian mulroney fired bissonnette, 42, of st-jean a day after reports of the land sales were made public last year. he had been junior transport minister
in ottawa, mulroney's office released a statement saying ``the prime minister is very pleased that mr. bissonnette has been fully exonerated by a jury of his peers.'' the statement said nothing about bissonnette's chances of getting back into the cabinet
the jury was told to decide whether steps taken by ouellette that drove up the price were ``objectively dishonest,'' and whether bissonnette helped him
judge jean-guy boilard of quebec superior court also instructed the jury to determine whether bissonnette knew of methods used by ouellette, who managed his blind trust
prosecutors alleged that bissonnette and ouellette used privileged information to profit illegally from the sale. bissonnette denied in court that half the profit from the final transaction, in which ouellette was involved, wound up in the bank accounts of himself and his wife
bissonnette smiled slightly as the verdict was read. he later crossed the room, patted ouellette on the back and wished him luck
bissonnette, a self-made millionaire, was known as the ``chicken king'' of quebec because one of his companies supplied much of the barbecued chicken sold in restaurants in the province
outside the courthouse, he shook hands with several jurors. he thanked mulroney for supporting him over the past 13 months and said he would leave any decision about his political future up to the prime minister. supplies</head>
the government is reviewing plans for comprehensive screening of blood supplies for aids, since some blood banks were testing only 8 percent of their supplies, the news agency of nigeria reported tuesday
dr. etim essien, chairman of the national adivsory committee on aids, said testing in nigeria's nine blood banks ranged from 8 to 85 percent of supplies
essien said the incidence of aids in nigeria was small, but plans for a comprehensive screening program were under review to guard against the spread of the disease through blood transfusions
essien said there were 20 known cases of aids in nigeria, africa's most populous nation with more than 105 million people, and the chances of getting the disease through blood transfusion were small. he gave no details about the screening program or say when it would be implemented
essien's comments followed the launching of a $1 million national aids education program
meanwhile, a lagos newspaper confirmed the death friday of the country's 12th aids victim, a gambian national living in nigeria
professor idris mohammed, also speaking at the launching of the new aids program, said nigeria's aids victims were mostly low-income farmers who patronized prostitutes
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is a disease in which a virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers
aids is most often transmitted through sexual contact. other means of transmission include transfusions of tainted blood or blood products, and the sharing of contaminated hypodermic needles or syringes by drug abusers. aids can also be passed from mother to child at or before birth. wounded in his left shoulder, sted `her'. picks up 8th graf, `according to...'.</note>
a 28-year-old transient was being held tuesday in lieu of $1 million bond, accused of shooting two plainclothes policemen and then barricading himself with hostages in an office building
david johnson was charged with two counts of attempted capital murder in the monday night shooting
authorities alleged that johnson, a familiar figure to officers patrolling downtown, scuffled with police who confronted him, got an officer's gun and opened fire
one of the captives, jerry renaud, said the gunman seemed disoriented and contended he was being framed by police
my understanding is he had some mental problems and it's your typical downtown problem that we've been faced with,'' city manager lou fox said monday night
meanwhile, officer edwin gorrell, 33, a two-year veteran, was in critical condition at brooke army medical center after more than 13 hours of surgery on a head wound, said hospital spokesman robert clark
officer onofre serna, 26, was in good condition at medical center hospital with a wound to his left shoulder, said hospital spokeswoman inez eisazadeh
according to police spokesman sgt. paul buske, the two officers had stopped the man and a female companion who appeared to be intoxicated
a struggle ensued,'' buske said. ``one of the officers lost his weapon. (the suspect) picked up the weapon and several shots were fired.''
the man took a gun, a badge and a police radio and fled into a travis park plaza building, where he took two hostages. he released them and went to a third-floor office, where he took three hostages
renaud, an accountant who was working late with others at deloitte, haskins and sells, said he at first thought the gunman was joking, then decided to listen to the man to calm him down
he seemed disoriented at first, despondent, that he had gotten framed,'' renaud said tuesday. ``he said he wasn't there to hurt us. he said he just needed a place to hide out for the night.''
after a few minutes, he said, he and the man got a soft drink to cool off
right after he got his coke, i decided i needed a drink desperately and poured a little seagram's seven in my coke so i could think,'' renaud said. ``i got interrupted quite a few times by the telephone, but i never really tried to say anything that would upset him.''
renaud and his two co-workers escaped when the gunman walked into another area to take a sixth hostage, buske said. he surrendered an hour later
the san antonio express-news talked to the man by telephone monday night. he told the newspaper he was just walking when he was grabbed by a man with a gun and a badge
the gun just went off ... i didn't mess with nobody,'' he said
gorrell and serna were part of a downtown foot patrol aimed at deterring street crime
last month, a mentally ill homeless man shot and killed a dallas police officer in a downtown parking lot. south dakota win for dole and abc projecting gephardt winner. the 1st add, a0664, should stand</note>
sen. bob dole fought his gop presidential rivals in the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses tuesday as vice president george bush all but conceded defeat in advance. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis dueled richard gephardt and the rest of the pack for fresh momentum in the democratic race
the two states were billed as the gateway to super tuesday _ a midwestern opportunity to demonstrate electoral strength before the march 8 festival of delegate-rich primaries and caucuses, mostly in southern and border states
dole was rated the heavy favorite in the south dakota republican primary as he bid to rebound from last week's drubbing in new hampshire
as the polls were closing, cbs news and abc news projected that dole would win the republican primary in south dakota. cbs said bush and former television evangelist pat robertson in a tight race for second place in the gop race
abc also projected gephardt as the winner in south dakota. 
the kansas senator also campaigned hard in minnesota, but robertson dreamed of an upset and rep. jack kemp made an all-out effort as well
bush, who finished third in the iowa caucuses earlier this month, made little effort in the two neighboring midwestern states. he spent little money in minnesota and withdrew television advertisements from south dakota stations
democrat dukakis, fresh from a triumph in the new hampshire primary, aimed for a convincing win in minnesota as he bid to demonstrate that his candidacy has appeal outside new england. iowa caucus winner gephardt, sen. paul simon and jesse jackson also vied for support as they sought standing in the race before the primary and caucus calendar turned south
dukakis and gephardt each hoped for a win in a heated south dakota race. sen. albert gore jr. invested heavily in television advertising, as well, hoping for a strong showing outside his native south in advance of super tuesday
simon, who once said he would quit the race if he failed to score a victory in either state, stepped back from that standard late last week and vowed to stay in the race no matter where he finished
gary hart, his comeback candidacy in tatters after poor finishes in iowa and new hampshire, campaigned hard in south dakota
for hart, gore, jackson and robertson, south dakota posed a financial test, as well. each man finished with less than 10 percent of the vote in new hampshire, and a similar result in south dakota would deprive them of federal matching funds beginning in 30 days. a candidate can requalify by gaining 20 percent of the vote in a future primary
the states offered a bewildering array of delegate selection provisions
south dakota's democratic vote was a preferential poll designed to serve as an advisory opinion to a statewide caucus on march 12 that will allocate 15 of the state's 19 delegates
but minnesota's democrats began the selection of 78 of the state's 87 delegates to the party's nominating convention in atlanta in july
south dakota's republican primary voters picked all 18 of the state's delegates to the gop nominating convention in new orleans in august
minnesota's republicans expressed their presidential preferences through a straw vote and selected delegates to begin the process of picking 31 national convention delegates
the week's, a0664
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primary in south dakota
180 of 1,151 precincts reporting - 16 percent
babbitt, 29 - 1 percent
dukakis, 1,523 - 33 percent
gephardt, 2,119 - 45 percent
gore, 372 - 8 percent
hart, 213 - 5 percent
jackson, 210 - 4 percent
simon, 213 - 5 percent comment from dukakis, kennedy. also moving on the financial wire.</note>
general motors corp. plans to reopen its assembly plant here in may and rehire about 1,800 of the 3,700 workers who lost their jobs when it closed in november, a gm official said tuesday
company officials were aiming for may 9 as a startup date, but the reopening could be delayed an additional week, said gm regional manager joseph nedrow. one shift would return to work, he said
we're hopeful ... we're going to have a second shift'' later in the year, depending on whether car sales pick up further, nedrow said in a telephone interview. a formal announcement on the startup will be made wednesday, he said
nedrow spoke shortly after sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., said he had been told that gm would reopen the plant may 9. a spokesman for massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis said state officials also had been informed the plant would reopen
gm closed the plant nov. 31, blaming sluggish sales of the midsized chevrolet celebrity and oldsmobile cutlass ciera assembled at framingham
at the time, the company said it hoped to reopen the plant in the spring. industry analysts had predicted such a move was unlikely because the plant is nearly 40 years old and projections call for a continued decline in sales of the models made there
attempts to reach officials of united auto workers local 422 for comment were not immediately successful. telephone calls to the union office were not answered
dukakis, a presidential candidate, praised gm in a statement issued by his office for keeping its pledge to reopen in the spring
but since this is only a partial reopening, i am still very concerned about the workers who are not returning to the jobs at the plant.''
i commend gm for this decision,'' kennedy said. ``i will continue to work with gm and the uaw to resume full production as soon as possible.'' picking up 2nd pvs, bgng: we've decided</note>
the senate launched a ``full-fledged filibuster'' tuesday as majority leader robert byrd ordered 24-hour sessions to subdue republican opposition to a democratic campaign financing bill
the talking, broken by occasional roll calls, began about 2 p.m. and continued into the night. appointments were canceled, schedules revised, senators began catching up on paperwork and cots were set up in rooms near the chamber
byrd, lacking the votes to prevent republicans from stalling action on the legislation, threatened to keep the senate in session indefinitely
we've decided we'll just go around-the-clock,'' the west virginia democrat said at midafternoon after republican and democratic negotiators reported making no progress on the central question of spending limits
we're going to talk or we're going to vote,'' said byrd, warning that foes of the campaign finance legislation would have to keep control of the floor to prevent a vote
democrats and republicans have been at loggerheads for nearly a year over a democratic bill with 52 co-sponsors that would set up a system of voluntary spending limits for senate general election campaigns
the limit would be from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population. the bill's supporters say limits are needed to put a brake on the increasing cost of getting elected, up from an average of $600,000 in 1976 to $3 million in 1986
in larger states, growing numbers of candidates are spending more than $10 million to win a senate seat, with increasing amounts of campaign funds being supplied by special-interest political action committees
a candidate observing the voluntary limit would get campaign funds from the treasury if the opponent exceeded the limit or an independent group spent large amounts of money against the candidate
republicans, who have made opposition to limits a party issue, succeeded last year in preventing the senate from voting on the legislation, winning a record seven cloture votes during 22 days of floor time
byrd, even with the support of three of the senate's 46 republicans, is believed to be five votes short of the 60 needed to cut off debate and force a vote on the bill
the senate is in a full-fledged filibuster,'' said byrd, adding that he would no longer confine debate to daylight hours
there's no point in continuing the casual, gentlemanly, good-guy filibuster because it will just turn out like it did last year,'' he said. ... let's have it on the floor where the american people can see it.''
four democrats and four republicans have been negotiating since last week. they reported progress on some facets of the bill but not on spending limits, which republicans say will discriminate against them in states with a heavy democratic edge in registered votes
the chief negotiators said their positions on the key issue were solid
a limit on spending ``is something this side is not going to agree to,'' said mitch mcconnell, r-ky. ``that is not one of the negotiable items.''
his counterpart, david boren, d-okla., was just as adamant: ``any bill that does not limit campaign spending would not be real reform.''
boren said, however, that democrats are willing to discuss higher spending limits in states where their party enjoys a big advantage in registration or historically has dominated congressional elections
there was no public response from mcconnell, who said republicans were willing to discuss compromise on another democratic demand: putting a ceiling on how much money a candidate can get from political action committees
boren and mcconnell said negotiators had neared informal agreement on other issues, including controling how much personal money a millionare can put into his or her campaign; requiring broadcasters to charge rock-bottom rates for political ads; better disclosure of money going to political parties; and getting controls on so-called ``soft money,'' which includes groups like labor unions supplying people to help candidates with canvassing and phone banks
sen. bob dole rolled to victory in the south dakota gop presidential primary tuesday night, leaving pat robertson and vice president george bush to scramble for a distant second place
rep. richard gephardt won the south dakota democratic presidential primary tuesday night, with michael dukakis running second. the election delivered no nominating delegates but gave the missouri congressman a leg up in the delegate selection to come
democrats who chose a candidate in the final days of the south dakota primary race went strongly tuesday for rep. richard gephardt, who employed aggressive television advertising in his winning campaign
among the republicans, network exit polls said, conservative voters helped pat robertson challenge vice president george bush for second place, while sen. bob dole of kansas won with broad support
a third of the democratic voters told cbs news they made up their minds in the last three days of the race, and 45 percent of them backed gephardt, compared to 23 percent for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis. gephardt had trumpeted a key endorsement and attacked dukakis in television advertising
gephardt and dukakis, who finished second, split the liberal vote. but gephardt won the moderate and conservative democrats, won the male vote while splitting the female vote with dukakis, and won among the less wealthy and the less educated, again splitting the others with dukakis, the polls suggested
surprisingly, the nbc news poll found that a plurality of south dakota democrats, 46 percent, said they believed dukakis eventualy will win the presidential nomination, even though not all voted for him
on the republican side, bush's identification with president reagan failed to help his cause, the same problem bush suffered in the iowa caucuses feb. 8, the polls indicated. bush finished third in iowa to dole and robertson
dole won the republican primary, bush and robertson were locked in a race that was too close to call and rep. jack kemp was a distant fourth
gephardt won the democratic race, dukakis was running second and the remaining candidates were tightly bunched well back
dole campaigned determinedly in south dakota, while bush steered clear of the state. the exit polls indicated that dole won strongly in nearly all categories; abc news, for example, found that dole won more than seven in 10 liberals and moderates and four in 10 conservatives
robertson was second among conservatives, with 27 percent in abc's poll, according to network poll analyst doug muzzio. kemp was well back, with 8 percent of conservatives
cbs said robertson, a former television evangelist, won support from 51 percent of evangelical christians, who made up about a fifth of the republican electorate
republicans who support president reagan helped bush win the new hampshire primary. but in south dakota nearly half of the republicans who favor reagan _ 56 percent of the total _ went for dole, abc found. about a quarter each backed bush and robertson
among the losing democrats, nbc found that former sen. gary hart of colorado, who won the state in his 1984 bid for the nomination, was viewed unfavorably this year by twice as many south dakotans as viewed him favorably. roughly 60 percent said they were not pleased that hart re-entered the race after withdrawing last summer amid questions about his marital fidelity
the cbs survey had a margin of sample error of 4 percent; abc's was 5 percent and nbc's was 3 percent. the networks did not poll in minnesota, which held precinct caucuses tuesday rather than primaries. news digest: moscow _ pm-shultz, a0517; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0423; washington _ pm-meese-pipeline, a0428; undated _ pm-swaggart-impact, a0499; washington _ pm-scotus-clubs, a0437; los angeles _ pm-la gangs, a0487; undated _ pm-political rdp, a0442; dallas _ pm-tarmac tuesday, a0439; manila, philippines _ pm-philippines-anniversary, a0466; vienna, austria _ pm-waldheim, a0479.</note>
navy secretary james webb's abrupt resignation blew the lid off his split with defense secretary frank carlucci and revealed bitter infighting at the pentagon as it grapples with budget cuts after years of reagan-era increases
webb resigned monday and decided to air some dirty linen on the way out, accusing carlucci of needlessly sinking the administration's dream of building a 600-ship fleet
he further accused carlucci of ordering him to lie about internal budget fighting, saying the defense chief had written him a note saying he should deny news stories reporting it was the defense department _ and not the navy _ proposing to mothball ships
repentant television evangelist jimmy swaggart must stop preaching for three months and undergo a two-year rehabilitation and counseling, church leaders decided after questioning him about his sexual misconduct
we accept his confession of specific incidents of a moral failure,'' cecil janway, louisiana district superintendent of the assemblies of god said late monday night. ``based on his detailed confession and the evidence we observed of true humility and repentance, we have offered him rehabilitation.''
janway made the announcement after swaggart met here for more than 9 hours with the state council of the nation's largest pentecostal denomination
photographs allegedly showing swaggart with a prostitute reportedly were given to church officials by new orleans evangelist marvin gorman, who had once filed a $90 million suit charging swaggart with unjustly accusing him of numerous affairs
swaggart has not publicly described his misconduct, and the state council urged him not to
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson, who objects to being called a former television evangelist, claims ``somebody planned'' the jimmy swaggart scandal to embarrass him before the super tuesday elections
swaggart, a television evangelist accused of sexual misconduct, was ordered monday by the hierarchy of his church in baton rouge, la., to limit his preaching and enter counseling
robertson said monday that the eruption of the swaggart controversy two weeks before the march 8 round of primaries and caucuses is no coincidence
fbi agents and informants sent to spy on anti-reagan activists collected so much information on peaceful protest activities that bureau headquarters was worried they went too far, once-secret documents show
fbi officials were called before the senate intelligence committee today to account for the more than two-year investigation, which produced no criminal charges but gave the government reams of information about opponents of president reagan's central america policies
documents released under the freedom of information act have shown that the investigation initially was targeted at one group, the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador. but fbi files eventually included information on hundreds of other individuals and groups, ranging from roman catholic nuns to union leaders who opposed reagan policies
caspar weinberger is going to buckingham palace to receive an honorary knighthood from queen elizabeth ii, the highest royal honor britain bestows on foreigners
today's ceremony doesn't mean the former u.s. defense secretary will become sir caspar _ that accolade is reserved for the queen's own subjects _ but it's britain's way of saying thanks for being an exceptionally good friend
the 70-year-old weinberger, who counts winston churchill among his heroes, also has to forgo the ceremony of kneeling before the queen as a commoner, being tapped on both shoulders with a sword, and arising as a knight. that, too, is only for british subjects
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of feb. 26 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner as blanche du bois and aidan quinn as stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. now in previews, opens march 10. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. now in previews, opens feb. 28. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``penn &amp; teller,'' hip vaudeville and magic tricks from two young comedians. ritz, 582-4022. teletron. available. closes march 20
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available. advertising ``last weeks.''
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
serious money,'' caryl churchill's black comedy about high finance and dirty dealing, closed feb. 20 at the royale theater after a run of 15 performances. profession</head>
few people will remember the full name of what was, until recently, the fourth largest law firm in the united states
but few who watched its rise to glory will soon forget the spectacular fall of finley, kumble, wagner, heine, underberg, manley, myerson &amp; casey
as recently as last summer, finley, kumble was a growing, thriving concern, or so it seemed _ 700 of the country's hottest lawyers chasing after business with an aggressiveness and a flamboyance that shook up the profession
its partners included three former u.s. senators, a one-time new york governor and an ex-mayor of new york city. in addition to lavish headquarters on park avenue, it had major branches in beverly hills, miami and washington, d.c., and smaller offices throughout the united states and abroad. its clients included citibank, shearson lehman brothers and real estate developer donald trump
by the end of the year, finley, kumble was gone _ ``vaporized,'' says founder steven kumble _ and its lawyers were hiring lawyers for the battle over what remained: an $83 million debt
the fabric of a law firm is a very delicate thing,'' kumble says now. ``if you tear it, it can unravel very quickly. and that is what happened in this case.''
ambition, jealousy and greed were the instruments of destruction at finley, kumble, where top partners waged internal warfare and borrowed money to pay their own salaries, which were among the highest in the profession
as the yarn unraveled publicly in the legal press last fall, the profession looked on with morbid fascination tinged with glee and a bit of introspection
finley, kumble was never popular among other lawyers and judges. it was too big, too brash, too noisy and didn't play by the old rules. it lacked gentility. but for all its excesses, the firm embodied many of the changes that have been sweeping the legal profession for the last two decades
law firms once operated like exclusive, private clubs
now, large firms are absorbing smaller ones. partners, who once considered a change in firms to be tantamount to divorce, are doing what many married couples have done in recent years _ finding new partners. firms that 20 years ago were unlikely to have even one branch office outside their home city are now spreading around the globe
finley, kumble was among the biggest of the national superfirms. it didn't grow ``organically,'' like the old establishment firms; when it wanted new partners, it went out and bought them. in many respects, finley, kumble operated more like the multinational corporations it served than the law firms it challenged
i do think it's a harbinger of sorts,'' said richard abel, a professor of law at the university of california at los angeles who is studying the development of the legal profession. ``certainly many lawyers are viewing it as a cautionary tale, and a worrisome one.''
finley, kumble was founded in 1968 by eight new york lawyers led by kumble, a graduate of yale university and harvard law school who was 35 years old at the time. kumble says he had no grand plan _ he just wanted to practice law
the firm grew gradually in its first decade. by 1978, it had 70 lawyers, all still in new york. they were doing very well
basically, the firm grew because we ... expanded to meet the needs of our clients,'' says kumble. ``we didn't set out to grow; we set out to build a law practice.''
things began to change in 1978. recognizing the growing importance of los angeles as a financial and corporate center, finley, kumble took on marshall manley as its first california partner and allowed him to begin building the firm's first branch office in beverly hills
as it grew, the california office began to challenge the dominance of new york. in 1983, in a bitter power struggle, manley persuaded management to let him become co-managing partner along with kumble
by then, finley, kumble had 283 lawyers, only 100 of them in new york. there were 86 lawyers in beverly hills, 63 in a new washington office, 26 in miami and eight in san diego. the firm was on the move
in the next four years, finley, kumble would more than double in size and open new offices in chicago, dallas, baltimore, downtown los angeles, baton rouge, la., tallahassee, palm beach and ft. lauderdale, fla., newport beach and sacramento, calif., and london
it would recruit former sens. paul laxalt, russell long and joseph tydings to join former new york gov. hugh carey and former new york city mayor robert f. wagner sr
it would become one of the most high-profile firms in the country, with lawyers and legal publications constantly discussing its aggressive tactics and its philosophy of ``meritocracy,'' in which lawyers were said to be rewarded according to the business they generated, not the years they served
but the battle for control of the firm continued. first it was manley; after he left in 1986, it was a new partner, harvey myerson, who struggled with kumble
the showdown came in february 1987. at a management committee meeting in miami, the firm's officers voted to strip kumble of power, which fell to myerson and robert washington jr., head of the washington office
the expansion continued, but through that spring and summer, unsettling reports made the rounds among lower-level partners. according to these partners, the rumors said the firm was in debt _ deeply in debt
new york partner peter fass says the bottom line for him was the discovery, just a few months after he joined the firm in january 1987, that more than half the firm's profits were borrowed
the ship was already underwater when i got there, but i didn't know about it,'' fass said. ``a lot of people who had been there for a number of years had no inkling what was going on.''
what was going on, many partners later charged, was that the managing partners had hidden the borrowing by creating a separate corporation that took out bank loans to buy up the firm's accounts receivable _ the unpaid bills of clients
this money was then used to pay the generous salaries of the firm's superstar lawyers, many of them lured in the firm's final year of furious expansion. laxalt and long were said to have been offered $800,000 a year
in september, the borrowing scheme was divulged publicly in an extraordinary front-page article in the american lawyer magazine by editor steven brill. it was titled, ``bye, bye, finley, kumble,'' and it was prophetic
it was devastating,'' said one los angeles partner, who, like many people interviewed for this article would speak only on condition of anonymity. ``that article, i think, was really the beginning of the end.''
in it, brill not only laid bare finley, kumble's financial morass in excruciating detail, he also castigated the firm for what he viewed as a misplaced sense of priorities
it has become a place,'' wrote brill, ``where the only corporate culture is money, where things like pro bono (charitable legal work) or collegiality are sissy stuff _ which means that when the money dries up, even temporarily, there's no other glue there, no shared values, to hold the place together.''
toward the end of the summer, lawyers were leaving finley, kumble in growing numbers. after brill's article, the stream turned to a torrent. by the beginning of december, branches were closing and it became apparent that the firm could not survive. on dec. 21, at a sparsely attended meeting in new york, the remaining partners voted to disband as of jan. 4
a four-member liquidation committee is now sorting the firm's accounts, trying to determine how its assets stack up against the $83 million debt. one washington partner estimates that as much as $60 million can be squeezed out of the firm's real estate, accounts receivable and other assets. but he said the process could take years
i'm sure that five years from now there will still be some quivering in the corpse,'' he said
meanwhile, two lawsuits have been filed by california partners richard osborn and david ellsworth, and others are expected. osborn and ellsworth allege that they were misled about the financial health of the firm and should not be responsible for repaying the debt
four banks have sued, charging that all partners are responsible and that some assets have been hidden. some partners who have signed individual settlements with the banks were not named in the suit, and more such settlements are likely
what went wrong at finley, kumble? the consensus is that the firm grew too far, too fast, exercising questionable business judgment along the way
its level of borrowing was ``almost unheard of'' among law firms, according to jack kaufman, chairman of an american bar association committee on law office management and president of hildebrandt inc., the nation's largest legal management consulting firm
in fact, until recently, law firms didn't borrow, period,'' kaufman said
kumble counters that the firm's loans were no different from those employed by many corporations. ``it was a big business, and it borrowed like big businesses do,'' he said
the problem, he said, was that when adversity began driving partners away from the firm, those remaining couldn't support the debt. and as they realized that, they left too
and what of brill's contention that finley, kumble lacked the loyalty, friendship and shared goals that hold law firms together, that it was a place to do business, nothing more?
i've had more conversations with other people in two weeks than i had in 11 months at finley, kumble,'' said fass, now at another manhattan firm. ``there, nobody cared what you did so long as you brought in money.''
still, finley, kumble's basic business strategy _ national growth, corporate-style aggressiveness _ was far from unique
ten years ago, only two law firms in the united states had more than seven branches, according to ucla's abel. in 1987, there were 13 such firms. ten years ago, no firm had more than 300 lawyers. in 1987, there were 38
abel said the growth has been disproportionate among the lowest-paid attorneys, the associates, whose fees help pad the profits of increasingly wealthy partners
others say simply that the growth has been triggered by a new intensity in competition that has forced firms to reach out for new business
it's gotten to be a very tough, competitive marketplace,'' kaufman said
kumble, who is now chairman of lincolnshire management, a firm that arranges and finances leveraged buyouts, prided himself as a seer of the legal profession, often to the irritation of his competitors. he is giving no ground now
i think a lot of firms are emulating what finley, kumble did, in terms of being a national law firm, in terms of lateral recruitment (of partners), in terms of expansion, and i think that will continue,'' he said
the problem we had is that our management committee became very politicized. ... i don't think the concept was flawed. i think the combination of people we had didn't work cohesively. it wasn't the concept _ it was the people.''
despite her opposition to apartheid, despite her work as a u.n. delegate, despite her award-winning efforts for human rights, miriam makeba insists she is an artist _ not a politician
it was as an artist that the empress of african song first spoke out against the system of discrimination in south africa, testifying before the united nations special committee on apartheid in 1963. in retaliation, south africa banned her records
afterward, i tell the press, `i am not a politician or a diplomat,''' makeba writes in her recently published autobiography ``makeba: my story,'' written with james hall (new american library, $18.95)
i am just a singer, i say. but in south africa, when the authorities learn of my testimony, i become something else: a criminal.''
makeba: my story,'' recounts some of the joy and sadness in the life of one of south africa's most acclaimed singers, who has been in exile from her native country since 1959
she decided to write her autobiography five years ago. ``i never really wanted to write a book. besides, i don't know how to write.''
however, makeba said, friends convinced her of the book's importance; she was ``the first artist to leave the country and make some type of impact on the world'' while not forgetting the problems that exist in south africa
they said that if anything should happen to me, others could write whatever they wanted without my being able to say whether it's true or false,'' she said
it was so hard. every time i read it, i just cry. this morning i was looking at the book. ... i looked at it for maybe for 10 minutes and i was crying.''
the book coincides with the release of ``sangoma,'' the singer's first american album since the late 1960s. it is a collection of 19 african songs, sung in three languages. the songs were taught to makeba by her mother, who was a sangoma, the south african term for a healer in close communication with ancestral spirits
`sangoma' is the most personal record i've made,'' makeba said. ``i like the songs because every time i sing them i think about my mother because she sung them.''
born in johannesburg on march 4, 1932, with the xhosa tribal name zensile, makeba has survived bitter personal and career setbacks
when she was just 18 days old, she went to jail for six months with her mother, who had illegally brewed homemade beer to support the family. later, after her mother was released, the family moved to pretoria, where they endured the hardship of apartheid
at a young age, she found joy in singing. some of the songs protested her country's white minority regime: the songs were a way she and others could demonstrate their defiance in school and church choruses
makeba started her professional career in 1952. she was chosen as the female vocalist for one of the country's top bands, the manhattan brothers
in 1955 she accepted a small role in the documentary, ``come back africa,'' based on the life of a murdered black boxer. harry belafonte spotted her in the film, helped her to obtain a visa and then boosted her career when she arrived in the united states in 1959
she writes in her book that belafonte _ or ``big brother,'' as she calls him _ gave her this advice: ``you must always be careful how you conduct yourself on stage and off, because some day you will have a chance to speak on behalf of your people.''
with her ``click'' singing and deep but lilting voice, makeba created a sensation in her first american tv appearances and new york club dates, and she was received by the late ethiopian emperor haile selassie, cuban president fidel castro, the late president john f. kennedy and other world leaders
in 1960, her mother died and she wished to return home to visit her grave and see relatives. she went to the south african consulate in new york
the man at the desk takes my passport. he does not speak to me, but to himself when he says, `miriam makeba,' as if he was expecting this moment,'' she writes. ``he takes a rubber stamp and slams it down on my passport. then he walks away. i pick up my passport. it is stamped `invalid.'''
she has not been allowed to return to south africa since
her troubles were not limited to her native land. she has been married five times, including once to south african trumpet player hugh maskela, but her career in the united states was most affected by her marriage to black activist stokely carmichael
i never had any problems with the officials in this country, it's just that when i married stokely ... many concerts that were booked for me were canceled _ i guess because some people took my marriage so personally,'' she said
and when that happened i had a tour planned in europe, so i just packed up and went to some of my friends in guinea.''
her friendship with guinea's president, sequo toure, led to her work as a guinean delegate to the united nations
more recently, makeba completed six months as a special guest on paul simon's graceland world tour, which included her long-awaited return to the united states
when we went to zimbabwe, it was another experience,'' she said. ``just looking out from the stage and seeing all those people tight in the stadium. black people, white people _ from all walks of life _ just swaying together to the music. it was so beautiful
it made me almost cry, because i said why can't it be like that just next door. because we were right next door from home.''
makeba hopes that one day she will return to south africa
i guess if i stop believing that i will go home, there would really be no purpose for anything,''she said
in 1972, shirley strum found herself alone with a troop of baboons among the spare, scattered acacia trees on the plains of east africa, a jacket knotted around her waist and a clipboard in her hand
a graduate student in anthropology at the university of california, berkeley, strum had been dispatched to kenya to observe the baboons. she knew little about them. and she knew less about survival in the african wilderness
it was only total ignorance of what i was getting into that gave me the courage to go,'' she said recently in an interview
strum was supposed to stay in kenya for 18 months, just long enough to collect the data she would need to write a ph.d. thesis. instead, she made kenya her home
by 1976, her studies had grown into the gilgil baboon project. she now employs six full-time researchers
strum has written a lively, personal account of the project in ``almost human'' (random house, $22.50). she was in new york to promote the book, which synthesizes the ideas she has developed during 15,000 hours of watching baboons in kenya during the past 15 years
in ``almost human,'' she compares the behavior of the olive baboon, papio anubis, to the behavior of homo sapiens. her studies, vividly recounted in the book, challenge the accepted wisdom that baboons are brute, aggressive beasts. in so doing, the studies have changed her thinking about human nature
if baboons were aggressive, then the killer ape was where we started from,'' she said. early baboon studies formed part of the underpinning for the idea widely popularized in the 1960s by the writer robert ardrey that a ``killer ape'' lurks inside each of us. humans are fundamentally aggressive, ardrey wrote in ``african genesis,'' and nothing we do can change that; we can only control it
that is not what strum found, however. she draws an engaging picture of baboons as sophisticated creatures who prefer negotiation and persuasion to aggression
the old picture was of a society in which males held all power and used force to attain dominance. strum found that males were transients and that they did not arrange themselves in a hierarchy with dominant males on top. she found that females were the stable core of baboon troops, and were ranked in a dominance hierarchy. females _ not males _ were the linchpins of baboon society
they did not, however, exert their dominance over the males. ``it turns out to be a society where there is a complementarity of roles,'' strum said. ``even if you have dominance and aggression in the traditional sense, it doesn't explain everything.''
no one suggests that the hominids, or human-like creatures, that gave rise to humans resembled baboons. but, said strum, if baboons had developed to the point where they no longer relied on naked aggression, then humanity's early ancestors probably did too
it's impossible for me to believe that the early hominids were less sophisticated than baboons,'' she said. thus our early ancestors may have abandoned aggressive social practices long ago
strum grew up in san diego, and she had no plans to become an anthropologist when she left home in 1965 for the university of california. but the turmoil of those years in berkeley made a mark on her
as i lived through the free speech movement and the vietnam war protests, i found myself confronting, over and over, questions about human nature, about what was innate and impossible to modify and what was flexible and worth changing,'' she writes
she drifted in and out of the psychology and sociology departments before fixing on anthropology. she fell under the spell of sherwood washburn, a leading american anthropologist who had done some of the first observations of baboons in the 1950s and '60s. it was washburn who said: ``go out and watch baboons.''
that's what she did for six years, keeping careful records of her observations. in june 1978, at a conference on baboon behavior organized by strum, she presented her findings to her colleagues. ``the 10 worst days of my life followed,'' she writes
other baboon watchers at the conference couldn't accept her conclusions, or her methods. when she arrived in kenya, she decided to follow baboons on foot, rather than watching from a van, as her predecessors had done. that was partly what enabled her to learn so much about baboon society. ``rival baboon watchers criticized me,'' she writes. ``i was `interfering,' ruining the baboons!''
it took time, but strum overcame her disillusionment with her colleagues and won many of them over. as that crisis resolved, however, she faced a crisis of a different sort in africa: the baboons she had come to know so intimately were in danger; the undeveloped ranch on which they had been allowed to roam had been sold, and it was being divided into 5-acre and 10-acre parcels. the baboons' wilderness would soon be farmland
strum and her colleagues made preparations to do the unthinkable _ to relocate the baboons to another wilderness area. no one had ever attempted to move a group of non-human primates from one wilderness area to another
the search for a new location proved difficult, but at the last minute a site was found. the animals were difficult to capture. they were being moved to an area where they would have to learn to eat new foods. would they survive?
they would. ``it's been a great success,'' strum said. the animals adapted well, and with strum's help, survived a dry period shortly after arriving at their new home. the success of the move has made translocation an option for conservationists, she said
unwittingly, the baboons had given me much over the years, personally and scientifically,'' she writes. ``now i had been able to reciprocate by giving them a chance for a better future.''
former ``dukes of hazzard'' star tom wopat is battling his spirited ``good ole boy'' image with love songs and a new tv show about modern family issues
wopat is starring in the new cbs-tv drama, ``blue skies,'' and is maintaining a singing career with country music-oriented songs that have a more romantic feel than driving souped-up cars as the adventurous luke duke
blue skies'' is scheduled to begin this spring and the action involves coping with contemporary issues such as aging and alcoholism rather than rural escapades with his blond buddy john schneider
it was a golden opportunity to be involved with fine persons and escape the `good ole boy' stereotype,'' the 36-year-old wopat said. ``i'm a totally different character. in `dukes,' everything was fantasy. in `blue skies,' it's straightforward and as near to life as possible
i feel it's the type of show the public is looking for as shown by the success of `our house,''' he said. ``it's about three generations of family and the problems of the parents and their families.''
wopat and schneider, and their high powered car, the general lee, co-starred in ``dukes of hazzard'' for seven seasons beginning in 1978. since then, both have gone on to country music careers and remained in acting
he and schneider just reunited in a holiday special, ``christmas comes to willow creek,'' which did well in the ratings. he sees schneider six to 10 times a year
i love him dearly,'' he said. ``he's like a brother. we shared so much and we were in so many scenes together. we genuinely liked each other and had the same interests
we decided from the beginning it was going to be fun and we'd enjoy it and i think this came across on the screen. it's not common to have two leading men who got along as we did.''
looking back on the highly rated ``dukes,'' wopat said it was popular because it was different
until then, urban half-hour comedies were on. we were a new rural show that was action oriented with some violence and exciting stunts. it was a calculated approach: a dark-haired boy, a light-haired boy, a mean old man, a nice old man, a comical old man, a pretty girl
it was pure entertainment. kids could watch it with older people. there was no cussing and no sex except for (catherine bach's) legs. there was a little moral message once in a while and it was oriented to family, not like `dallas' or `dynasty
there were imitators, but we outlasted them all. no show will ever be seen again like it. the cost is too high.''
wopat, who directed some episodes of ``dukes,'' is selecting songs now for his second album. the first was ``tom wopat: a little bit closer.'' a cut from the album, ``a little bit closer,'' is the current release and has zipped up the country music charts
two previous songs have reached the top 20 on the charts: ``the rock and roll of love'' and ``susannah.'' he and his band, southwind, do four to eight shows a month
since ``dukes,'' he has performed in two stage musicals, ``carousel'' in washington, and off-broadway in ``olympus on my mind.''
he's not done quite as well musically as schneider, who's had no. 1 country music songs such as ``i've been around enough to know,'' ``what's a memory like you (doing in a love like this)'' and ``country girls.''
it's been a long and frustrating process except when you have a passion for it,'' wopat said about his music career. ``we're looking for a song to make a big difference _ that big hit that changes everything
i'm still in the process of making believers out there in my commitment to country music. i think i can broaden the base of country music because of my visibility on tv. i'm optimistic about my future in country music. i think i'll be here for a long time.''
wopat, who was raised on a small dairy farm in lodi, wis., says he watches very little television these days, mostly ``cheers'' and reruns of ``the andy griffith show.'' he hasn't seen reruns of ``dukes of hazzard'' for a long time
i have them all on tape. i got one out a while ago and looked at how i directed it

serious swingers'' (fantasy) _ bud shank and bill perkins

halfway through this record you swear you've heard this music somewhere before. you have if you listen to side 1
the most noteworthy thing about this album is that it marks only the second time these two longtime studio musicians have recorded together. the first time was in 1954
however, the title is ``serious swingers,'' and this album doesn't pretend to be any more than a good time _ incidental music for a saturday night
in the jungle of over-produced pop jazz and fusion albums, there is a place for people who want to swing, to plow straight ahead in familar fields. yet, this record somehow leaves an empty feeling. all the chops are just right, the solos just free enough that you know they weren't charted, the mix of ballad and swing ever so correct
a solid rythym section drives bill perkins' tenor sax and bud shank's alto
but the bottom line is this material has been done before and better by many. if you want the real thing instead of an homage, check out early miles davis or thelonious monk or charlie mingus

jimmy rowles-red mitchell (contemporary) _ ``i'm glad there is you''

this is a collection of simply played standards, spare in phrase, but beautifully executed
jimmy rowles' lilting piano combines with the delicate brush work of colin bailey on rodgers and hammerstein's ``it might as well be spring'' to create music mindful of the first scents of early april
on the title track, rowles brings out the passion those simple words have exchanged by trusting lovers. stacy rowles' charming trumpet solo to close the piece seconds the emotion
red mitchell shows his style without imposing on any of the arrangements with that need that bass players sometimes exhibit to prove they can do more than keep the beat
there is no flash in this record, only clean playing that sets a pleasant, content mood
two of the nation's biggest and best-known airlines are facing strike threats over wages, benefits and concessions that reflect growing hostility between labor and management in the intensely competitive deregulated industry
pan am corp. and the union representing 4,500 ground employees in 14 cities remained deadlocked monday following the breakup of their talks. union leaders in new york threatened to call a strike at any time and vowed ``guerrilla war'' tactics that included losing passenger bags and canceling reservations
at the same time in minneapolis, flight attendants at northwest airlines voted by a 94.4 percent majority to strike this weekend if a contract dispute over wages and benefits is not resolved
the strike authorization of 94.4 percent refects the deplorable state of labor relations at northwest airlines,'' said jeff musto, spokesman for the teamsters local 2747 representing 6,500 northwest attendants
officials at both airlines said managers would replace strikers in the event of walkouts and predicted minimal disruption. but the threat of a labor rebellion at pan am already appeared to be discouraging potential passengers
it's a very bad situation for everybody,'' said david perlman, president of dms travel in midtown manhattan. ``some people are shying away (from pan am flights).''
perlman said his agency has been using double bookings as an insurance technique for customers booked on pan am flights. for passengers taking pan am from kennedy airport to europe on monday night, for example, he also booked them on flights offered by other airlines to the same destinations
the union threats against pan am came against a background of staggering losses for the eighth-largest u.s. airline, which once dominated overseas travel but has been struggling over the past several years because of high costs and growing competition from other carriers, a partial result of airline deregulation a decade ago
pan am management has demanded $35 million in concessions from the teamsters, who control ground workers at boston, detroit, chicago, seattle, san francisco, san diego, los angeles, honolulu, houston, washington, new york and the florida cities of tampa, orlando and miami
prospects of a strike disruption at northwest were considered less severe, partly because flight attendants are the most easily replaced of all airline workers. but the carrier's machinists and pilots unions have not said whether they would honor a strike by flight attendants
northwest and its major unions have been engrossed in talks on new contracts since the 1986 merger with republic airlines, another result of deregulation, which made northwest the fifth-biggest u.s. airline
many former republic employees are paid less than their northwest counterparts, a cause of friction between the airline and its unions
northwest's latest proposal to the teamsters offers immediate elimination of pay gaps between former northwest and former republic flight attendants. the union claims the company is compensating by reducing vacation pay and retirement benefits. defense</head>
ohio's new anti-takeover law, a key element of federated department stores inc.'s strategy to thwart a hostile acquisition by canadian developer campeau corp., has been invalidated by a federal judge
the ruling monday by u.s. district judge carl rubin was regarded as at least a temporary victory for campeau, which has been pursuing the cincinnati-based retailing giant with a takeover offer valued at $5.4 billion
rubin granted campeau's request for a preliminary injunction against the new statute, which was passed as an addition to the state's existing takeover law. he said the new measure unconstitutionally discriminated against certain businesses and was an improper regulation of interstate commerce
mike webb, a spokesman for the ohio attorney general's office, said state officials had not decided whether to appeal the ruling. a federated spokesman declined comment
federated stock rose 50 cents a share monday to $60.75 in active new york stock exchange trading
the ruling removed one legal obstacle to campeau's efforts to acquire federated, which has been spurning the canadian concern's offers
campeau has a pending $61 a share hostile tender offer, totaling about $5.4 billion. it also has made an alternative offer to acquire the retailer for $66 a share, about $5.8 billion, in a definitive merger agreement
the toronto-based company had indicated the anti-takeover law could prove to be an impediment in arranging financing for the acquisition
campeau also has challenged another recently passed anti-takeover law in delaware, where federated is incorporated
rubin said ohio's law violated federal measures aimed at avoiding inconsistent regulation of commerce among states
the judge said the ohio law is ``discriminatory on its face'' because it regulates only takeovers by certain businesses organized in foreign countries. he said federal law prohibits such discriminatory legislation by states
the judge agreed with campeau attorneys that the canadian corporation could suffer irreparable injury because of the law
federated's board of directors on friday rejected campeau's $66 a share proposal, saying they were not convinced that campeau had solid financing for the deal
federated operates department and mass-merchandising stores in 36 states and had sales of more than $11 billion last year. its divisions include abraham &amp; straus and bloomingdale's of new york, bullock's and i. magnin in california, rich's in atlanta, filene's of boston and burdines of florida. stock</head>
santa fe southern pacific corp. is pondering a proposal from henley group inc. to scrap part of the railroad-energy giant's restructuring and sell $780 million in new stock to the dissident investor
the move, which would boost henley's stake in chicago-based santa fe to 34.3 percent from 15.7 percent, was announced monday and faced an uncertain reaction from santa fe, which has been fending off henley's unwanted overtures since mid-1987
santa fe spokesman robert gehrt said the proposal would be taken up at santa fe's regularly scheduled board meeting later today but would not comment further
henley's proposal called for santa fe to stop the planned payment of $5 per share in high-yield ``junk bonds'' for each of its 157.3 million shares on march 1. santa fe already has made a $25-per-share cash payout
henley has claimed persistently that the pay-in-kind debentures would leave shareholders with a large tax liability because of the way they are structured
instead, henley proposed that santa fe sell henley $780 million worth of new stock at $17.50 per share. proceeds from that deal would be used to make a onetime $5-per-share cash payout to all current shareholders
the proposed deal would mean 44.6 million new shares for henley and would boost santa fe's total shares outstanding to 201.9 million. but henley said the proposal was dependent on santa fe's annulment of a ``poison pill'' takeover defense that would make a hostile acquisition prohibitely expensive
under the measure, if any hostile suitor exceeds 20 percent ownership in santa fe's stock, other santa fe shareholders would be permitted to buy new stock at half price
henley now owns 24.6 million shares, or 15.7 percent, of santa fe, a railroad, land and natural resources concern that has been attempting to restructure because of federal regulatory rulings forcing it to sell one of its two railroads, either the santa fe line or southern pacific line
together, those lines constitute the nation's third-larges rail system extending over of 26,000 miles of main track
henley repeatedly has criticized santa fe's adoption of the ``poison pill,'' saying the measure restricted the ability of major holders to maneuver
in another development monday concerning santa fe, denver-based rio grande industries inc. filed an application with the interstate commerce commission to acquire the southern pacific line for $1 billion
the icc already has approved an expedited schedule for the application, with a final decision expected in six months, rio grande said
rio grande's action threw into question kansas city southern industries inc.'s rival bid of more than $1.25 billion for the southern pacific
l.f. rothschild holdings inc., a venerable investment firm that once served wealthy clients, later became dangerously diversified and was devastated by the october stock market crash, is selling itself to a kansas company despite earlier vows to remain independent
the announcement on monday signaled the latest casualty from the stock collapse and the first major wall street firm to be acquired by a savings and loan company. it also marked the end of an era for the 89-year-old brokerage, which had been hemorrhaging even before black monday, oct. 19
since then, several small firms have been forced out of business, and e.f. hutton group inc., one of the nation's largest investment firms, agreed in december to be acquired by shearson lehman brothers inc
rothschild, which also announced a $128.8 million loss for the final quarter of 1987, previously had sold virtually all its retail stock brokerage operations, cut staff by more than 40 percent and undertaken several other austerity moves
the firm said it would merge with stern brothers &amp; co., an investment bank in kansas city, mo. wholly owned by franklin financial services inc., which in turn is owned by franklin savings of ottawa, kan
the purchase price still was subject to adjustment, but estimated at about $4.40 in cash and securities for each of rothschild's 15.1 million shares, or about $66.4 million
franklin's major subsidiary is franklin savings institution, which had $9 billion in assets at the end of 1987. it also has brokerage, insurance, mortgage banking and financial consulting operations
the merger ... will form a unique investment banking combination,'' said ernest fleischer, chairman of franklin savings, who along with his wife owns just over half of the company's stock. ``it brings together the advantages of a new york trading desk and regional distribution.''
our stern brothers clients will receive expanded underwriting and distribution capabilities. for l.f. rothschild's clients, we will provide risk management and solid financial backing,'' he said
franklin financial will provide a 2{-year, $30 million loan to l.f. rothschild &amp; co., the broker-dealer subsidiary of l.f. rothschild holdings, the announcement said
in a separate announcement, rothschild holdings reported severe losses for both the fourth quarter and all of 1987, reflecting both the impact of the stock market crash and other troubles
rothschild lost $128.8 million on revenues of $32.5 million in the quarter, compared with a net loss of $15.4 million on revenues of $92.4 million in the same period of 1986
for the full year, it lost $129.1 million on $461.4 million in revenues, compared with an after-tax profit of $498,000, or 3 cents per share, on $401.1 million in revenues in 1986
it said approximately $56 million of the losses resulted from arbitrage and over-the-counter trading positions held during the stock market's collapse. an additional $15 million in losses stemmed from the post-crash bankruptcy of haas securities, a correspondent firm of rothchild's broker-dealer subsidiary
in addition, rothchild said quarterly and annual losses reflected at least $28 million in charges related to cutbacks in staff and offices and the sale of its retail brokerage business
once considered a specialty investment banking house that serviced extremely wealthy clients, rothschild later evolved into a publicly held firm that expanded into government bonds, mutual funds, arbitrage and other areas
the company encountered trouble in late 1987, when a management dispute surfaced over whether the company was becoming excessively diversified. two rothschild principals who opposed diversification abruptly quit and the firm foundered thereafter
andrew l. berger, rothschild's president, had said in a statement to the press on dec. 7 that the firm intended to remain independent, ``get our house in order and as quickly as possible return this business to profitability.''
the company has scrapped its public finance and municipal bond activities and agreed to sell its securities brokerage operations in new york, boston, and tampa, fla
it is in the process of closing offices in san francisco, switzerland and liechtenstein and is trimming its activities in london
oil prices started the week by moving lower in aimless trading
we're really trading on no new news,'' said john h. o'connell, an analyst at refco inc. commodities, on monday. ``its just a roller-coaster. up and down. but i don't think we're falling apart here.''
at the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s.crude, closed at $16.62 per 42-gallon barrel, down 8 cents from friday
among march contracts for refined products, wholesale heating oil settled at 45.79 cents a gallon, down 0.01 cent, while unleaded gasoline closed down 0.11 cent at 46.32 cents per gallon
o'connell said the market had been rife with stories about overproduction and other problems within the organization of petroleum exporting countries. but he said none of the stories have been considered reliable
campeau corp. has extended until midnight friday its $66-a-share offer for a friendly merger with federated department stores inc
meanwhile, a federal judge monday threw out an ohio anti-takeover law enacted to protect federated from the toronto-based developer
campeau said in a statement monday that without a friendly merger it would continue its hostile tender offer at $61 a share, or $5.4 billion. the friendly offer, which previously expired sunday, totals $5.8 billion
a federated representative had no comment on the renewed offer. the cincinnati-based retailer twice last week rejected the $66-a-share bid, saying campeau had not shown it had adequate financing
federated's board has delayed implementing a company shareholder-rights plan until midnight thursday. the rights plan, a so-called ``poison pill'' defense, is designed to make a hostile takeover too expensive
a campeau representative said the retail and real estate company was renewing its offer ``to remind (federated's) board we're very interested in signing a transaction.''
at the same time, chief u.s. district court judge carl b. rubin ruled unconstitutional the state's anti-takeover law enacted feb. 12. federated had no comment when asked if an appeal was planned
rubin said that while states have a role in the regulation of commerce, the new law ``is discriminatory on its face.''
the act required that certain foreign businesses attempting to acquire companies with major operations in ohio inform the state of the acquisition's impact on employment, tax revenues and details of its financing. correct to 2.59 trillion yen sted 259 trillion yen. picks up 5th graf pvs, dentsu said ...</note>
japanese companies spent 3.945 trillion yen, or about $30.34 billion, on advertising in 1987, up 8.1 percent from the previous year and the highest increase in six years, a report released tuesday said
dentsu inc., the country's largest advertising agency, said the increase reflected the recovery of the japanese economy led by rising domestic demand, and japanese firms' efforts to expand their doemstic business activities
the previous highest annual increase was 8.2 percent in 1981, although the standard for the survey was modifieid in 1985 by eliminating advertising for promoting exports, dentsu said
corporate spending on advertisements in newspapers and magazines and on radio and television was 259 trillion yen, or about $19.95 billion, up 7.7 percent from 1986, dentsu said. that accounted for 65.7 percent of total advertising expenses
dentsu said advertising through direct mail, outdoor ad services, inserts and exhibitions was 1.344 trillion yen, or $10.3 billion
eastman kodak co. completed its effort to buy sterling drug co. today by acquiring more than 96 percent of sterling's stock during the 20-day tender offer, a kodak spokesman said
kodak acquired about 54.5 million shares of sterling stock by the midnight monday deadline and will now complete the merger ``in the matter of a few days,'' said kodak spokesman ron roberts
the acquisition, the largest in kodak history, has attracted a great deal of criticism from stock analysts who said kodak was paying too much for the drug and household products company
kodak had agreed to pay $89.50 a share for the 57 million outstanding shares of sterling stock, which is more than $34 higher than the stock was selling for at the end of 1987. the total value of the deal is expected to be $5.1 billion
sterling, based in new york, has 22,000 employees and has annual sales of about $2 billion
kodak, based in rochester, has 124,000 employees and annual sales of about $13 billion a year
the acquisition will help kodak move into the $110 billion pharmaceutical industry and give the company an established pipeline to get drugs to market, said kodak spokesman charles smith
but analysts have cast a wary eye on the deal with several no longer recommending the purchase of kodak stock
on monday, kodak's bond rating was downgraded by moody's investor's service from a2 to aa2 largely because of the impending $5.1 billion loan the company is going to have to take on to pay for sterling
sterling's bond rating was also downgraded from a2 to aa1
with the acquisition, kodak gets a business featuring such familiar brand names as bayer aspirin, panadol non-aspirin pain reliever, lysol disinfectant, d-con rat killer, and phillips milk of magnesia
kodak officials have said they do not plan to sell any parts of sterling and will keep the company's organization intact
matsushita electric industrial corp., one of the world's largest consumer electronics manufacturers, has announced plans to set up a new firm in the united states in april for sales and maintainance of factory automation machines, a japanese news report said
the new firm, panasonic factory automation co., a division of matsushita electric corp. of america, will pave the way for matsushita's further expansion of factory automation business in north america and localization of the development of computer software used for factory automation, kyodo news service said tuesday
matsushita officials did not answer repeated telephone calls to their offices tuesday night
sales of factory automation equipment have been handled by panasonic industrial co., but the rapid growth of the factory automation market in north america led the parent company to set up a new firm dedicated solely to that purpose, kyodo said
panansonic factory automation co., which will sell industrial robots and installation devices for electronics parts, aims to boost its sales of 6.5 billion yen, or $58 million, in the fiscal year ending march 31, 1988 _ and by five times within five years, kyodo said
stock prices were narrowly mixed this morning after pushing to their highest levels in six weeks in the previous session
trading was more active than in monday's session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which jumped 25.70 points on monday to its highest level since jan. 7, backed off 1.33 to 2,038.96 after 90 minutes of trading
but advancing issues took a slight lead over losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 639 up, 584 down and 512 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 81.94 million shares as of 11 a.m. on wall street compared with 52.26 million shares at the same point on monday
the stock market has benefited recently from indications that the economy may be stronger than had been expected, leading some analysts to take an optimistic view of the outlook for corporate profits
but there is plenty of uncertainty about the economy's prospects
in a new report today, the government said orders to u.s. factories for durable goods plunged 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year
but that statistic has been volatile, and many analysts expected a decline in january because it had risen by an unusually large 4.1 percent in december
stock traders were also looking to today's congressional testimony by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan
greenspan said the country faces ``formidable challenges'' in keeping the economic recovery alive, urged further progress on reducing the federal deficit and cautioned congress against passing protectionist trade legislation
among active issues on the nyse, philadelphia electric was unchanged at 19~, eastman kodak was down \ at 40{, polaroid was up 1] at 31] and international business machines was unchanged at 115\
texaco was up \ at 42}. it said it had agreed to pay the government $1.25 billion to settle disputes related to its pricing of crude and refined products during the 1973-1981 period of price controls
iu international rose 1] to 21\. the company said it received a buyout offer of $21.50 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.18 to 148.78. at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.11 to 282.90
two stock specialist firms have agreed to give up their roles as market-makers in three stocks, the new york stock exchange said
the moves are part of a review of the performance of specialists during the october stock market crash, the exchange said in a press release monday
the big board said that lawrence, o'donnell &amp; co. would surrender its market-making role in neiman-marcus group inc. common stock next week. la branche &amp; co. will give up its rights to market e.f. hutton group inc. and a.g. edwards inc. on march 3
the franchises in the affected issues will be reallocated by the exchange, nyse officials said. in the case of e.f. hutton, a large securities firm due to be merged with shearson lehman brothers holdings inc., the stock is expected to be delisted by the exchange around march 24
the exchange's 53 specialist firms each control lucrative franchises to market certain stocks and are required to maintain orderly trading in those issues by setting opening prices and covering trades when there are too few buyers or sellers
following the crash, the exchange launched investigations into the volatile behavior of some issues and the specialists assigned to them. the activity of market specialists also was criticized by a presidential task force and the securities and exchange commission in their separate probes of the october collapse
the nyse said the agreements with lawrence, o'donnell and labranche were reached voluntarily after discussions with the firms
in the case of labranche, the exchange's review centered on the firm's handling of hutton stock, but because of the imminent delisting of that issue, the firm also agreed to accept the withdrawal of its edwards franchise as a penalty, the exchange indicated
the exchange did not disclose the results of its investigations into the trading of hutton and neiman-marcus stock, but extreme volatility appeared to have prompted the inquiries
the nyse has taken action in four situations since the crash. previously, spear, leeds &amp; kellogg surrendered its franchise in j.p. morgan &amp; co. stock and j.j. meehan &amp; co. withdrew its rights to gould inc
exchange officials would not say whether its inquiries into the activity of specialists were continuing, but nyse chairman john phelan has told congressional investigators that reallocations of stock franchises was one means of repairing the damage caused by the crash
grain and soybean futures prices opened lower today on the chicago board of trade
soybean futures succumbed to follow-through selling from monday's weak close and to reports of improved growing conditions for the south american crop, analysts said
wheat prices fell in reaction to the agriculture department's announcement that it plans more auctions of surplus wheat in addition to the weekly auctions that have been a fixture since november, analysts said
the auctions increase the supply of wheat on the open market, which tends to depress prices
corn futures prices retreated on a lack of bullish fundamentals and on lower-than-expected exports last week, said jerry gidel, an analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
last week's wheat exports also were lower than expected, while soybean shipments were above expectations, gidel said
in early trading, wheat was 1\ cents to 2{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.21 a bushel; corn was } cent to 2 cents lower with march $1.98{ a bushel; oats were \ cent 1} cents lower with march at $1.90{ a bushel; soybeans were 2 cents to 4{ cents lower with march at $6.25 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .22 cent to .55 cent lower with april at 72.27 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .30 cent to .92 cent lower with march at 81.60 cents a pound; hogs were .17 cent to .45 cent lower with april at 43.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .40 cent to .57 cent lower with march at 53.15 cents a pound
cattle futures closed lower monday while pork futures advanced. response; deletes last 6 grafs pvs to trim; also moved on general newswires</note>
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said today the country faces ``formidable challenges'' in keeping the economic recovery alive, urged further progress on reducing the federal deficit and cautioned congress against passing protectionist trade legislation
greenspan confirmed that the central bank, in an effort to keep the recovery alive, had taken a ``small easing step a few weeks ago.''
the fed chairman said the central bank agreed with the reagan administration that recovery from the 1981-82 recession should last through this presidential election year, but said prospects for growth would be enhanced through further efforts to reduce the huge federal budget deficit, which raises u.s. dependence on foreign investment
we face formidable challenges over 1988 and beyond in meeting national economic goals of sustaining growth and progress toward price stability,'' greenspan told a house banking subcommittee
greenspan's comments came as part of the fed's semi-annual report to congress on the conduct of monetary policy. it was the first time greenspan has delivered the monetary report since he took over as chairman from paul volcker in august
volcker repeatedly lectured congress during his eight years as fed chief over the need to reduce the soaring federal budget deficits and warned that the central bank could not be expected to carry the full burden of keeping the economic recovery going
greenspan, sounding very much like volcker, echoed those same themes, contending in his testimony that the challenge of managing the economy ``cannot be negotiated by the federal reserve alone.''
for the united states, the most direct and beneficial approach would be to address the problem at its major source _ the federal budget deficit,'' he said. ``reducing the deficit further would give us the opportunity to add to domestic saving and reduce dependence on foreign capital, while still encouraging much-needed investment spending.''
since january a variety of interest rates, including home mortgage rates, have declined, leading many economists to speculate that the federal reserve had eased credit conditions
greenspan confirmed the move toward easier money, saying the fed had made the change amid indications of an economy that was slowing as the year began. he said the fed had the leeway to loosen credit conditions because the u.s. dollar had stabilized on foreign exchange markets
for part of last year, the central bank had been forced to push interest rates higher in an effort to support the dollar, which was declining rapidly in value. higher interest rates in this country tend to make dollar-denominated investments more attractive to foreignes
the fed released an economic forecast that was very close to the predictions made by the reagan administration when it released its budget last week
the fed said it believed the overall economy, as measured by the gross national product, would grow at rate of 2.0 percent to 2.5 percent this year, down from last year's growth of 3.8 percent. the administration is forecasting 2.4 percent gnp growth this year while many private economists believe growth will not reach 2 percent
in response to a question, greenspan said that while the fed was expecting sluggish economic growth this year, it saw no evidence that a recession would occur because the economy was not exhibiting the kinds of imbalances that normally start appearing at the end of an expansion
greenspan was asked by rep. charles e. schumer, r-n.y., whether over the next 12 months he saw ``a greater danger of increased inflation or recession?''
greenspan paused a moment and then responded, ``at the moment i would say the dangers are probably equal. it's very difficult to judge.''
at another point, greenspan disagreed openly with a contention by beryl sprinkel, president reagan's chief economist, that the fed had pursued a tight monetary policy during 1987
we did not perceive ourselves as being tight,'' greenspan said. he claimed that sprinkel placed too much emphasis on the importance of monetary growth in foretelling future economic activity. to have controlled the growth in the money supply to the extent that sprinkel advocates would have triggered ``an unduly inflationary environment'' last year, greenspan testified
there is a difference of opinion between mr. sprinkel and myself on this issue. it is an economist's disagreement,'' greenspan said
the fed chief refused under questioning to make a prediction on the course of short and long-term interest rates during the coming year, saying that for him to do so would be ``sheer mischievousness'' in light of the fact that the fed has direct influence over interest rates
the fed predicted that the unemployment rate, because of the more sluggishgrowth, would not show any improvement, holding at around 5.8 percent to 6 percent. the unemployment rate currently is 5.8 percent
on inflation, the fed predicted that consumer prices, as measured by an inflation index tied to the gnp, would rise 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent this year, a slightly better forecast than the administratin, which is looking for a 3.9 percent rise in the gnp price deflator, as the index is called
greenspan also revealed the money growth targets the fed has set for 1988. these targets, while covering a broad range, serve as a policy guide for the central bank as it tries to supply enough money to keep the economy growing at a healthy rate while guarding against pumping out so much money that inflation is rekindled
in one measure of the money supply, m-2, which includes checking deposits plus cash held by the pubic along with savings accounts and money market accounts, the fed said it was aiming for growth of 4 percent to 8 percent. this was the same target set for a somewhat broader measure of money known as m-3
the central bank, as it did last year, decided to set no growth target for m-1, the narrowest guage of money, because of its erratic behavior in recent years
the ranges for m-2 and m-3 were slightly lower than the 1987 targets of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent
m-2 actually grew much more slowly last year than the target, increasing only 4 percent, a fact that raised criticism inside the reagan administration from some officials who contended that the central bank was pursuig a tight-money policy which was driving up interest rates and threatening a recession
the president's council of economic advisers issued a report on friday which said tight fed money policies were partly responsible for triggering the oct. 19 stock market crash
greenspan, less than a month after succeeding volcker, led the central bank to increase its discount rate from 5.5 percent to 6 percent on sept. 4. the action raising the rate the fed charges to make bank loans occurred as the value of the dollar was falling sharply and causing fears of higher domestic inflation
stock prices pulled back this morning, as the market ran into resistance in active trading after pushing to its highest levels in six weeks in the previous session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which jumped 25.70 points on monday to its highest level since jan. 7, was off 12.60 at 2,027.69 at noon on wall street
declining issues outpaced gainers by a margin of nearly 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 558 up, 802 down and 480 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 112.65 million shares as of noontime compared with 52.26 million shares at the same point on monday
the stock market has benefited recently from indications that the economy may be stronger than had been expected, leading some analysts to take an optimistic view of the outlook for corporate profits
but there is plenty of uncertainty about the economy's prospects
in a new report today, the government said orders to u.s. factories for durable goods plunged 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year
many analysts had expected a decline in january, however, because orders had risen by an unusually large 4.1 percent in december
stock traders were also looking to today's congressional testimony by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan, who told a house subcommittee that the country faces ``formidable challenges'' in keeping the economic recovery alive
charles jensen, a technical market analyst for mki securities corp., said the market's decline was ``a reflex reaction after pretty good runup'' over the past two weeks
the market is in a mature rallying phase subject to these short bouts of profit-taking,'' jensen said, adding that he felt the market ``could regroup and work its way higher'' later
among the most active issues on the nyse, philadelphia electric was unchanged at 19~, eastman kodak was down \ at 40{, polaroid was up 1\ at 31\ and international business machines was off \ at 115
texaco was unchanged at 42{ after saying it had agreed to pay the government $1.25 billion to settle an oil pricing dispute. other opil stocks were lower, with amoco off 1\ at 76, atlantic richfield down ] at 78| and mobil was down } at 44\
moore mccormick climbed 10~ to 34} after southdown disclosed it was offering $31 a share for the company
iu international rose 1] to 21\. the company said it received a buyout offer of $21.50 a share, topping an earlier $20 a share offer that the company had called inadequate
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was off 0.98 at 147.98. at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.89 to 282.12
harlan b. strong has seen his share of losers in his work for young america corp., one of the nation's largest handlers of sweepstakes, rebates and product promotions
but strong says it's the winners who stand out, especially when they're as excited as a detroit-area woman he called to inform that she and her family had won a trip to disney world
there was this long pause; then all i could hear was this blood-curdling scream,'' said strong, the company's vice president of sales
the woman put down the receiver and strong said he could hear her running through the house yelling the good news to her family for several minutes before returning to continue their conversation
i enjoyed that. it was a real honest expression of joy at receiving this,'' he said
nationally, there are about 40 companies in the fulfillment industry, which takes its name from its work fulfilling rebate requests and product promotions and conducting sweepstakes
young america corp. is one of five fulfillment companies in minnesota, and its closest national competitor, the maple plain co., is less than 20 miles away in maple plain
this is kind of the mecca of the fulfillment business,'' said strong
the 17-year-old young america corp. has grown from 15 employees to more than 1,000. that's nearly the population of this tiny town, from which the company took its patriotic-sounding name, 40 miles west of minneapolis
business became so brisk that the company had to acquire its own post office a few years ago to handle its up to 2 million pieces of mail a week, ranging from consumers' requests for duracell battery rebates to campbell soup bowls to sweepstakes entries
the 180,000-square-foot plant, which is completing its fourth expansion in 10 years, is highly automated, and that often surprises visitors, strong said
in one room, employees do nothing but feed envelopes into automatic slitting machines to open them
i think people think there are folks sitting around the table opening envelopes,'' strong said
that impression was closer to the reality of the company's earlier days when strong recalls executives taking off their coats and joining workers in packaging watches to keep product promotions on schedule
selecting winners from thousands of contest entries has grown more sophisticated, too
in the old days, we used to dump them on the floor,'' strong said
now, workers randomly select 2 percent to 10 percent of the entries received each day until the contest deadline and place them in numbered boxes. after the contest deadline, workers draw numbered pingpong balls from a lottery drum and then pick the winners from the corresponding numbered boxes of envelopes
but the prizes _ tvs, vcrs, furs and jewelry and other goodies small enough to be stored at the plant _ are still kept locked in a carefully guarded storage area
the privately held company, which does not disclose its financial figures, promotes its security when selling its services to its clients, mostly fortune 500 companies, by touting its computerized tracking of mail and products as they move through the company
the company installed a paper shredder more than two years ago to destroy mailed-in rebate forms after people began digging through landfills to retrieve other companies' discarded ones, strong said
he is proud of the company's record of employee honesty. young america corp. has never had to discipline a worker for trying to influence contest drawings or stealing rebate forms, strong said
young america corp. is the largest single employer in carver county, a dairy farming area that's beginning to give way to the suburban sprawl of the twin cities. many employees have been with the company for years, and up to 20 people a day apply for jobs there
if i left here to get a job with this kind of status and variety, i would have to go to minneapolis,'' said jan feltmann, a senior client service representative who began working for the company 14 years ago a few hours a day at home
i was a young mother and had a college loan to pay and i didn't want to have my husband pay for that,'' said mrs. feltmann, 35
company officials were so impressed with her work that they brought her to the plant, where she now supervises others
about 600 employees are home checkers and home data entry personnel, verifying customers' entries, rebates and order forms and typing the information for entry into the company's computer system, which is capable of canceling multiple requests from the same household
customer service, where 30 people respond to incomplete rebate forms and handle requests for exchanges on product promotions, also is a fast-growing segment. the employees answer toll-free numbers set up to handle customer inquiries. a wholly owned telemarketing subsidiary, young america direct in edina, was formed last year and already employs about 100 people. pictures</head>
a group of japanese gets off a bus chartered by hokubei tours inc. to gaze at the statue of liberty. but these far easterners are not mere picture-taking tourists _ they're entrepreneurs who want to own a piece of america, rather than just eyeball it
hokubei, whose most popular tour shuttles visitors to as many as five cities in pursuit of anything from a ski chalet to a factory to a wide-open prairie, is just one company catering to the swelling ranks of small japanese investors interested in u.s. property
big cash-rich corporations, like mitsui fudosan inc., which bought new york's exxon building in 1986, have been the biggest players in the u.s. market up to now, and experts say they'll likely dominate the $4 billion to $10 billion in purchases expected this year
but smaller investors also are making a mark, quietly traveling the nation, visiting with local business people and getting a feel for the landscape
a recent study by cushman &amp; wakefield, a major real estate company, found that japanese institutional investors rate real estate as their most important investment in the united states, well ahead of government bonds and corporate stock
the new wave of japanese buyers is being drawn to this country by high returns and comparatively cheap property. the average price per square foot for high-quality office space in tokyo is $4,000, while office space of similar quality in new york commands $400 per square foot or less, according to david shulman, director of real estate research at salomon brothers inc
lower interest rates and the dollar's drop against the japanese yen make such bargains too good to pass up for many japanese investors, who stand to reap yields three times higher than in their own country
with their penchant for savings, japanese who have amassed as little as $500,000 are realizing they can own a luxury condominium in the united states and pay someone else to manage it. more ambitious investors might join forces to buy a piece of commercial property
what may be equally noteworthy is that they also are ``spreading out from main-tier cities,'' shulman said. their interest no longer is exclusively focused on a handful of major urban areas
at los angeles-based hokubei, which specializes in promoting japanese-american business relationships, research manager charles laub said the company arranged 30 real estate tours last year and expects to do as many this year, if not more
during the planning stages of a trip, investors are asked what type of property they would like to see and in what geographic regions. then laub makes the appropriate real estate contacts, while others arrange for accommodations, transportation and interpreters
they won't just go to one city,'' he said. ``most want to see four or five cities.'' typically, he said, investors spend ``five to seven days in new york, then maybe they'll fly to chicago, then down to dallas, up to san francisco or los angeles. the whole thing could be two or three weeks.''
most often investors ask to see office buildings, although there is increasing interest in upscale residences like single-family homes or condominiums valued at a minimum $500,000, laub said
when on tour, ``it's all business'' from monday to friday, said laub, who added that arrangements can be made if travelers ``want to go play golf, or if they're in new york and want to go to the empire state building. some want to go to epcot center in florida.''
many of the tours laub arranges are sponsored by big japanese institutions like mitsui bank and nomura securities, which ultimately hope to serve as lenders if deals are consummated. independent investors, who usually travel in small groups, must foot the $3,000-to-$6,000 bill for a two-week trip on their own
on the first trip, they like to get a feel for the area,'' he said. actual deals are negotiated on subsequent visits
despite all the tours laub has arranged, he has no idea how many have actually resulted in definite sales agreements. ``they come in secretly to close on deals ... i don't know what is sold,'' he said
others also have discovered that real estate can be a common language when talking to the japanese
earl bunker, president of hori &amp; bunker inc. of lincoln, mass., puts out newsletters in japanese that list u.s. properties for sale. while several property owners complain of a lack of response to the ads, bunker insists that if he keeps on publishing, he'll penetrate the market
translation is very important,'' said bunker, adding that the japanese ``expect the same preferential treatment they've been giving us.''
cecil ivey, president of piping engineering co. of sand springs, okla., said he has had some nibbles from japanese interested in the shuttered welding plant he is trying to sell in alamo, texas. although he advertised with bunker, he said his contacts came from elsewhere
much foreign interest has centered on southern texas, where investors can cash in on the maquiladora concept, in which companies set up manufacturing facilities in mexico to take advantage of cheap labor while maintaining office operations just miles away in the united states
last year, a full busload of japanese descended upon the southern part of the lone star state, hitting ``every town on the border from laredo to brownsville,'' said peter pranis, who, as vice president of economic development for the council for south texas economic progress, played host when the group reached mcallen, texas
they're like information vacuum cleaners,'' he said. ``they're very courteous and well-mannered, but they've got a very good idea what they're looking for .... they asked very pointed questions.''
elsewhere, a developer who asked not to be named said japanese are among those interested in a package of two buildings that comprise an entire block in baltimore's prime business district
even dean williams, a retired salesman in las vegas, nev., spent a couple of hundred dollars on an ad to sell the 35 acres of land he owns in central nevada to the japanese. at $69,000 for the parcel, he thinks it's a bargain
the president of the nbc television network indicated nbc is unlikely to sell programming to turner broadcasting system inc.'s proposed new cable network, unless nbc owned a portion of the parent company
last year, nbc and tbs discussed the possibility of nbc taking part ownership of atlanta-based tbs. but the companies announced in mid-january that the talks had been halted
nbc president robert wright said monday the network would be interested in helping program the proposed turner network television only if it owned a piece of tbs
we could be very interested in selling programming to it, but i just don't see that happening,'' wright said after speaking to a civic group in atlanta. ``the problem with tnt is that it is very much involved in the organizational, ownership issues'' that blocked nbc's attempt to buy an interest in tbs last year, he added
nbc reportedly had attempted for the second time in three years to purchase up to 25 percent of tbs for $400 million
tbs is hoping to launch the new cable network in july. tnt is proposed as a super cable channel that would compete with the networks by offering first-run mini-series, award shows and major sporting events
arthur emil never envisioned traveling all the way to japan to sell some of the 54 luxury condominiums he developed in lower manhattan
and he was more than a little skeptical when japan's fujisankei communications group approached him about featuring one of the units on a home-shopping broadcast that would air in tokyo, osaka and nine other cities in late january
a fujisankei representative explained that the communications giant's satellite shopping network ``markets high-ticket items,'' emil said. ``they said they sold a chateau in france.''
and what could be more high-class than his condos, which range in price from $500,000 to $1.7 million and feature such amenities as sub-zero refrigerators in the gourmet kitchens, 17-foot ceilings and a 24-hour concierge in addition to the doorman
emil had a hard time with the notion that someone would buy an apartment without ``physically visiting the property,'' although he said it does happen from time to time
but fujisankei promised, after a single broadcast, to present him with 20 to 25 qualified buyers. ``i'm assuming these are real buyers,'' he said shortly before leaving for japan in early february
but 16,000 miles later and one week later, emil was a believer. ``you can sell apartments in the united states by television in japan,'' he exclaimed
while emil said fujisankei introduced him to fewer qualified buyers than promised, he was still pleased
none of the investors signed on the dotted line, but emil said several are coming to new york to see the landmark building in the near future, and he's confident he'll close on more than one deal
emil described the buyers as wealthy executives who do business in and around new york and were attracted by the building's luxury qualities
i expected a number of offshore buyers, but that i would schlep myself over to japan ...,'' he joked
fujisankei's january broadcast proved to be successful not only for emil. a limousine used by pope john xxiii also sold _ to an unnamed bidder for $423,000
japanese who invest in u.s. real estate evoke mixed emotions on this continent, angering americans competing to buy the same properties but pleasing sellers
they have come into the market with a tremendous new source of capital, and prices have gone up on the very small, upper-tier of properties they're interested in,'' said jon minikes, a managing director at jones, lang, wootton usa, an international real estate firm headquartered in new york
among those ``upper-tier'' properties are new york's exxon building, which was sold to mitsui fudosan for $610 million; the arco towers in los angeles, which sold for $620 million to shuwa investments corp.; and the equitable building in dallas, for which nissei realty paid $250 million
whenever more money is chasing a good product, prices have to go up. it's very simple economics,'' he said
but americans who expected to pay less for quality commercial property in major cities ``are upset with the japanese,'' said david shulman, director of real estate research at salomon brothers inc., while ``building sellers are very happy.''
shulman estimated that prices for quality office buildings could drop by as much as 10 percent to 15 percent if the japanese ceased buying property or became less aggressive in their purchases
japanese can afford to pay more because they are guaranteed to reap far greater yields in the united states than at home
for example, a $100 million investment in japan would probably yield 1 or 2 percent a year, said jim montinari, senior vice president of cushman &amp; wakefield, a national commercial real estate firm. yield is what investors earn after they subtract expenses from rent collected
but the yield on the same $100 million investment in u.s. real estate ``is certain to be 6 to 9 percent. comparing oppportunity to japan versus the united states is anywhere from triple to more,'' he said
in japan, high-quality commercial real estate appreciated between 50 percent and 60 percent in price from 1985 to 1986, shutting out potential investors from their domestic market and turning their attention to the united states, where prices for comparable properties rose about 15 percent, shulman said
the fall in the value of the dollar against the yen also has lured japanese investors, but a cheaper dollar can be ``a double-edged sword,'' minikes said
most japanese investors are looking at the rise in value of the yen as a way to make the purchase cheaper, but you realize that if the yen keeps rising, their investment _ which is generating u.s. dollars _ will show a lower yield, he explained
while some americans are miffed at the cash-rich japanese companies that are snapping up top properties at top dollar, real estate companies have adapted to serve a new market
we constantly have groups coming through who want us to tell them about u.s. real estate,'' minikes said. ``we regard them as a continuing source of profitable business.''
national westminster bank plc, britain's largest bank, said tuesday its profit sank 30.1 percent last year, mainly as a result of higher provisions against loans to latin american countries and heavy losses at its investment bank
the bank said its 1987 earnings totaled 429 million pounds, or $759 million, down from 614 million pounds, or $1.09 billion in 1986. on a per-share basis, that worked out to 57 pence, or $1 per share in 1987, compared with 94 pence, or $1.66 in 1986
the bank said its provisions against loans to lesser developed countries, including brazil, mexico and other latin american countries, now total 810 million pounds, or $1.43 billion _ 33 percent of its total exposure of 2.47 billion pounds, or $4.37 billion
natwest raised its provisions against loans to lesser developed countries to 30 percent last summer, and later by another 3 percent, to keep it within guidelines set up by the bank of england
natwest's international banking unit swung to a loss of 339 million pounds, or $600 million, from a profit of 223 million pounds, or $395 million, because of the increased provisions and the lower dollar
the group's investment banking division widened its loss to 116 million pounds, or $205 million last year, from 38 million pounds, or $67 million in 1986. natwest blamed continuing development costs and the effects of the october stock market's crash
national westminster bank usa had a loss of 95 million pounds, or $168 million, after increasing its provision for loans to lesser developed countries to 35 percent. that loss compared with a profit of 68 million pounds, or $120 million, in 1986
natwest said its results were encouraging in the light of the experience of banks worldwide in 1987
mcdonnell douglas corp. shoved aside two competitors last year to reclaim the title of the nation's largest defense contractor, the pentagon said tuesday
releasing its annual rating of the top 100 military contractors, the pentagon said mcdonnell douglas had jumped past general dynamics corp. and general electric co. to win the top ranking for fiscal 1987
the st. louis-based mcdonnell douglas increased its pentagon work by $1.1 billion during the year to a new total of $7.7 billion, easily surpassing general dynamics
general dynamics, ranked no. 1 in fiscal 1986 with $8 billion worth of contracts, fell to no. 2 in 1987 with work valued at $7 billion. general electric also suffered a decline in contract awards, falling from the $6.8 billion it won in 1986 to $5.8 billion in fiscal 1987, the pentagon said
the defense department report covers the fiscal year ending last sept. 30, and is considered the most definitive gauge of how major military contractors are faring each year
the report discloses that the pentagon's contractors were fighting over a smaller pie in fiscal 1987, with prime contracts totaling $142.5 billion being parceled out. that is $3.2 billion less than the total awarded in fiscal 1986
moreover, the top 100 companies, as a group, saw their share of those contracts decline slightly last year. the 100 firms received $95.4 billion of the contracts, or 66.9 percent of the total, compared to $98.6 billion and 67.7 percent in fiscal 1986
according to the rankings, there was only one company in the fiscal 1986 top 10 that failed to stay in that number last year. rockwell international corp., which is winding down its work on the new b-1b bomber, fell from fourth place on the 1986 list to 12th place in fiscal 1987 with contracts worth $2.2 billion
rockwell's spot in the top 10 was claimed by martin marietta corp., which moved from 11th to seventh place in the rankings with work totaling $3.7 billion
the other top 10 rankings involved the same companies as in 1986, but in a different order
the fourth largest defense contractor in 1987 was lockheed corp., which won contracts totaling $5.6 billion. it improved from sixth place the year before, when its military business totaled $4.9 billion
fifth in the rankings was general motors corp. with $4.1 billion. that was a decline from the $5.1 billion in work won by gm in 1986, but still enough to keep it at the same spot in the rankings
rounding out the top 10 were raytheon co., with $3.8 billion in contracts; martin marietta, with $3.7 billion; united technologies corp., with $3.6 billion; boeing co., with $3.5 billion, and grumman corp., with $3.4 billion
mcdonnell douglas' rise to the no. 1 spot is nothing new for the giant aircraft maker. while general dynamics was no. 1 in 1986, mcdonnell douglas was the top-ranked contractor in fiscal 1984 and fiscal 1985
some of the company's larger contracts include the f-a-18 hornet fighter for the navy; the f-15 eagle for the air force; the ah-64 apache helicopter gunship for the army, and the av-8b harrier jump jet for the marine corps
the stock market was drifting at modestly lower levels this afternoon as its recent rally ran into some resistance
trading was moderate
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which jumped 25.70 points on monday to its highest level since jan. 7, was off 3.82 at 2,036.47 with two hours to go in the session
declining issues outpaced gainers by a margin of nearly 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 677 up, 816 down and 441 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 147.77 million shares as of 2 p.m. on wall street with 109.87 million shares at the same point on monday
traders said the market seemed to pause after a sharp runup over the past two weeks
they said traders were also looking for clues in federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's testimony to a congressional panel about the central bank's view of the economy
the stock market has benefited recently from indications that the economy may be stronger than had been expected, leading some analysts to take an optimistic view of the outlook for corporate profits
but there is plenty of uncertainty about the economy's prospects
in a new report today, the government said orders to u.s. factories for durable goods plunged 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year
many analysts had expected a decline in january, however, because orders had risen by an unusually large 4.1 percent in december
among the most active issues on the nyse were several utility stocks that will soon be paying dividends. philadelphia electric was the most active, slipping [ to 19}
among the blue chips, eastman kodak was down \ at 40{, american telephone &amp; telegraph was down [ at 29} and international business machines was up \ at 115{
moore mccormick climbed 10| to 34{ after southdown disclosed it was offering $31 a share for the company
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was off 0.54 at 148.42. at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.93 to 282.08
the cheapest round-trip fares on american airlines and delta air lines, often used by vacationers, will increase $10 and similar fares offered by united airlines also will go up, company officials said
the increases are in so-called maxsaver fares used on or after march 2. if tickets are purchased before that date, but travel is ater, additional cost will be included in the faon that day or lre price, the airlines said monday
maxsaver tickets, only available on round-trip travel, are not refundable and must be purchased within 24 hours of making reservations
the price hike follows a fare increase announced by major airlines last week. american and delta, dallas-fort worth airport's dominant carriers, as well as braniff inc. and other major airlines said they would raise unrestricted coach fares by $5 each way on most routes
the increases m hold the child while she answered a phone in another room, but the woman and her granddaughter were gone when she returned two minutes later
finance minister edouard balladur indicated monday he was opposed to the planned sale of the french financial newspaper les echos to pearson plc of britain, saying he won't allow the transfer of ownership to proceed automatically
in a statement, balladur said the 886 million franc, or $158 million, deal that was signed jan. 11 between pearson and les echo owner jacqueline beytout ``is subject to the explicit authorization of the french authorities.''
mrs. beytout called the government's position ``exclusively political,'' and the management of les echos said the newspaper wouldn't publish on tuesday in protest
under regulations, takeovers involving french companies and other european entities must be submitted for approval by the french treasury. if no objection is raised after a two-month period, the transaction goes ahead automatically
the ministry noted, however, that a 1986 press law stipulates that individuals or corporate entities that don't reside in the european community can't acquire a stake of more than 20 percent in the capital of a french publishing company without prior government approval
the ministry said ``the european character of the pearson group doesn't appear to be durably established at this time.''
ministry officials said the main stumbling block to the sale is the 20.5 percent stake in pearson held by media magnate rupert murdoch
news corp, murdoch's australian press group, disclosed jan. 13 that it had increased its stake in pearson by purchasing a 4.9 percent block of shares from cerus sa, the french investment arm of italian financier carlo de benedetti
aides to balladur said the government is concerned that murdoch might be tempted to seek a controlling interest in pearson, although murdoch has denied any such plans.   
the supreme court ruled unanimously tuesday that businesses may not be sued in federal court in certain cases involving their contributions to union benefit funds
the court said the federal courts have no authority over cases in which companies refuse to contribute to multi-employer union benefit funds after a collective bargaining agreement expires
in an 8-0 ruling in a case from california, the court rejected reagan administration arguments that barring lawsuits in such cases could undermine the solvency of the multi-employer pension plans
justice john paul stevens, in his opinion for the court, noted that in 1980 congress amended the employee retirement income security act (erisa) to provide a federal court remedy for trustees of the multi-employer benefit plans to collect delinquent contributions
but stevens said the remedy does not extend to ``the employer's statutory duty to make post-contract contributions while negotiations for a new contract are being conducted.''
the federal courts have no authority to determine whether an employer's refusal to contribute to the funds in such circumstances is a violation of the national labor relations act, stevens said
the case stems from a decision by advanced lightweight concrete company inc. in california to withdraw from the union funds on june 15, 1983, when its collective bargaining agreement with its workers expired
the fund managers filed a federal court suit in december that year, seeking to force the company to pay into the pension plans for the period when the old contract expired until bargaining talks over a new contract reached an impasse
the unions said erisa conferred such jurisdiction on the courts
the suit was dismissed on grounds that the national labor relations board has final say. the nlrb had ruled against the unions in november 1983, rejecting claims that advance lightweight failed to bargain in good faith
today's decision upheld a 1985 ruling by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the high court on thursday, did not take part in the decision
the case is welfare trust fund vs. advanced lightweight concrete, 85-2079
in other cases tuesday involving business:
_the court limited the job protection for government workers fired for lacking security clearances
by a 5-3 vote, the justices agreed with the reagan administration that the merit systems protection board lacks authority to decide whether the denial of security clearance is justified
the court ruled against thomas e. egan, who was hired in 1981 as a laborer at the trident naval refit facility in bremerton, wash., on the condition he subsequently receive a security clearance
the facility is used to test and repair trident submarines. all jobs at the facility require security clearance
_the court, in a victory for three midwestern states, limited the secretary of the interior's authority to allocate water stored in missouri river basin reservoirs
the justices ruled unanimously that the interior secretary exceeded his authority when in 1982 he approved a contract authorizing energy transportation systems inc. (etsi) to take water from lake oahe in south dakota for a coal slurry pipeline project
the decision is a victory for officials in missouri, iowa and nebraska, which had blocked the now-scrapped pipeline project. north dakota, south dakota and wyoming took the other side
_the court rejected claims by private landowners and ruled that the state of mississippi owns thousands of acres of oil- and gas-rich land near the state's gulf coast
by a 5-3 vote, the justices said states may claim title to land beneath waters subject to the tie's influence _ and not only land under navigable waters
the ebb and flow of the tide, not navigability, determines the state's ownership, justice byron r. white said for the court. minister</note>
italian financier carlo de benedetti and belgium's economics minister on tuesday called for a truce in the battle for control of societe generale de belgique s.a., the country's biggest holding company
representative shareholders have to sit down at the table to discuss clear-cut principles: an industrial plan, the modalities of efficient management and a revitalization of the company,'' de benedetti said in a statement
de benedetti, the largest independent stockholder, claims to own 43 percent of societe generale's 28.2 million shares outstanding. he has launched a bid for another 15 percent, but the stock price has since exceeded his offer of about 4,000 belgian francs
societe generale hit a new record tuesday, closing at 5,350 francs, or $152.80, up about $7.15 from monday
de benedetti held meetings tuesday with several top government officials, including minister of economy philippe maystadt, caretaker prime minister wilfried martens and vice-premiers guy verhofstadt and philippe maystadt
de benedetti wants to create a pan-european holding company, but the belgian government has maintained it wants societe generale to remain firmly anchored in belgium. the 166-year-old company controls about half of belgium's top 50 companies and has interests in more that 1,200 companies worldwide
as speculation mounts as to whether a brittle alliance of belgian and french financial groups could fend off de benedetti, the italian financier called for a truce
as the most important shareholder by a wide margin, i want to make an appeal to reason,'' de benedetti said. ``there have been enough maneuvers in the corridors, enough artificial coalitions, enough unrealistic share counts, enough projects inspired only on the basis of personal interest.''
maystadt also said that it would be ``desirable that all concerned parties without exception at last sit down around the same table.''
the french cie financiere de suez and about 18 belgian companies claim to hold more than 50 percent of societe generale's shares, but they have not officially agreed to form an alliance
societe generale management has supported a franco-belgian alliance
the british government said tuesday it would relinquish its ``golden share'' in britoil plc, removing a major roadblock to british petroleum co. plc's $4.4 billion acquisition of the north sea oil company
since december, bp has accumulated 79.8 percent of britoil's 504 million outstanding shares in a takeover bid priced at 2.5 billion pounds. the oil giant has been paying 500 pence, or $8.85, for each britoil share
the government retained its special share _ which gives it a controlling vote over the company's affairs _ when it privatized britoil in two stages in 1985 and 1982
the treasury said it would give up the share under certain conditions agreed to by bp
britoil said its board of directors would meet to decide whether to abandon its resistance to bp's offer
britoil's shares rose 1.77 cents to finish at $8.83 (499 pence) on the london stock exchange tuesday. bp's shares finished unchanged at $4.39 (248 pence)
the government doesn't intend to exercise its special share as long as bp upholds promises to maintain headquarters for some of britoil's operations in glasgow, scotland, and meet other conditions, chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson said in answer to questions in the house of commons
scottish politicians had expressed concern that the takeover would mean the loss of jobs in scotland
lawson said control of the golden share will eventually be transferred from the treasury to britain's energy department, where legal moves will be taken to terminate it
an acceptable arrangement has been reached with bp,'' lawson said. ``i am quite sure there will be no backsliding by bp.''
bp chairman peter walters said in a statement that the company was ``pleased that our discussions with the government have produced a successful resolution of the issues surrounding the special share.''
we believe the outcome will enable us to manage the assets of britoil on a proper commercial basis in the interests of both our shareholders and the u.k. economy,'' walters said
but a britoil spokesman, who asked not to be named, said, ``if you look at the statements (by the government and bp) you'll see it's a two-party agreement between the chancellor and bp.''
although britoil officials met with treasury officials concerning the government's use of the golden share, the company wasn't a party to the agreement, he said
labor lawmaker john smith, his party's treasury spokesman, said in the house of commons that bp had ``gobbled up'' britoil and told lawson: ``you have exacted precious little from bp in exchange for handing britoil to them on a plate.''
atlantic richfield co. of los angeles also had pursued britoil, but abandoned its attempt and sold its 24 percent britoil holding to bp last month after bp sweetened its december offer of $7.97 (450 pence) a share
meanwhile, the kuwaiti government, through its london-based investment vehicle, the kuwait investment office, has acquired a stake of more than 19 percent in bp over the last few months
here are the conditions to which lawson said bp has agreed:
_bp will locate both britoil's and bp's north sea exploration and production head offices in glasgow, where britoil currently has its headquarters. the office will control bp's exploration and productio operations in norway and the republic of ireland, as well as in britain
_britoil will be managed and operated as a separate independent subsidiary and will have its own chief executive
_the britoil board is to be headed by a non-executive chairman with no previous bp connections. the appointment will be a joint agreement between bp and the government
bp also agreed to try to achieve an increase of at least 5 percent in recoverable reserves from britoil's north sea oil fields
bp will spend between $531 million and $575 million a year on exploration and development in areas controlled by bp and britoil, a large increase over previous expenditures in the area. index; no pickup</note>
share prices closed higher in london tuesday, but were down sharply from their best levels in concert with weak early trading on wall street
trading volume picked up from its recent slack pace as some good institutional buying interest emerged, dealers said
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index finished at 1,757.9, 10.7 points or 0.6 percent higher, just 1.2 points above its lowest level for the day. the index rose as much as 25 points in early trading, bolstered by strong gains overnight in the new york and tokyo stock markets
the strong tone was reinforced by news that britain's real gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1987 from the third quarter and was up 5.3 percent from a year earlier
share prices showed little reaction to the gdp news, but dealers said the figures should help sustain a cautious optimism among market participants
dealers said another factor boosting the market was expectations that substantial tax cuts would be included in the budget to be presented next month by the thatcher government
chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson said the government has agreed to give up its golden share in britoil plc, clearing the way for the independent company's takeover by british petroleum co. plc. britoil shares rose 1 penny to 499 pence, while bp was unchanged at 248 pence
stocks traded at modestly lower prices this afternoon as the market's recent rally ran into some resistance
trading was moderate
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which jumped 25.70 points on monday to its highest level since jan. 7, was off 8.29 at 2,032.00 with one hour to go in the session
declining issues outpaced gainers by a margin of about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 669 up, 846 down and 436 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 165.28 million shares as of 3 p.m. on wall street with 131.66 million shares at the same point on monday
traders said the market was pausing after a sharp runup over the past two weeks
they said traders were hesitant to make big moves while federal reserve chairman alan greenspan was testifying before a congressional panel about the central bank's view of the economy
the stock market has benefited recently from indications that the economy may be stronger than had been expected, leading some analysts to take an optimistic view of the outlook for corporate profits
but there is plenty of uncertainty about the economy's prospects
in a new report today, the government said orders to u.s. factories for durable goods plunged 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year
many analysts had expected a decline in january, however, because orders had risen by an unusually large 4.1 percent in december
among the most active issues on the nyse were several utility stocks that will soon be paying dividends. philadelphia electric was the most active, and was unchanged at 19~
among the blue chips, eastman kodak was down \ at 40{, american telephone &amp; telegraph was down \ at 29| and international business machines was off \ at 115
moore mccormack climbed 10{ to 34] after southdown disclosed it was offering $31 a share for the company
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was off 0.86 at 148.10. at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.89 to 282.12
grain and soybean futures prices closed moderately lower tuesday on the chicago board of trade
wheat futures declined in reaction to the agriculture department's announcement late monday that it would replace its weekly auctions of surplus wheat with three weekly auctions beginning march 2, analysts said
sales from the friday auctions have declined in recent weeks, with last week's total of 11 million bushels falling far short of the target of 25 million bushels
the usda set initial targets of 10 million bushels for each of the three new auctions, which will be held on tuesdays, wednesdays and fridays
traders fear that the new auctions could put as much as 30 million additional bushels of wheat onto the open market, which would tend to depress prices, said jerry gidel, an analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
soybean prices retreated in response to improved growing conditions for the south american soybean crop, gidel said. corn futures drifted lower due to a lack of fresh supportive news, he said
at the close, wheat was 4} cents to 5\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.17 a bushel; corn was 2{ cents to 3{ cents lower with march at $1.96 a bushel; oats were 1 cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $1.90\ a bushel; soybeans were 3{ cents to 8{ cents lower with march at $6.20 a bushel
a computer magazine has published a story providing confidential details of a long-awaited apple computer still under development
the article appearing in this week's edition of macintosh today was based on a 160-page confidential in-house document given to a free-lance writer by an apple employee, the san francisco examiner said tuesday
the article details the size, appearance and technical specifications of apple computer inc.'s laguna laptop model, which it said would be available in 1989
apple has been hard hit by information leaks before, and even hired a private detective two years ago to find out who was releasing information. the investigator found leaks at firms developing software and accessories for apple products, according to company spokeswoman barbara krause
ms. krause declined to comment on the magazine report
the article describes a 12-pound laptop capable of running macintosh software. it said the computer would have 1 megabyte of internal memory, the same as the macintosh se. it said the computer would have a flat-panel screen and be powered by a five-pound lead-acid battery that will last up to 10 hours before recharging
foreign ministers of the european economic community on monday formally adopted decisions taken at last week's eec summit on limiting farm subsidies and overhauling the group's finances
britain and the netherlands had made their acceptance of the summit agreement conditional on settlement of a relatively minor issue raised by france in the final stages of the feb. 11-12 meeting
officials said the french foreign minister, jean-bernard raimond, told monday's meeting that his government remained unhappy with proposals for placing new controls on eec subsidies to growers of such products as tobacco and wine
but raimond said paris would allow the proposals to go forward without further debate. that cleared the way for the foreign ministers to formally adopt the overall summit agreement
by satisfying british and dutch demands for strict limits on farm spending, the summit accords marked a breakthrough in the eec's budget crisis. the 12-nation group has been operating without a formal budget since the start of the year and faced possible bankruptcy by late summer
eec budget ministers are scheduled to meet tuesday to adopt a draft 1988 budget. the spending plan then must be approved by the european parliament
hans-dietrich genscher, the west german foreign minister and chairman of monday's meeting, told reporters that adoption of the summit agreement was ``an important step forward in the history of the european community.''
genscher said he and chancellor helmut kohl told u.s. officials during a visit to washington last week that the summit agreement will ``strengthen the economic vitality of europe'' by permitting faster removal of trade barriers between eec member countries and by giving more financial aid to the relatively poorer members in southern europe. market changes</head>
the head of the securities and exchange commission said tuesday he did not expect congress to give the agency control of the stock index futures market and stressed the sec is working with futures regulators to prevent a recurrence of the october stock market crash
sec chairman david s. ruder also indicated his agency was examining ways of reducing volatility of stock prices and trading volume, which he attributed partly to the use of margin in the stock index futures markets
in a speech to an economic outlook conference sponsored by the conference board, ruder repeated his agency's call to examine proposals for increasing coordination between the stock and futures markets and expanding the markets' capacity to deal with unprecedented trading volumes
trading strategies involving stock index futures _ representing ``baskets'' of actual stocks _ have been widely blamed for worsening market volatility and contributing to the severity of the oct. 19 market crash
ruder has contended the sec should have final regulatory power over all stock-related instruments, including the ability to overrule the commodity futures trading commission, which now regulates such products
in testimony to the senate banking committee earlier this month, ruder asked for broad new powers over stock-related futures trading, such as increasing margin requirements and ordering temporary trading halts, to help prevent a recurrence of the crash
kalo hineman, acting chairman of the commodities commission, in subsequent testimony resisted the idea of putting the sec in charge of stock index futures trading
during a news conference after tuesday's speech, ruder defended his proposal but said he did not anticipate congressional support for sec authority over stock index futures markets
he said that although he was not supporting a broad congressional revamping of the regulatory system, the sec's proposals would result in ``a more active and aggressive oversight of those markets'' by his agency
that at times could entail pressuring the commodities commission to make market changes, ruder said. but he also said he expected any future regulation to stem from ``cooperative'' proposals, and emphasized his agency's commitment to work closely with other regulators
ruder said he and the sec staff had met with hineman and the staff of the commodities commission to discuss ``a wide range of market-related topics.''
similar joint discussions were held with representatives of the stock and futures exchanges and would continue as the sec attempted to formulate concrete steps for preventing another crash, ruder said
in his speech, ruder again called for higher margin requirements _ the ``down payment'' a buyer must make _ for trading stock index futures and for other measures to improve liquidity in the futures markets. he said the sec would continue considering the effectiveness of delayed futures market openings
ruder said the ``increased velocity and concentration'' of trading within the stock and futures markets and between those markets had increased the probability of wild price swings. he said the increased intensity of trading was due partly to the lower margin levels in the futures markets
initial margin on stock inedex futures for non-market makers should be raised, at least temporarily, to levels harmonious with stock margin levels applicable to stock market professionals,'' he said
the stock market marked time today, finishing narrowly mixed as its recent rally ran into some resistance
analysts said the market had paused after a two-week rally that had driven some major indicators to their highest levels in six weeks
they said traders also appeared hesitant to make a major move while federal reserve chairman alan greenspan was outlining for a congressional panel the central bank's monetary goals and his view of the economy
the analysts found little in greenspan's remarks to encourage them to bid stocks in either direction
the stock market has benefited recently from indications that the economy may be stronger than had been expected, leading some analysts to take an optimistic view of the outlook for corporate profits
but there is plenty of uncertainty about the economy's prospects
in a new report today, the government said orders to u.s. factories for durable goods plunged 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year
but a decline had been expected in the wake of an unusually sharp 4.1 percent rise in december
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which rose 25.70 on monday to its highest level since jan. 7, lost 1.17 to 2,039.12
advancing issues narrowly outpaced losers among those listed on the new york stock exchange, with 760 up, 720 down and 482 unchanged
big board volume totaled 192.26 million shares, against 178.93 million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index fell 0.23 to 148.73
at the american stock exchange, the market value index was off 0.29 at 282.72
here are the 25 biggest defense contractors, based on total contract awards during the federal government's last fiscal year, which ended sept. 30, 1987:
_mcdonnell douglas corp., $7.7 billion
_general dynamics corp., $7.0 billion
_general electric co., $5.8 billion
_lockheed corp., $5.6 billion
_general motors corp., $4.1 billion
_raytheon co., $3.8 billion
_martin marietta corp., $3.7 billion
_united technologies corp., $3.6 billion
_boeing co., $3.5 billion
_grumman corp., $3.4 billion
_unisys corp., $2.3 billion
_rockwell international corp., $2.2 billion
_tenneco inc., $2.1 billion
_honeywell inc., $2 billion
_litton industries inc., $2 billion
_international business machines corp., $1.8 billion
_westinghouse electric corp., $1.7 billion
_gte corp., $1.5 billion
_textron inc., $1.5 billion
_ltv corp., $1.3 billion
_northrop corp., $1.1 billion
_texas instruments inc., $1.1 billion
_trw inc., $1.1 billion
_itt corp., $1 billion
_allied-signal inc., $0.9 billion
officials at the nissan motor co. plant in smyrna are recommending expanded production at the plant that could include a second passenger car line, the company stated monday
however, the plant is not among the sites under consideration for a proposed joint venture with ford motor co. to build a new vehicle, company officials said
nissan motor co. announced that it would undertake a second phase of a study on the proposed joint venture and that a proposal would be made for top management review in may
a study committee indicated a site had not been selected yet but the smyrna facility _ which makes light trucks and sentra cars, was not among those being considered
the joint venture project with ford is looking at building a type of vehicle that is very different from the cars and trucks we build at smyrna,'' said jerry benefield, president and chief executive officer of the smyrna plant
but officials said plant production may be expanded anyhow because of a proposed addition of a second passenger car line, and parts production may be increased
benefield said he was recommending that the plant begin making three components: sentra engines, truck axles, and front and rear bumpers for the sentra. the new production would not require any new employees, officials said
the company also is considering adding a second passenger car line at the plant, which would require a larger work force
the company's board of directors will review the proposals at an april meeting
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's prediction of modest economic growth and continued low inflation received a sharp negative reaction on the precious metals futures markets tuesday
on other markets, which were not necessarily affected by greenspan's comments, prices for future delivery of livestock, meat, orange juice, grains, soybeans and stock indexes all retreated. energy futures advanced
analysts said greenspan's 1988 economic forecast, delivered in testimony before a house banking subcommittee in washington, was viewed as a price depressant for precious metals, which tend to perform well as investments during bad economic times
the most important thing he said for the precious metals was that inflation is expected to be at a moderate rate of 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent for 1988,'' said bette raptopoulos, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
peter cardillo, commodity trading adviser for josephthal &amp; co. in new york, said precious metals futures also were pressured by the day's lower prices for most other commodities, reflected by a 2.68-point decline in the commodity research bureau's index of 21 commodities
among the precious metals, platinum futures registered the sharpest drop, falling $15 across the board at the new york mercantile exchange, where the contract for april delivery settled at $448.80 a troy ounce
on new york's commodity exchange, gold settled $3 to $4.30 lower with april at $444.30 a troy ounce; silver was 11 cents to 11.8 cents lower with march at $6.30 a troy ounce
some feeder cattle futures fell the daily limit of 1.50 cents a pound on the chicago mercantile exchange, and other livestock and meat futures also posted steep losses
cattle futures weakened in reaction to a variety of fundamental factors, including relatively slack wholesale demand for beef products, high retail prices for beef, and good availability of slaughter-ready cattle, said tom o'hare, an analyst for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
a monthly agriculture department report showing the number of pork bellies in cold storage to be higher than the market had expected sent pork complex futures down sharply, o'hare said
live cattle settled .70 cent to 1.23 cents lower with april at 71.77 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .75 cent to 1.50 cents lower with march at 81.02 cents a pound; hogs were .10 cent to .77 cent lower with april at 43.67 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1 cent to 1.85 cents lower with march at 51.80 cents a pound
frozen concentrated orange juice futures sank on the new york cotton exchange in reaction to a price cut of $25 a ton for brazilian juice, analysts said
cheaper brazilian orange juice could result in less demand for u.s. juice
orange juice settled 2.80 cents to 3.90 cents lower with march at $1.6335 a pound
wheat futures prices declined on the chicago board of trade in reaction to the agriculture department's announcement late monday that it would replace its weekly friday auctions of surplus wheat with three weekly auctions beginning march 2, analysts said
sales from the weekly auctions have declined in recent weeks, with last week's 11 million bushels falling far short of the 25 million-bushel target
the usda set initial targets of 10 million bushels for each of the three new auctions, which will be held on tuesdays, wednesdays and fridays
traders fear that the new auctions could put as much as 30 million additional bushels of wheat onto the open market weekly, which would tend to depress prices, said jerry gidel, an analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
soybean prices retreated in response to improved growing conditions for the south american soybean crop, gidel said. corn prices drifted lower in the absence of fresh supportive news, he said
wheat settled 5 cents to 5} cents lower with march at $3.16{ a bushel; corn was 2\ cents to 3\ cents lower with march at $1.96{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent lower with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 3{ cents to 6{ cents lower with march at $6.21 a bushel
oil prices rose slightly in quiet trading on the new york mercantile exchange, driven largely by technical factors, analysts said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 12 cents higher across the board with april at $16.60 a barrel; heating oil was .44 cent to .67 cent higher with march at 46.46 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .10 cent to .59 cent higher with march at 46.90 cents a gallon
stock-index futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.35 points lower at 265.50. the underylying spot index was off .62 cents at 265.02
the dollar was mostly lower after a session of choppy trading tuesday
gold prices also fell. republic national bank of new york quoted a late bid price for gold of $441.50 a troy ounce, down $2.75 from monday's late bid
analysts said the dollar gained some strength from reports of congressional testimony by federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan early in the session, reversing overnight losses
john lynam, an analyst at security pacific national bank, said traders were encouraged by greenspan's statement that he saw no signs of a recession
other analysts in europe and the united states cited his comment that the u.s. money supply might grow at a faster pace this year
that spawned speculation that the fed might have to encourage higher interest rates to slow excessive money growth _ which would stimulate inflation
in turn, higher rates would make dollar-denominated investments more attractive, boosting demand for the u.s. currency
in the end, however, the dollar wound up mostly lower in trading described as choppy
lynam said the market continued to be dominated by ``charts and technicals,'' making people ``less willing to hold on to their positions.''
the whole problem is that this has become a one-release market: the trade numbers, everyone focuses on that,'' said jim chorek, an analyst at the chicago office of market services inc., an investment firm
and after that, volume is just dead,'' he continued. ``so the market becomes keyed off of technicals.''
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7655 from $1.7630 late monday. in new york, the pound stood at $1.7633, more expensive than monday's late price of $1.7593
in tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 128.50 japanese yen from 129.95 yen at monday's close. in london trading later tuesday, it edged up to 128.75 yen. in new york, it stood at 129.00 yen late in the day, down from monday's 129.38 yen
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late monday, were: 1.6948 west german marks, down from 1.6979; 1.3933 swiss francs, up from 1.3928; 1.2677 canadian dollars, down from 1.2723; 5.7330 french francs, down from 5.7400; and 1,248.50 italian lire, down from 1,249.50
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late monday, were: 1.6945 west german marks, down from 1.6955; 1.3895 swiss francs, down from 1.3930; 5.7240 french francs, down from 5.7500; 1.9000 dutch guilders, down from 1.9040; 1,246.60 italian lire, down from 1,252.25; 1.2712 canadian dollars, down from 1.2738
gold bullion prices slumped everywhere
at the commodity exchange in new york, gold fell to $441.80 a troy ounce, down $3.80 from monday's $444.90
in london, the metal fell to a late bid of $442.50 a troy ounce from $446 bid late monday
in zurich, switzerland, it dropped to $442 bid from $446.50 bid late monday
earlier, gold fell in hong kong to a closing bid of $446.80, down from $447.12
silver bullion fell in london to a late bid of $6.33 a troy ounce, down from $6.41 bid late monday. at the comex in new york, it stood at $6.290 a troy ounce, down from $6.40
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. reported a 27 percent drop in first-quarter earnings monday, but noted results for the year-earlier period were inflated by a $20 million gain from discontinued operations
firestone reported earnings of $30 million or 94 cents a share, on sales of $976 million for the three months ended jan. 31, compared with earnings of $41 million or $1.07 a share on sales of $846 million during the same period a year ago
excluding a one-time gain of $20 million from the december 1986 sale of its north american wheel and rim business, firestone's first-quarter earnings were up 40 percent from a year earlier
the results reflected improved automotive parts and service sales, increased income from credit-card operations, and larger profits from the company's diverisified-products operations due to higher natural-rubber prices and improved building-products sales, firestone said in a news release
during the quarter, firestone repurchased 3.6 million shares of its outstanding stock for $116 million
firestone, which moved its headquarters from akron, ohio, to chicago during the quarter, announced last week it would sell a 75 percent interest in its tire-manufacturing operations to bridgestone corp. for $1.25 billion
pan am corp. and the union representing 4,500 ground employees in 14 cities deadlocked following the breakup of their talks as a teamsters official threatened ``guerrilla warfare.''
william genoese, director of the teamsters' airline division, threatened monday that employees meanwhile would deliberately misdirect baggage and cargo and cancel passengers' reservations
talks in which management was seeking $35 million in concessions from the union broke down sunday afternoon following expiration of the contract. no talks were held monday
flight attendants at northwest airlines have voted overwhelmingly to strike the airline this weekend if a contract dispute over wages and benefits is not resolved, a union official says
disclosure of the strike vote came monday as the two sides readied to resume negotiations for the first time since last month
jeff musto, a teamsters spokesman, said 94.4 percent of the more than 5,000 attendants participating voted to strike
l.f. rothschild holdings inc., an investment firm staggered by october's stock market crash, will merge with a subsidiary of franklin savings corp., a financial services company based in ottawa, kan
rothschild, which also announced a $128.8 million loss for the final quarter of 1987, previously had sold virtually all of its retail stock brokerage operations and slashed its payroll
the purchase price, still subject to adjustment, was about $66.4 million, rothschild said monday
first republicbank corp. has run full-page advertisements in local newspapers blaming shrinking deposits on seasonal factors and foreign withdrawals and repeating denials that it was involved in merger or bailout negotiations
the bank's actions monday were designed to allay depositors' fears raised by its report last month of a $656.8 million annual loss. it said news reports on its financial condition were wrong or misleading
dissident investor henley group inc. has proposed that santa fe southern pacific corp. scrap part of its financial restructuring and instead sell $780 million in new stock to henley
the move monday, which would boost henley's stake in chicago-based santa fe to 34.3 percent from 15.7 percent, was expected to receive a cool reaction from santa fe, which has been fending off henley's unwanted overtures since mid-1987
santa fe directors will take up the plan at a regularly scheduled board meeting tuesday, spokesman robert gehrt said
rio grande industries inc. has filed an application with the interstate commerce commission to acquire southern pacific transportation co. for $1 billion from santa fe southern pacific corp
rio grande's action monday will affect kansas city southern industries inc.'s rival bid of more than $1.25 billion for the southern pacific
the icc is expected to decide on the application in six months, rio grande said
a federal judge has blocked as unconstitutional an ohio takeover statute aimed at thwarting campeau corp.'s attempted hostile takeover of federated department stores inc
toronto-based campeau has a hostile $5.4 billion offer pending for cincinnati-based federated. campeau is offering $5.8 billion if federated agrees to a friendly merger
state officials have not decided whether to appeal monday's ruling, a spokesman said
the federal government posted a rare $16.09 billion surplus last month, primarily because social security checks for january were mailed early, the treasury department says
the early payment inflated government spending in december and lowered spending in january, the department said monday. the december deficit was $24.22 billion
for all of 1988, the reagan administration is projecting the budget deficit will fall to $146.74 billion, down 2.5 percent from last year's deficit of $150.4 billion
the reagan administration has confirmed it is investigating allegations that a u.s. computer system which could help determine optimal targets for nuclear missiles had been illegally shipped to the soviet union
according to a report in monday editions of the washington times, essex marketing co. of los angeles is under investigation for an alleged shipment dec. 21 of the computer to an engineering college in zagreb, yugoslovia
the computer was diverted and wound up in the soviet union instead, the newspaper said
the supreme court has upheld a ruling that sharply curtails the power of communities to regulate cable television
the high court turned away an appeal by palo alto and atherton, calif., which wanted to enforce public access and other rules challenged by cable operator century federal inc
but the court's action apparently was based on narrow procedural grounds and leaves open the possibility of a subsequent appeal
a survey of 226 large and medium-sized american companies found 70 percent have restricted or are prepared to limit smoking in the workplace
i was really surprised at the extent to which this had surfaced as a personnel issue,'' victor lindquist, author of the northwestern university lindquist-endicott report, said monday
the stock market gained broadly monday, extending its recent rally in a mood of increasing optimism about the economic outlook. the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 25.70 to 2,040.29
bond prices finished modestly higher. the yield on the treasury's closely watched 30-year issue, which moves inversely to its price, slipped to 8.41 percent from 8.43 percent late friday
the dollar drifted lower. gold prices were narrowly mixed
cotton futures prices collapsed; grains and soybeans were mostly lower; and livestock and meat were mixed. prices, specify that judge's ruling was monday; picks up 5th graf pvs, the suit ....</note>
a federal judge has issued a temporary injunction blocking eastman kodak co.'s deal to merge its photofinishing operations with those of fuqua industries inc., and the company continues to face questions about its $5.1 billion acquisition of sterling drug inc
kodak announced tuesday that it had been tendered more than 96 percent of sterling shares during the offering period that expired monday, and said it expected to complete the acquisition in a few days
the company has scheduled a meeting with analysts thursday in new york in an effort to convince them of the merits of the sterling deal
kodak's stock rose 50 cents a shre to $41.25 a share tuesday in consolidated new york stock exchange trading. fuqua's stock fell 50 cents a share to $28.50
in the fuqua dispute, u.s. district judge eldon mahon in fort worth, texas, issued his ruling monday in response to a suit filed in december by phototron corp., a san bernardino, calif., wholesale photofinishing company
the suit contended that if the proposed merger went through, kodak and fuqua would control 50 percent of the wholesale photofinishing industry and 80 percent of the total market for photo-related paper and chemicals, said brenda landry, an analyst for morgan stanley and co
the injunction will remain in effect pending a trial on the merits of the case
fuqua spokeswoman donna browning, in arguments supporting the merger, said the merger would result in a new company controlling only 25 percent of the total photofinishing market in the united states
the federal trade commission and the u.s. department of justice antitrust division approved the proposed merger in december and said their investigation did not show any evidence that federal antitrust laws would be violated
on dec. 7, kodak announced plans to merge its wholesale photoprocessing laboratories with fuqua's raleigh, n.c.-based subsidiary, colorcraft corp
several financial analysts have lowered their opinions of kodak in recent weeks on grounds that the company overpaid for sterling
obviously there are pros and cons to this,'' said michael ellmann, a stock analyst with wertheim schroeder &amp; co. ``but i want to hear what management has to say.''
kodak will pay $89.50 for 54.5 million of the 57 million outstanding shares of sterling stock, more than $34 higher than the stock was selling for at the end of 1987. the company will acquire the 2.5 million shares that weren't offered for sale for the same price after the deal is final, roberts said
the total value of the deal is expected to be $5.1 billion
sterling, based in new york, has 22,000 employees and has annual sales of about $2 billion
kodak, based in rochester, has 124,000 employees and annual sales of about $13 billion a year
the acquisition will help kodak move into the $110 billion pharmaceutical industry and give the company an established pipeline to get drugs to market, said kodak spokesman charles smith
on monday, kodak's bond ratings were downgraded by moody's investors service from a2 to aa2 largely because of the heavy borrowing needed to pay for sterling
sterling's bond rating was also downgraded from a2 to aa1
with the acquisition, kodak will immediately realize its ambition of being a billion-dollar-a-year drug company through bayer aspirin, panadol non-aspirin pain reliever, and demerol
kodak will also get a billion-dollar-a-year household products business with such products as lysol disinfectant, d-con rat killer, and phillips milk of magnesia
kodak officials have said they do not plan to sell any parts of sterling and will keep the company's organization intact
the united states announced tuesday that it was supplying $500 million in short-term financing to argentina while the south american country works out arrangements for a longer-term loan with the international monetary fund
the treasury department announced the loan, which would be the second such borrowing argentina has done in the past five months
in november, argentina received another $500 million bridge loan from the united states and 14 other countries which it paid back in january after it received further money from the imf
the treasury said in a statement, ``the willingness of the united states to provide this financing indicates our support for argentina's economic program to achieve sustainable growth and a viable balance-of-payments position.''
the statement said the united states ``commends argentina's efforts to implement stabilization and reform policies with the support of the international financial community.''
news corp. ltd., the worldwide media company controlled by rupert murdoch, said tuesday its profit climbed 45 percent in its second fiscal quarter as its revenue rose 33 percent
the company, based in sydney, australia, cited strong performances by its newspaper division in britain and its magazine division in australia and the pacific basin, including results from acquisitions
it said profits declined in the united states, reflecting a soft advertising market for its seven television stations, disappointing results from the newspaper division including the new york post and lower results from twentieth century fox films
news corp. said its profit rose to $127 million, or 79 cents per american depositary receipt, in the three months ended dec. 31 compared with $87.6 million, or 64 cents per adr, a year earlier
the adrs are traded on the new york stock exchange and each adr represents two of the company's common shares
revenue for the quarter rose to $1.11 billion from $837 million a year earlier
for the first six months, profit nearly doubled to $231.2 million, or $1.42 per adr, from $120 million, or 88 cents per adr, a year earlier
revenue for the first six months rose 26 percent, to $2.09 billion from $1.66 billion in 1986
six-month results were helped by foreign-exchange trading gains and acquisitions in australia and the pacific basin
last weekend, murdoch won concessions from the new york post's labor unions that cleared the way for the sale of the ailing newspaper to real estate developer peter kalikow for $37 million
kraft inc. will pay ambrit inc. $8.5 million to settle a trademark battle over similar ice cream bars made by the two companies, kraft announced tuesday
the 6-year-old case stemmed from kraft's polar b'ar ice cream bars, which ambrit contended were packaged in a manner that infringed on the trademark of its own klondike bar
the supreme court last may let stand a lower court ruling prohibiting polar b'ar from using a wrapper resembling the klondike package and denying polar b'ar exclusive trademark rights to that name
the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals had ruled in december 1986 that polar b'ars may not have images of polar bears on their wrappers in imitation of the klondike design
the appeals court also said polar b'ars may have the color royal blue on their silver foil wrappers only if it did not make them ``confusingly similar'' to the klondike wrapper
the appeals court also had ordered a federal judge to determine what damages if any kraft must pay ambrit, which is based in clearwater, fla., for imitating the klondike wrapper
kraft said from its glenview, ill., headquarters that the settlement was ``significantly less'' than the amount sought by ambrit but declined to comment further, citing agreements by both parties not to discuss specifics of the case
the appeals court had canceled kraft's polar b'ar trademark because the company had abandoned the name from 1932, when it stopped making a like-named ice cream novelty, until it began marketing a new ice cream bar in 1979
southdown inc., a cement and energy company, launched a $177 million cash tender offer tuesday for moore mccormack resources of stamford, conn
the offer is contingent on the valid tender of a majority of moore mccormack's common stock, the inapplicability of delaware's recently enacted anti-takeover law, the redemption or invalidation of moore mccormack's ``poison pill'' anti-takeover defense and southdown's ability to secure $635 million in financing, of which $500 million has been committed by a major commercial bank
tony doumlele, director of corporate relations for moore mccormack, said the ``tender offer was totally unsolicited.''
on monday, houston-based southdown and its subsidiary, sdw inc., filed a federal lawsuit which seeks to overturn moore mccormack's anti-takeover defenses, including a poison pill provision that would make the acquisition prohibitively expensive
the lawsuit claims that moore mccormack chairman paul r. tregurtha tried to illegally block the tender offer
southdown said in the suit that it will offer $31 a share for moore mccormack, a building materials company. with 5.7 million moore mccormack shares outstanding, the transaction would be worth about $177 million
southdown said in its suit that unless the anti-takeover defenses are removed, it will be deprived of the right to make a bona fide offer and will be subjected to confusion, delay and lawsuits
the suit said tregurtha and moore mccormack's board of directors violated their fiduciary responsibilities by setting up illegal obstacles that allegedly will prevent the company's shareholders from considering the tender offer
the suit also said that merger talks between the two companies were initiated by moore mccormack a year ago and that tregurtha insisted that he hold the posts of chairman and chief executive officer in the combined business. as a result, southdown said, it concluded that its only alternative was to take a proposal directly to the shareholders of moore mccormack
southdown produces and sells cement and ready-mixed concrete and is in oil and gas exploration and development. it announced monday that it has 137.6 billion cubic feet of proved natural gas reserves, up from 111.7 billion cubic feet last year. it attributed the increase to successful exploration in louisiana and texas
moore mccormack produces building materials and is also involved in oil and gas exploration and production, mainly in texas and louisiana
no hearing has been set for the case, assigned to u.s. district judge lynn n. hughes
the dollar firmed against the japanese yen in foreign exchange dealings in tokyo wednesday after a sharp decline the previous day, while share prices on the tokyo stock exchange were mixed
the dollar opened at 128.90 yen, up 0.40 yen from tuesday's close of 128.50 yen. in midmorning dealings, the u.s. currency traded between 128.65 and 128.90 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which rose tuesday for the ninth consecutive trading day, took on an additional 0.09 points to end wednesday's morning session at 24,949.54
foreign exchange dealers said the market didn't respond to comments by u.s. federal reserve chairman alan greenspan, who told a u.s. congressional committee tuesday that there were no signs of a recession in the united states
stock trading was described as mixed by traders, who said buyers were not as aggressive after nine straight days of solid gains in the market
the morning volume was estimated at 700 million shares, a level approaching tuesday's all-day volume of 850 million shares
