icer identifying projectiles as rocket-propelled grenades; guerrilla pamphlets found at radio station. edits to conform. no pickup.</note>
two attackers thought to be leftist guerrillas fired rocket-propelled grenades at the u.s. embassy wednesday night and an embassy spokesman said the roof was slightly damaged, but no one was hurt
the assailants apparently were siding with panama's military in its standoff with the united states
the embassy's chief security officer said the assailants fired rocket-propelled grenades. he spoke on condition his name not be used for fear of reprisals
police initially said rockets were fired at the building from a distance of 150 feet. witnesses later said they saw men firing a recoilless rifle
the round apparently hit the fence surrounding the embassy and exploded prematurely,'' the security officer said. ``we think it went off over over the building. we went up on the roof and there was absolutely no damage.''
u.s. embassy spokesman steven gangstead told the associated press in a telephone interview that a projectile hit the embassy roof, causing minor damage, but that no injuries resulted
the attack took place at 8:05 p.m
the two terrorists fled in a taxi, people at a restaurant across the street from the embassy told an ap reporter
anonymous persons calling the bogota television stations noticiero nacional and ultimas noticias said the attack was by the omar torrijos brigade of a leftist guerrilla group, the april 19 movement, also known as the m-19
omar torrijos was head of panama's military at the time he was killed in a plane crash in 1981
gen. manuel antonio noriega, now head of panama's defense forces, has been indicted in the united states on drug charges and has been resisting u.s. efforts to oust him. as military chief, he is de facto leader of panama
m-19 pamphlets found outside the bogota radio station santa fe said the guerrilla attack was because of u.s. intervention in panama and the presence of u.s. troops in honduras
the united states sent 3,200 troops to honduras last week after honduras said nicaraguan soldiers penetrated honduran territory chasing u.s.-supported contra rebels. nicaragua denied the charge
the embassy is in a section of downtown bogota known as the bunker, for the elaborate security systems designed to protect the homes and diplomatic missions in the area
in washington, state department spokeswoman sondra mccarty said the agency heard press reports about the attack but she did not immediately have any information or comment
the m-19 has claimed responsibility for dozens of bombings against u.s. interests in the last 10 years
bogota police and the army set up roadblocks throughout bogota wednesday night trying to catch the terrorists
drug traffickers opposed to extradition of colombians to the united states to face drug charges claimed responsibility for a car bomb that exploded alongside the embassy in november 1984
a woman was killed and six persons were injured. all were passersby
a police officer was indicted by a federal grand jury for allegedly pouring scalding water on two prisoners at police headquarters last year
the jury tuesday indicted patrolman christopher dillon on a misdemeanor assault charge. if convicted, he faces a maximum of one year in prison and a $25,000 fine
michael c. davis and stephen h. davis jr. and a third man were arrested nov. 7 after a fight with three other men in providence, according to u.s. attorney lincoln c. almond and assistant u.s. attorney edwin j. gale
one of the other three was dillon's brother joseph, almond said
after confronting the davises at police headquarters, the officer poured the water over them, with other policemen looking on, authorities said. prosecutors say the men suffered first and second degree burns
with only four weeks left in the season, cbs is facing its first third-place finish in the 35 years that the a.c. nielsen co. has been rating television programs
the network has finished first 26 times, including six consecutive years until nbc broke its streak in 1985-86, the first time nbc had won a season in three decades
times change. now nbc is predicting it will win this season by the widest margin ever
cbs is barely behind abc in season-to-date ratings, the numbers that networks and advertisers use as a basis for negotiating advertising rates. the margin may be small, but last place is still a blow to prestige. at least for cbs it leads the two other networks in evening news ratings
after the 26th weeks of the season, nbc led the three networks with an average prime-time rating of 16.3, abc had a 13.9, and cbs a 13.6. the rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions. cbs would have to beat abc by just under two points each of the remaining four weeks to tie for second place. that is unlikely. last week, for instance, cbs edged abc for second, but only by a third of a point
cbs' regular series lineup is higher rated on average, but abc won the two weeks it had the winter olympics in prime time, and cbs conceded it would finish last when a slew of new comedies failed to make a dent in the ratings last week
of the new shows, ``trial and error'' finished second-to-last in the 77 nielsen rankings, a reprise of ``my sister sam'' was third-to-last and ``coming of age'' ranked 59th. ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' added to the already strong monday lineup, ranked 31st
cbs has been struggling to draw younger viewers. its highest-rated shows are the venerable newsmagazine ``60 minutes'' and the long-running ``murder, she wrote,'' both on sunday
of its shows that are new this season, cbs can count only friday night's ``beauty and the beast'' as a ratings success. other new cbs shows, like ``frank's place,'' ``tour of duty'' and ``wiseguy,'' have drawn critical praise but have not found a sizable audience
the executive responsible for the 1987-1988 season schedule, former cbs entertainment president b. donald grant, departed the network in mid-season and was replaced by kim lemasters, who won't really make his mark on the network's schedule until next season
look for a major revamping of the cbs lineup next fall with new comedies due from gtg entertainment, the production company of former mtm production chief and former nbc chairman grant tinker, who has an exclusive deal with cbs. cbs also will have mary tyler moore back in a comedy and another new show will feature her one-time sitcom co-star dick van dyke
when the farmworkers union failed to persuade civilian officials to remove mario espinal as head of the national agrarian institute, it took its case to the armed forces chief
in going to gen. humberto regalado and the military high command the national association of honduran campesinos made plain its feeling, shared by others, that real power in honduras does not lie with the civilian government of president jose azcona hoyo
the union is seeking espinal's ouster from the cabinet-level post on grounds that he was stalling on agrarian reform
espinal, nevertheless, remains in his post, confirmed once again by azcona hoyo, and so far as is known regalado has not acted
the campesinos' tactic was also used in the past few years by bus drivers, teachers, business leaders and other sectors. it underscores the powerful, even dominant, role still exercised by the armed forces six years after honduras restored civilian government
honduras has a long history of military governments, most recently in the 1972-82 period
the people know where the source of power lies,'' said anibal puerto, vice president of the independent human rights commission and a critic of azcona hoyo's administration. even government supporters acknowledge the imbalance of power
longstanding vices are not gotten rid of from the night to the morning,'' said joaquin luna mejia, president of the honduran council on private enterprise
in an interview with the associated press, he said consolidation of civilian power ``is coming along well.'' but he also observed, ``here, as in all countries, interests are managed according to the real powers. and if those powers are ambitious, we could fall again into old vices.''
no honduran politician is going around saying, `we've got to put the military back in the box,' because here the military never has been in the box,'' said a western diplomat
compared to its neighbors, honduras has enjoyed a degree of stability and peace during a decade of regional conflict. but the civil wars surrounding it have caused big problems
we have become a sanctuary,'' said luna mejia of honduras' tens of thousands of refugees from el salvador, nicaragua and guatemala, all torn by guerrilla wars. ``we are victims of the entry into our country of irregular forces.''
he referred to the contras, who since 1982 have been trying to topple the sandinista government in nicaragua. until last year, a contra force estimated at 6,000 to 12,000 men had waged the better part of the campaign from base camps in honduras along the nicaraguan border. the rebels say most of their forces are now inside nicaragua
by congressional vote, the united states has cut off further military aid, damaging prospects for long-term effectiveness inside nicaragua
there is a great concern that the contras, if defeated, will try to come back here,'' said luna mejia
gen. regalado told journalists in february he hoped the contras would be able to keep up their fight but said if they cannot, they are not welcome back in honduras
we have instructed immigration authorities along the border to ensure that they do not return,'' he said
puerto sees a connection between the contra problem and continued military preponderance in honduran politics. citing honduras' very strong alliance with washington, he said: ``to whom does the honduran army owe its allegiance? everything indicates it owes its allegiance to the united states, and not to its own people.''
he said civilian government and close alignment with the united states had done little to alleviate the poverty of hundreds of thousands in this mainly agricultural country of 4.5 million people
people expected something different from civilian government, but they got more of the same,'' puerto said. ``if things continue like this, people may lose faith in so-called democracy and look for other less desirable forms of struggle.''
azcona hoyo is past the midway point in the four-year term to which he was inaugurated in january 1986. elections are scheduled in november 1989
blunt criticisms of art censors have come to be expected from china's most famous movie director, wu tianming, even more than the evocative and provocative films produced by his studio
it takes no prompting to set him off
those people (censors) were used to making hypocritical propaganda,'' wu grumbled in a recent interview. ``people who have feudal and ultra-left ideas and bureaucrats ... get in the way of our work.''
even the censors, however, have been unable to stop the cascade of domestic and international honors awarded in the past four years to wu's movies and those of young directors who work under him at the xian film studio in china's ancient capital
since wu became its director in 1983, the debt-ridden studio in arid northwestern china has become a prolific producer of hauntingly beautiful, technically innovative movies that have raised china's standing in the international film community. many in one way or another also have been seen as affronts to socialism
for example, wu's own ``old well,'' about a poor village's efforts to dig a well, won top honors last year at the tokyo international film festival and a special prize at the hawaii international film festival and received critical acclaim in new york
but its release to prudish chinese audiences was delayed for months because of the movie's depiction of a love triangle, including several kissing scenes of unusual passion
the black cannon,'' directed by huang jianxing, one of wu's stable of young directors, aroused heated debate because it attacked mindless bureaucracy. it eventually was named best movie of 1985 by china's ministry of broadcast, film and television
another xian studio release, ``the horse thief,'' directed by tian zhuangzhuang, never was shown to general chinese audiences because of its depiction of poverty among tibetan horsemen
from his brick office compound with peeling paint and leaking pipes, the 48-year-old wu said he wants to expand the limits of what is acceptable in chinese filmmaking, largely restricted since 1949 to socialist morality tales
wu said the studio does not seek to create controversy, but it often results because he and his fellow directors are trying to depict the often harsh realities of life in china
this frightens conservative bureaucrats accustomed to propaganda movies, he said: ``they lived illusions. they cannot accept any movie that reflects the dark side of life.''
it's a side of life wu knows well. he was born in the mountains of shaanxi province, north of xian, where perpetual drought keeps many peasants in poverty. during the 1966-76 far-leftist cultural revolution, he was denounced as a rightist and paraded through xian's streets wearing a signboard proclaiming his political sins
afterward, he said, he went home and ``shut my door and studied'' for the rest of the tumultuous decade, during which china made almost no movies
wu is willing to take risks not only for his own movies but those of other directors at the xian studio _ one reason it has attracted talented young directors and cinematographers
on his movie, ``the black cannon,'' huang said: ``the moment we saw the film for the first time we knew it would be controversial
but we had a common idea,'' he said pointing to wu, ``that this film should reflect life. we felt some pressure when the film was not (immediately) approved. but mr. wu said at one meeting if problems occurred he would be held responsible.''
another attraction is wu's readiness to give young directors free rein
asked if he gives advice to the less experienced, 34-year-old huang, wu laughed and said, ``he does fine on his own. if i were to help him ... i might stifle him
there would be great prosperity in china's literature and arts if all artistic leaders followed my example: to let artists do what they like.''
wu is harsh in his criticism of standard chinese movie fare. ``sixty percent of chinese movies are seriously lacking,'' he said. but he is no kinder to foreign movies
he disliked steven spielberg's ``empire of the sun,'' partly filmed in shanghai, about the japanese invasion of china in world war ii. wu also said he does not seek to copy western movies
he says his studio's movies are the best being made in china now, and was confident his own ``old well'' will sweep the chinese critics' and government awards for best movie of 1987
several upcoming xian movies appear ripe to arouse debate: one is about army chief peng dehuai, purged in 1958 for daring to criticize mao tse-tung; another concerns three youths whose lives are failures despite their efforts to get ahead
maybe some people will think it's too gray,'' huang said of the latter movie, which he is directing, to be called ``floating out of the sea.''
his own output is relatively slim. in addition to co-directing two movies, he has directed just three: ``old well,'' ``life'' (1984) and ``river without a buoy'' (1983). all three have received prizes at home or abroad
the demands of running a studio that employs 1,450 and is perpetually in debt will keep him from starting his next movie before next year, he said
will it be controversial?
yes,'' wu said emphatically, using one of his few english words. ``definitely.''
the shortage of good books in the soviet union is being assaulted in a two-front war, with 3,500 previously banned titles being published and a new law in the works that will allow a vanity press
soviets have complained for years that while state bookstores are overflowing with political reflections, moralistic fiction and the works of communist party officials, people are hard pressed to lay their hands on the best writing of soviet, russian and foreign authors
two newspapers referred to the ``book deficit'' on tuesday in announcing programs aimed at expanding the pool of quality literature available at bookshops or public libraries
the communist party daily pravda said authors willing to risk their own money will be able to publish their works, sharing in earnings from government sales or absorbing the loss if the material fails to draw a following
alla a. kozdreva, a legal consultant at the state publishing committee that will oversee the private project, told the associated press restrictions will be established on content and the size of press runs during meetings to be held later this month
but the decision to allow publishing by authors willing to pay has been made in principle,'' ms. kozdreva said
the project is primarily aimed at luring free-lance writers into the public market and keeping them from turning to unsanctioned underground presses. under existing regulations on use of printing facilities, only full-time, state-approved authors can get their prose and poetry produced legally
the state publishing committee also is seeking new sources of revenue in these days of financial accountability, pravda said. under mikhail s. gorbachev, government agencies have been instructed to generate revenue to cover operating expenses
gorbachev's tenure has also seen a major rethinking of government policy on the arts and artistic freedoms, including the printing of books that were once banned
in addition to the vanity press venture, state presses soon will be turning out new editions of highly popular works by mikhail bulgakov, author of ``the master and margarita,'' and boris pasternak, who won the 1958 nobel literature prize for his novel ``doctor zhivago.'' it has not yet been published in book form in his homeland
the newspapers did not say whether foreign literature was included among the books to be made available. foreign writers such as jack london, ernest hemingway and emile zola are very popular in the soviet union, and some have been available for years
no details were given on the pricing system to be used for books published by their authors
this is not going to be a cheap venture for the author,'' pravda warned. ``depending on the number of copies and the volume, such a publication will cost roughly 2,000 rubles and more.''
that sum, the equivalent of $3,340, represents nearly a year's pay for the average industrial worker
the author in return will receive 20 percent of the sales income, pravda said
the program has not yet been put into the form of law, pravda noted, but already state publishing houses have many applications from authors who want to pay to see their works in print
by offering an alternative to creation of publishing cooperatives, the state publishing committee retains a monopoly on what gets into print
on a related subject, the newspaper soviet culture disclosed tuesday that glavlit, the state body which for decades has been responsible for censorship, is conducting a review of 6,000 books held in ``special detention'' storehouses
most of the fiction and non-fiction titles were banned during the 29-year dictatorship of josef v. stalin and removed from library shelves and book kiosks because their authors were deemed to have espoused politically hazardous ideas
the vast majority of those books were works whose authors were subjected to repression during the years of stalin's personality cult,'' vladimir a. solodin, a member of the review committee, told soviet culture. ``the others had other `faults,' for example, forewords written by such repressed politicians, quotes from their works or their photographs.''
among the blacklisted books were 180 that contained references to nikolai i. bukharin and 70 that mentioned alexei i. rykov, two prominent political figures from the early years of the soviet government executed by stalin but recently rehabilitated by gorbachev
glavlit, or the chief directorate for the protection of state secrets in publishing, was created in 1922 to ensure freedom of the soviet press from ideological impurity. it has served since as the chief censorship agency, and would have banned the blacklisted books in the first place
a glavlit committee went through 4,000 of the banned titles in the past year and returned 3,500 to the public domain, the newspaper said. it gave no examples of the works returned to readers, but said the review was helping to resolve the deficit in good literature
the 500 books left in special detention are mostly ``profoundly instigatory literature and nationalistic writings,'' that could be used for ill purposes if allowed into general distribution, solodin said
the decision to keep them under wraps is not final, and the glavlit committee will take another look at them once the initial screening is completed, solodin said
cancer patients whose bone marrow was destroyed by therapy regained marrow function after injections of their own blood cells, suggesting an alternative to marrow transplants, says a study released today
the blood-cell technique may permit aggressive cancer treatment in patients who cannot get marrow transplants, said margaret kessinger, associate professor of medicine at the university of nebraska college of medicine
marrow transplant experts said its near-term usefulness would be limited, but that it may have potential for wider use
bone marrow creates the blood cells of the disease-fighting immune system. marrow transplants are used in cancer therapies when the doses of anti-cancer drugs or radiation are so high they will destroy the marrow
in some cases, marrow is withdrawn from the pelvic bone of the patient while the patient is under general anesthesia. it is stored in the laboratory while the cancer therapy is performed, then injected back in the person. the marrow cells migrate to the bones and multiply until they replenish the marrow lost in the therapy
for other patients a donor is preferable. but only 30 percent of such patients have a willing donor, usually a sibling, whose marrow is similar enough for their bodies will accept, said kessinger, who spoke to science writers at an american cancer society seminar
about 4,000 people a year in the united states give up marrow to have it returned after treatment, said david golde, chief of hematology and oncology at the university of california, los angeles, school of medicine
worldwide, about 1,500 marrow transplants from one person to another are done annually, said robert peter gale, professor of medicine at ucla, who performed bone-marrow transplants on soviet radiation poisoning victims from the chernobyl nuclear power plant fire
kessinger said the experimental technique involves extracting white blood cells from a patient's blood. in four-hour sessions every day for six days, blood is removed and returned to the patient after white cells are removed, she said. the body replaces the white cells about as fast as they are extracted, she said
the goal is to harvest a kind of cell called the pluripotent stem cell, which essentially replaces lost bone marrow
the pluripotent stem cells cannot be identified in human blood, but apparently are removed with white cells, kessinger said
she described a study of 26 patients who went through the procedure and were watched for evidence of marrow function
in comparison with 83 patients whose bone marrow was harvested by conventional means, the experimental group first showed white cells in the blood three days sooner, for an average of eight days after the procedure, she said
both groups took the same amount of time to recover other marrow function, she said
results suggest the procedure could be used in patients who could not give their own marrow because of prior radiation to the pelvis or cancer in their marrow, she said. that could come to several hundred patients a year, she said
it might also help increase the pool of donors for those who need another person's marrow, since the donor would not have to undergo general anesthesia, she said. donors not related to the patient might be willing, she said
gale estimated that the pelvic-radiation situation would apply to fewer than 100 patients a year. as for those with cancer in their marrow, cancerous cells may also be in the blood, and the new technique might simply plant them in the renewed marrow, he said
kessinger said studies suggest that that would not necessarily cause cancer in the marrow
gale said the technique could have considerable use if that issue were overcome, and if it proved an attractive alternative to anesthesia for unrelated donors
in any case, it must be studied for any effect on cancer survival rates, he said
cornell university is cataloging books, personal papers, videotapes and periodicals with names like ``mom guess what!'' and ``fag rag,'' hoping its new gay archives will help bring the study of human sexuality out of the academic closet
the materials, comprising one of the nation's most extensive collections on homosexuality, are nearly all gifts from the mariposa education and research foundation, founded in 1979 by physiologist bruce voeller, who felt universities were neglecting human sexuality
the basic endowment for maintenance of the archives, $824,000, came from the estate of david goodstein, a cornell alumnus who became wealthy on wall street and later published the national gay magazine, ``the advocate,'' until his death in 1985
the first materials arrived last month and are being stored in 103 acid-free cardboard boxes in the basement of cornell's olin library. the collection, available for research this fall, eventually will include hundreds of thousands of items dating to world war ii. university archivist h. thomas hickerson said the school also intends to collect materials dealing with other aspects of human sexuality
the mariposa collection includes material from anita bryant's bruising battle with gay activists in 1978 over a proposed gay rights constitutional amendment in florida
the militant homosexuals are at it again!'' read one of bryant's mailed appeals. it warned that passage of the amendment would help homosexuals ``legitimize their perversion and recruit our children.''
among the 50 or so gay periodicals in the collection is ``mom guess what!,'' a 10-year-old monthly published in sacramento, calif
there are rare foreign periodicals, some no longer published: ``nouvel homo'' from france, ``bergensnyt'' from norway, ``emancipation'' from berlin. another, ``the circle,'' was published years ago in german, french and english in switzerland
in hindsight, it's interesting to read how goodstein's own periodical, ``the advocate,'' ranked aids ninth on its list of ``top 10 gay stories of 1982'' _ behind such largely forgotten stories as the appointment of a homosexual minister to the staff of a united methodist parish in denver. since then, the u.s. death toll from acquired immune deficiency syndrome has reached 31,836, forcing drastic changes in social and sexual practices among homosexual men, its primary victims in this country
among the collection's personal papers is a march 1976 letter to the horace mann-barnard school protesting the prep school's refusal to print biographical material in its alumni magazine about the gay rights activities of two graduates, one of whom was martin duberman, a member of the national gay task force and a history professor at lehman college in new york city
the mariposa collection's only rival in size and breadth is at the kinsey institute at indiana university. but the cornell collection differs in stressing sexuality in its political, historical and social context, rather than focusing on clinical aspects
harvard has collections of lesbian materials. brown, yale and the university of michigan also have collections relating to homosexuality. but such archives remain rare, as are non-medical courses on human sexuality generally
a computer search of 137,000 university collections turned up only 19 containing anything on homosexuality _ and seven are at cornell
the prime force in getting the archives to cornell was goodstein, who for years shared a house in los angeles with voeller. he ``felt very strongly that it's inexcusable that so many things center around human sexuality and we have so little scholarly knowledge,'' voeller said in an interview from his office in topanga, calif. mariposa also has offices in new york and san diego
after trying unsuccessfully to interest the new york public library in the collection a decade ago, goodstein turned to his alma mater in 1983
at first, said cornell provost robert barker, ``we didn't understand the seriousness of the proposal.'' but goodstein, ``a man with a short fuse who did not take lightly to being brushed off,'' pressed his case and went to the student and local newspapers
soon after, university librarians inspected the materials and concluded the collection had ``great scholarly importance.''
university officials say there was little debate over the decision to bring the collection to cornell. alain seznec, libraries director, said the lack of commotion is perhaps a sign of how far american campuses have progressed
there are some battles that are past us, somehow,'' he said. ``getting this archive is not some courageous stand by cornell. there undoubtedly will be outraged alumni who will say, `cancel my subscription to the alumni bulletin!' not that we'll do anything about it.''
stronger economic sanctions against south africa would only strengthen pro-apartheid forces, create problems for the u.s. economy and weaken u.s. influence in that nation, reagan administration officials said tuesday
in testimony before a joint hearing of two house foreign affairs subcommittees, representatives from the departments of state, defense, commerce and treasury maintained that the tougher sanctions currently before congress would not speed up the end of apartheid
charles w. freeman jr., deputy assistant secretary of state for african affairs, warned that proposed new sanctions, including a total investment and trade embargo, would ``play into the hands of the white and black extremists who seek our departure from south africa
we have to decide whether the united states will continue to be involved in the struggle to end apartheid peacefully or whether we will become more and more irrelevant,'' he added
the pretoria government has moved toward ``the brink of wholesale authoritarianism and international isolation,'' since congress overrode the president's veto on the first u.s. sanctions in 1986, freeman said
he maintained that this has weakened u.s. influence there and threatens to curtail other u.s. assistance to apartheid victims
but rep. ronald dellums, d-cal, said that to be true to its own democratic standards, the united states ``cannot be in bed in some fashion with the evil and the horror and the oppression of south africa.''
he is the author of legislation calling for a total ban on u.s. investment and trade with south africa as well as cooperation in military and intelligence affairs. his is one of five bills calling for stricter sanctions aginst south africa
dellums said existing sanctions permitted ``back door'' u.s. financing of the south african government and economy and that u.s. firms were paying much more in south african taxes than for projects to uplift the black community
james b. kelley, deputy assistant secretary of commerce, note that that u.s. firms in south africa had decreased from 320 in 1984 to 127 today, and insisted that what little u.s. influence is left will be lost if the remaining firms are forced out
calling the proposed legislation ``nonsensical and destructive, assistant treasury secretary robert a. cornell said the measures would `` harm the interests of the non-white population'' by reducing their opportunities, while expanding the economic power of the south african whites
barring u.s. exports and oil companies from operating in south africa would cost u.s. jobs but not hurt south africa because other suppliers would step in, cornell said

cyc
three zeros mean nothing by themselves, but leaving them off the end of a number is going to cost the nation's largest insurer at least $8 million
prudential insurance co. of america is offering the payment to settle claims resulting from a clerical error in which a lien it held was listed as worth $92,885 instead of $92,885,000
u.s. bankruptcy judge howard buschman iii heard closing arguments on the proposed settlement tuesday and is expected to rule in several days
why because of a clerical error should we give up $92 million-plus?'' prudential spokesman joseph vecchione said tuesday
if buschman knocks down the proposed settlement and decides the lien is only worth $92,885, prudential would collect only that much. the rest of its claim would be thrown into the pool with other creditors
the case is part of the chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings of mclean industries inc., parent of united states lines. prudential holds the lien in connection with mortgages on eight of the company's container ships
the sale of the eight lancer-class ships was expected to raise at least $51 million, all of which ordinarily would go to prudential because the lien puts it at the head of the line of creditors
but the missing zeros have weakened prudential's standing
prudential is proposing to pay the shipping company 17{ percent of the sale's net proceeds, an estimated $8 million. that money would be distributed among other creditors, most of whom support the proposal
but general electric capital corp., which shares a second mortgage on the ships with prudential, opposes the deal, saying the lien should be considered worth $92,885
the settlement is not ``in the best interests of the bankruptcy estate,'' sandy mayerson, a lawyer representing ge capital, said tuesday
prudential says the clerical error _ repeated on at least 20 documents _ was committed by someone at a law firm it once used, haight, gardner, poor and havens
prudential has said it has not decided whether to file malpractice lawsuits against haight, gardner and its overall outside counsel on the transaction, dewey ballantine bushby palmer &amp; wood. both law firms have declined to comment
nancy reagan gave composer andrew lloyd webber a gold gift-wrapped box containing a jar of jelly beans for his 40th birthday before seeing his latest broadway musical, ``phantom of the opera.''
mrs. reagan, dressed in a black velvet suit with fur collar, said she chose to see ``phantom'' on tuesday because ``it's the biggest thing there is.''
this is the first time i've been to the theater in a very long time,'' she added
i'm delighted that she's coming to see our little effort,'' said lloyd webber. he and mrs. reagan met in the empty royale theater before going next door to the majestic theater to see ``phantom'' and meet with the cast after the show
mrs. reagan was in new york to visit her brother, dr. richard davis, a neurosurgeon, and his wife, patricia
phantom,'' set in the paris opera house in the late 19th century, is a love story about an impressionable, beautiful young soprano who is kidnapped by, and eventually attracted to, a hideously deformed older man who wears a mask and lives in a catacomb beneath the stage
comedian bob hope is making an excellent recovery from prostate surgery, a hospital spokesman said
mr. hope is doing very, very well and is expected to be discharged in the next couple of days,'' hospital spokesman gordon cohn said tuesday
the 84-year-old comedian underwent surgery monday at the university of southern california kenneth norris jr. cancer hospital
hope does not have cancer but had his operation there because his surgeon, dr. donald g. skinner, chief of urology at usc, performs his surgeries at the cancer center
the surgeon removed fibrous tissue filling the prostate
hope's publicist, frank liberman, said the comedian was not expected to be able to attend a benefit he was scheduled to appear in on saturday
entertainer johnny cash was honored by gov. ned mcwherter and a galaxy of country music stars at the opening of an exhibit about the career of ``the man in black.''
i'm overwhelmed,'' cash said at tuesday night's ceremonies at the country music hall of fame. ``i'd like to report that country music is alive and well everywhere we've been lately, and we've been everywhere.''
among the performers in attendance were waylon jennings, bill monroe, johnny rodriguez, chet atkins, mel mcdaniel and emmylou harris
the exhibit, to be displayed for two years, includes photos, posters, films of cash's early performances, costumes, musical instruments and mementos of his career. the exhibit is sponsored by the holiday corp. of memphis
dean martin should be hospitalized for several more days with kidney problems that forced him off the ``rat pack'' tour with frank sinatra and sammy davis jr., a hospital spokesman said
his condition is fair. it appears that it is a flareup of an old kidney problem,'' cedars-sinai medical center spokesman ron wise said tuesday
wise said no surgery was contemplated for martin, 70, who was admitted monday
davis and sinatra will continue the tour without martin, said publicist susan reynolds, who left open the possibility that martin would rejoin his buddies later
the most detailed survey of the milky way will start thursday at the world's most sensitive radio telescope, an array of 27 dish-shaped antennas spread across new mexico's desert
without a doubt this will give us the most comprehensive picture of our galaxy yet obtained in any kind of wavelength,'' including visible light and radio and infrared radiation, said robert h. becker, associate professor of astronomy at the university of california, davis
the $1 million, two-year survey will be conducted by becker and astronomer david helfand of columbia university. they will use the very large array radio telescope, a set of 27 antenna dishes, each about 80 feet in diameter, that move on 20 miles of tracks west of socorro, n.m
the telescope, which started operations in the late 1970s, can detect fainter radio signals than any other radio telescope, becker said tuesday during a telephone interview
more complete surveys of the heavens beyond our galaxy have been conducted using powerful optical and infrared telescopes aimed to look above or below the milky way's flattened disk
but such telescopes can't survey our own galaxy very well because visible light is blocked by tremendous amounts of dust between the milky way's stars and because the galaxy is so full of infrared light sources that it's hard to distinguish various objects, becker said
the survey will construct maps of the 70 percent of the milky way visible from the northern hemisphere by detecting objects that emit radio waves, which penetrate the dust
such objects include supernovas, or dying, exploding stars; vast dust-and-gas clouds where new stars are born; and very dense supernova remnants called neutron stars, pulsars and black holes
what this kind of survey can do is give you the overall picture,'' becker said. ``until you catalog the contents of your own galaxy, you're never going to have a clear picture of what the galaxy is.''
the disk-shaped milky way contains an estimated 100 billion stars clumped in spiraling arms that stretch across 100,000 light years, or about 588,000 trillion miles, of space. earth is located roughly 22,000 light years, or 130,000 trillion miles, from the galaxy's center
becker said the survey undoubtedly will produce unexpected discoveries, but also could help astronomers determine the frequency and location of supernova explosions invisible to optical telescopes
shock waves from such explosions are thought to compress gas and dust to create new stars
the survey will help determine if that theory is correct by showing if there is a link between the location of supernovas and regions of star formation, becker said
while some stars leave nothing behind after they explode as supernovas, other supernovas collapse into dense neutron stars, rotating neutron stars called pulsars or even more dense objects called black holes, which have gravity so intense that not even light escapes
becker said the survey should help astronomers learn what proportion of supernovas become neutron stars, pulsars or black holes because such objects generate radio signals
while the survey won't detect life that might exist elsewhere in the galaxy, it could help scientists improve estimates of the odds that such life exists, becker said
if one wants to estimate the probability of finding intelligent life elsewhere in our galaxy, you have to know what the environment of our galaxy is,'' including the number of objects that may be orbited by inhabited planets, he said
recent improvements to the very large array gave it a much larger field of view, so ``it will take fewer pointings of the telescope to map out the milky way,'' becker said
becker and helfand will have 300 hours of viewing time during the survey. they then will spend another year or two using computers to contruct maps using the detected radio signals
the first 20 to 24 hours of survey-related observations will start thursday and end saturday, with more intermittent observations regularly scheduled during the next two years each time the antennas are re-aimed, becker said
the survey is financed by the university of california, the national science foundation and lawrence livermore national laboratory.  quotes from mecham radio interview vowing to appeal to supreme court if convicted, fire chief accuser. picks up 4th graf pvs, `deputy maricopa...'. subs 25-27th gravs pvs, bgng `leonard, promising...', with 1 graf to tighten, picking up 28th graf, `meanwhile, a...'.</note>
a prosecutor told the arizona senate on tuesday that gov. evan mecham's $80,000 loan from a protocol fund to his car dealership was an ``intentional and wrongful act,'' while the defense acknowledged it was ``not politically smart.''
the statements came as the senate turned to the second of three charges against mecham at his impeachment trial _ misusing state funds
mecham, who has not attended the trial except when he testified last week, said tuesday in a radio interview that he probably will appeal to the u.s. supreme court if the state senate convicts him in his impeachment trial
the governor also said that if he is acquitted and allowed to resume his job, he will fire state department of public safety director ralph milstead, one of his chief accusers in the trial
they'll probably say this is another one of those gaffes, but a lot of the rats have come out of their holes that's been after me, and now we know a lot more who they are,'' mecham said. ``quite frankly, i'll be a lot wiser governor from here on out.''
mecham said if he is convicted by the senate, ``it will certainly not be on the basis of evidence and on that we'll go and appeal it, of course ... probably direct to the u.s. supreme court.''
if they were to try to forbid me from holding office without showing that there was some justification, i don't think they could prevail.''
at the trial, a mecham campaign adviser and a deputy county attorney testified that the $80,000 was raised by mecham's inaugural ball and put into a protocol fund to be used for gifts such as indian dolls and ashtrays for visiting dignitaries
deputy maricopa county attorney howard schwartz, who helped draft the agreement to place the money in the protocol fund, said that when he heard about the loan, ``i personally was shocked and initially felt betrayed.''
i was very surprised and disappointed and saddened by the entire situation ...,'' said warner lee, a former state attorney general who advised the mecham inaugural committee. ``such an application of the funds was never anticipated by anyone involved.''
schwartz and lee acknowledged mecham's defense lawyer's suggestion that everyone expected the money to be invested
i don't think anyone assumed the money would be placed in a cigar box somewhere,'' said lee
later, mecham's former chief of staff, jim colter, who signed the $80,000 check, testified that mecham asked him not to record a document securing the loan. colter did not explain why mecham would not have wanted it recorded
i asked the governor, `do you want this deed of trust recorded?'' colter recalled. ``he said, `i would rather you wouldn't.' i don't think anything more was said.''
colter said he felt that the loan was ``politically unwise'' but did not feel that any law was being broken. ``such a thought never entered my mind or i would have objected,'' he said
earlier, after a heated debate, a senator withdrew a motion consider the first-term republican's expulsion from office merely on the first count _ obstruction of justice. sentiment in the senate was clearly against the move
it would be our everlasting disgrace if we do not consider all of the evidence from both sides in such a historic and important case,'' said republican sen. jon hays
democratic sen. carolyn walker said she was withdrawing the motion because ``it appears i will be accused of depriving gov. mecham of his rights.''
had mecham been convicted on the first charge, the trial would have ended because he would no longer be governor
the first of three broad impeachment charges alleges that mecham obstructed justice by trying to thwart an investigation into an alleged death threat. the final testimony on that charge was heard tuesday
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, also is charged with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham is scheduled for an april 21 criminal trial on felony charges of concealing the $350,000 loan. he also faces a may 17 recall election
in a low-key, 15-minute opening statement, house prosecutor william french told senators: ``the $80,000 loan to mecham pontiac was wrong.''
defense attorney jerris leonard responded that the loan broke no law
it was not politically smart, there's no question about that ...,'' said leonard. ``but i think the evidence will establish it certainly wasn't evil.''
french said mecham's inaugural committee planned to use the $92,000 raised by the ball to reduce mecham's campaign debt, but learned that a state campaign spending law might forbid it and agreed to the protocol fund instead
in july 1987, french said, an $80,000 check was written on that account to mecham's car dealership
french scoffed at mecham's oft-stated contention that he helped the state by paying higher interest than the money would get from a bank
the evidence will show it was not a good loan,'' said french. ``it was a bad loan because of the financial condition of mecham pontiac. ... the money was loaned to mecham pontiac because they had a desperate need for it.''
leonard, promising a return appearance to the witness stand from mecham, said the governor would stand by his contention that the loan was fiscally wise and noted the loan was repaid before the charges were filed
meanwhile, a lawyer defending mecham on the criminal charges sought dismissal on grounds that the governor has been singled out for prosecution because he is unpopular
other republican politicians _ including attorney general bob corbin, whose office sought the indictment _ oppose mecham and ``they believe that the party would be better if he is out of there,'' defense lawyer michael scott told judge michael ryan of maricopa county superior court
however, prosecutor michael cudahy said, ``it's a crazy allegation and there is no support for it.''
ryan did not immediately rule on the motion to dismiss the charges on grounds of selective prosecution
while president reagan's veto had little chance of killing the 1988 civil rights bill, it certainly made life uncomfortable for republican presidential candidates george bush and bob dole
both reverted to type as congress overrode the reagan veto, bush playing the totally loyal second banana, dole dancing on both sides of the issue
i'm going to stand with the president,'' said the vice president, who has demonstrated in recent weeks the political plus of sticking by your boss. at the same time, bush was at pains to say he thought the government should do what the bill seemed to be doing
dole said he supported the bill that reagan opposed. nonetheless, he said he would ``side with the president'' if his vote were needed to sustain the veto. the kansas senator offered his help from the safe distance of about 1,000 miles, as he campaigned for survival in wisconsin
were these just statements by two politicians trying to get on both sides of a delicate issue?
or was their discomfiture a symptom of something deeper, an uneasy feeling that reagan's legacy may be a mixed blessing for the gop presidential nominee next fall?
reagan has succeeded in maintaining a remarkable level of popularity for more than seven years
but like it says on many prizes, reagan's popularity is redeemable only by him. it is not transferrable. in a republican primary, maybe, but not in a general election
richard darman, former reagan aide, was quoted by hedrick smith in his new book, ``the power game,'' as pointing out that ``reagan's programmatic agenda is simply not the majority agenda.''
according to darman the political system tells reagan ``look, we like you. you're an icon. you represent almost everything we ever loved about america.''
but the same system has demonstrated opposition to such reagan proposals as constitutional amendments to ban abortion and restore prayer in schools, as well as his budget priorities
anybody,'' said darman ``who tries for too long to run against the majority simply will not hold power. to govern, a president has to move toward the middle.''
but reagan's presidency is winding down. governing is a problem for his successors
and figuring out how to separate themselves from the less popular parts of the reagan agenda is a particular problem for republicans
i think the vice president made a serious mistake,'' said rep. bill green, r-n.y., who voted to override. ``apparently he felt caught between his basic support of civil rights and his loyalty to the president _ and went with loyalty.''
the vice president is in a box,'' said former party chairman richard richards, a bush supporter. ``if he deviates one iota, there are some right-wing nuts out there who will say he cannot carry on the reagan revolution.''
i don't think you're going to find him looking for areas of disagreement,'' said peter teeley, a bush aide. ``the fact is, six months ago everybody was writing that george bush had to disagree with the president in order to get the nomination. everyone now sees that that was a myth.''
no question that bush's identification with reagan was a big plus for the vice president in the new hampshire primary and in the south, two areas where the president's popularity is very high
likewise, it dragged bush down in iowa, south dakota and minnesota, midwest states where reagan's magic has faded
civil rights is an area where reagan has always taken a narrow, legalistic view
to the president, the bill did not assure rights for potential victims of discrimination, so much as it allowed the government to intrude into areas where it didn't belong
he called it ``a dangerous bill'' and a washington ``power grab.''
at high noon on tuesday the senate overrode reagan's veto and a few hours later the house followed suit
at issue was legislation that would cut off federal aid to organizations or institutions, any part of which discriminated against minorities, women, the elderly or the disabled. four years ago, the supreme court, in a case involving grove city college in pennsylvania, ruled that existing law only permitted the cutoff of funds for programs in which discrimination was demonstrated
speaking to a black audience, bush said the bill was ``imperfect. the imperfections should be corrected.'' but then he went on to say he supported its purpose: ``the federal government must require that organizations that get tax dollars comply with our civil rights laws.''
dole got himself in a terrible tangle
i have always supported legislation to overturn grove city to restore the broad civil rights coverage that existed prior to that case,'' he said
campaigning in wisconsin, the day of the vote, dole said he would support overriding the veto if he were in washington. but he added, ``if it were the deciding vote, i would side with the president.''
at any rate, he wasn't in washington
editor's note: donald m. rothberg is the chief political writer of the associated press
eastern airlines is telling a federal judge that his order prohibiting the carrier from selling its east coast air shuttle service plunges the financially troubled company into even deeper problems
the airline asked u.s. district judge john h. pratt on tuesday to reverse his own march 10 contempt finding against eastern and allow it to begin taking steps to sell its profitable shuttle operation
the company also asked the judge to partially rescind penalties that he levied againts eastern on monday, including the threat of future $10,000-a-day fines
in its court papers, eastern said that forbidding the shuttle deal ``will tie the hands of management struggling to cope with ongoing financial losses of a troubled company.''
the documents, filed by john j. gallagher, a lawyer for eastern, called the judge's orders ``unprecedented and gravely dangerous to eastern.''
an attorney for the union that has sought to block the shuttle deal said the labor group would continue its struggle
this argument that somehow they're paralyzed is really aimed more at trying to get the sympathy of the court,'' said john edmond, a lawyer for the international association of machinists and aerospace workers. ``the iam has never attempted to stop eastern from running a business.''
under the stay eastern has requested, the airline would be allowed to proceed with its efforts to sell the shuttle but would not be permitted to complete the deal until the entire case was decided. in the meantime, eastern would face no penalties
the case stems from a bitter dispute between eastern and its largest union, the machinists
the machinists, who represent 12,000 eastern mechanics and other ground workers, have opposed various efforts by eastern and its parent company, texas air corp., to sell some of eastern's most valuable assets
corporate officials say eastern needs the cash generated by the asset sales, but the unions say the sales are designed to reduce the airline's size and labor's clout
in the proposed deal, eastern would sell the shuttle to a new texas air subsidiary for $225 million. the shuttle flies between boston, new york and washington, d.c
eastern lost $182 million last year
last july 2, pratt ordered eastern to refrain from making any changes in the working conditions of the union's members. in issuing his contempt finding, the judge ruled that eastern violated that stricture by trying to sell the shuttle
the disputes between eastern and texas air and their unions are gaining increased attention from congress. on tuesday, sen. frank lautenberg, d-n.j., chairman of the senate appropriations transportation subcommittee, and three other senators introduced a resolution urging the department of transportation to investigate eastern and texas air
a similar bill, introduced in the house on march 10, has 28 sponsors
federal manufacturing safety inspectors will begin actually checking the factory floor rather than just office records, in a major reagan administration policy reversal on the eve of congressional hearings
beginning next week, occupational safety and health administration inspectors will start ``walking through'' high-hazard areas of every factory they enter instead of just looking at plant office records of job illnesses and injuries, the agency said tuesday
the change will take effect monday, a day before the senate begins hearings on a two-year congressional investigation into what critics maintain has been osha's excessive reliance on employer records in ferreting out job hazards
now when we go into a plant, the inspector is going to see what it looks like beyond the office,'' said assistant labor secretary john a. pendergrass, who ordered the new policy. ``our compliance officers will see the conditions as they exist in the work areas.''
pendergrass and other osha officials denied that the hearings, ordered by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, were the impetus behind the new policy
we've been discussing a change like this for two years, and it's just now coming to fruition,'' said frank white, the agency's deputy administrator
in 1982 _ a year after reagan took office _ osha began exempting plants in high-hazard industries from inspections if their logs showed injury rates that were below the nationwide average for manufacturing
ever since, unions and officials in some other federal agencies have complained that the exemptions encouraged employers to under-report injuries and illnesses in osha-required ``lost work day'' reports in order to avoid more comprehensive plant inspections
their case was bolstered by the death of a worker from cyanide poisoning at a film processing plant in chicago in 1983, just six months after osha had pronounced the company in compliance with regulations based on an examination of its injury and illness logs
a later inspection of the plant itself showed widespread health and safety hazards in violation of the law, resulting in a recommendation for criminal prosecution of some of the company's officials
that case has been in everybody's mind,'' pendergrass said tuesday. ``it's something we don't want to happen again.''
he said the walk-through examinations in addition to the document inspections at some 2,000 plants each year will give the agency ``better confidence on what the conditions are on the shop floor.''
osha officials tried to downplay the significance of the change, describing it as a logical next step in a crackdown on job safety violators that began two years ago when william e. brock became labor secretary
soon after taking office, brock ordered a 10-fold increase in the fines levied for osha violations, including those classified as ``willful'' discrepancies in employer records. brock said the higher fines would act as a deterrent, keeping more companies honest
instead of levying fines in the thousands of dollars, osha began seeking penalties in the hundreds of thousands and, in a few cases, millions of dollars. it also began treating each instance of an alleged violation as a separate charge, instead of lumping them together
margaret seminario, assistant director of the afl-cio's occupational health and safety division, said tuesday that the agency began losing ``the reagan ideology'' two years ago
but until this, they really hadn't put in anything else,'' she said of the inspection order
osha officials disagreed, saying they have done a lot more in the past two years in reducing their dependence solely on employer records
for example, they said, the agency two years ago began expanding the records checks to include some random inspections of job floors. inspectors two years ago also were required to start validating employer injury and illness reports by comparing them with other records such as first aid logs and workers' compensation claims
supporters of a civil rights bill enacted over president reagan's veto say it will help cure ``an epidemic of discrimination'' that followed a 1984 supreme court decision limiting federal protection for many groups
discrimination in federally funded institutions is occurring at accelerated rates,'' rep. don edwards, d-calif., said tuesday as the house joined the senate in overriding reagan's veto of the civil rights restoration act
edwards, chairman of the house judiciary subcommittee on civil rights, said the education department closed or suspended hundreds of sex bias cases after the court ruling
heaven knows how many thousands of complaints have not even been filed,'' he said. ``we are facing an epidemic of discrimination.''
both chambers of congress came up tuesday with the two-thirds majorities needed to override reagan's veto _ the ninth such rebuff he has suffered since taking office. the votes were 73-24 in the senate and 292-133 in the house
even as the voting occurred, reagan was calling the bill ``a power grab'' by the federal government. but the white house later issued a statement acknowledging the override and saying the administration would ``work to implement the new law.''
congress was tied in knots for four years over how to handle the high court ruling that only specific programs or activities receiving federal aid had to comply with four major civil rights laws protecting women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped
lawmakers finally settled on a restoration act that bars discrimination by entire institutions, government agencies and some corporations that receive any federal aid. if a college athletic department discriminates, for example, the federal government can cut off aid to the whole school _ even if that specific department received no assistance
ralph neas, executive director of the leadership conference on civil rights, called the override ``a bipartisan reaffirmation of civil rights.'' the conference, a 185-member coalition of major religious organizations and groups representing labor, women, minorities and senior citizens, was the moving force behind the bill
education department spokesman michael jackson said the department had closed or narrowed more than 200 sex bias cases through 1986 as a result of the court decision. ``we simply don't know yet'' what their fate will be, he said. ``we're going to have to assess what our responsibilities are.''
marcia greenberger, managing attorney of the national women's law center, urged the individuals who filed those complaints to ``bring them back to the attention of the government and ask for the protection that the country thought the law provided to them all along.''
reagan and his congressional allies contended that the act would infringe on religious liberty and expand federal control of the private sector. they supported a less sweeping alternative that would have gotten more religious schools and corporations off the regulatory hook
but even some republicans said they were sorry reagan had vetoed the bill
sen. lowell weicker, r-conn., who has a retarded son, harked back to earlier days when such people were relegated to ``dark corners ... to the darkness of despair, to being a nothing in america.''
this legislation is about your neighbor. it's about flesh and blood,'' he said. ``it says we're not going to subsidize discrimination. we don't want to see those dark corners anymore. ... we don't want to revisit the past.''
sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., said reagan was the first president to veto a civil rights measure since andrew johnson more than 100 years ago
a number of lawmakers, including some gop leaders who supported the veto, castigated the conservative moral majority group for spreading what they called misinformation and distortions
they said they had received hundreds of calls from people saying they had been told the bill would force their churches to employ homosexual drug addicts with aids as youth pastors and bar church contributions by social security recipients
no bit of legislation is important enough ... to put out falsehoods under the name of religion to the american people. i find if reprehensible,'' said rep. bill hefner, d-n.c., a baptist gospel singer with ties to religious communities around the country
the restoration act says entire institutions and government agencies must not discriminate if any program or activity within them receives federal aid. entire corporations are covered if they provide a public service such as health care or if the aid goes to the business as a whole, as in the chrysler corp. bailout
jerry c. nims, president of moral majority, predicted ``dire'' consequences from the law and said it is likely to be ``the major political issue for evangelicals in the 1988 elections.''
if enough people are not voted into office to change what's occurred, we will have entered the moral dark ages,'' nims said
farmers receiving crop subsidies, people using food stamps and other individuals receiving federal assistance are not subject to regulation under the new law. an institution's refusal to perform or pay for abortions will not be considered discrimination against women under the law
the supreme court decision applied specifically to title ix of the 1972 education amendments barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs. but the precedent was interpreted also to cover the 1964 civil rights act barring racial discrimination in federally assisted programs; the 1973 rehabilitation act barring discrimination against the handicapped in any program or activity receiving federal aid; and the 1975 age discrimination act barring employment discrimination against older people
senior police officers say the dramatic increase in weapons seizures at the capitol last year involved not lethal guns or knives but small canisters of chemical sprays that women visitors carry in their handbags for self-protection
house sergeant at arms jack russ created a stir recently when he reported that capitol police confiscated 1,162 weapons in 1987, a startling 147 percent increase over seizures in the previous year
but capitol police chief frank kerrigan said in an interview that the 1,162 cited by russ were all canisters of mace or other brands of non-lethal chemical sprays, some in lipstick-style containers, that are used to immobilize would-be attackers
chemical sprays are illegal throughout the district of columbia, including the capitol, where police classify them as weapons subject to seizure and destruction
in fact, kerrigan said, 1,270 weapons were seized last year and self-defense sprays accounted for the vast majority of them. seizures of guns actually declined by 50 percent last year, kerrigan said
russ said he must have misinterpreted data he obtained from the capitol police when he reported that the 1,162 spray seizures represented all weapons confiscated last year
russ cited that figure at a house appropriations subcommittee hearing to justify his request for $18.5 million to tighten security on the house side of the capitol, arguing that police face a growing threat of violent attacks
rep. vic fazio, d-calif., chairman of the house panel, said russ left the impression that most of the weapons seizures last year involved guns, which ``probably was a misimpression'' on the part of the sergeant at arms
but fazio said his subcommittee intends to take a much closer look at the issue, in consultation with the senate, before making any decisions. ``we won't be stampeded,'' he said
rep. jerry lewis of california, ranking republican on the house subcommittee, said he didn't know whether russ had manipulated the weapons figures to attract support for his security plan, but said any such proposals should be studied with caution
they're pushing very hard to increase security everywhere up here,'' lewis said. ``we must protect ourselves in this modern age of terrorism, but i tend to resist any unnecessary steps that would hinder the public's access to the capitol.''
of the 1987 total, kerrigan said, the 1,162 chemical spray seizures represent a sharp increase over the previous year, when 470 such sprays were confiscated
the rest of last year's total included guns, knives and other potentially deadly weapons, including clubs, blackjacks and brass knuckles, and non-lethal stun guns, which knock out their victims with electrical shocks, authorities said
stun guns aside, the total of deadly weapons seized last year increased by only three over those confiscated in 1986, kerrigan said. last year's total included only 14 guns, exactly half the 28 that were seized in 1986, the police said
kerrigan said the escalating weapons seizures probably reflect improved use of metal detectors in the capitol building and six nearby office buildings, better training of police officers and more thorough searches of visitors
considering the sharp increase in discovery of the chemical spray canisters, kerrigan said, ``it could be that people are more aware of the need to protect themselves.''
kerrigan said 63 people were prosecuted at the capitol last year on illegal weapons charges, compared with 50 people in 1986. generally, visitors carrying deadly weapons are arrested but those with chemical sprays are not, he said
asked by sen. harry reid, d-nev., how many visitors enter the capitol with ``evil intent,'' senate sergeant at arms harry henry giugni said he didn't know. but he recalled that an 85-year-old woman from tennessee was found carrying a handgun ``that would have blown up in her hand if she'd tried to fire it.''
giugni said the woman told capitol police that her hometown sheriff had advised her to take a gun if she planned to visit washington
the agriculture department wants to hire a new editor for its single-sheet publication, ag am, which provides up to two dozen or so news blurbs daily for agency brass. pay: $33,218 a year to start, with a top of $60,683
so far there have been 41 applicants, including some usda information specialists who see an opportunity to boost their career prospects
the ag am report is issued five days a week, monday through friday, except on federal holidays, of course. mostly it consists of single paragraphs summarizing stories from newspapers, wire services and news magazines
ed curran, who retired in 1984 after 20 years working for the department's office of information, was privy to the inside workings of ag am since it began during the carter administration
now publisher of his own private newsletter, curran offers a look at the history of the publication and how it grew
someone in usda thought the white house practice of providing president carter with daily news summaries would be good for then-agriculture secretary bob bergland, curran said in his latest issue
at first the daily summaries were sent only to the secretary and his office staff. but bergland, who had read the news blurbs, ``began talking about things'' in the news that were not known to senior aides, including the deputy secretary and assistant secretaries
so the press run of ag am was increased, and the information office staffer who was responsible for its publication had to begin work earlier, by 6 a.m., for example, instead of the later regular starting time
by the time the reagan administration came upon the scene, ag am was a staple at usda,'' curran said. being on the offical list to get one was ``sort of like the government equivalent of a key to the executive washroom.''
the daily press run was increased to 100 copies, to take care of the demand from all the deputy assistant secretaries, administrators of agencies and staff economists
meanwhile, the bureaucrats in the usda's information office heard on the grapevine that agriculture secretary john r. block ``was so smitten with ag am that he demanded copies to be telexed to him when he was on trips,'' curran said. however, block's successor, richard e. lyng, ``could care less'' about the news sheet, he added
one thing bureaucrats learn early in the game is that when something has the sweet smell of success about it, get behind it with all you've got,'' curran said. ``so, why not devote more time to ag am? make it a full-time job.''
curran wryly observed that the information office, meanwhile, scuttled its long-standing weekly farm paper letter, which was ``the department's main contact with the nation's farm magazine editors and farm editors of its daily newspapers.''
curran named his twice-monthly newsletter the farm paper letter, after the publication he wrote during his 20-year usda career
today, 100 copies of ag am are delivered to lyng's office area, alone, curran said. in all, the press run is 350 copies a day
this from an outfit that's vowed to save us money,'' he said
dave lane, director of the office of information, told the associated press it may take some time to select a new full-time ag am editor (the previous editor died earlier this year)
was there any consideration given to canceling ag am? no, lane said. why not?
i guess because of the ... importance of that publication to inform our top officials,'' he said. ``it's one of the most widely distributed of all the things that we put out.''
besides the copies distributed within usda here, the daily news blurbs are now sent electronically to universities, state agriculture departments and other government offices. the report is also available to private users of usda's electronic information system
advocates of continued trade protection for the american steel industry are citing a new congressional study concluding that quotas can't be blamed for last year's steel price increases
the congressional research service said in a 23-page report tuesday that last year's steel price hike of about 4.7 percent probably had more to do with changes in the exchange rate than with the reagan administration's import restraints
the report comes in the last full year of the administration's program of signing agreements with japan, south korea and other major steel-exporting nations to curb the flow of subsidized foreign steel into the united states
the five-year program ends in september 1989, and big steel companies are already pushing for commitments from congress and presidential contenders on whether the import barriers will be extended
imports account for about 21 percent of the american steel market, down from nearly 26 percent when the quotas began in late 1984
opposing continuing the quotas are american companies that rely on imported steel and which claim that the reagan program has stifled competition, raised prices and caused harmful shortages
erwin l. klein, president of the american institute for imported steel, said in december that it would be ``improper for more government intervention to determine the future of the american steel market and the united states economy. instead, we believe free enterprise must prevail.''
the institute represents 70 steel importers in the united states
the congressional report, however, said changes in exchange rates have helped raise the price of steel imports by about 4.5 percent, nearly identical to the price rise in the domestic industry. that ``suggests that there is considerable competition in the u.s. market,'' the report said
the report said many countries covered by the reagan plan appear not to have filled their quotas last year. ``the argument can be made that domestic steel buyers were able to obtain as much imported steel as they wanted before being confronted by the import barriers,'' it said
the report was released by sen. john heinz, r-pa., who had pushed the white house for import relief before the program began in 1984
heinz said the report ``ought to be the final american-made nail in the coffin for these nagging complaints'' that the steel program has boosted domestic prices
the congressional research service said, ``nothing in this report should be taken as an argument in favor of, or opposed to the import restraints of the president's steel program.'' it said the report's goal was merely to evaluate claims that the quotas caused prices to rise
david e. levy, spokesman for the american institute for imported steel, reiterated the group's position against extending the quotas, but said he had not seen the report and could not comment on it
here is the 73-24 roll call by which the senate on tuesday overrode president reagan's veto of a civil-rights bill
on this vote, a ``yes'' vote was to override and support the bill, and there were 73 ``yes'' votes; a ``no'' vote was a vote against the bill, and there were 24 ``no'' votes
adams, wash.; baucus, mont.; bentsen, texas; bingaman, n.m.; boren, okla
bradley, n.j.; breaux, la.; bumpers, ark.; burdick, n.d.; byrd, w.va
chiles, fla.; conrad, n.d.; cranston, calif.; daschle, s.d.; deconcini, ariz
dixon, ill.; dodd, conn.; exon, neb.; ford, ky.; fowler, ga
glenn, ohio; gore, tenn.; graham, fla.; harkin, iowa; heflin, ala
hollings, s.c.; inouye, hawaii; johnston, la.; kennedy, mass.; kerry, mass
lautenberg, n.j.; leahy, vt.; levin, mich.; matsunaga, hawaii; melcher, mont
metzenbaum, ohio; mikulski, md.; mitchell, maine; moynihan, n.y.; nunn, ga
pell, r.i.; proxmire, wis.; pryor, ark.; reid, nev.; riegle, mich
rockefeller, w.va.; sanford, n.c.; sarbanes, md.; sasser, tenn.; shelby, ala
simon, ill.; wirth, colo
boschwitz, minn.; chafee, r.i.; cohen, maine; d'amato, n.y.; domenici, n.m
durenberger, minn.; evans, wash.; hatfield, ore.; heinz, pa.; kassebaum, kan
kasten, wis.; mccain, ariz.; murkowski, alaska; packwood, ore.; roth, del
rudman, n.h.; specter, pa.; stafford, vt.; stevens, alaska; weicker, conn
wilson, calif
armstrong, colo.; bond, mo.; cochran, miss.; danforth, mo.; garn, utah;
gramm, texas; grassley, iowa; hatch, utah; hecht, nev.; helms, n.c
humphrey, n.h.; karnes, neb.; lugar, ind.; mcclure, idaho; mcconnell, ky
nickles, okla.; pressler, s.d.; quayle, ind.; simpson, wyo.; symms, idaho;
thurmond, s.c.; trible, va.; wallop, wyo.; warner, va
biden, del.; stennis, miss
dole, kan
here is the 292-133 roll call tuesday by which the house voted to override president reagan's veto and enacted the civil rights restoration act
a ``yes'' vote is to override the veto and enact the law
voting yes were 240 democrats and 52 republicans
voting no were 10 democrats and 123 republicans
xxx denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there are two vacancies in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, yes; erdreich, yes; flippo, yes; harris, yes; nichols, yes
republicans _ callahan, no; dickinson, no
republican _ young, yes
democrat _ udall, yes
republicans _ kolbe, yes; kyl, no; rhodes, no; stump, no
democrats _ alexander, yes; anthony, yes; robinson, yes
republican _ hammerschmidt, no
democrats _ anderson, yes; bates, yes; beilenson, yes; berman, yes; bosco, yes; boxer, yes; brown, yes; coelho, yes; dellums, yes; dixon, yes; dymally, yes; edwards, yes; fazio, yes; hawkins, yes; lantos, yes; lehman, yes; levine, yes; martinez, xxx; matsui, yes; miller, yes; mineta, yes; panetta, yes; pelosi yes; roybal, yes; stark, yes; torres, yes; waxman, yes
republicans _ badham, no; dannemeyer, no; dornan, no; dreier, no; gallegly, no; herger, no; hunter, no; konnyu, no; lagomarsino, no; lewis, no; lowery, no; lungren, yes; mccandless, no; moorhead, no; packard, no; pashayan, yes; shumway, no; thomas, no
democrats _ campbell, yes; schroeder, yes, skaggs, yes
republicans _ brown, yes; hefley, no; schaefer, no
democrats _ gejdenson, yes; kennelly, yes; morrison, yes
republicans _ johnson, yes; rowland, yes; shays, yes
democrat _ carper, yes
democrats _ bennett, yes; chappell, yes; fascell, yes; gibbons, yes; grant, yes; hutto, no; lehman, yes; mackay, yes; mica, yes; nelson, yes; pepper, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ bilirakis, no; ireland, no; lewis, no; mack, no; mccollum, no; shaw, no; young, no
democrats _ barnard, no; darden, yes; hatcher, yes; jenkins, yes; lewis, yes; ray, no; rowland, no; thomas, yes
republicans _ gingrich, no; swindall, no
democrat _ akaka, yes
republican _ saiki, yes
democrat _ stallings, yes
republican _ craig, no
democrats _ annunzio, yes; bruce, yes; collins, yes; durbin, yes; evans, yes; gray, xxx; hayes, yes; lipinski, yes; price, xxx; rostenkowski, yes; russo, no; savage, yes; yates, yes
republicans _ crane, no; davis, no; fawell, no; hastert, no; hyde, no; madigan, xxx; martin, yes; michel, no; porter, yes
democrats _ hamilton, yes; jacobs, yes; jontz, yes; mccloskey, yes; sharp, yes; visclosky, yes
republicans _ burton, no; coats, no; hiler, no; myers, no
democrats _ nagle, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ grandy, no; leach, yes; lightfoot, xxx; tauke, no
democrats _ glickman, yes; slattery, yes
republicans _ meyers, yes; roberts, no; whittaker, no
democrats _ hubbard, no; mazzoli, yes; natcher, yes; perkins, yes
republicans _ bunning, no; hopkins, yes; rogers, no
democrats _ boggs, yes; hayes, yes; huckaby, yes; tauzin, yes
republicans _ baker, no; holloway, no; livingston, no
democrat _ brennan, yes
republican _ snowe, yes
democrats _ byron, yes; cardin, yes; dyson, yes; hoyer, yes; mcmillen, yes; mfume, yes
republicans _ bentley, no; morella, yes
democrats _ atkins, yes; boland, yes; donnelly, yes; early, yes; frank, yes; kennedy, yes; markey, yes; mavroules, yes; moakley, yes; studds, yes
republican _ conte, yes
democrats _ bonior, yes; carr, yes; conyers, yes; crockett, yes; dingell, yes; ford, yes; hertel, yes; kildee, yes; levin, yes; traxler, yes; wolpe, yes
republicans _ broomfield, no; davis, yes; henry, no; pursell, no; schuette, yes; upton, no; vander jagt, no
democrats _ oberstar, yes; penny, yes; sabo, yes; sikorski, yes; vento, yes
republicans _ frenzel, yes; stangeland, no; weber, no
democrats _ dowdy, yes; espy, yes; montgomery, yes; whitten, yes
republican _ lott, no
democrats _ clay, yes; gephardt, xxx; skelton, yes; volkmer, yes; wheat, yes
republicans _ buechner, no; coleman, no; emerson, no; taylor, no
democrat _ williams, yes
republican _ marlenee, no
republicans _ bereuter, yes; daub, no; smith, no
democrat _ bilbray, yes
republican _ vucanovich, no
republicans _ gregg, no; smith, no
democrats _ dwyer, yes; florio, yes; guarini, yes; howard, yes; hughes, yes; rodino, yes; roe, yes; torricelli, yes
republicans _ courter, yes; gallo, yes; rinaldo, yes; roukema, yes; saxton, yes; smith, yes
democrat _ richardson, yes
republicans _ lujan, no; skeen, no
democrats _ ackerman, yes; biaggi, xxx; downey, yes; flake, yes; garcia, yes; hochbrueckner, yes; lafalce, yes; manton, yes; mchugh, yes; mrazek, yes; nowak, yes; owens, yes; rangel, yes; scheuer, yes; schumer, yes; slaughter, yes; solarz, yes; stratton, yes; towns, yes; weiss, yes
republicans _ boehlert, yes; dioguardi, yes; fish, yes; gilman, yes; green, yes; horton, yes; houghton, yes; kemp, no; lent, yes; martin, yes; mcgrath, yes; molinari, yes; solomon, no; wortley, no
democrats _ clarke, yes; hefner, yes; jones, yes; lancaster, yes; neal, yes; price, yes; rose, yes; valentine, yes
republicans _ ballenger, no; coble, no; mcmillan, no
democrat _ dorgan, yes
democrats _ applegate, yes; eckart, yes; feighan, yes; hall, yes; kaptur, yes; luken, yes; oakar, yes; pease, yes; sawyer, yes; stokes, yes; traficant, yes
republicans _ dewine, no; gradison, yes; kasich, no; latta, no; lukens, no; mcewen, no; miller, no; oxley, no; regula, no; wylie, no
democrats _ english, no; mccurdy, yes; synar, yes; watkins, yes
republican _ edwards, no; inhofe, no
democrats _ aucoin, yes; defazio, yes; wyden, yes
republican _ d. smith, no; r. smith, no
democrats _ borski, yes; coyne, yes; foglietta, yes; gaydos, yes; gray, yes; kanjorski, yes; kolter, yes; kostmayer, yes; murphy, yes; murtha, yes; walgren, yes; yatron, yes
republicans _ clinger, no; coughlin, yes; gekas, no; goodling, yes; mcdade, no; ridge, yes; ritter, no; schulze, yes; shuster, no; walker, no; weldon, yes
democrat _ st germain, yes
republican _ schneider, yes
democrats _ derrick, yes; patterson, yes; spratt, yes; tallon, yes
republicans _ ravenel, no; spence, no
democrat _ johnson, yes
democrats _ clement, yes; cooper, yes; ford, yes; gordon, yes; jones, yes; lloyd, yes
republicans _ duncan, yes; quillen, no; sundquist, no
democrats _ andrews, yes; brooks, yes; bryant, yes; bustamante, yes; chapman, yes; coleman, yes; de la garza, yes; frost, yes; gonzalez, yes; r. hall, no; leath, no; leland, yes; ortiz, yes; pickle, yes; stenholm, no; wilson, yes; wright, xxx (by tradition, the house speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, no; armey, no; bartlett, no; barton, no; boulter, no; combest, no; delay, no; fields, no; smith, no; sweeney, no
democrat _ owens, yes
republicans _ hansen, no; nielson, no
republican _ jeffords, yes
democrats _ boucher, yes; olin, yes; pickett, yes; sisisky, yes
republicans _ bateman, no; bliley, no; parris, no; slaughter, no; wolf, no
democrats _ bonker, yes; dicks, yes; foley, yes; lowry, yes; swift, yes
republicans _ chandler, yes; miller, yes; morrison, yes
democrats _ mollohan, yes; rahall, yes; staggers, yes; wise, yes
democrats _ aspin, yes; kastenmeier, yes; kleczka, yes; moody, yes; obey, yes
republicans _ gunderson, yes; petri, yes; roth, no; sensenbrenner, no
republican _ cheney, no
from copyrights to civil rights, congress has overridden nine of the 63 vetoes president reagan has exercised since he took office in 1981
this gives reagan a better batting average than his last republican predecessor, president ford but not as good a one as president carter, who had democratic majorities in both houses of congress
ford, with the opposition party controlling both the house and senate, sent up 66 vetoes and had 12 of them, or 18 percent, knocked down
carter vetoed 31 bills and had only two of them overridden, well under 10 percent
counting tuesday's override of his civil rights bill veto, reagan has struck out 14 percent of the times he has used his constitutional power to disapprove legislation
reagan has faced democratic control in the house throughout his more than seven years in office. the senate, however, was under republican control from 1981 until last year
it takes a two-thirds majority of both houses to overcome a presidential veto
records of the white house executive clerk's office show that five reagan vetoes have been sustained. in the other 49 cases, the question of an override was not put to a vote
once, reagan squeaked through by one vote. that was on june 5, 1986, when the senate sustained a presidential veto allowing a weapons sale to saudi arabia to proceed. the count was 66-34, just shy of the 67 votes needed for a two-thirds majority with all senators voting
on another occasion, it took nearly eight months to round up the votes to block the house from overriding the president's veto of trade legislation curbing textile, apparel and shoe imports. reagan vetoed the bill on dec. 17, 1985. the house put off action until next year and it was not until aug. 6, 1986, that it voted. the count was 276-149, or eight votes short of the two thirds needed to override
tuesday's house and senate votes marked the 101st time in u.s. history that a presidential veto has been overridden. there have been 2,452 vetoes, beginning with the administration of george washington
andrew johnson had the worst veto record in history. the post-civil war president vetoed 29 bills and was overridden 15 times
the bills previously put into law over reagan's veto were:
_an act to amend the manufacturing clause of the copyright law, vetoed july 8, 1982
_a $14.2 billion supplemental appropriation for the fiscal year ending sept. 30, 1982, vetoed on aug. 28, 1982
_an act authorizing a transfer of federal land in lane county, ore., vetoed oct. 19, 1983
_an act to authorize continuation of a program of water resources research, vetoed feb. 21, 1984
_an act revising authorization laws governing the national institutes of health and national research institutes, vetoed nov. 8, 1985
_an act providing economic sanctions against the white minority government of south africa, vetoed sept. 26, 1986
_the water quality act of 1987, a $20 billion anti-pollution measure, vetoed jan. 30, 1987
_the federal aid highway act of 1987, an $88 billion highway and mass transit measure, vetoed march 27, 1987. from tribes</head>
it has been more than 160 years since the first american indian newspaper was published and its editor clashed with tribal leaders, and newspapers on the reservation still struggle for their independence today
elias boudinot opened the cherokee phoenix on feb. 21, 1828, in new echota, ga., and resigned four years later rather than accept censorship from the cherokees' primary chief
things haven't changed much in 160 years, journalists reported at a meeting of the native american press association. tribal leaders still are not convinced of the value of objective reporting on tribal politics and other news
although some tribal constitutions had free press provisions as early as the mid-1800s, the u.s. constitution's first amendment rights did not extend to the reservations until 1968, when congress passed the indian bill of rights
today's indian journalists, the first generation to try to exercise those rights on the reservation, are hampered by reservation poverty that limits advertising revenue and forces tribal governments to underwrite the newspapers
ten financially self-sufficient newspapers are operating, most begun in the last decade ``precipitated by the need for editorial independence,'' said richard lacourse, a yakima indian writing a book on the native american press
the rest of the 464 indian newspapers and bulletins on reservations and in urban indian communities are owned by the tribes _ and controlled by tribal leaders who often interfere with news operations, lacourse said
tribal leaders have fired editors for taking opposing sides in elections or in editorials; cut off newspaper funds; forced the hiring of their unqualified relatives; excluded reporters from meetings and suppressed stories by threatening editors and reporters, lacourse said
at the napa meeting last week, one editor reported being ordered by tribal leaders not to report the conviction of one leader on a child molestation charge
the editor said she agreed because, as a single parent, she felt she could not risk losing what was one of the few full-time jobs she could find on the reservation
a reporter for one of 25 indian-owned radio stations said her tribal leaders once took over the station for several hours to air their views on a subject they thought the station had not covered sufficiently
tim giago, a co-founder of napa who owns two independent tribal newspapers, says the interference will continue until journalists buy their publications from the tribes and operate them as profit-making businesses
if the tribe is paying your salary, why should they let you say anything that is going to undermine their position?'' he asked in a telephone interview from his offices in rapid city, s.d
because his lakota times of martin, s.d., and ojibwe times of bemidji, minn., rely on advertising revenue, giago said, ``we have the freedom to criticize the tribal government. my responsibilities are to my readers. i'm not beholden to the tribal government.''
an example of tribal leaders' influence was the navajo times today, a one-time weekly that became the first and only daily native american newspaper in 1984 and was closed in 1987
shortly after his election, tribal chairman peter macdonald ordered an audit that found the newspaper was $750,000 in debt. he shut it down and fired its 49-member staff
the times reopened as a weekly with a new, mostly non-indian staff several months later
the main reason the times was killed was because we couldn't be controlled,'' former editor and publisher mark trahant, who made the times a daily newspaper, said in a speech to about 150 napa members
trahant, an investigative reporter for the arizona republic in phoenix, said the times apparently caused animosity when it sponsored a tribal election campaign debate that degenerated into a name-calling shouting match
macdonald did not return a telephone call to tribal headquarters in window rock, ariz., seeking comment
the first indian publisher, boudinot, clashed with cherokee chief john ross, who wanted to fight the relocation law that eventually forced the cherokees and four other tribes to give up their east coast lands and move west
ross tried to fire him but boudinot resigned first, in the summer of 1832, and moved his family to oklahoma in 1838 in advance of the ``trail of tears,'' when 4,000 cherokees died on a forced march from appalachia
on june 23, 1839, in park hill, okla., boudinot was stabbed and hacked to death in what was described then as a revenge killing
japanese curbs on beef and citrus imports are costing consumers in tokyo two to four times what their american counterparts pay and should come down, u.s. farm and trade officials say
it seems to us the japanese consumer should have a right to choose the products at a price that is much better, and they would if the quotas were eliminated,'' agriculture secretary richard lyng said tuesday
lyng and u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter said at a news conference, however, that thus far the japanese have not budged on quotas that limit imports of american beef and citrus
we still have to hear from the japanese on their willingness to liberalize beef and citrus,'' lyng told the session, called to spotlight the march 31 expiration date of a beef and citrus agreement with the japanese
under the 4-year-old agreement, the united states has not challenged the quotas. but officials are now saying that it is time for them to end
in response, japanese officials say that lowering the barriers would bring on a torrent of low-priced american products that would wipe out their home country's beef and citrus sector
the two american officials produced charts showing that american navel oranges that sold for 33 cents each in washington on march 1 were selling for 65 cents each in tokyo
grapefruits selling for 32 cents each in washington sold for 73 cents in tokyo on the same day, they said. they said consumers in the nation's capital were paying $4.99 a pound for strip sirloin while consumers in japan's capital were paying $20.56 a pound for comparable steak
it remains unclear whether eliminating the import curbs would bring on unemployment among japanese cattle ranchers and citrus growers, yeutter said. he said it would depend ``on whether our japanese friends are resilient'' enough to cope with intensified competition
if it did mean some structural adjustment, that's the price we pay for a free and open trading system,'' yeutter said. ``we've had some adjustment, too.''
one option open to the united states would be to seek a ruling against the japanese for unfair trade practices under the general agreement on tariffs and trade, the officials said. they said another would be to start action possibly leading to retaliation against the japanese barriers
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,895.23 points, up 52.48 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on wednesday
a group of women serving long prison terms at an underground facility in lexington, ky., allege in a suit that they are being treated inhumanely because of their political beliefs
the suit in u.s. district court in washington, filed by civil liberties groups on behalf of the five inmates at the lexington control unit, names attorney general edwin meese iii and eight other federal officials
it seeks the immediate transfer of the inmates from the high-security facility to the general population of a federal women's prison
opened in november 1986, the ``small basement facility'' has ``virtually no natural light'' and is illuminated 24 hours a day by fluorescent lights, said the suit, prepared by the national prison project of the american civil liberties union and other attorneys
the women, the suit said, are monitored continuously by staff and video cameras, have no opportunity to participate in any of the activities available to the general prison population and are subjected to random strip searches
we believe the women's lives are in danger,'' said susan waysdorf, a spokeswoman for civil libertarians supporting the suit. ``they're beginning to experience signs of behavior modification, general disorientation, vision problems, loss of appetite, sleeplessness.''
among the inmates are silvia baraldini, convicted of racketeering and conspiracy in aiding a $1.6 million brink's armored car heist in nyack, n.y., that left a guard and two police officers dead. another inmate at lexington is susan rosenberg, linked by law enforcement officers to the same bungled brink's robbery
baraldini, serving a 40-year term, was transferred to lexington after refusing to be interviewed by an fbi agent, the suit said
rosenberg, serving a 58-year term for possession of weapons and explosives in connection with a 1985 police raid in new jersey, was told that she would be confined to the unit until she changes her political beliefs, the suit alleges
the u.s. bureau of prisons said in october it will phase out the unit, the only high-security unit for women in the federal prison system
a new medium- and high-security facility for women will be opened in june in marianna, fla., and the phase-out in lexington will be completed shortly thereafter, said bureau of prisons spokeswoman kathryn morse. she declined to comment on the suit
the primary purpose for the creation of the unit was to confine prisoners whose political associations and affiliations were determined to pose a security threat,'' said the suit, which alleges violation of the women's constitutional rights. ``all the women in the unit are suffering psychological and physical harm as a direct consequence of their isolated confinement in this underground segregation unit.''
when civil liberties groups began to expose lexington as a ``political prison, federal officials hurriedly brought in two other women serving long sentences,'' a coalition of civil libertarians said in a statement about the lexington unit
one of the women brought in later, sylvia brown, serving a 27-year term for probation violation and escaping from a federal prison, was told that her release from the unit would depend on her lack of interaction with the political activists, the suit said
baraldini, rosenberg and brown filed the suit
sen. paul simon, calling himself an ``underdog fighting for the underdog,'' says he hopes wisconsin's progressive political tradition can carry him to victory in the state's april 5 primary
simon, who won the democratic primary in his home state of illinois last week, needs another victory to keep his candidacy alive. while he did not predict a win here, he said he expects a strong finish
i grew up in the progressive tradition,'' said simon. ``i'm an underdog who's fighting for the underdog.''
simon appeared at a news conference at a shopping center built adjacent to the allis-chalmers corp. plant, a once-mighty farm equipment company which filed for bankruptcy reorganization last year
we have to restore and revitalize our manufacturing base,'' simon said, noting how high paying jobs at the factory have disappeared while low paying service jobs at the shopping center have grown
the senator sprinkled his comments with references to former wisconsin sen. robert lafollette, founder of the progressive party, who simon said ``stood up to individual and corporate greed.''
simon said he would try to stop the erosion of the manufacturing sector by offering tax breaks for companies that create jobs while removing tax incentives for companies that move production overseas
simon flew to washington earlier in the day, where he joined the successful majority in the senate in voting to override president reagan's veto of a sweeping civil rights bill
it's another indication of the insensitivity of the administration to women, to people with disabilities, to minorities,'' simon said of the veto
simon has criticized the reagan administration's sending of troops to hnduras
we should use tools of diplomacy rather than weapons of war,'' simon said. ``both sides should concentrate on working out their differences at the negotiating table, not on the battlefield.''
sen. bob dole, all but knocked out of the republican presidential running by vice president george bush, says he needs a comeback _ and wisconsin is just the place to start it
this is a very important state,'' dole told the milwaukee rotary club tuesday. ``voters in this state are going to have an impact. in my case, i've got a big comeback to make _ it may as well start here.''
the kansas senator made his remarks while wrapping up a three-day visit to the state, which will hold its presidential primary april 5
vice president george bush has an overwhelming lead in the delegate totals, but dole said he hopes voters in wisconsin will look past those numbers and examine the issues
i hope people will take a hard look at all of us,'' he said. ``i'm prepared to answer all the hard questions.''
in his speech to the business people, dole stressed his campaign theme of a spending freeze to curb the federal deficit
when that's in place, then we can go down program by program,'' he said. ``i believe i'm the one candidate who can sit down with members of both parties and hammer out a deficit reduction package.''
dole outlined similar themes earlier in a speech to students and teachers at oak creek high school
we're not voting for momentum,'' he said. ``we're voting for candidates.''
one thing i've learned in politics over the years is that nobody's certain what's going to happen from one day to the next. i know some in the media have already written my obituary,'' he said. ``i've read it. sounds pretty good _ i made a gallant fight but lost.''
the last time i looked, the people in this state hadn't even voted,'' he said. ``so i don't think we should write anything off.''
dole also repeated his request for a debate with bush, a challenge the vice president declined in illinois
i would say to my chief opponent: you name one thing you've done that's affected anybody in the state of wisconsin, one thing in the past seven years, and i'll buy you lunch.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was the only democratic presidential contender to outpoll vice president george bush in a washington post-abc news poll, the newspaper reported today
dukakis led bush, 50 percent to 45 percent, when voters were asked which of the two they would vote for if the election were held today
in other matchups, jesse jackson was outpolled by bush 58 percent to 34 percent; sen. albert gore jr. lost out 53 percent to 40 percent; and rep. richard gephardt was behind 53 percent to 40 percent, the post said
new york gov. mario cuomo, who is not a candidate, also lost to bush, 53 percent to 38 percent
the nationwide telephone survey of 775 registered voters had a margin of error of 4 percentage points, the newspaper said. it was conducted thursday through monday
dukakis did about the same against sen. bob dole of kansas, whose prospects of gaining the republican nomination are seen as slim. dukakis polled 48 percent to dole's 44 percent, according to the survey
in the survey, bush had the highest favorable ratings of any contender of either party, the newspaper said. more than three out of five registered voters, including nearly half of the democrats, said they had a generally favorable impression of the vice president. that represents an increase of 11 percentage points since an abc news-washington post survey in january
the poll suggested the popularity of dukakis and jackson has also risen. a total of 57 percent of all voters had a favorable impression of dukakis, the newspaper said, _ about double the january figure
fifty-three percent of all voters said they had a favorable impression of jackson, up from 42 percent in the january survey, the newspaper said
here are the major provisions of the civil rights restoration act as they apply to the four statutes protecting women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped from federally subsidized discrimination
_compliance with the statutes is required of entire departments and agencies of state and local governments when any part of the department or agency receives federal aid
_compliance is required throughout entire colleges, universities and public school systems if any program or activity receives federal aid
_compliance is required of entire corporations and private organizations if federal aid is extended to them as a whole or if they are principally involved in providing education, health care, housing, social services or parks or recreation. otherwise, compliance is limited to the plant or facility receiving the aid
_ultimate beneficiaries of federal aid, such as farmers receiving crop subsidies or people getting food stamps or social security, do not come under federal civil rights regulation
_small providers such as mom and pop grocery stores are given flexibility in making their facilities accessible to handicapped people
_people with contagious diseases or infections are considered handicapped and protected by civil rights laws unless they pose a direct threat to the health or safety of others or are unable to perform their jobs
_institutions and individuals are not required to perform or pay for abortions or services relating to them. no penalties are permitted against people seeking benefits or services related to an abortion
spending big money on space age hospital equipment is not necessarily the best way to provide quality medical care, says the federal government's top health official
sometimes our high-tech capability lures us into pursuing expensive answers when less costly ones are available,'' dr. otis r. bowen said tuesday. ``our veneration of technology has become a cultural blind spot that sometimes keeps us from pursuing practical solutions to our problems.''
the health and human service secretary's remarks to a conference of the health care quality alliance came shortly after the 28-member coalition issued a report saying cost control should stop where ``quality of care _ and quality of life _ are adversely affected.''
bowen said cost containment and quality care can co-exist
sometimes you can save money and also improve care, like concentrating certain procedures in hospitals that specialize in them,'' he said. ``this not only leads to better results for the patient, it also allows us to benefit from economies of scale
one reason today's health care is so expensive is that the financing of that care is little more than a collection of disincentives to practice cost-effective medicine
hospitals, in order to attract doctors and their patients, have bought and often duplicated the latest in medical hardware in a kind of medical arms race.''
he said exempting employer-paid health insurance coverage from federal income taxes has ``encouraged employers and unions to bargain for ever-greater first-dollar coverage in health insurance plans.''
compounding this folly, most insurance plans cover expensive high-tech procedures and slight preventive services,'' bowen added. ``and all of this has made patients and their families all but oblivious to costs, since they pay so little out of pocket.''
bowen said the establishment of the federal medicare health program for the elderly in 1965 ``created a powerful incentive for the health care industry to develop the technology to treat the chronic, degenerative diseases that afflict the aging.''
while that has ``improved the quality of life for americans of all ages,'' bowen said the nation has yet to face difficult questions of how best to allocate health dollars in the modern era
still to be decided is how much is too much,'' he said. ``how much heroic medical care and how many procedures to keep a dying patient alive are desirable for the patient, the family and, not least of all, for society at large? when is such care merely prolonging the act of dying rather than contributing to longer life, or at least some type of quality to it?''
bowen is a 70-year-old physician whose first wife died in 1981 after a long battle with bone cancer and whose mother recently died in a nursing home
the alliance membership includes the american medical association, the alzheimer's disease and related disorders association, the arthritis foundation, the american cancer society, the american academy of pediatrics and the national council on the aging. assignments</head>
the department of defense has decided to begin aids testing on civilian workers destined for overseas assignments, with an estimated 8,000 men and women to be affected during the first year, officials said tuesday
no date for the start of civilian screening has yet been established, said the pentagon, which already operates the world's largest aids testing program
the aids blood test will be administered to civilian workers during a complete physical examination, which will become mandatory for those drawing overseas assignments
the approach is similar to that now used by the state department, the pentagon officials said
in another move, deputy defense secretary william h. taft iv has authorized the army to draft a legislative proposal that would make it easier to discharge service members on a medical disability if they test positively for the aids virus
such legislation, if ever enacted, could provide the military with a means of discharging servicemen as soon as they test positively for exposure, regardless of whether they're showing any symptoms yet of the deadly disease itself
one way to do that, the sources explained tuesday, is to broaden the legal definition of a military disability
currently, no individual on active duty who tests positively for aids on a blood test can be discharged without showing other medical symptoms of the disease
the decisions involving aids policies were first disclosed early this month by defense sources who requested anonymity. the defense department subsequently confirmed the actions, while insisting in a written statement to the associated press that taft had issued ``preliminary guidance'' without yet signing any final directives
the decision has been made even if a directive hasn't been signed,'' countered one source. ``he was presented options and made up his mind.''
aids _ acquired immune deficiency syndrome _ attacks the body's immune system and its ability to resist infection. no cure has been found for the disease, which can be spread through sexual contact and tainted blood
the pentagon, citing the need to protect military blood supplies, routinely tests all 2.1 million men and women on active duty as well as all recruit applicants. a service member who tests positively _ but who is not disabled by the disease _ is restricted to duty inside the united states and may be limited in job assignments
a recruit who tests positively is denied admission to the military
despite the massive commitment to aids screening, which began in october 1985, the pentagon has until recently focused only on military personnel
according to sources, the army has repeatedly urged aids testing for all defense department workers as well as automatic discharge or dismissal for those testing positively. defense health officials have always rebuffed those suggestions, saying they were too far-reaching
the sources said taft had finally decided to take the middle road when it came to civilians, focusing only on those who draw assignments outside the united states
the new program is expected to cost roughly $1.6 million a year, one official said. struggle</head>
president jose napoleon duarte and the rightists who defeated his party in legislative and municipal elections have declared a willingness to work together on this country's tremendous problems
but the leftist guerrillas waging an 8-year-old war against the u.s.-backed government said tuesday the result of sunday's vote would make the nation ``ungovernable.'' a rebel commander said the electoral result _ an outright majority for the rightist opposition in the national legislature _ favors the guerrillas by giving the people ``a clear alternative.''
in addition to the war, el salvador has crippling economic problems
the central elections council has not yet announced the apportionment of seats in the unicameral, 60-seat national assembly
but the council president, mario samayoa, said on monday the rightist republican nationalist alliance, known by the spanish acronym arena, got a majority of votes cast nationwide, which assured it of a legislative majority. local media projected arena would get 33 or 34 seats. the party said it had 35
the governing christian democrats had 33 seats in the outgoing legislature. they were expected to win about 22 seats, with the remainder going to small rightist parties. arena also won the mayoralties and town councils of about 200 of the country's 262 municipalities, including san salvador
arena is ready to work with the other parties, and with president duarte, so that together we might achieve the solution to the national crisis,'' alfredo cristiani, president of arena and a legislator, said at a news conference. ``it is time to work together on behalf of the heroic people who cast their votes despite threats and terrorist acts.''
the guerrillas had called for a boycott of the elections and had stepped up urban and rural violence in the two weeks prior to the vote. in what they called repudiation of the ``electoral farce,'' they set off three car bombs, sabotaged power lines in large parts of the country and ordered a nationwide transport ban that they enforced by burning more than a dozen vehicles
the rebels contended the elections were part of an american-imposed counterinsurgency plan, and that they were illegitimate in wartime
despite the boycott call, about 70 percent of the 1.6 million registered voters cast ballots. many of them walked long distances to do so
in the same way we have made this effort to strengthen the democratic process, let us contribute our will and capacities to find together the road to peace,'' duarte told the nation in a radio and television address monday night
he said the parties in the legislature were, along with the executive branch, ``co-responsible'' for governing. duarte said once final results were known, he would meet with party leaders to search for consensus on how to solve the nation's pressing problems
besides the war, which has killed 65,000 people and made refugees out of 500,000, el salvador's economy is crippled. both inflation and unemployment are estimated at about 40 percent
what is coming is that we're on the road to a power void,'' guerrilla commander joaquin villalobos said tuesday on radio venceremos, the clandestine rebel station. ``the country will become ungovernable with this composition of forces
the big loser is the counterinsurgency project and the big winner is the people, which has before it a clear alternative _ the fmln, organization and struggle.'' the alliance of five rebel armies is the farabundo marti national liberation front, or fmln
we must prepare to struggle decisively because today we confront a weakened enemy and we must take advantage of that,'' he said
despite the politicans' conciliatory words, there were those who speculated arena would use its position in the assembly to further erode popular support for the chistian democrats by opposing government initiatives
presidential elections are set for march 1989, and arena could benefit from making the duarte administration appear even more ineffectual than it has been in addressing the national crisis
only enough nuclear waste to carry out experiments will be placed in the repository planned as the nation's first resting place for defense-related radioactive wastes, the department of energy says
the department said tuesday it was following the national academy of sciences' recommendations to test whether wipp, the waste isolation pilot plant in underground salt beds near carlsbad, is suitable as a permanent repository
the department also said that by june it would meet the academy's request for a detailed five-year plan for its experimental waste disposal program for the repository, which was designed to contain low- and intermediate level wastes
both recommendations were made in report of the wipp panel of the academy's board of radioactive waste management on march 3, about four months after scientists told congress that water seeping into the repository threatened its ability to safely store wastes that would remain radioactive for hundreds of thousands of years
the academy panel, however, concluded that technical uncertainties regarding brine seepage at the plant were not serious enough to halt research at the site. shipments of waste are to begin arriving in october
energy department officials said tuesday the academy report will assist in resolving the issue of brine accumulation at the site and will be useful in burying waste in a manner that protects of the environment
about 25,000 barrels of waste will be delivered to the site in the first 1{ years of the test, the department's albuquerque office said tuesday. the department originally had planned to entomb 125,000 barrels of wastes during the next five years
republican party figures say george bush is unlikely to break with president reagan on a major issue, even though bush is trying to appeal to some groups reagan has not attracted
bush's statement that he supports reagan's veto of a major civil rights bill, some observers say, reinforces the view of some that bush is incapable of showing any independence from reagan
but bush's top campaign spokesman, pete teeley, called this a non-issue, and said the vice president's loyalty to reagan is more important than a show of independence
the fact is, six months ago everybody was writing that george bush had to disagree with the president in order to get the nomination,'' teeley said tuesday. ``everyone now sees that that was a myth.''
teeley's assessment came a day after bush, when pressed to say whether he agreed with reagan's veto of the sweeping civil rights bill, told reporters that ``i'm not going to start differing'' with reagan after seven and a half years as vice president
i don't think that you're going to see the vice president be critical of the president,'' teeley said. ``i do think you are going to see him lay out his own programs and proposals.''
but two former gop national chairmen said they think bush, sooner or later, will have to show some differences between his views and reagan's
the vice president is in a box,'' said one-time chairman richard richards. ``if he deviates one iota, there are some right-wing nuts out there who will say he cannot carry on the reagan revolution.''
another former chairman, howard ``bo'' calloway, said that ``at some time, there will be something pretty big where the vice president will say, `hey, i love the man, but i just have to disagree.'''
said mitchell daniels, a former white house political director for reagan: ``it points up what you could call the veep's disease. that is to say that every vice president must confront this problem, especially if you're no. 2 to a very popular no. 1
with the (republican presidential) nomination in hand and loyalty to the president no longer the dominant or most powerful theme, he can try his hand at establishing his own identity,'' daniels said. ``but he must be careful that that comes through extension, rather than exception'' to reagan programs and policies
the civil rights bill, which had support from republicans as well as democrats in congress, was seen by some as a chance for bush to break with reagan on an issue that reagan was going to lose anyway on senate and house override votes
some also saw a bush break as necessary, given statements by bush and his top aides indicating that the vice president was going to try to reach out to blacks and minorities _ groups that reagan failed to win in any substantial numbers in his two presidential election victories
arthur fletcher, a black and one-time assistant secretary of labor during the nixon administration, said it was not essential that bush disagree with reagan's veto of legislation to overturn the supreme court's so-called grove city ruling that limited federal protection for many groups
he said that bush, during an appearance before a black group monday night ``made a commitment that he is going to enforce all civil rights legislation. ... the bottom line is that he was not elected by the delegation to be the vice president, he was picked by the president to be the vice president.''
bush has said on occasion that he would speak out on ``my own vision'' of america, or ``how i would do things.'' but he also has steadfastly insisted he would say nothing that could be taken as a direct criticism of the president
last october, for instance, bush seemed to have gone back to his 1980 position on abortion. he said, in iowa, that he supported allowing the procedure to be performed in cases where the mother's life was in danger, or in cases of rape or incest. this was a departure from reagan's position, which is that abortion should be allowed only to save a mother's life
the bush campaign heatedly denied that the vice president was reverting to his position of 1980. bush had muted his differences with reagan on this issue in 1984 when they ran for re-election together
richards said tuesday that ``i think the time may well come when he takes a different position. i'm sure that george bush doesn't agree 100 percent with everything that this administration does. ... he's in a tough spot.''
calloway agreed that bush has been faced with ``a very real problem from the day he announced his candidacy.'' but he said ``i don't think he ought to go out of his way and find differences'' with reagan
i'll bet a nickel the president has told him, `look, george, you're running now. you've got to be your own man,''' calloway said. position</head>
after gaining control of the national assembly, the rightist republican nationalist alliance could block the president's program and mount a strong challenge in the 1989 presidential race
the stinging defeat in sunday's election left president jose napoleon duarte and his christian democrats on the defensive
duarte will be unable to enact economic reforms and the opposition will be able to put its stamp on the national budget and other legislation
the rightist party, known by its spanish acronym arena, is trying to polish its image with an eye to next year's presidential race
former army maj. robert d'aubuisson, the party's founder who has been accused of links to el salvador's death squads, is being kept out of the limelight as much as possible. party chairman alfredo cristiani, a u.s.-educated businessman and coffee grower, now speaks for arena
arena is trying to project an image of a conservative organization that wants to safeguard the country's traditional values and restore law and order. the party once was notorious for its diatribes against the dangers of communism and alleged interference by the united states in salvadoran affairs
both messages are still there, but the tone is more low key
shortly before the elections, cristiani told reporters: ``the most important change the party has made was the decision to make arena a true political institution rather than a movement revolving around an individual, and without the traditional `boss-ism' of salvadoran politics.''
the strategy seems to have paid off, striking a chord among salvadorans tired of eight years of civil war with leftist rebels that has killed about 65,000 people and devastated the once-prosperous economy
arena on sunday wrested control of the 60-member national assembly away from duarte's christian democrats and won a majority of the 262 city and town mayors nationwide, including the traditional duarte stronghold of san salvador
final returns are not in, but projections show arena is assured of at least 30 seats in the new legislature. and arena has as its ally the national conciliation party, which may hold on to most of its 12 seats
the christian democrats are expected to lose most of their 33-seat majority to arena, which had only 13 seats in the old assembly
the outcome will make duarte's last year in office extremely difficult, similar to his first year when the rightist opposition also controlled the assembly. in 1984, duarte defeated d'aubuisson in a presidential race and he has governed with a christian democratic-controlled assembly since 1985
on monday, duarte called on all parties to act responsibly to solve the nation's serious problems
d'aubuisson lost the 1984 election, mainly because of his reputation of having been linked to the death squads that killed thousands of people in the first years of the war. he has denied the accusations, including one that he masterminded the march 1981 slaying of archbishop oscar arnulfo romero, the roman catholic prelate
d'aubuisson, a fiery orator, held on to his seat in the assembly, and seems sure to play a role in party councils
if we get the majority in the assembly, the next thing you'll hear from the `fish' will be from behind bars, because that's where we're going to put the corrupt sons of their mothers,'' d'aubuisson told a crowd last week. the fish is the christian democratic party symbol
cristiani _ a graduate of georgetown university in washington, d.c. _ also won a seat in the new assembly. he promised he would seek a consensus in the legislature on how to deal with the leftist rebels
he said the rebels would be approached with a proposal for ending the war and, if they refused, then the legislature would back the government in declaring an offensive to wipe them out
cristiani's idea is that if only a military solution is left, then the war should be pushed to the hilt, instead of conducting it with a series of small confrontations like now
this low intensity conflict idea should be erased,'' he said
douglas grant mine, ap correspondent in san salvador, formerly worked as news editor in buenos aires
a fire in a hay-filled barn killed 70 breeding horses in an adjoining stable, authorities said
owner ward holasek said he suffered burns as he ran through the stable to get some of the horses out. he, his wife, veterinarian georgene holasek, and workers were able to save 12 horses, said fire chief randy sorenson
the stable included horses brought in for breeding from as far away as california and new york, georgene holasek said. most of the horses killed were arabian and were worth about $10,000 apiece. some, including a prized breeding stallion belonging to the couple, had even higher values, the owners said
the loss from tuesday's blaze, which took 90 minutes to control, was estimated at $1.2 million, sorensen said
the cause of the fire was under investigation
the head of the environmental protection agency plans to look at the ethics of using scientific data from nazi concentration camp experiments but is banning use of such information in a report on a toxic gas, an agency official says
epa administrator lee m. thomas learned in a letter from about 20 epa employees friday that data from experiments on concentration camp prisoners were included in an outside consultant's draft report on phosgene gas, thomas' chief of staff craig deremer said tuesday
as soon as we got the letter ... the administrator said, `there's no reason to proceed with that information in the report. we don't need this data. let's just not use this and then let's look at the broader issue,''' deremer said
thomas plans a broad review ``to look at the ethical issues on using this kind of data,'' deremer said. ``it's sort of a new issue that we haven't dealt with before
there may be some arguments on the other side,'' he added. ``if there is data available, no matter if it was raised in questionable means, some people might argue that if it's for the good of humanity we should use it.''
the consultant's study was designed to determine whether epa's computer-generated predictions on how phosgene gas would affect humans were in line with what would actually happen due to exposure to the toxic chemical
phosgene gas in high concentrations was used as a weapon in world war i and 52 prisoners were exposed to it in 1943 and 1944 by the nazis to test a possible antidote, the new york times reported in today's editions
four of the prisoners exposed at fort ney near strasbourg, france, died and many others who already were weak and undernourished developed pulmonary edema, which causes extreme irritation in the lungs, the newspaper said
eight-year-old deandra anrig says she felt like winnie the pooh when an airplane snagged her kite line and lofted her on a 100-foot ride
i read about how winnie the pooh flies in the air on kites, but i never wanted to try it,'' said deandra, who let go just as the kite carried her toward a tree. ``i wasn't thinking anything but how scared i was.''
she said it was just a big jerk that lifted her (10 feet) into the air,'' said deandra's mother, debby. ``it carried her right over my husband's head. all he saw was a shadow going over his head. i'm just thankful she let go.''
deandra escaped from her ride with bruises. sympathetic neighbors delivered cupcakes tuesday to her home in dublin, 30 miles southeast of san francisco, where she rested on an air mattress surrounded by ice packs and two of her stuffed animals
deandra and her parents were picnicking sunday with friends at a park 2 miles from the palo alto airport when the accident occurred
deandra was taking her turn flying the 12-foot, glider-type kite when a twin-engine plane descending toward the airport caught the kite's 200-pound nylon test line
mountain view fire marshal frank moe said the 70-pound child was carried about 100 feet before letting go
there was no way the people in the plane could have known what was happening,'' said ken markowitz, a lawyer for the reno flying service, owner of the care flight medical transport plane that tangled with the kite
pilot jack uranga of reno, nev., was flying a patient to stanford university hospital when the propeller snagged the line, markowitz said
despite damage to one propeller blade, uranga managed to land safely, but the plane is grounded until repairs are made, markowitz said. uranga said tuesday that company regulations prevented him from discussing the accident
in san jose, federal aviation administration official edge ritter said the plane sustained a 2-inch gouge in one of its two propellers. he was unable to estimate the cost of repair or the height of the plane when it caught the line
mountain view authorities said they would post signs at shoreline park advising that kite flying has been banned there. the public utilities commission prohibits kite flying within 5 miles of an airport
ritter said there frequently are kites in the park area, but this was the first such accident
there had been planes flying over all that afternoon,'' said deandra's father, brad. ``and there were kites everywhere _ 15 to 20 of them, some up as high as 200 feet.''
he and deandra found their kite after the incident _ about half a mile away _ with about 60 feet of line still attached
humorist donald barthelme was named the winner of the $25,000 rea award, given annually to an outstanding writer of short stories
no richer _ or funnier _ discourse exists in contemporary american fiction,'' the jury said in giving the 1988 award tuesday to barthelme, a 57-year-old english professor at the university of houston
the jurors, including one of the two previous rea award winners, cynthia ozick, praised barthelme for blending ``mockery and exaltation'' in his stories. robert coover won the award last year
barthelme's short story collections include ``forty stories,'' ``overnight to many distant cities,'' ``great days,'' ``city life'' and ``unspeakable practices, unnatural acts.''
the role the united states is playing in honduras and panama has heightened latin american fears of a major military confrontation and offended regional pride, officials said
president miguel de la madrid's harsh condemnation of u.s. ``interventionism'' echoed sentiments voiced throughout the region
the sharpest remarks have been reserved for the u.s. deployment of troops in honduras after an alleged incursion of nicaraguan troops pursuing u.s.-backed contra rebels
latin american leaders also have expressed concern about the situation in panama, where the military chief, gen. manuel antonio noriega, is trying to stifle a huge opposition campaign backed by u.s. economic pressure. but other presidents have criticized noriega
some leaders have suggested that the united states, which is often viewed as insensitive to latin america, is thwarting regional attempts to bring peace to central america
it's not with the movement of armies, nor with the financing of subversion ... that the problems of this area, vital to the interests of the mexican people, will be resolved,'' de la madrid said monday in a speech
president vinicio cerezo of guatemala said on tuesday that an isolated border battle could turn into a regional conflict if u.s. troops intervened in the fighting. he was interviewed on the privately-owned mexico city television station televisa
argentina and colombia have expressed what they describe as grave ``concern'' about the deployment of 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras last week
president alan garcia of peru went a step further, vowing to visit nicaragua to demonstrate ``solidarity'' with its leftist government
u.s. officials described the deployment of soldiers as a combined training exercise and show of force against nicaragua
the united states also has about 10,000 military personnel stationed in panama, headquarters for the american military in latin america. its economic sanctions on panama have intensified the demands in that country for noriega to step down as the de facto ruler
de la madrid said ``the force of law'' not the ``law of force'' should be used and said only ``diplomatic and peaceful negotiations can achieve peace in the brother republics of central america.''
the contadora group _ formed in 1983 by colombia, mexico, panama and venezuela to negotiate peace in central america _ issued a statement last week calling for the united states to respect the principles of non-interventionism
several latin american leaders, however, have critized noriega, who was indicted in the united states last month on federal drug trafficking charges
cerezo said on tueday that noriega should resign and he called the government and the opposition to begin negotiating an end to their stalemate
garcia called for immediate elections in panama and brought home peru's ambassador for consultations
an amateur astronomer has discovered his fourth comet in four years after going 19 years without spotting one
i'm getting much more persistent about it, and i'm becoming much more single-minded about it,'' said david levy, a research assistant at the university of arizona's lunar and planetary laboratory, whose latest discovery came last weekend
i take advantage of almost every opportunity to search for comets.''
the find was confirmed tuesday by brian marsden of the international astronomical union, who said levy now has more new comet sightings than any other living u.s. amateur
the comet was designated comet 1988e _ signifying it is the fifth comet discovered this year
levy said he spends between one and four hours each clear night scanning the skies with one of his dozens of telescopes
he has been searching for comets for 23 years. after 19 years without a find, he co-discovered comet levy-rudenko in 1984
in january 1987, he spotted the first comet of that year
levy built a 6-by-8-foot wooden platform atop his home last october to get a better view of the horizon. three days after its completion, he spotted his third comet
he said he found his fourth comet about an hour before dawn on saturday, just above the horizon. he was using a 16-inch telescope
only six to eight new comets are discovered in an average year, and some comet hunters search a lifetime without making a discovery, marsden said. last year, a record 16 comets were discovered, he said
australian amateur astronomer william bradfield has discovered 13 comets, more than any other living comet hunter, marsden said. he said levy is now tied with canadian rolf meier for the north american honors
a growing scandal over allegations of massive embezzlement and corruption by top officials is widely seen as part of a power struggle between president roh tae-woo and his predecessor
former president chun doo-hwan's younger brother, chun kyung-hwan, is the focus of the scandal, an investigation into charges leaders of the powerful saemaul undong development group used government connections to amass fortunes. prosecutors say dozens of government officials also have been implicated
political observers say the saemaul revelations are among efforts by roh to discredit chun doo-hwan by exposing corruption under his government. chun, who stepped down feb. 25, has been fighting to retain power within the government
chun kyung-hwan, the former leader of saemaul (new community), became among the country's most powerful figures while chun doo-hwan was in power
many koreans believe there was corruption under president chun, much of it centered around his family. the korea times, in an editorial tuesday, said the saemaul affair ``should be considered typical of the ... unjust practices during the preceding government.''
former president chun, who has not been implicated directly in the scandal, was to meet today with president reagan in washington. he is on a private tour of the united states that includes meetings with many top american officials
the investigation and the constant stream of revelations would not be possible without high-level government backing, according to officials and observers, who declined to be identified further
you can be sure this is coming direct from the blue house (presidential mansion),'' said one official
the prosecutors general office says an initial investigation of the saemaul group indicates the younger chun and other top officials embezzled government and private subsidies, forced corporations to make illegal donations and peddled government influence and contacts. news reports indicate up to $50 million could be involved
prosecutor kang won-il, who is heading the investigation, says officials of the home, agriculture and fisheries, education, and sports ministries are also being investigated for aiding saemaul officials or covering up fraud to protect president chun and his family
saemaul has evolved into a huge organization since its creation in 1971 to promote urban and rural development, with activities ranging from construction of model communities and organizing city dwellers to keep neighborhoods clean
opposition supporters and other critics contend saemaul also has worked closely with the country's authoritarian governments in the past, organizing government support and handing out patronage
the younger chun, who resigned in 1987 after being linked to gangsters locked in a bloody power struggle, fled briefly to japan last friday when details of the investigation were made public
the former saemaul chief, who was appointed by his brother, said after returning that there had been irregularities, but gave no details
dozens of saemaul officials and their wives are being questioned and have been barred from leaving the country
roh, a former general who helped put chun into power with army backing in 1980, has been trying to distance himself from his highly unpopular predecessor and to take complete control of the government
the two men had been close since their days in the armed forces and chun picked roh to be his successor. but roh started to distance himself from chun when massive anti-government protests occurred last summer
roh backed opposition demands for elections held in december that he won with 36.6 percent of the vote after rival opposition candidates split the anti-government vote
the new president has resisted chun's attempts to retain power, ousting many of the former president's supporters from the governing democratic justice party. roh also curtailed plans for chun to act as a senior adviser to the government, reducing the post to a largely ceremonial role
roh has promised to end decades of authoritarian rule and introduce sweeping democratic reforms and is anxious to build popular support. on the campaign trail, he vowed that any official corruption under the chun government would not go unpunished
daily revelations about the saemaul probe have received maximum attention in the media. the state-run television networks devote much of their nightly news programs to the affair
but some democratic justice party leaders and other officials are concerned the effort to discredit chun could backfire. the opposition party for peace and democracy has charged that roh aided saemaul corruption while he was home minister in 1982 and demanded he be investigated
the governing party also is worried that corruption revelations could hurt its chances in national assembly elections, which are to be held next month
barry renfrew, the ap bureau chief in seoul, has covered asia for the past five years
a lawsuit has been filed against the fbi alleging the agency illegally obtained the financial records of a human rights group with the help of a dallas bank
the u.s. district court lawsuit, filed tuesday by the dallas chapter of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador, names the fbi and merchants state bank as defendants
the suit contends that the fbi obtained the chapter's bank records beginning in june 1983 in violation of the 1978 financial privacy act. it also contends that the bank failed to notify cispes as required by law
bank officials and an fbi spokesman declined comment on the suit
under the law, federal law enforcement agencies may obtain an individual's or a group's bank records by subpoena, by written request from a designated fbi supervisor or through a request from the agency's director indicating the records are being sought in the course of an investigation of foreign intelligence activities
the law usually requires that a subject be notified and given time to seek a court review of the request unless the bank records are sought as part of an ongoing intelligence investigation
the human rights group's national organization came under fbi scrutiny beginning in 1981, and the dallas group in 1983, when federal agents began trying to determine whether cispes members had contacts with hostile foreign governments or their agents or were involved in criminal or terroristic activities
the investigation was terminated in 1985 after agents found no evidence linking cispes with terrorist groups in el salvador, fbi officials have said
joe k. crews, an attorney representing cispes, said records obtained from the fbi through the freedom of information act do not indicate that the records request was made through the agency's director as part of an ongoing counterintelligence investigation
officials of cispes say the fbi probe targted the group and dozens of others solely because of their opposition to reagan administration policies on central america
the suit seeks $100 in damages for each of an unspecified number of privacy rights violations. it also seeks unspecified punitive damages, attorney fees and an injunction requiring the fbi to comply with federal privacy laws in future records requests
two young men from london zoo will set off from britain on thursday in search of the world's largest earwig on st. helena, the remote south atlantic island where napoleon bonaparte died
if we find any giant earwigs we will bring them back alive in hopes of getting them to breed in captivity at the zoo,'' said dave clarke, the expedition leader
the nocturnal insect is 3 inches long, reddish brown in color, lives in a burrow and although a fearsome looking creature, with two big pincers at the back, is harmless to man. unlike most insects, it cannot fly
nobody knows if there are any left,'' clarke said in an interview tuesday
clarke said the last giant earwigs were seen by belgian collecting expeditions in 1965 and 1967
st. helena, with a population of 6,000, is 1,200 miles east of angola and 4,400 miles south of england
the island, the only known habitat for the insect, has been occupied by the british since 1659 and napoleon was exiled there after his defeat at waterloo in 1815. he died on the island in 1821
clarke, 25, works in the insect house at the zoo where he is on friendly terms with deadly black widow spiders, tarantulas, giant water bugs, ants and locusts
we've never had a giant earwig at the zoo and few people have seen one. even the saints, as the people of st. helena are known, haven't seen any for a long time,'' clarke said
going with him is richard veal, 24, who works in the zoo's small mammals house. an anonymous benefactor has donated the $6,400 cost of the trip
clarke said the zoo was alerted to the earwig's apparent disappearance by the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources. the geneva-based group has a chapter in cambridge, england, which monitors rare species
the earwig has been known to be rare for a long time but the union learned only recently that in the past 15 to 20 years it has become rare to the point of a serious threat of extinction,'' said paul pearce-kelly, head keeper of the insect house
there are 1,000 species of earwig in the world, pearce-kelly said
the giant earwig's latin name is labidura herculeana, which could be translated as hercules hardlips,'' he said
pearce-kelly said the search also will be difficult because ``the island habitat has undergone much destruction from goats, rats and 10-inch-long giant centipedes, which came in on ships.''
in their 3{-week search, clarke and veal will scout two other scarce insects only found on st. helena: a giant ground beetle and the st. helena dragonfly
i'm hoping we will be in time to find the giant earwig and save it,'' said clarke
when asked why anyone should bother, he replied: ``everyone asks that.''
the earwig was part of st. helena's life long before we were around and it is unqiue. as man created the conditions which threatened to exterminate it, we should try to save it,'' he said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis strengthened his lead over jesse jackson in support among michigan democrats and independents, according to survey done by a local television station
missouri rep. richard gephardt, who has said he must win michigan's democratic caucuses saturday which will allocate 138 of the state's 150 delegates to the party's national convention to remain in the race for the party's presidential nomination, showed marked improvement in the wjbk-tv survey over his standing in earlier polls
the survey, released tuesday, of 400 michigan voters identifying themselves as democrats or independents gave dukakis a 35 percent margin of support, wjbk said
jackson, rated virtually even with dukakis earlier this month in polls by the detroit free press and detroit news, had 29 percent. gephardt, hovering at about 10 percent in both newspaper polls, improved to 17 percent in the wjbk survey
sens. albert gore jr. and paul simon of illinois trailed with 6 percent and 5 percent respectively, and another 9 percent of those polled were undecided, the detroit station said. percentages exceeded 100 percent because of rounding
the survey was conducted for wjbk by barry kaplovitz associates of boston and had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
kansas democrats have changed their minds and decided to allow local delegates pledged to the presidential runners-up in saturday's caucuses to vote at district conventions after all
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the kansas contest with 278 of the 764 local delegates elected and jesse jackson finished second with 235
however, there was confusion over the local delegates pledged to tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and missouri rep. richard gephardt and those who were uncommitted
under state rules, local delegates who supported a candidate who didn't reach a 15 percent threshold would be non-entities at the district conventions scheduled for april 23
the state decided monday that those local delegates would be unable to vote at the district conventions and would be ignored in computing national delegates from the districts
but after conferring with the democratic national committee's compliance commission, which interprets the national rules for electing delegates to the national convention, the state party decided tuesday that all local delegates will be allowed to vote
ohio republican party chairman robert bennett says that the state party welcomes supporters of pat robertson, notwithstanding his current or possible future bid for the party's presidential nomination
bennett tuesday discounted notions that the former evangelist may try to take over the party from the ashes of robertson's current campaign, either to push friendly candidates for state offices in 1990 or to launch a possible second run for the presidency in 1992
in some states, including ohio, robertson supporters have entered races for local party offices, triggering speculation that they may have an eventual party takeover in mind. bennett said he doubts it
he said the ohio activity is limited to cincinnati, where some local party candidates who support robertson have been pushing for right-to-life legislation in various public forums for years
there is no concerted effort to take over the party organization in ohio,'' bennett said. he said many robertson backers are disenchanted former democrats and others, new to the political process, who seek republican values that he summed up this way: ``married, with 4.2 kids, and go to church on sunday.''
pat robertson's lone presidential campaign office in oregon will close by april 1, according to the head of the republican contender's organization in the state
david crowe said tuesday the national campaign headquarters in virginia instructed him to close the oregon operation, located in an office complex in bend, ``as soon as possible.''
telephone service will be cut off on april 1, crowe said
in a phone interview, crowe said the national campaign staff decided not to spend much money in states with primary elections, where robertson has done poorly
the former television evangelist has picked up most of his delegates in states with caucus processes
former gov. lamar alexander says he voted for vice president george bush on super tuesday but will not endorse him because he wants to avoid mixing politics with his post as president-elect of the university of tennessee
alexander, in an interview, said tuesday that he had no reaction to published reports that he is high on bush's list of potential republican vice presidential candidates if bush, as expected, wins the presidential nomination
alexander, to succeed ed boling as ut president on july 1, said, ``i plan to show up for work july 1 at ut and be there.'' the republican national convention begins in new orleans on aug. 15
i have resolved not to plan my life around the vice presiedential selection,'' alexander said. ``i could get hit by a car or struck by lightning or be selected as a vice presidential candidate and one is as likely as the other.''
he said his feelings on whether to accept the vice presidential nomination have not changed since his selection as ut's next president
i said (then) i thought it was a remote possibility, that i didn't expect to be asked but that i didn't plan to say, `no,''' alexander said
as the government was reporting a slight increase in auto fuel efficiency last year, two researchers said federal fuel-economy standards will cause thousands of traffic deaths in the next decade by discouraging the use of safer, larger cars
fuel economy regulation inevitably leads to smaller, lighter cars that are inherently less safe than the cars that would be produced without a binding fuel-economy constraint,'' said a study released tuesday by robert w. crandall of the brookings institution in washington and john d. graham of the harvard school of public health in boston
they estimated the standards applied to 1989 cars during 10 years of road use would cause 2,200 to 3,900 traffic deaths
also tuesday, the transportation department told congress that passenger cars sold in the united states got 28.2 miles per gallon last year overall, up 0.2 miles per gallon from the previous year
despite the good news on auto fuel economy, transportation secretary jim burnley used the report to reiterate his support for elimination of the fuel-economy requirement, saying it placed u.s. manufacturers at a disadvantage against their foreign competition
the house has voted to continue and expand a program to encourage private companies to develop drugs for combating rare diseases
the bill was passed on a 401-1 vote tuesday and sent to the senate. it extends the so-called ``orphan drug'' program through fiscal 1990. it would also expand the program, which is overseen by the food and drug administration, to include special devices and foods needed to help people with unusual maladies
under the program, companies are given tax credits and seven-year exclusive marketing rights if they develop products for rare diseases. without incentives, the companies would not pursue development of those products because the small number of beneficiaries would not make it profitable, according to supporters of the legislation
the revised statute, while expanding the program, would triple its cost in the next few years. the current annual authorization of $4 million would grow to $14 million in fiscal 1990
the reagan administration has said it has no objection to the legislation
a house committee says it will cost $3.5 million in transitional expenses for president reagan's successor to move into the white house and cost reagan $1 million to move to retirement in california next january
the government and operations committee tuesday approved a bill authorizing the funds although the democratic-controlled panel rejected a republican move to increase the expense allowance to offset the effects of inflation for the outgoing president to $1.5 million from $1 million, the level in effect since 1976
the proposed boost was opposed by rep. jack brooks, d-texas, the panel's chairman, who said the budget squeeze requires congress to ``make some hard choices'' on spending cuts
the panel approved raising the president-elect's allowance for transitional expenses to $3.5 million from $2 million, the level in effect for the past 12 years. it also rejected, 24-9, a move by rep. robert s. walker, r-pa., to forbid the president-elect from accepting private donations to supplement federal transitional funds
the $1 million for reagan's initial retirement expenses, if approved by the house and senate, would cover his moving expenses from the white house to california and the costs of establishing an office for six months, until funds for former presidents become available under a separate law. nazis</head>
thirty-four years after his death, a portugese diplomat who helped 30,000 refugees flee the nazi invasion of france has been restored to full rank in his country's consular corps
aristides de sousa mendes, who died in poverty and disgrace, was reinstated by a unanimous vote last week of portugal's national assembly, his son sebastian mendes, 64, said tuesday
de sousa mendes was portuguese consul to bordeaux, france, in 1940 when during a three-day period, he, his wife and consul staff defied their government's orders and hand-wrote exit visas for 30,000 refugees, including an estimated 10,000 jews
he decided that it was for him to take action and he took the action ... he saw to be the right action,'' mendes said tuesday
my father was very moral and _ not religious _ but very christian. he believed in helping the unfortunate. he wanted to assist the ones who are less fortunate than he,'' he said in a telephone interview from his home in santa clarita 40 miles northwest of los angeles
the diplomat was recalled to lisbon, stripped of his position and retired without pay. barred from practicing law, forced to sell his property for taxes and reduced to poverty, he died in 1954. his wife, angelina, died in 1948
sebastian mendes, one of 14 children, and a brother claimed u.s. citizenship because they were born when their father was serving in the united states. he enlisted in the u.s. army in 1943
discharged in 1945, mendes went to the san francisco bay area and began trying to restore his father's name, writing to newspapers, approaching human rights groups and even writing a small book about his father
portugal might have paid tribute to de sousa mendes sooner, but the dictatorship that repudiated him lasted until 1974
historians subsequently documented de sousa mendes' work and in 1976 portugal's foreign ministry recommended his reinstatement. he was awarded his country's highest civilian medal last year, but not reinstated until last week
until his death at age 69, de sousa mendes's achievement was acknowledged only by his closest relatives, mendes said
nevertheless, mendes said he is glad that the final element of his father's disgrace has been removed. ``in my old age ... it happened and i'm thankful to god,'' he said. ``i thank god for that.''
the tennessee valley authority is moving closer to reviving its long-idled nuclear program after winning unanimous approval from the nuclear regulatory commission
tva chairman marvin runyon said the federal utility would not compromise 2{-years of rebuilding by rushing the restart of sequoyah nuclear plant
it'll start when it's ready. ... it'll be a safe start,'' runyon said tuesday night after the nrc gave tva permission to restart the unit 2 reactor at the chattanooga plant
the commision's 5-0 vote allows unit 2 to become the first of five licensed tva reactors to resume production of power since they were shut down in 1985 because of safety and management concerns
the only condition for the restart was a last-minute problem involving temperature detectors in the plant's pressurizer system
it's a relatively minor thing, but we want everything to be ready,'' said tva nuclear power manager steven a. white, who joined runyon at a chattanooga news conference after both returned from the nrc meeting in washington
with the vote, the nrc also indicated it did not feel a pending justice department investigation of white had anything to do with whether sequoyah is safe to operate
white has been accused of lying to the nrc in 1986 when he certified in writing that another tva nuclear plant, watts bar near spring city, met federal quality assurance standards. white has denied wrongdoing
nrc chairman lando zech said commissioners had found ``no known regulatory reason'' to further delay restarting unit 2
during the next few days, sequoyah workers will complete final testing and documentation, white said. then, the plant will slowly begin generating nuclear power
it will probably be three weeks before unit 2 is at 100 percent power, but it can produce usable electricity for the tva system at 15 percent, white said
this is very similar to the startup of a new plant, and i expect that we will experience a few problems,'' he said. ``however, our personnel are trained and qualified to resolve any problems that are encountered.''
tva, still facing about $15 billion in long-term debts for the nuclear program, hopes to have sequoyah unit 1 back on line in august, with unit 2 at browns ferry following in december
all three browns ferry reactors were shut down in march 1985. sequoyah, which began operation in 1981, shut down five months after the other reactors. white took over the nuclear power program in a management shakeup early in 1986. coverage</head>
the nation's largest insurers conspired to fabricate a liability crisis, which crippled businesses and forced nationwide cutbacks in police, child care and other services, according to suits by seven states
the lawsuits, filed tuesday in u.s. district court here, accuse dozens of insurance companies of collaborating in a global boycott of certain types of general liability insurance through secret agreements and internal pressure
the suits, filed by california, new york, west virginia, wisconsin, minnesota, massachusetts and alabama, named 32 insurance companies, underwriters and associations, including lloyd's of london
arizona planned to sue in the same court today, and texas filed a separate suit in its state court because the state ``has one of the toughest, best antitrust laws in the nation,'' said texas attorney general jim mattox
these defendants have sucked the blood of our nation's economic well-being,'' mattox said at a news conference in austin
new york state attorney general robert abrams said the case was one of the largest ever tackled by a group of states in a federal court, adding that the states had to take action because the federal government did nothing
one of the companies, aetna life and casualty co., condemned the suit as ``another political move by political officeholders who have consistently opposed any and all efforts to address the real problems of the nation's liability system.''
a spokesman for the insurance services office, a 1,400-member industry trade group also named in the suit, called the allegations unfounded
the lawsuits claim the companies targeted for elimination coverage for pollution accidents and general liability for damage discovered after the life of a policy, known as ``occurrence'' coverage
the companies instead favored more limited policies, covering only losses that were suffered and claimed within the policy term, excluding damage that was discovered later, the suits said
the lawsuits said four major insurance companies _ hartford fire insurance co., allstate insurance co., cigna corp. and aetna _ started a campaign in 1984 to curtail coverage that was generally available in the industry
according to the suits, the companies got major u.s. and british reinsurers, including underwriters at lloyd's of london, to threaten a boycott of any u.s. insurance company that provided the broader coverage
at the same time, the suits said, major insurers and reinsurers pressured the insurance services office to stop distributing standard forms, so that it would be impractical for individual companies to continue offering that coverage
as a result, the suits said, property damage insurance for local governments, nonprofit agencies such as child care centers, and various businesses suddenly became unavailable or prohibitively expensive
this illegal boycott was a major contributor to the insurance crisis that forced so many cities and businesses up against the wall,'' california attorney general john van de kamp said
it was the public and the consumer who paid the price for this collusive exercise in corporate greed.''
in california and elsewhere, local governments cut back or eliminated services, such as parks and police, because of insurance expenses, van de kamp said. many local officials blamed rising damage awards in injury suits and joined the insurance industry in efforts to restrict the right to sue
van de kamp said the attorneys general decided to file together here because he has taken the lead on the issue and california law is favorable to the case and might be cited by the federal court
among other things, the plaintiffs seek to restructure the insurance services office by giving non-insurers a majority on its board and making public its data on insurance coverage losses
dave ostwald, the spokesman for the insurance services office in new york city, said rates increased mainly because of ``a demonstrable increase in claims losses and a drop in interest rates, slowing down (insurers') investment income.''
he said pollution coverage was changed in response to expansive court decisions. pollution insurance and ``occurrence'' coverage remained available, with some restrictions, he added
the hartford insurance group called the lawsuit ``totally without substance'' and said it is confident that all charges eventually will be dismissed. it said the rates in question are established from judgments that are legal and involve no other insurer or insurance organization
northwest airlines flight attendants are likely to ratify a tentative contract that forestalled a walkout by 6,500 workers, a union official said
we're optimistic the agreement will be ratified or we wouldn't be submitting it to the membership,'' marvin griswold, secretary-treasurer of the teamsters' los angeles-based airline division local 2707, said tuesday after the carrier and the union announced the tentative pact
flight attendants had continued working through a feb. 26 strike deadline, but set a march 29 deadline that threatened a walkout during the airline's busy easter season
the tentative pact reached tuesday first must be approved by the rank and file flight attendants negotiating committee, which meets today or thursday. then, it must then be approved by the workers, which could take about 30 days
major details of the proposed contract were not released
both sides acknowledged that the march 29 strike deadline provided the impetus to reach an agreement
we wanted to see an agreement reached before the 29th ... the 29th is a sincere and serious deadline,'' griswold told a news conference
it gave us a target,'' said terry erskine, northwest's vice president of law and labor relations. ``it gave us a focus
if it (a strike) had occurred, we would have been ready and would have operated the airline,'' erskine said
the talks for the last two days were conducted with the help of joshua javits, a member of the national mediation board, and federal mediator robert brown, northwest said
javits said the mediators provided a framework for the two sides to reach a settlement, but ``the parties really did it themselves.''
erskine said that, pending ratification, northwest would suspend the contract it was set to impose on april 1. the teamsters agreed not to engage in any job action during the ratification process
the key issue in the dispute was northwest's two-tier wage structure, of which the airline had proposed extending the lower-paid scale to eight years from the current five years
b-scale flight attendants argued that the airline was trying to break a promise that they would earn higher, a-scale wages after five years
the issue had intensified since northwest acquired republic airlines in 1986. about a third of the 2,600 former republic attendants are on the lower scale, and the others said northwest's previous wage offer was inadequate
jeff musto, a teamsters spokesman in eagan, said only one detail of the contract has been disclosed: that all flight attendants hired by northwest will be required to join the union
erskine said northwest found no evidence of ``guerilla warfare'' tactics the union had threatened as a way to keep the company off balance
he also said northwest did not see its traffic diminish during the dispute, although he acknowledged that some people may have booked flights on other airlines
the oom-pah-pah of a tuba and the jangle of a tambourine were the first clues that things were not quite normal in the queens midtown tunnel early today
then a police van came out on the manhattan side with flashing lights. it braked in front of the more than 100 spectators gathered along the road and its megaphone crackled to life: ``do yourself a favor and don't touch the cages.''
what brought out the crowd, which ranged from grandmothers to infants?
word of trunk,'' one spectator said
it was ringling bros. and barnum &amp; bailey circus' annual three-mile parade of animals as the big top moved into madison square garden for its six-week run
the caged lions and tigers came first, 14 of them in two strands of cages linked together and pulled by trucks. the animals paced back and forth
here pussycat,'' someone in the crowd yelled
living things in manhattan that are not people, and are not cockroaches!'' yelled amy slaton, a 30-year-old art critic. ``this is the happiest night of my life.''
the crowd roared as the elephants appeared at the tunnel exit. ninteen were linked with long strands of chains, walking mainly two abreast. the cry went up, ``wooo-oooo! elephants! elephants! aaaall right!''
paula van meter was wearing an elephant nose and ears in honor of her sixth trip to the parade
sometimes dignitaries get to ride on the elephants,'' the 41-year-old brooklyn resident said. ``that would be worth running for office.''
i wish we had a little baby elephant,'' said a child
after the elephants came 15 horses, five zebras and six camels
the rear was brought up by a department of sanitation street sweeper, busy at work
one elephant rider was richard dunne, a 37-year-old lawyer from baltimore, who said he bought the ride at a charity auction. he would not say how much he paid, only that it was expensive and worth the money
it was like a gigantic horse,'' dunne said. ``it's so fresh for new york. everyone is smiling and happy, even the cops were happy.''
four years after a big mining company decided to phase out its operations in copperhill, the village tucked in the appalachian mountains of southeast tennessee has filed for bankruptcy protection
i don't know where else to scratch,'' copperhill mayor sylvan green said in a telephone interview, calling tuesday's chapter 9 federal court filing a last resort for the town of about 400 people about 60 miles east of chattanooga
much of the problem for copperhill derives from a long-standing dispute over a sewer and water service deal with neighboring mccaysville, ga. the dispute began when tennessee chemical co. said it was bailing out
back in 1979, copperhill's mining operations were owned by cities service co., the town decided to buy extra water from mccaysville to supply what was easily polk county's largest employer
that prompted mccaysville to float a bond issue on a new water plant and agree to pay copperhill for sewer service
then in 1982, tennessee chemical co. bought the mining operations. two years later, it said it couldn't compete with cheap imported copper and announced plans to lay off 900 workers by 1987
suddenly, copperhill no longer needed extra water, and when it stopped paying for it, mccaysville began withholding its $3,000 monthly payments for sewer service. that was about two years ago
they were to purchase ... almost 50 percent of our water, depending upon the tennessee chemical company,'' said mccaysville mayor barbara thomas
of course, the tennessee chemical company did not come through with their part of the bargain,'' she said. ``but that was not the contract we had. we had the contract with copperhill.''
mccaysville claims copperhill owes $255,000 in back water payments. copperhill wants payment for sewer service. negotiations failed and lately, said mrs. thomas, they haven't even been able to agree on when to talk
the loss of the sewer payments put such a dent in copperhill's budget that green told officials last year that the city could not finish building its new police station
in the petition filed in u.s. bankruptcy court, copperhill listed debts to 12 creditors totaling $302,355.49
a chapter 9 bankruptcy is designed to allow a municipal government to maintain necessary levels of service while it implements a plan to adjust its debts
coastal residents were jolted awake by a moderate earthquake and aftershock today, prompting worried calls to police. there were no reports of injury or damage, officials said
the first shock, measuring 3.9 on the richter scale, hit at 12:42 a.m. and was centered 11 miles southeast of downtown, said robert finn, spokesman for the seismology lab at the california institute of technology in pasadena
fifteen minutes later, an aftershock measured 2.7 on the richter scale
the temblors were felt in nearby goleta and isla vista, and southward in carpinteria, ojai, ventura and oxnard, about 30 miles away, finn said
these quakes weren't strong enough to do much damage, but a lot of people felt them,'' finn said
about 30 people telephoned santa barbara county sheriff's headquarters after the earth movement to confirm what they felt, said deputy larry ralston
they were just concerned and curious, or like one who wanted to know if he had been dreaming,'' ralston said
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude
an earthquake of 3.5 on the richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage
rain and high winds howled through the northwest today after gusts up to 68 mph felled trees, killing a teen-age girl and injuring another
osita emetaron of portland, ore., was struck by a tree at ecola state park on the northern oregon coast tuesday afternoon, said cannon beach police officer kristen knight. the girl was dead on arrival at seaside general hospital
the other girl, a 14-year-old with ms. emetaron whose name was not made public, was treated at the hospital and released
gusts up to 68 mph were recorded in seaside
a gale warning remained in effect today along the washington coast and for oregon's coastal waters. a high wind warning was posted for the northern and central oregon coast, and a high wind watch was issued for eastern washington
rain showers were numerous along the coast of washington and oregon late tuesday
a heavy snow warning was in effect for oregon's northern cascade mountains, where up to 8 inches of snow was expected. a snow advisory was up for the cascades in southern oregon and washington
temperatures were below freezing from upper michigan to new england, with readings in the teens and single digits in eastern new york state and northern new england
by contrast, temperatures remained above 50 degrees early today from the gulf coast states to the middle mississippi valley, with 60s reported from texas to western illinois
today's forecast called for scattered showers and thunderstorms from eastern oklahoma and arkansas to eastern kansas and missouri, scattered rain showers from the middle mississippi valley to the upper great lakes and from the northwest to the northern third of the rockies, and numerous rain showers from the northern pacific coast to northern washington and northwest montana
temperatures were expected to reach the 60s and 70s across much of the nation; the 30s in northwest minnesota and much of maine; the 40s in much of north dakota, the northern great lakes and southern and central new england; the 50s from oregon to northern utah and from the northern high plains to northern lower michigan; the 80s from the southwestern deserts to western and and central texas and western oklahoma
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 6 degrees at st. johnsbury, vt., to 70 degrees at fort lauderdale, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 49 fair; boston 27 fair; buffalo 30 fair; charleston, s.c. 52 cloudy; cincinnati 56 fair; cleveland 42 fair; detroit 33 fair; miami 70 fair; new york 27 fair; philadelphia 33 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 35 fair; portland, maine 18 fair; washington 35 fair
_central: bismarck 31 foggy; chicago 60 windy; dallas-fort worth 63 windy; denver 38 fair; des moines 41 partly cloudy; indianapolis 51 fair; kansas city 54 partly cloudy; minneapolis-st. paul 39 cloudy; nashville 58 fair; new orleans 59 fair; st. louis 62 fair
_west: albuquerque 51 fair; anchorage 29 cloudy; las vegas 55 fair; los angeles 56 foggy; phoenix 64 fair; salt lake city 41 partly cloudy; san diego 57 fair; san francisco 54 cloudy; seattle 45 showers
_canada: montreal 18 fair; toronto 28 partly cloudy
i am a panamanian not a gringo. let the world know we are fighting the ultimate battle for dignity and against colonialism.'' _ panamanian gen. manuel antonio, again rejecting a u.s. call for him to surrender power and go into exile
this legislation is about your neighbor. it's about flesh and blood. it says we're not going to subsidize discrimination. we don't want to see those dark corners anymore. ... we don't want to revisit the past.'' _ sen. lowell weicker, r-conn., after congress overrode president reagan's veto of the civil rights restoration act
i read about how winnie the pooh flies in the air on kites, but i never wanted to try it. i wasn't thinking anything but how scared i was.'' _ deandra anrig, 8, who took a 100-foot ride in the sky when an airplane snagged her kite line and yanked her into the air
a former wedtech corp. official who says he bribed numerous public officials, including rep. mario biaggi, also admits that he stole $1.5 million from the defense contractor
mario moreno, ex-vice chairman of the defunct bronx company, detailed numerous bribes and payoffs by wedtech
during his sixth day of testimony tuesday at the racketeering trial of biaggi and six others, moreno said the payoffs went to bankers, lawyers and union leaders
but under cross examination, he also admitted transferring $250,000 in kickbacks to a swiss bank account, even after he had agreed to cooperate with prosecutors
biaggi; his eldest son; his former law partner and four others are charged with turning wedtech into a racketeering enterprise that paid millions of dollars in bribes to land and maintain government contracts
moreno, the first prosecution witness, has linked the defendants to numerous payoff and fraud schemes but he also admitted personally stealing $1.5 million in wedtech funds
moreno also said he made false statements to the internal revenue service, state tax authorities, the securities and exchange commission, the small business administration, the defense department ``and a few other agencies.''
moreno also claimed wedtech paid $80,000 to rep. robert garcia, d-n.y., for ``political favors.'' garcia, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing, denied moreno's allegation through a spokesman
the payments for ``political favors and political introductions'' were made to garcia ``because he and his wife requested it,'' said moreno
moreno also said wedtech paid $130,000 to two bronx bankers in early 1984 for helping the company obtain a $500,000 cash loan _ at $150,000 interest over three months _ from a bronx businessman; $15,000 to a manhattan banker who helped them launder the $500,000 cash; $10,000 to $15,000 over six years to a consolidated edison manager ``to have con edison on our side whenever we needed it'' and a $100,000 payoff to two teamsters officials in 1985 to settle a dispute with another union
the luck o' the irish was with two elderly women who were trapped in their overturned car. they were rescued by six firefighters from dublin, ireland
azzie harrison, 72, and passenger edna rozar, 73, of dublin, ga., became trapped tuesday after their car plunged over the side of a bridge into a creek near the intersection of u.s. 80 west and shamrock drive
six members of the dublin, ireland, fire brigade, who are visiting to bring greetings from their lord mayor for the millennium of their irish hometown, were sitting in a fire station when the rescue call came
they joined in cutting through the car's hood and breaking its windows to free the women, who were listed in fair condition early today at a hospital
that's the thing about firefighters,'' said seamus o'connor, one of the six firemen. ``we can go anywhere and fit right in.''
a vietnamese refugee has died after she lost a fight against leukemia that prompted the vietnamese government to release her relatives in hope of finding a compatible bone marrow donor
myhanh luong, 21, died of an infection stemming from her leukemia, north shore university hospital spokesman daniel rosette said tuesday
luong came to the united states in 1979 after a seven-day journey from vietnam to the philippines in a small boat with 52 other refugees. in 1986, while attending baruch college, she was diagnosed with the blood cancer
in january, under pressure from the u.s. state department, the vietnamese government granted exit visas to luong's parents and two sisters in ho chi minh city ``on humanitarian grounds.''
doctors had hoped that one of them would have bone marrow that could be transplanted to save luong. tests showed, however, that their bone marrow was not compatible with hers
luong's leukemia had been in remission since november, a step which is crucial if any other life saving options were to be attempted, rosette said
in an effort to boost her spirits, doctors permitted her to go home to long island for five days earlier this month
a week after she returned to the hospital she contracted an infection and never recovered, rosette said
she really enjoyed her stay at home,'' said her sister, mymy luong. ``we are all very upset.'' mymy said family members were at her bedside when she died
funeral services for luong were held monday in new york city's chinatown
the average japanese household in a recent survey had $82,000 in savings at the end of last year, up 14.9 percent from a year earlier, a government report published today said
it was the biggest annual increase in savings since 1979, when average savings rose 15.5 percent from 1978, said namiko mizutani, a statistician at the management and coordination agency, which conducted the survey
mizutani said the increase resulted largely from an increase in stock prices last year
despite last october's worldwide stock market crash, the average prices of 1,058 major stocks listed on the tokyo stock exchange's first section rose about 15 percent in value from 1986, local news reports said
the agency surveyed 6,150 families on dec. 31, but left out those engaged in agricuture and fisheries, and single people
coast guard searchers today found debris they suspected was from an air force f-16 jet that crashed into the gulf of mexico during a training mission, but there was no sign of the pilot, officials said
the unidentified pilot was flying solo 40 miles west of fort myers when the jet went down tuesday night, said air force capt. diane lawhon, a spokeswoman for macdill air force base
officials don't know what caused the crash or if the pilot was able to eject from the plane
searchers flew over a 100-square-mile area early today and found small pieces of debris they believe was part of the plane, said petty officer tom gillespie
the pieces are small. the biggest is 1-foot-by-1-foot. they are collecting the debris and will give it to the air force, (which) will make the decision about whether or not it is from the plane,'' gillespie said from the coast guard's miami office
he said it is ``not unusual'' to not find a pilot's remains after crashes of impacts so strong that the plane is torn apart
the jet was accompanied by another f-16 from macdill. when that pilot lost radio contact with the downed flier, he circled around to look for him but found nothing, ms. lawhon said
a coast guard jet and helicopter searched about 40 miles off sarasota, said sgt. michelle spicer, another macdill spokeswoman. macdill sent a c-130 four-engine cargo plane to aid in the search
the f-16 fighting falcon has a f100 pratt and whitney engine and is manufactured by general dynamics. macdill has about 100 f-16s in its fleet, delivered in 1978
the british ferry, herald of free enterprise, that capsized off the belgian coast last year killing 193 people aboard, arrived at a southern taiwan scrap yard, officials said today
the ferry was in a disastrous state. there's only mud and garbage left inside,'' said wang chin-yeh, an official of chi shun hua steel co., a ship salvage company in the kaohsiung, 220 miles south of taipei
the ferry arrived in the scrap yard tuesday night after being towed on a 50-day, 7,582 nautical mile journey from a dutch port
the herald of free enterprise capsized off the belgian port of zeebrugge on march 6, 1987, in the worst peacetime disaster involving a british ship since the titanic sank in 1912. separates moved.</note>
reyner banham, an influential writer on architecture and the arts, died saturday of cancer at age 66
banham began working at the bristol aeroplane co. after world war ii. he studied art history at london university's courtauld institute while writing about contemporary architecture for the architectural review
banham wrote three widley studied books ``theory and design in the first machine age'' in 1960, ``the new brutalism'' in 1966 and ``architecture of the well-tempered environment'' in 1969
gerhard claas, general secretary of the baptist world alliance, died monday from injuries suffered in a traffic accident near lodi, calif
claas, 59, was the chief administrative officer of the alliance, an international baptist organization with a membership of more than 35 million worldwide. the organization conducts teaching, development and disaster relief efforts in third world nations
claas was a citizen of west germany, where he had served in a number of pastoral and administrative posts
the philippines and the united states today said that on april 5 they will begin a periodic review of the executive agreement under which the united states operates six military bases here
the review of the 1947 military bases agreement is expected to center on u.s. compensation for the right to operate clark air base, subic bay naval base and four smaller installations. the united states currently pays the philippines $180 million in economic and military aid annually
some philippine legislators have suggested the figure be increased to more than $2 billion a year. foreign secretary raul manglapus, chief philippine negotiator in the talks, says $1.2 billion annually would be ``realistic.''
in addition to compensation, the bases also employ 68,000 filipinos. the united states estimates the installations add nearly $1 billion a year to the local economy
a deal to bestow prestigious harvard positions on a texas couple in exchange for a $500,000 donation has drawn fire from a senior administrator of the university's john f. kennedy school of government
executive dean richard cavanagh praised some aspects of the school's ``entrepreneurial style of raising money'' but complained about the tentative deal in a confidential report based on a two-month study of funding efforts
it is clear that this was an unusual, unhappy and unfortunate incident _ the product of misunderstanding, inexperience, sloppy handling and hasty processing,'' said cavanagh
cavanagh's comments were carried in the latest edition of the weekly harvard gazette, published by the university. harvard officials confirmed the accuracy of his statements but declined to release his report
the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said no decision has been made on whether to conclude the agreement. one official suggested that the controversy surrounding the deal was the reason for putting it on hold
cavanagh was appointed in december and asked to examine the school's fund-raising methods. other harvard institutions also conducted fund-raising surveys on orders from harvard president derek bok
bok's action followed publication by the harvard crimson student newspaper in november of parts of the draft agreement between the school and charles cameron dickinson iii and his wife, joanne
the donors will be appointed by the dean to appropriate positions in the school of government that will accord them status as officers of the university with the privileges associated therewith,'' said the agreement, tentatively approved by kennedy school dean graham t. allison
only full-time instructors and administrators normally are appointed officers of the university, academic, administrative or advisory positions
the crimson also published a in-house memo by an allison aide stating that mrs. dickinson wanted to know the most prestigious title she could buy for $250,000 and asking how much it would cost to be on an advisory committee
kennedy school officials confirmed the existence the memo, but spokesman steven singer declined requests tuesday for telephone interviews with allison or cavanagh
allison described the deal as a mistake shortly after it came to light
dickinson, a 1980 graduate of harvard divinity school, comes from a wealthy texas oil family. no one answered the telephone at the dickinson residence in wichita falls
kennedy school officials, acting on recommendations in the cavanagh report, recently created a position of director of development and gave the develpment office full responsibility for fund raising
many americans say they have heard enough about the iran-contra affair and unrest in israel's occupied territories, a national poll found
a tampa tribune-gallup poll of 1,211 registered voters, conducted by telephone between march 10-12 and released today, found that 64 percent wanted to hear less about the iran-contra scandal. only 29 percent wanted more information about the affair
on social unrest in israel, 42 percent wanted to know more and 47 percent wanted less information, according to the poll, which had a 3 percent margin of error
the poll also found that most americans care more about issues such as drug abuse, long-term health care, quality education and aid to the homeless
of those polled, 84 percent said they wanted to hear more about battling illegal drugs. at least two-thirds of the polled voters wanted more information about efforts to fight aids, making american businesses more competitive with foreign imports and negotiating arms control agreements with the soviet union
nasa scientists are planning an international satellite system to study the atmosphere more completely, a program moved into high gear because of recent ominous changes in the ozone layer and other problems
the earth observing system will be an international network of space-based polar laboratories focusing on the planet's weather and ecology, national aeronautics and space administration project scientist dixon butler said tuesday
this will bring about a revolution in our understanding of the earth as a whole system,'' butler said via satellite to scientists at agency centers across the country, including the jet propulsion laboratory in pasadena
the schedule for the program was recently accelerated because of worrisome changes in the earth's atmosphere, such as depletion in the protective ozone layer, butler said from nasa's goddard space flight center in greenbelt, md
the six satellite labs will also monitor the so-called ``greenhouse effect,'' in which the earth's temperature is gradually rising because of increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, butler said
the agency is asking for $20 million in next year's budget to finalize planning and preparations for launches beginning in 1995, said charles redmond, a spokesman for nasa's science division
the project involves two satellites to be launched by japanese and european agencies, as well as four by nasa. it features an estimated $2 billion u.s. price tag, he said
we need the intellectual resources of all mankind,'' butler said. ``we must have international cooperation.''
nasa has already received about 870 letters from scientific groups proposing experiments, he said. he also said soviet participation is a possibility
instruments to be used on the satellites include a synthetic aperture radar, which uses radar waves to create images that would otherwise be hidden by clouds or vegetation
another is a ``geodynamics laser ranging system'' that could detect the slightest movement along such geological features as california's san andreas fault, butler said
three members of this city's assyrian community were arrested by police after they fired guns repeatedly in a cemetery salute to a dead comrade, authorities said
the arrests occurred tuesday during the burial of charles warda, 21, who died in an auto accident last week, said police capt. clarence zanders
john cannon, an official of the montrose cemetery and crematorium on chicago's northwest side, said the three men began firing into the air as part of a makeshift salute
there was quite a bit of shooting going on, and we really didn't think it was proper,'' cannon said
zanders said the officers who were called to the scene discovered no injuries and no damage to property, but confiscated five guns
a police spokeswoman, tina vicini, said gunfire has been reported before in connection with burials in the assyrian community
modern assyrians, a christian group from present-day iraq, are said to be the descendants of the people who ruled the ancient assyrian empire before its destruction in 612 b.c. million</head>
eds: new thruout to update with india canceling tennis visit, figures on cost of uprising to israel, cabinet to meet. changes byline
india today canceled the visit of a tennis team to protest israel's handling of arab riots, and new figures showed that anti-occupation violence in the west bank and gaza strip cost israel more than $335 million
israel's 10-member inner cabinet was to meet later in the day to hear a report from prime minister yitzhak shamir on his talks in the united states
shamir was greeted tuesday by thousands of singing and dancing supporters who welcomed his steadfast refusal to accept an american peace plan
i return satisfied, especially after people tried to frighten me before i left that the visit would be a difficult one and that i would hear harsh words,'' shamir told an airport news conference. ``i'm satisfied that didn't happen.''
also tuesday, defense minister yitzhak rabin told a parliamentary committee that israel had jailed 3,000 arabs since dec. 8, including 700 since sunday, israeli newspapers said today
in an underground leaflet circulated in the gaza strip, the palestine liberation organization announced payments will be made to people who lose family members, property or jobs because of clashes with israeli soldiers
gad yacobi, minister of economy, disclosed that the violence that began dec. 8 in the occupied lands has cost israel more than $335 million in lost production, exports and added security costs, spokeswoman naama henig said today. the tally does not include losses in tourism and agriculture
if the situation continues, it will have a significant impact on israel's economy,'' she quoted yacobi as telling israeli economic writers
yacobi said there was a drop in overall production, especially in construction, of 10 percent to 20 percent a month during the last three months. this resulted in a loss of at least $75 million, he said
he put the cost for extra security at $60 million
the biggest loss was in israeli exports to the occupied lands _ reduced by $200 million thus far. israeli exports to gaza and the west bank totaled $1.15 billion last year
indian prime minister rajiv gandhi announced today that his country's davis cup team was canceling a visit to israel to protest israeli ``repression and atrocities'' against arabs in the territories
zvi meyer, secretary of the israel tennis association, said he was ``very surprised and disappointed'' by the decision. he said israel had already sold 1,500 seats for the three-day series that was to begin april 7
it was the first protest cancellation of a sporting or entertainment event as a result of the clashes in the occupied lands, although the violence has made it difficult for promoters to arrange such events
for example, an all-star tennis fund-raiser for israel's sharei tzadek hospital was canceled after officials said big name players such as chris evert would not come because of security concerns
the underground leaflet distributed in gaza said families would receive a one-time payment of $2,900 for ``martyrs'' killed in confrontations and $600 for anyone arrested. according to u.n. figures, 107 palestinians have been killed by israeli soldiers or settlers since dec. 8 in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war. one israeli soldier has been killed
merchants unable to open stores because of strikes would get $1,450 in compensation from the plo, and police who resigned their jobs would get $1,450 as a first payment
israeli officials have taken steps to prevent the plo from compensating palestinians who suffered financial losses
money changers have been particularly hard hit because one such measure is a ceiling of $1,350 on the amount of money brought into israel by individuals or institutions, an official said on condition of anonymity
demonstrations subsided this afternoon in israel's occupied lands, although arab reports said a curfew was extended on deir al balah in the gaza strip after an overnight demonstration in which youths threw stones at soldiers
all of gaza is under a nightly curfew until 3 a.m
on tuesday, a palestinian motorist was ambushed and killed near the gaza strip town of khan yunis, and israeli troops shot and killed a palestinian in the west bank village of tubas
ugly is officially out in this community east of san francisco, where residents now can be sent to jail for having eyesores in their yards
not everyone is happy about the new law, which critics say will turn neighbors into enemies
the law, which goes into effect march 30, will outlaw hanging a clothesline visible from the street, leaving broken furniture or auto parts in the yard, or even maintaining a house with most of its paint peeling
provisions banning garbage cans, building materials, dirt piles, packing boxes and broken appliances in front yards are part of a self-improvement campaign by the city, city officials said
city councilman dave burton says the city has no business subjecting citizens to white-glove inspections
this is a sledgehammer approach to a problem of aesthetics,'' burton said. ``if you brought a pile of lumber to your house, they could cite you.''
city councilman paul moffatt said the law was needed to prevent public health and safety problems arising from the large number of people piling refuse in their yards and creating dangerous conditions for children in dublin, a city of 19,000 located 30 miles southeast of san francisco
we have old decaying trees where rodents can get in and we have some rabies out here,'' said moffatt
he explained a clothesline could be a hazard ``if constructed so it restricts the vision of a person taking a car around a corner so they couldn't negotiate the corner in a safe and orderly manner.''
a first violation carries a $100 fine, which increases to $500 for a third infraction before a scofflaw can be charged with a misdemeanor and put in jail. the ordinance will be enforced only when a citizen files a complaint
liberal politicians and a legal expert today criticized president p.w. botha for halting the murder trial of six soldiers charged with the killing of an activist in south-west africa
helen suzman, parliament member for the anti-apartheid progressive federal party, noted that botha's action came a week after he refused to intervene to spare ``the sharpeville six'' _ a group of blacks sentenced to hang for complicity in a 1984 mob killing of a black town councilor
despite an international clemency campaign, botha said his policy was to avoid interfering with the judicial process. last thursday, after botha's pronouncement, a judge granted a one-month stay of execution to the six in order to consider claims that a state witness committed perjury
in light of botha's refusal to intervene in the sharpeville case, mrs. suzman said she was ``astonished'' that the president ``did not allow the ordinary course of justice to be followed'' in the case of the soldiers in south-west africa
botha ordered the attorney general of the territory, commonly known as namibia, to halt prosecution under the defense act, which exempts security forces members from court action if they act ``in good faith'' in combating suspected terrorism
the six soldiers _ four officers and two enlisted men _ were accused of arranging for 50 black soldiers to disguise themselves in civilian clothes, arm themselves with spears and knives, and disrupt a political rally in 1985
the rally was sponsored by the south-west african people's organization, which seeks independence from south africa. swapo's outlawed military wing has been waging a guerrilla war since 1966
the man fatally stabbed at the rally, immanuel shifidi, was a swapo member
dirk van zyl smit, a criminology professor at the university of cape town, said botha's intervention was the worst type of executive interference because, unlike a pardon or reprieve, it occurred before a judgment had been made
dave dalling, a progressive federal member of parliament, said botha's action placed the army above the law and undermined public confidence in the judiciary
in the namibian capital, windhoek, the local bar association expressed ``shock and disbelief'' at botha's action
the labor party, which represents most of the territory's mixed-race people, said botha's ``arbitrary decision ... may give rise to further public violence, bloodshed and chaos.'' has received 3 death sentences and faces execution, sted that he faces three death sentences</note>
when eleanore rose holds a burial next week for her murdered daughter, allegedly a victim of killer ted bundy 14 years ago, the casket will contain denise's favorite dress, a rose and some photos
but there will be no remains
king county authorities, who had kept the bones of 18-year-old denise naslund as part of their investigation of the alleged serial killer, misplaced them shortly after they were found in 1974 in a wooded area in the cascade foothills east of seattle
a lawsuit filed by ms. rose and relatives against the county was settled recently out of court and details were not made public. but ms. rose said the settlement, and next wednesday's memorial, are little consolation
i can't forget the remains were lost,'' she said tuesday. ``her being murdered was bad enough. ... all those years they told me they would give the remains back.''
in 1974, police agreed to temporarily place the remains in the casket so a memorial service could be held. afterward, they were taken away by detectives, and the casket wrapped in plastic and placed in the funeral home's basement
ten years later, when ms. rose sought to have them released for burial, she learned they had mysteriously disappeared, possibly in an office move or an accidental cremation, which would violate her roman catholic beliefs
losing the remains ``is almost, to me, sacrilegious. it's almost like a crime was committed,'' she said
when the service is held at forest lawn cemetery in seattle, ms. naslund's casket will hold some of her personal effects, including a favorite floral-print dress. her mother said she plans to add a silk rose, photos of herself and her daughter, a crucifix and some letters
in one letter, county officials express their regret at losing ms. naslund's remains. another note is from ms. rose to her daughter, ``dear denise, god forgive them for what they have done. i love you, mom.''
ms. naslund, along with janice ott, disappeared on july 14, 1974. two months later, the bones of the women were found scattered in a remote area. the cause of death was not positively determined
no charges in washington were ever filed against bundy, who is on death row in florida after receiving three death sentences for the 1978 murders of two florida state university sorority sisters and the february 1978 kidnap, rape and murder of a 12-year-old lake city, fla., girl
however, bundy has been described by king county police as their prime suspect in the unsolved slayings of ms. naslund, ms. ott and six other young women in western washington in 1974
in ms. rose's seattle home, the walls of the small kitchen are crowded with photographs of her daughter, whose bedroom remains much the same as it was when she disappeared. ms. naslund's 1964 chevrolet impala is still parked outside
telemarketing, a sales strategy usually associated with business, is gaining popularity in the religious society of friends, a group not known for evangelism
in kernersville, a handful of quakers with telephones, address lists and friendly voices hope to gather a new weekly meeting
on tuesday night, they gathered at the former site of spruce pines friends meeting, a dwindling church that finally closed in november. quakers from winston-salem, kernersville, archdale and charlotte dial nightly in a four-week campaign that has yielded more than 200 requests for information since sunday
hi. this is archie creed with the new north view friends church that will be opening off piney grove road in may,'' said the church's pastor in a call to a prospective member
creed first asks if the person is actively involved in a local church. if they say yes, he thanks them for their time. if they say no, creed asks if the church can mail them a brochure
each call is ranked according to the person's response: fair, good, very good, excellent. ``first one tonight!'' exclaimed ethel holmes, a volunteer from kernersville, after she marked one response ``excellent.''
most of them are receptive, even if they attend another church,'' she said. ``i have had no hangups.''
holmes is sold on this unconventional method of evangelism
people do not respond to door-knocking real well,'' she explained. but they usually don't mind a phone call, she said
the goal is 25,000 calls, which creed hopes will produce a mailing list of 2,500 names
he expects more than 200 people at the church's first official service may 15
steve wood, pastor of battle forest friends church in northwest greensboro, is also sold on telemarketing
his congregation recently completed an 8,000-call campaign. on sunday, the 85-member congregation will celebrate its telephonic fruits at a service for new members
wood, a part-time real estate agent, got the idea from telemarketing advertisements in real estate magazines. if it works for business, he thought, why not use it in the church?
door-to-door visitation was out because it takes too much time for too few results, wood said
so far, telemarketing by quakers has been very successful, says billy britt, superintendent of the n.c. friends yearly meeting. in southern california, such campaigns produced seven new churches, he said
about one percent of those called end up joining the church, which means battle forest can expect to add about 60 people to its rolls
if other quakers object to the technique, they haven't told him about it
there has been no opposition to it,'' britt said. ``it is aimed at the unchurched. there's no high pressure.''
coastal residents were jolted awake by a moderate earthquake and aftershock today, prompting worried calls to police and radio stations, but there were no reports of injury or damage
the first shock, measuring 3.9 on the richter scale, hit at 12:42 a.m. and was centered 11 miles southeast of downtown santa barbara, said robert finn, spokesman for the seismology lab at the california institute of technology in pasadena
at 12:57 there was an aftershock in the same location with a 2.7 magnitude,'' finn said. ``these quakes weren't strong enough to do much damage, but a lot of people felt them.''
about 30 shaken sleepers telephoned santa barbara county sheriff's headquarters to confirm what they felt, said deputy larry ralston
they were just concerned and curious, or like one who wanted to know if he had been dreaming,'' ralston said
the early morning quake was centered about 75 miles northwest of downtown los angeles
a $52 million grant from the moody foundation will be used to build a towering greenhouse housing exotic plants from tropical rain forests, officials say
besides the tropical indoor gardens, there will be a 400-seat theater featuring a three-dimensional film, a plant-science center and a garden restaurant, foundation officials announced tuesday
all are part of the foundation's 142-acre, $120 million botanic garden, research and entertainment complex on galveston island
the one-acre preserve will grow inside a facility foundation officials said will be 12 to 15 stories tall. it is scheduled to open in early 1993, said e. douglas mcleod, the foundation's director of development
galveston mayor jan coggeshall said she was grateful to the foundation for the project, which is expected to attract thousands of visitors and subsequently pump more tourist dollars into the community
i think it (the project) is a symbol of galveston's future,'' ms. coggeshall said. ``it is a living part of our future on the island.''
moody gardens will have a movable viewing platform so visitors can see the gardens from different levels. there will be streams, trails, waterfalls and plants representing the tropical rainforests of asia, africa and both americas. two conservatories also are planned
not included in the $52-million phase but part of the development is a beach area called palm beach, which will feature white sand imported from orlando, fla. the sand arrived saturday and will be spread over a three-acre area later this spring
the moody foundation was established in 1942 by wealthy businessman william lewis moody jr. and his wife, libbie shearn moody, and is still controlled by family members
a judge has ordered maria desillers to turn over additional donations that she recently told officials she had received for her late son's liver transplants
all undeposited contributions must be listed and handed over to a court-appointed curator today, dade circuit judge francis j. christie said tuesday
curator karen gievers requested the order after ms. desillers said friday that she had found a ``substantial amount'' of unopened mail last november in warehouse where she stored furniture and other possessions
the carton of mail included checks and cash donated for desillers' 7-year-old son, ronnie, who died april 29 at children's hospital of pittsburgh while awaiting his fourth liver transplant
when ronnie's need for a liver transplant was publicized last year, donations were received from well-wishers throughout the country, including $1,000 from president reagan
an audit by the florida secretary of state found that ms. desillers received almost $1 million in donations, of which about $175,000 could not be accounted for
ms. desillers' lawyer said tuesday that for four months his client didn't deposit the newly found donations, which he said totaled only a few hundred dollars
she has kept everything segregated and stapled together,'' attorney harry robbins said. ``she figured if she made any more deposits it wasn't going to look good.''
the state has charged ms. desillers with using donations for her personal expenses and failing to register ronnie's fund as a charity. ms. desillers, who faces a maximum $1,000 fine, will contest the charges at a may 10 hearing
state investigators say ms. desillers withdrew at least $47,000 in donations to buy jewelry, clothing and furniture, pay rent on her miami bayfront apartment and return $5,000 loaned to her by a former boyfriend
last fall, children's hospital sued ms. desillers after she refused to pay $262,000 of the $424,300 bill that remained from her son's transplants. ms. desillers claimed the boy received poor care, which hospital officials deny
meanwhile, the dade county state attorney's office is continuing a criminal investigation into whether ms. desillers committed fraud or theft by using some of the donations for her expenses
earlier this month, christie froze the boy's estate and appointed ms. gievers to oversee the $239,287 that remained in the child's bank account
when ms. gievers learned of the undeposited funds last week, she requested that the money be turned over to her immediately. by tuesday, when she had not received the money, she filed the petition in the dade court
the money will be deposited in a restricted, interest-bearing account until the court rules how the remaining funds will be distributed, ms. gievers said
robbins has said his client did not misuse any of the donations and that she is entitled to the estate because she is the boy's natural heir
the roman catholic bishop whose diocese includes the ira stronghold of catholic west belfast said today the outlawed guerrilla organization is ``sheer evil.''
the ira poses a very grave spiritual danger to the catholic community and we must realize that and have no illusions about it,'' said bishop cahal daly in an interview with radio ulster, the british broadcasting corp.'s local northern ireland station
this is a question of sheer evil and we have got to face that evil and have no truck with it,'' he declared
daly is bishop of down and connor. the diocese includes west belfast where two british soldiers were killed saturday when they drove up to the funeral cortege for irish republican army guerrilla kevin brady
in scenes that shocked television audiences around the world, members of the catholic crowd in the funeral cortege for brady dragged the soldiers from the car, stripped them naked and beat them unconscious with iron bars before ira gunmen shot them dead
daly in a statement tuesday declared: ``ira violence is often disguised with a mask of romantic rhetoric and militaristic mock ritual. for a ghastly half-hour on saturday, the mask slipped. the real face of ira violence was shown and it was horrible to see.''
he said the crowd saturday had a right to fear that they were going to be attacked. the previous wednesday a protestant extremist killed three people and wounded 68 in an attack on an ira funeral
but let us not be deceived. this was not a momentary lapse from high ira principles and standards. people would not have taken iron bars in their hands to batter soldiers into unconsciousness if they had not taken hatred into their hearts,'' he said in tuesday's statement
daly pleaded with those who joined the ira ``for idealistic reasons and out of sense of justice'' to quit the organization
for god's sake, for ireland's sake, let them leave the organization now before still more grievous harm is done,'' he said
sean kenny, a sinn fein member of belfast city council, dismissed the statement, saying the bishop was an apologist for the british security forces. sinn fein is the ira's legal political arm
brady was one of three people killed in a gun and grenade attack at the march 16 funeral at milltown cemetery of three unarmed ira guerrillas killed by british troops in gibraltar
protestant michael stone was charged tuesday with three counts of murder in connection with the cemetery deaths and with murdering three other catholics in sniper attacks
the predominantly catholic ira is fighting to unite northern ireland with the irish republic. background. no pickup.</note>
president francois mitterrand said he will seek re-election because he can rise above france's fractious politics and keep the country together
the 71-year-old socialist announced on nationwide television tuesday that he will seek re-election next month. prior to his announcement, opinion polls put him in the lead
mitterrand told a tv interviewer he decided to run because he thinks disunity threatens ``to tear the social fabric'' of france
i saw a risk that the country might fall again into the quarrels and divisions that have hampered it so often. i want france to be united ... not be taken in hand by the spirit of intolerance, by parties who want everything, by clans, by cliques,'' he said
after mitterrand declared, michel rocard, until now the socialist party's only candidate, withdrew and gave his full support to the incumbent. the main conservative candidates are premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre
the first round of the elections is to be held april 24 with a run-off between the top two candidates scheduled for may 8
mitterrand led the leftist surge in may 1981 that ousted president valery giscard d'estaing and the center-right alliance that had controlled the national assembly for 23 years
the victory avenged mitterrand's defeats in the presidential elections of 1965 by charles de gaulle and 1974 by giscard d'estaing
but france's love affair with the socialists was short-lived
after five years, french voters in the march 1986 parliamentary elections returned control to the right _ creating what became known in france as ``cohabitation'' between a socialist president and a conservative premier
socialist policies had dragged mitterrand's popularity rating in public opinion polls as low as 27 percent, but under the unwanted marriage with the conservatives it soared again to a consistent 55 percent or more
that gave mitterrand the dubious honor of being, in one seven-year term, both the least and most popular chief executive in the 30 years of the fifth republic
in the beginning of his administration, mitterrand pursued costly social programs after the socialists gained power. then he reversed course, instituting austerity measures
economic troubles brought his party to power, and caused its downfall five years later. after the socialist defeat, mitterrand eased into the role of elder statesman and held himself above the day-to-day battles of governing, commenting on issues only occasionally
the french called him ``tonton,'' or uncle
mitterrand was born oct. 26, 1916, in jarnac and attended universities in paris, earning degrees in law and letters. he was drafted into the army in 1938, and shot and captured during the german invasion in 1940
mitterrand escaped from a prison camp in germany, returned to france and created a resistance network. his feud with de gaulle began when mitterrand refused to unite his resistance group with de gaulle's
it was in the resistance days that he met danielle gouze, and they married in 1944, soon after france was liberated. he held several government posts, including interior and justice minister
in the early 1970s he built the moribund socialist party into a major political force, but the union of the left he formed with the communists fell apart in 1977
not until the final days of the 1981 campaign did the two main leftist parties join forces again to defeat giscard and oust the conservatives
mitterrand shocked much of the west by bringing communists into his government, but the union lasted only three years. in 1984, the communists pulled out in a dispute over economic policy
ortho pharmaceutical corp. says it will challenge a state appellate court's decision upholding a jury's verdict that the diaphragm manufacturer was responsible for a woman's toxic shock syndrome
in a 36-page ruling tuesday, the middle-level court of appeals said there was sufficient evidence to justify a maricopa county superior court jury's $1.5 million verdict against ortho, manufacturer of the ortho all-flex diaphragm
the verdict was the first to hold a pharmaceutical manufacturer responsible for a case of toxic shock syndrome, according to the appellate court and the plaintiff's lawyer
tss is an acute and sometimes fatal illness caused by a bacterium, staphylococcus aureus, that produces a poison. the ailment is most closely associated with tampon use
the case was brought in phoenix by roberta baroldy, whose physician prescribed an ortho all-flex diaphragm in april 1982, about six weeks after the birth of her first child
ortho pharmaceutical has since issued warnings on the possibility of toxic shock syndrome, but court records show that the company had been warned by at least one doctor of a possible tss link nearly four months before mrs. baroldy's illness in july 1982 and had not publicized the warning
mrs. baroldy was hospitalized for 41 days and was ``at times comatose and near death,'' the 3-0 appellate ruling noted
mrs. baroldy's medical witnesses testified that she would have physical problems for the rest of her life as a result of the disease
we will appeal,'' ortho spokesman rich salem said tuesday at corporate headquarters in raritan, n.j. ``beyond that, we'd like a chance to actually see the opinion before we comment further.''
the company, a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson and has sold millions of the contraceptive devices over more than 40 years, according to court records
about 1.8 million diaphragms are sold each year in the united states, salem said, adding that he did not know ortho's share of the market
ortho's attorneys argued on appeal that the theory under which experts claimed that mrs. baroldy was stricken did not have the required ``general acceptance'' in the scientific community
they also argued that the case should have been tried using north carolina laws because mrs. baroldy was in north carolina at the time of her illness while her husband was taking parachute training at fort bragg
but the appeals court said it was satisfied that testimony from a broad cross-section of experts showed general acceptance of a link between diaphragms and tss
and the judges said arizona's product liability law was more appropriate than north carolina law because it was closer to the laws in new jersey, where ortho is headquartered, and because the baroldys, who are from the globe, ariz. area, were living in mesa at the time the suit was tried
the u.n. command today rebuked communist north korea for refusing to return the remains of u.s. soldiers killed during the korean war, officials said
the u.n. command called for return of the remains at a meeting with north korean military officials at the panmunjom truce site. u.n. officials accused north korea of aggravating tension on the korean peninsula
this irrational and inhumane action by your side on this issue is totally unacceptable and will be denounced by all fair-minded people and the community of civilized nations worldwide,'' said u.s. army col. charles coffman, according to a u.n. statement
north korea refused to return the remains of two u.s. soldiers who died during the korean war after the united states imposed sanctions against the country in january for its alleged bombing of a south korean commercial jetliner
the united states, south korea and other nations have accused north korea of bombing the airliner, killing all 115 people aboard, last nov. 29. north korea has denied involvement
a woman who flew on an early part of the flight confessed in january to being a north korean agent and said she planted a bomb on the korean air jet to disrupt the 1988 olympic games in seoul
the two americans whose remains are being sought by the u.s. have been identified as 1st lt. jack j. saunders of utah and cpl. arthur i. seaton of pennsylvania. they reportedly died in north korean prison camps in 1951
coffman, acting as secretary of the u.n. command, complained that north korea was trying to stir up tension on the korean peninsula
he also objected to repeated north korean charges that military exercises being held by u.s. and south korean forces under the name ``team spirit'' were a prelude to a nuclear attack on the north
your repetition of charges, and your repeat of your annual litany of false allegations against team spirit _ filled with abusive language, unfounded and irrelevant allegations _ obviously satisifed your propaganda purposes,'' he said
about 200,000 u.s. and south korean troops are taking part in the annual exercises between now and april. the united states keeps 40,000 troops in south korea under a mutual defense pact
the u.n. command meets periodically with north korean and chinese representatives for meetings of the military armistice commission to supervise disputes and violations of the cease-fire that ended the korean war in 1953
the war began in 1950 after north korean forces invaded the south and troops from the united states and other nations came to the assistance of the south. correct name of island to san nicolas; subs 7th graf with three grafs, ``state and federal xxx, to add background, show 1,400 refers only to california population of sea otters</note>
a $1-million-a-year program has relocated 62 sea otters to an island off southern california, but 27 of the endangered beasts have vanished without a trace
sure we're concerned,'' said jim estes, who is monitoring the program for u.s. fish and wildlife service. ``we wish we had 62 sea otters there. but we've only been at this six months. we need more time with these animals.''
in addition to 27 otters missing since aug. 8 after being moved to san nicolas island, about 60 miles off the coast, eight have died and six are known to have left the area, the state coastal commission learned tuesday
we've lost most of the adults out there,'' estes told the commission, but added, ``we have only just begun to look for animals that have dispersed from the island.''
you stand before us and tell us that you can't account for almost one-half of the population you transferred out there,'' commissioner dorrill wright responded. he said he was ``very unhappy'' about the report
the otters were the first of several groups to be airlifted over five years to the small, rocky island that was once a breeding ground of the animals, which were hunted to near extinction before the turn of the century
the california population of sea otters numbers about 1,400 and lives along a 300-mile stretch of the central california coast from morro bay to santa cruz
the airlift to san nicolas was part of an effort to establish another population center for the animals off southern california. state and federal marine biologists say the california population could be threatened with extinction if their breeding grounds are hit with an oil spill or disease
the population transfer was opposed by local fishermen, who feared that the otters would wipe out abalone, lobsters and other marketable marine life
of the eight otters that died, three perished from stress related to the transfer, three drowned in lobster traps and fishing nets, one was shot and one was found dead of unknown causes, according to the report
officials have acknowledged that at least six otters have eluded recapture and managed to swim home to monterey. another was caught off the northern los angeles county coastline and returned to its original capture site, officials said
wildlife officials hope to continue relocating sea otters to san nicolas island
we've learned a lot and we are guardedly optimistic,'' said david riley, an assistant regional director with the u.s. fish and wildlife service
carol fulton, representing friends of the sea otter, a carmel-based group that claims 4,500 members nationwide, supported the project
the issue has to be put in perspective,'' she said. ``we were losing over 100 otters a year in fishermen's gill nets within their present range.''
a pastor who opposed his congregation's decision to bar blacks from the church preschool has resigned at the request of the church's deacons
it all goes back to the integration issue. i was like a toy two children were fighting over,'' the rev. kenneth newton said about his resignation and the split among members of northside baptist church
in an unsigned letter to church members dated march 14, the deacons said they unanimously recommended that newton resign immediately. the letter said the recommendation was based on ``matters of trustworthiness that had a significant effect on the church.''
wyman lawson, chairman of the deacons, would not comment on the letter
newton, however, said monday the mistrust was mutual
the last pastor stayed here 16 months and said the deacons would not cooperate with him and left. i was able to stay here 13{ years under adverse circumstances,'' newton said
the deacons' letter said newton was offered $10,000 in severance pay. he accepted the money march 4 and resigned that day
some church members who were opposed to the deacons' action sent out a letter listing newton's accomplishments. they said when newton first came to northside in 1974, the church was $90,000 in debt
the letter said the debt has been paid along with renovations to the church, opening of the learning center for children and purchase of 7.6 acres of land and seven houses. the group also said the church's budget has increased from $60,000 to $500,000 under newton's leadership
in a secret vote last october, the congregation decided by a two-thirds majority that blacks should not be accepted by northside baptist learning center. afterward, newton attacked the decision publicly, angering some congregants
it's a clammy situation, scientists admit
a year ago, a species of tiny clams believed to come from the asian coast were discovered in san francisco bay. now, scientists say, there are millions in the muck along the bottom
it's too early to determine if the clam might displace other species in the bay, said jim carlton of the university of oregon, an authority on marine transplants
it's brand new, so the full-scale ecological consequences of the invasion probably won't be measured for several years as we see how it spreads and where,'' he said
carlton plans to send some specimens to asian scientists to determine the clam's origins
at one time, the soviet union was thought to be the clam's home because a similar mollusk was found there in the 1860s. ``we know now that's not true,'' said larry schemel of the u.s. geological survey. ``it appears right now that there's a higher probability that the clam came from china.''
one thing's certain, though, they said. there is little chance the clam will end up on menus at the city's fashionable restaurants
the maximum size is half to three-quarters of an inch, so we're not even talking about an hors d'oeuvre,'' carlton said. tanker. picks up 8th graf pvs, `salvage tugboats ...</note>
iranian gunboats attacked a cypriot freighter in the persian gulf today and set it ablaze, and iraq said a long-range missile fired by iran hit baghdad, killing and wounding civilians
the international committee of the red cross condemned the use of chemical weapons in the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war, calling it a ``new and tragic escalation'' of the conflict, and said it had taken urgent steps to end such attacks
the statement followed iranian charges that iraq killed or wounded 5,000 people in chemical weapons attacks last week on kurdish border cities
the freighter attack was iran's ninth raid on neutral commercial shipping in six days
the stricken vessel was the cypriot-flag 34,346-ton odysseas h, which had been in saudi arabia recently
gulf-based shipping executives, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the captain reported his vessel was attacked by two iranian gunboats 10 miles west of the strait of hormuz, the entry to the gulf, at 4:45 p.m. he reported a fire and requested aid
salvage tugboats rushed out in the direction given by the master
the iraqi news agency reported that the missile lobbed by iran crashed at 7:30 a.m. into a residential neighorhood, ``killing and wounding civilians and destroying property.''
the agency, monitored in cyprus, did not give an exact casualty count. it acknowledged that iraqi gunners fired a similar projectile into tehran on tuesday
two sailors were killed and nine others injured in an attack tuesday by iranian gunboats and a helicopter on the havglimt tanker, which was hauling a load of ammonia through the gylf
the vessel, operated by the oslo-based havtor co., was hit northwest of the united arab emirates
the british destroyer hms exeter sent out a gas-masked medical team to help the crew of the 38,534-ton ship, which flies the singapore flag
dubai port authority officers identified the dead crewmen only as singapore nationals. most of the injuries were due to inhalation of ammonia vapors, maritime salvage sources reported
in geneva, the international committee of the red cross issued a statement saying it had informed iran of ``its readiness to provide emergency assistance for the victims'' of chemical weapons attacks
iran has repeatedly accused iraq of using chemical weapons. iraq has denied the allegations
the use of chemical weapons, whether against military personnel or civilians, is absolutely forbidden by international law and is to be condemned at all times,'' the red cross said
it said the icrc has ``taken urgent steps to bring to an immediate end the use of chemical weapons.'' it did not elaborat
the postmaster who found a stolen claude monet painting worth $175,000 will get a pat on the back, but he won't collect the $17,500 reward because he was simply doing his job
steve reutter, spokesman for the st. paul fire &amp; marine insurance co., which paid a $175,000 claim after the theft, said postal rules prevent charles polley and other employees from collecting rewards ``for things done in the line of duty
we asked them and that's what they said,'' reutter said
i really didn't expect it,'' said polley. ``you are here on a payroll and that's the way it is.''
reutter said the company will make a ``good will'' offering to a charity in marshalltown in polley's name. the amount and charity haven't been decided, he said
the painting, ``fishing boats under the cliffs of etretat,'' was stolen from the fisher community center march 19, 1987 and was recovered this month when polley found it in a mail drop box in legrand, which is near marshalltown
polley said he has a metal detector and goes hunting for buried treasures now and then, but the monet discovery tops his list. ``i've found the gold ring,'' he said. ``that was the most valuable thing i've ever found.''
art experts say the painting is damaged but restorable. the fisher foundation, which operates the center, will keep the insurance money to build a new gallery. the insurers have said they'll probably auction the painting. study finds</head>
most employers believe they benefit when workers have good child care available, but the companies don't want to pay for it, a survey of 141 businesses concludes
nationwide, about 800 companies have developed child-care centers on or near their business, according to the survey being published in the april issue of personnel journal in costa mesa, calif. most of these are large companies or public agencies
the majority of u.s. employers are not establishing child-care centers,'' wrote the authors, toni a. campbell of san jose state university in california and david e. campbell of humboldt state university in arcata, calif
on the other hand, they wrote in the survey released tuesday, most employers surveyed thought they should be involved in family matters
the problems are money and information, the survey found
the question appears ... not to be whether employers might involve themselves, but rather how they can get involved without jeopardizing the bottom line,'' the authors wrote
certainly the focus on expense is a major issue for small businesses,'' they added
the survey found that eight of 10 companies surveyed believe productivity and the quality of the work force will improve if the organization helps employees with child-care problems
but 71 percent said they don't want to provide space at the work site, and 69 percent said they don't want to subsidize child-care programs
the researchers said many employers offer options involving work schedules to help families. flexible hours were offered by 60 percent of the companies surveyed; 71 percent offered part-time work; 24 percent had job sharing; and 71 percent gave leaves to care for a sick child
the researchers suggested that small companies could share the cost of locating and implementing a child-care program for employees. they said this could be coordinated through a local chamber of commerce or a trade group. work</head> 34, sted 35</note>
harold thomas spent harsh winter days in an open shack, then took a job in new mexico when a couple offered to improve his life. now he's back home looking for more work, and he might write a book
the former homeless man returned to chicago late tuesday after working for two months as a handyman. he said he appreciated the chance to ``see a lot of america'' but the job given by roy and ethel gilman didn't provide steady wages
the gilmans are fine people, but they didn't want to pay me,'' said thomas, weary after riding a bus from portales, n.m., a small farming community
he said he lived in a trailer and worked six days a week, fixing cars, erecting fences and other farm chores
but a man can't live on room and board alone. i want to start a family, maybe get married,'' thomas said
for nine months, thomas, 34, lived in a shack just west of downtown chicago. the gilmans read an associated press account of his plight and offered him a job in mid-january
the gilmans paid thomas room and board and deposited $300 in wages for him in a portales bank about a month ago. on monday, thomas withdrew the money and boarded a bus for chicago
he said the money was put into an account after media reports indicated he wasn't receiving a regular salary
i thought i'd get some wages,'' thomas said. ``they treated me very nice. they're nice, church-going people, but no wages
i didn't have a lot of time for things myself. when a fellow turns and sees everything negative, what's a guy to do?'' he said
thomas, wearing the clothes he received from well-wishers when he left chicago on jan. 15, said he would be living with a girlfriend at a public housing project on the north side
i don't have a job, not right off,'' he said. ``but i've got a few ideas of my own. i'm going to be looking. i've got a few dollars in my pocket to last me awhile
i'm thinking about writing a book. a lot of people look down on the homeless. i just want everyone to know people on the street aren't junk.''
mrs. gilman, 68, said thomas was treated as well as ``our own family.''
she said past news reports about wages may have contributed to thomas' departure
mrs. gilman said people who read those stories had ``been calling us from everywhere saying we've been trying to make a slave out of harold. all we did was try to help him.''
thomas said he hasn't forgotten his homeless friends, many of whom seek shelter in the wooden shack he built last year along the chicago river
i've got to see my friends,'' he said before hopping in a cab. ``we've got a lot to talk about.'' throughout to recast and incorporate additional background. no pickup.</note>
president francois mitterrand said he will seek re-election because he can rise above france's fractious politics and keep the country together
the 71-year-old socialist announced on nationwide television tuesday that he will seek re-election next month. prior to his announcement, opinion polls put him in the lead
mitterrand told a tv interviewer he decided to run because he thinks disunity threatens ``to tear the social fabric'' of france
i saw a risk that the country might fall again into the quarrels and divisions that have hampered it so often. i want france to be united ... not be taken in hand by the spirit of intolerance, by parties who want everything, by clans, by cliques,'' he said
after mitterrand declared, michel rocard, until now the socialist party's only candidate, withdrew and gave his full support to the incumbent. the main conservative candidates are premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre
the first round of the elections is to be held april 24 with a run-off between the top two candidates scheduled for may 8
mitterrand led the leftist surge in may 1981 that ousted president valery giscard d'estaing and the center-right alliance that had controlled the national assembly for 23 years
the victory avenged mitterrand's defeats in the presidential elections of 1965 by charles de gaulle and 1974 by giscard d'estaing
but france's love affair with the socialists was short-lived
after five years, french voters in the march 1986 parliamentary elections returned control to the right _ creating what became known in france as ``cohabitation'' between a socialist president and a conservative premier
socialist policies had dragged mitterrand's popularity rating in public opinion polls as low as 27 percent, but under the unwanted marriage with the conservatives it soared again to a consistent 55 percent or more
that gave mitterrand the dubious honor of being, in one seven-year term, both the least and most popular chief executive in the 30 years of the fifth republic
in the beginning of his administration, mitterrand pursued costly social programs after the socialists gained power. then he reversed course, instituting austerity measures
economic troubles brought his party to power, and caused its downfall five years later. after the socialist defeat, mitterrand eased into the role of elder statesman and held himself above the day-to-day battles of governing, commenting on issues only occasionally
the french called him ``tonton,'' or uncle
mitterrand was born oct. 26, 1916, in jarnac and attended universities in paris, earning degrees in law and letters. he was drafted into the army in 1938, and shot and captured during the german invasion in 1940
mitterrand escaped from a prison camp in germany, returned to france and created a resistance network. his feud with de gaulle began when mitterrand refused to unite his resistance group with de gaulle's
it was in the resistance days that he met danielle gouze, and they married in 1944, soon after france was liberated. he held several government posts, including interior and justice minister
in the early 1970s he built the moribund socialist party into a major political force, but the union of the left he formed with the communists fell apart in 1977
not until the final days of the 1981 campaign did the two main leftist parties join forces again to defeat giscard and oust the conservatives
mitterrand shocked much of the west by bringing communists into his government, but the union lasted only three years. in 1984, the communists pulled out in a dispute over economic policy
strong winds and possibly gasoline stored for the black market helped fuel burma's worst fire, which killed 113 people in a northern city, official sources said today
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said schools and monasteries were being used to house some of the 20,000 people left homeless by the blaze sunday in lashio, a city of 200,000 people in the northern shan states. the local people's council was handling relief measures, they said
lashio could not be reached by telephone from rangoon today
government radio reported tuesday that the blaze swept through 2,096 buildings within two hours after starting in a kitchen. it said the fire spread so quickly that many victims were trapped by the flames
in addition to the deaths, 64 people suffered serious burns, the radio said
the official sources said most of the destroyed or damaged buildings were shanty houses. they attributed the fire's rapid spread to the afternoon heat, strong wind and possibly gasoline. the storage of gasoline for the black market is a common practice in burma
the casualty toll was the largest ever reported in a fire in burma
the radio said more than 3,000 families lost their homes, and damages were estimated at about $10 million
lashio, 450 miles northeast of rangoon, is the largest city and business center in the northern shan states and the seat of the northeast military command
a year in the life'' and the abc afterschool special ``supermom's daughter'' were among 19 programs honored by the american women in radio and television for realistically depicting the roles of women today
we're raising the sensibilities of producers'' by honoring programs that wrestle with ``people, issues and relationships,'' said marlene belles, controller of ktvu-tv in san francisco and president of the women's broadcasting organization
people still want to be entertained. but the shoot-em-ups are not nearly as popular,'' she said at the awards ceremony tuesday
modernizing the role of women on television is difficult because the number of women in top broadcast management remains ``minuscule,'' ms. belles said
there is still discrimination. it's just more subtle now,'' she said. ``the old boys still run the networks. it's probably going to get worse before it gets better.''
today show'' co-anchor jane pauley and sally jessy raphael, the first nationally syndicated female talk show host, were among the presenters during the awards luncheon at the waldorf-astoria hotel
winners were selected from a field of 344 television, cable and radio programs
universal studios' ``a year in the life'' captured the television entertainment category for depicting a successful professional woman who refuses to accept traditional views about marriage
the children's programming winner, ``supermom's daughter,'' portrayed a gifted science student torn between fulfilling her own dreams or satisfying the wishes of her career-oriented mother
kuom radio at the university of minnesota was honored for a documentary in which battered women discussed their plight. wgbh radio in boston won the entertainment category for its story of american composer ruth crawford seeger
other radio winners were:
_wtop, washington, d.c., ``are women making it in america?''
_wtso, madison, wis., ``invisible voices: women in the dane county jail.''
_michigan sampler, kalamazoo, mich., ``michigan pioneer women.''
_solz advertising, st. louis, health-care commercial
_wins, new york city, ``topic: rape.''
other television winners were:
_wmaq, chicago, ``sexism in city hall.''
_knbc, burbank, calif., ``the spirit of southern california.''
_lifetime cablevision, ``generations _ reflections on women.''
_mcdonald davis and associates, milwaukee, health-care commercial
_wtbs, atlanta, ``between the lines: national women's studies association.''
_wwor, secaucus, n.j., ``victims fight back.''
_abc news 20-20, ``triumph over darkness.''
_wmbd, peoria, ill., ``farm wife financier.''
_wjla, washington, d.c., ``women of love _ women of power.''
_ktca, st. paul, minn., ``whisper minnesota.''
an initial review of court documents indicates that the manufacturer of the copper-7 birth control device did not attempt to mislead federal regulators about its potential hazards, a government spokeswoman says
g.d. searle &amp; co. is being sued by women who claim use of the intrauterine device caused them to develop pelvic infections
a lawyer for one of the plaintiffs contends court documents indicate an attempt to conceal known health threats from the u.s. food and drug administration. the papers were unsealed by a judge's order
fda spokeswoman susan cruzan said tuesday that investigators met with searle officials march 16 to go over the documents
the fda has not had any reason to withdraw approval of the copper-7 iud,'' she said, adding that could be the ultimate penalty if the fda determined the company did misrepresent the product
cruzan said the fda will continue to review documents that are unsealed in the case brought by esther kociemba of melrose, who claims that the copper-7 made her infertile
her attorney, michael ciresi of minneapolis, has said the unsealed documents ``will collectively establish without a doubt that the copper-7 causes (infection) and searle knew about it but did not disclose it to doctors or to women.''
ciresi said tuesday he could not comment on cruzan's initial assessment because he does not know which documents the fda reviewed
mrs. kociemba's case against searle is scheduled to go to trial may 16 in federal court in st. paul
the copper-7 was approved for public use in 1974. from then until 1986, when searle withdrew it from the market because of mounting litigation costs, it was the most popular iud in the united states. searle recently resumed manufacturing the device to fill foreign orders
searle, which maintains that the device is safe, has won 14 of the 17 cases that have gone to court and says it has settled several hundred out of court
searle is a unit of monsanto co. of st. louis. sister</head>
tennessee williams' sister will maintain literary rights to the late playwright's documents and personal files, but harvard university may take possession of them for study, a judge has ruled
williams, whose plays included ``a streetcar named desire'' and ``cat on a hot tin roof,'' died in new york city in 1983 at 71. he willed to harvard a bundle of papers, reportedly appraised at $175,000, that include plays and other manuscripts, some unpublished
trustees for 78-year-old rose williams, who has long been institutionalized, wanted the papers given ``in trust'' so the manuscripts could be sold if she needed money. trustee john eastman of new york said miss williams' annual expenses average $200,000
harvard maintained it had the right to possession of the papers, now held in vaults by estate executor southeast bank in miami
at a hearing tuesday, one of the final steps toward distribution of the williams' estate, monroe county circuit judge helio gomez said he found no reason why the school could not take the papers
harvard attorney frank connors promised miss williams' trustees she will receive the earnings of any publication or documents with commercial value. williams' royalties totaled $3.1 million from february 1984 to august 1987, he added
we are not taking the literary rights,'' connors said. ``we are simply talking about the papers physically being there (at harvard) where scholars can see them.''
miss williams has been at the private stony lodge sanitarium in ossining, n.y., for 53 years. she underwent a lobotomy decades ago. many of williams' plays are said to reflect his feelings toward his sister and other people who are lonely or mentally disabled
the papers in question include some unpublished plays and manuscripts, said attorney jim hendrick, who represents miss william's trustees. million.</note>
democrat albert gore jr. today called on the government to ``straighten out its economic policy'' to make heavy industry more competitive worldwide
the tennessee senator, campaigning in michigan for a share of the 138 delegates at stake in saturday's caucuses, made his plea during a tour of a giant iron ore processing plant in the state's upper peninsula
gore spoke informally with some of the 700 workers at the tilden mining company facility, and then noted the plant's reduced production, which officials attributed to lowered demands
the candidate said the plant ``is competitive so long as the competition is not unfairly subsidized.''
we need to straighten out our economic policy and stop borrowing $500 million every 24 hours so that we're competitive in the world economy _ and we have to take steps to remove unfair trade barriers overseas,'' he said
gore donned a hard hat to tour the facility where iron ore is minded and rendered into small pellets. he walked amid large, whirling cylinders that grind and filter the iron and peered inside a giant rotating kiln that bakes the final product
it's an amazing place, isn't it. it's like the inside of a death star,'' gore said in apparent reference to the ``star wars'' movie trilogy
gore was seeking votes in the state's sparsely populated upper peninsula for a second day today after attacking vice president george bush and the reagan administration before high school and college audiences tuesday
he was heading to wisconsin later today to address the state legislature in madison. aiming toward wisconsin's april 5 primary, gore began airing television commercials there this week lashing out at corporate greed
gore said bush represents the choice for voters to ``continue what we're doing'' without change. denouncing that choice, he cited the iran-contra affair, u.s. support for panama strongman manuel noriega in the face of evidence of drug involvement until recently, and what he said was a general feeling of economic pessimism among america's youth
i think if we continue what we're doing now, continuing down the same path, we're headed for trouble,'' he told high school students who jammed an auditorium for an after-school rally in traverse city
he repeated those themes later in a speech to more than 1,000 students at lake superior state university in sault ste. marie
he denounced bush as lacking the ``gumption'' to disagree with president reagan's veto on the civil rights bill, which congress voted to override. gore dropped plans to campaign in wisconsin on tuesday so that he could return to washington to vote to override the veto
i was quite surprised that george bush belatedly announced he was in favor of the veto _ that surprised many people,'' gore said. ``but of course he has not been willing to disagree with president reagan on anything.''
gore campaigned in northern michigan as polls of the state's democrats, published by both detroit newspapers, showed him trailing far behind rivals jesse jackson and michael dukakis. democrat richard gephardt is also campaigning in michigan, which is a do-or-die state for his white house hopes
facing those long odds, gore has not waged an intensive michigan campaign and has aired radio but no television commercials. much of gore's michigan organization is based on the support of key state legislators, including a legislative power from the northern region, dominic jacobitti
gore largely avoided mention of his democratic rivals, however. the closest he came was saying the country needs a president ``with foreign policy experience'' _ something he has in the past charged dukakis with lacking
gore appeared before an enthusiastic audience of college students in sault ste. marie and contended, ``i am the first presidential candidate to campaign in sault ste. marie since teddy roosevelt.''
old glory is a source of noise pollution and has to come down at night, health officials say, but thomas ``ski'' demski calls that demand unpatriotic and has raised another flag to say ``don't tread on me.''
demski, 57, flies a large american flag from a 132-foot flagpole outside his home day and night. but neighbors have been complaining they can't sleep because of the flapping noise
recent noise-meter measurements by city health officials found the flag exceeded legal limits for residential areas. they ordered demski to take his flag down every night at 10 p.m
but despite his neighbors' objections and the city order, demski says he won't strike the colors. instead, he hoisted the revolutionary war-era banner that reads ``don't tread on me.''
when they start picking on the flag, i'll go to jail over it if necessary,'' said the bumper sticker manufacturer, who has expressed interest in becoming mayor of long beach, 25 miles south of downtown los angeles
ptl lost nearly $1 million in february, but the leader of the television ministry says he still hopes to have more than $4 million to pay debts on may 2
david clark said on the new ptl club show tuesday that he has been trying to ``contain costs'' and to ``refocus this ministry on the things of god.''
in his february report to bankruptcy judge rufus reynolds, clark noted the auction scheduled april 12 of several parcels of land owned by ptl, including the parsonage in tega cay where jim and tammy bakker lived before they were forced from the ministry. that house is valued at $1 million
ptl is hoping to raise $4 million above expenses by may, when the ministry will reorganize into non-profit and profit corporations
clark's report shows ptl revenues in february of $2.8 million and expenses of $3.7 million. net losses since last june 13 are more than $4 million
a date for the next superpower summit and progress on arms control and human rights appeared in the offing today as soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze neared the end of three days of talks here
his call on president reagan at the white house was expected to complete plans for a summit in late may in moscow with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev at which the two sides hope to sign a treaty slashing their arsenals of long-range nuclear weapons by 30 to 50 percent
the negotiations are going fairly well,'' shevardnadze said tuesday night as he returned to the state department for another round of talks with secretary of state george p. shultz over a buffet dinner of hot dogs, potato salad and popcorn. arrangements also were made to show the film ``that's entertainment,'' a retrospective of hollywood musicals, during breaks in the discussions
as they renewed their discussions this morning, shultz told reporters ``we did a fair amount'' of business even so. but, he admitted, ``i`m not very big on popcorn.''
the pair met for 6{ hours during the day and agreed their session on arms control and human rights was ``businesslike, straightforward, constructive and broad-ranging.''
evidently, it was not entirely harmonious, however. charles e. redman, the state department spokesman, said there were ``a few laughs, a few arguments.'' he declined to provide any details
shultz has been pressing the soviets to relax their emigration restrictions and liberalize cultural and religious practices. the soviets, on the other hand, have made an issue of the homeless problem in the united states and what they describe as a poor civil rights record
this time, it was a much more detailed discussion,'' vadim perfilyev, the deputy soviet foreign ministry spokesman, said. ``we think that we have points where we have cooperation between our two countries. and i think that now we have positive results. ... it is much more of a two-way street.''
during the day, shultz and shevardnadze also received brief reports from u.s. and soviet arms control experts. discussion of the conflicts in afghanistan and nicaragua _ wars in which the two superpowers have armed rival forces _ was deferred until wednesday
the arms control experts are trying to mesh u.s. and soviet drafts of treaty provisions to scrap 30 to 50 percent of the two sides' long-range bombers, missiles and submarines and to devise measures to ensure compliance with the accord
the treaty is the projected centerpiece of the summit meeting. the treaty drafts also include data on the size and locations of u.s. and soviet long-range weapons
assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway said monday there were ``blanks'' in the information the two sides had exchanged. she said ``lots and lots'' of disagreements remain
two veteran negotiators, paul h. nitze and aleksei a. obukhov, headed the u.s. and soviet expert groups. they were to report back to shultz and shevardnadze on whether the differences narrowed
reagan has said that if the treaty is not ready he might hold a second meeting with gorbachev later in the year to sign it
during a break in their talks, shultz and shevardnadze presided tuesday at the opening of a new communications center designed to reduce the risk of nuclear war. matching centers in washington and moscow will be linked by satellite
the facility ``will help us to remove misunderstandings, and it will help us to reduce the risk of any outbreaks of hostilities between us,'' shultz said
shevardnadze said he hoped ``one day, when we will have done away with any offensive arms, such centers will be used for more humane purposes.''
in contrast to that cooperative step, the two sides are in conflict over central america and afghanistan
in a brief exchange with reporters, shevardnadze backed away from an earlier soviet pledge to withdraw the red army from afghanistan even if negotiators fail to agree on conditions for ending the war there
arriving for his talks with shultz, he declined to repeat the pledge made by a soviet foreign ministry spokesman last week in moscow after negotiations deadlocked in geneva
i don't know when he said that,'' shevardnadze said in russian. ``we shall see. it is better to have the document signed in geneva. this is the better possibility.''
a norwegian journalist on leave from his newspaper to work for humanitarian organizations was killed in the ethiopian civil war, a foreign ministry spokesman said today
viggo gilberg of the newspaper fredrikstad blad apparently was killed last week when the eritrean popular liberation front attacked the city of afabet, ministry spokesman lasse seim said. afabet is 95 miles north of asmara, the provincial capital of eritrea
the rebels have been fighting for independence for eritrea since 1962, when it was incorporated as a province of ethiopia
the eritrean popular liberation front said it crushed three infantry divisions of government troops and captured three soviet advisers in what it described as its biggest victory in the war
soviet officials in moscow said tuesday that the eritrean separatists had taken three soviet military advisers prisoner last week and that a fourth soviet was missing
gilberg, 31, was working for the star of hope and the eritrean relief association when he was caught in the fighting, the national ntb news agency reported
gilberg was killed while following a relief transport of food, medicines and blankets into a war zone where he knew there had been fighting recently,'' the agency said
seim said news of gilberg's death reached norway on monday from the eritrean relief association. he said norway had no details about the situation and could not confirm the circumstances of the journalist's death
norway's nearest diplomatic mission is in nairobi
ntb said gilberg had visited africa several times before, including a recent visit to mali to report about relief work there by the church's emergency aid
a west virginia university professor who worked as a consultant for caterpillar co. had his students spy on competitors of two caterpillar dealerships, but a school official says there's no evidence the assignment was made to help the professor's work
i think inappropriate things were asked of them. i think they were in an uncomfortable situation and responded in an unfortunate (manner),'' provost frank franz said tuesday
two groups of graduate students in marketing 321 polled competitors of h.o. penn machinery co. in armonk, n.y., and yancey bros. in atlanta, both caterpillar dealers, according to tuesday's wall street journal
the students obtained inventory and sales volume reports and even new product information from competitors and gave the data to the caterpillar dealerships, according to the report
the aim of the assignment, according to instructor terry wilson, was to give students a firsthand taste of the ethical issues involved in industrial espionage
they'll be facing these issues every day of their career. they have to learn to deal with them. i tell them to think through the tradeoffs,'' wilson told the journal
however, he said his students no longer will be assigned similar projects
franz said there was no evidence the students' surveys were conducted to help wilson's consulting work
it's not clear from the article that there's any action that professor wilson took that was inappropriate,'' he said
wilson won't be disciplined, said cyril logar, dean of the college of business and economics, because he taught students about the ethical considerations involved in the project, including confidentiality, before the students began their work, although ``they still broke the rules, so to speak.''
i thought i was doing them a favor,'' said h.o. penn machinery marketing manager milton long, who helped direct students about what to ask whom
the students identified themselves only as university students during the surveys, and promised some dealerships that their identities would remain confidential, the journal said
however, ``there was pressure'' at h.o. penn for students to name the competing dealerships and that information was provided, one of the students, mark wheatley, told the wall street journal
it makes me shudder to think about it,'' he said
long denied obtaining confidential information from the students
wilson said he told his students to reveal who the information was being gathered for _ but only if those being surveyed asked. and he said students should have known on their own not to divulge confidential information
one of the businessmen surveyed said business owners let their guard down when dealing with college students, allowing them to get information not ordinarily available
that's not ethical in my mind,'' said alan stith at the atlanta-based stith equipment co. graf, `panamanians today ...'</note> ^by richard cole</byline>
hungry families flocked to relief centers nationwide and food grew scarce in the third day of a general strike to oust gen. manuel antonio noriega. the military strongman again rejected a u.s. call for him to go into exile
panamanians by the tens of thousands stayed off their jobs today and noriega's opponents hailed the success of the work stoppage, predicting it would continue until the general leaves the country
we're in this to the end,'' said pierre legnadier, one of the leaders of a coalition of business, professional, labor and political groups that called the strike
but noriega appeared unwilling to step down
i am a panamanian not a gringo,'' noriega said tuesday after meeting with a small group of union supporters. ``let the world know we are fighting the ultimate battle for dignity and against colonialism.''
an estimated 90 percent of offices and industries were shut by the strike on tuesday. most shops and stores were closed, public transportation was halted and many government employees did not go to work
panamanians today prepared to bury the first person to die in a wave of protests against the military strongman and opposition leaders warned of more clashes at the funeral
the united states is using economic pressure against noriega, withholding payments for use of the panama canal and freezing panamanian accounts in u.s. banks to starve the government of the dollars it uses as its currency
the government must meet several major payrolls by the end of the month, including that of the 15,000-strong defense forces, which noriega heads
between the cash crunch and the strike, the latest in a series of walkouts that began last summer to protest noriega's alleged corruption, food has grown scarce
eric arturo delvalle, who was removed as president feb. 26 after trying to fire noriega, appealed for international food aid tuesday
i am very concerned and fear for the health and lives of many panamanians,'' delvalle said in a videotaped message from hiding. the united states still recognizes him as panama's president
relief officials said that more and more hungry families, some of whom have not eaten in five or six days, were flocking to emergency centers around the country. and port workers said they had run out of food for their union members, but voted to stay on strike
opposition leaders scheduled a funeral today for a man who died after being hit with a shotgun blast in violent anti-noriega protests last week. it was the first fatality of the monthlong crisis that began after u.s. grand juries in florida indicted noriega on charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine
opposition leaders say the funeral and the arrival of an exiled oppositon leader could provoke confrontations with noreiga's forces. the head of the opposition christian democractic party, ricardo arias calderon was scheduled to arrive from miami on thursday with a group of central american legislators
noriega's government refused to let arias calderon come home from a trip after the crisis began
in washington, president reagan said tuesday that ``we feel noriega should leave panama.''
last week, noriega turned down a u.s. plan for him to leave panama and live in spain. reagan adminstration officials said they had offered to fly the general, family members and friends into exile
on monday, the general said he would resign before next year's presidential elections if the opposition would agree to a vaguely defined national dialogue. the opposition scoffed at the offer and vowed to keep up the strike
the strength of the strike is increasing,'' jose mulino, an attorney and leader of national civic crusade, the opposition coalition, said tuesday
state department spokesman charles redman said the opposition rejection of noreiga's offer was a clear message the strongman should resign
the message from panama is clear,'' he said. ``for the good of panama, noriega should leave.''
a sit-in at the university of california's boalt hall law school to protest the lack of women and minority tenured faculty members ended in the arrest of 28 law students
the students occupied dean jesse choper's office for most of the day tuesday and called for an open faculty meeting to discuss the issue, but the dean told them he had no authority to call a meeting, boalt spokeswoman greta goldenman said
the 28 students were cited and released tuesday evening after being taken into custody by campus police for investigation of trespassing
white males occupy 91 percent of boalt's 43.5 tenured faculty positions, a percentage exceeded only by the university of chicago among the nation's top 10 law schools, said the coalition for a diversified faculty, which organized the protest
associate dean jan vetter said boalt has one black and two women in tenured faculty positions, a woman in a half-time tenured law ph.d. program, and several other women and minorities in non-tenured acting professor posts
choper said the law school has been making its best effort to find women and minority candidates for tenure but competition for the ``small pool'' is fierce
students also organized a class boycott, but there were conflicting reports on how successful it was. protest group members said they would continue to press for a meeting with faculty
a man who suffers from parkinson's disease can keep $209.56 the social security administration said it overpaid him, ruled a magistrate who noted the government spent more pursuing the case than it could have won
it is ludicrous that the (government) has caused thousands of dollars of government attorney and court time to be expended during the time of a federal deficit crisis over a sum that is (minimal) to all but the plaintiff,'' wrote u.s. magistrate floyd boline
gary bohnsack, 44, of minneapolis, was notified in april 1986 that he had been overpaid supplemental security income benefits because he had received interest on a $950 burial account, his only asset. twice yearly the account earns $40 interest
it was like i was penalized for being poor,'' bohnsack, disabled since age 10, said tuesday
the case got stuck in a bureaucratic maze,'' said sara morrissey, a lawyer who worked on bohnsack's case for the legal aid society. ``all (bohnsack) wanted to do is leave enough money to bury him.''
eventually the government decided to drop the case, but then bohnsack wanted a ruling on whether he could accumulate the interest in the burial account, and the case continued
boline's ruling monday dealt with a narrow interpretation of a section of the act governing supplemental income payments. health and human services secretary otis bowen had taken the position that the interest on a burial account, even if it accumulated rather than being paid to the individual, was considered income when the recipient had no other resources
in his ruling, boline said it was clear congress intended burial funds and interest accrued on the accounts to be excluded from consideration as a resource. the regulation since has been changed to conform with that position
lawyers for the health and human services department said they could not comment on the ruling or why the case was pursued. shoots him</head>
a 75-year-old woman says she thought there was a burglar in her home when she shot and killed her granddaughter's boyfriend
this was a tragedy, and it will be with me the rest of my life,'' said ella willis. ``if i could blow the breath of life back in him like god, i'd do it.''
assistant st. louis circuit attorney dan lesseg said willis would not be charged in the shooting monday night
juan t. gaston, 25, of st. louis, was fatally shot on the second-story porch of willis' midtown home, said sgt. gerald brown of the police homicide division
gaston was the boyfriend of willis' 22-year-old granddaughter, who lives with willis, brown said
he said willis had heard a noise at the back of her home late monday and went upstairs to investigate. when gaston kicked open the door into the house from the porch, willis shot him with her .38-caliber revolver, brown said
he lunged at me, and i shot him right between the eyes,'' willis said. ``i just let him have it.''
willis' granddaughter, monica hendrix, said that she and gaston had argued earlier in the day over a small amount of money. she said she did not have any bitter feelings toward her grandmother
she couldn't help it,'' hendrix said. ``when we heard somebody breaking in, i thought it might be juan, and i called and called and asked who it was
there was no answer. if he had answered, he wouldn't be dead right now.''
brown said gaston apparently had come up the back stairs to the house, then climbed over a wall and dropped into the enclosed porch
brown said willis told police that gaston usually came to the front door when he visited and that she did not know why he had tried to enter the house through the back without identifying himself
jimmy swaggart ministries won't say whether a ``life or death'' telethon raised enough to keep the television ministry afloat
they never have released (information about telethons) in the past and are not going to do so now,'' said gus weill, a spokesman for the ministry
the telethon tape featured swaggart's wife, their son, and family worship center co-pastor jim rentz. they said that without viewers' help, the daily and sunday television shows and programs including famine relief and bible schools in other countries would be canceled
the television campaign, which ended sunday, was joined by direct mail pleas postmarked within a week of swaggart's confession to moral failure, and by requests in the ministry's publication, the evangelist
the magazine said the ministry's expenses average $13 million a month, and the ministry faces a $14.7 million deficit through february. california</head>
the supreme court today dismissed a medicaid dispute between the reagan administration and california that the justices had been studying for over a year
the court said recent action by congress has made the case legally irrelevant
federal authorities had sought to limit state power to ease eligibilty for medicaid, a combined federal and state program of medical assistance to the needy
the california legislature decided in 1983 that aged and disabled medicaid recipients were unable to afford necessary medical care as well as other necessities under the program's existing income standards
so the legislature increased from $544 to $709 the income adult couples may keep each month for non-medical needs and still qualify for medicaid
federal authorities had said the amount was illegally high
in an unsigned opinion today, the high court noted that a law recently enacted by congress ``required the secretary (of health and human services) to approve the proposed california amendment, retroactively to the date of its proposal.''
the court also noted that lawyers for california and the administration ``agree that these developments have rendered the controversy moot.''
the case is bowen vs. kizer, 86-863
democrats living overseas picked a largely uncommitted delegation to attend the party's national covention this summer, although massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the winner of a non-binding poll, picked up a fraction of a convention vote
in balloting on tuesday, the democrats abroad elected 10 delegates, each of whom will cast one-half vote at the national convention. nine of those delegates have declared themselves uncommitted, while one is pledged to dukakis
another four delegates, each of whom will cast one-half vote, will be picked later at a meeting in paris, and under party rules they initially would be uncommitted
of course we have an impact, particularly if we're uncommitted,'' sally mcnulty, chairwoman of the democratic party committee abroad, said tuesday as organizers around her began readying stacks of air mail envelopes for counting. ``we could tip the ballot.''
of the 2,385 expatriate americans voting in the non-binding part of the ballot, cast mostly by mail, dukakis got 990 votes, or 41.5 percent and jackson 347 votes or 14.5 percent, according to democrats abroad, the official organizers of the poll
in third place was andrew sundberg, a businessman living in geneva, switzerland, who campaigns for expatriate benefits. he got 304 votes, or 12.7 percent
sen. paul simon of illinois was fourth with 248 votes, or 10.4 percent, and new york gov. mario cuomo, who is not a candidate, finished fifth with 171 votes, or 7.2 percent
it was the fourth primary for expatriate democrats, who select seven national convention delegates. two other delegates are party officials
the primary gives democrats worldwide the chance to vote by mail or in person for convention delegates
a slow trickle of voters turned out through the morning tuesday at the queen elizabeth ii conference center, around the corner from the houses of parliament. but party officials were not concerned
our members would have voted already by post,'' said ms. mcnulty, who estimated that 2 million to 3 million americans live abroad
any democrat abroad was eligible to mail a ballot to the primary. officials believed the majority would come from the 18 countries with democrats abroad organizations and large american populations, including israel, france and canada
for the first time, ballots were available at embassies and consulates worldwide
republicans abroad have a similar organization but they do not hold primaries
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev today called for a transformation of the country's inefficient agricultural system led by farms owned by farmers, not by the state
gorbachev, in an address to a national congress of collective farmers at the kremlin, said the possibilities of cooperatives were a ``brilliant discovery'' of soviet founder vladimir i. lenin that have been underused by subsequent soviet leaders
we should revive co-ops not in their old, often too primitive forms, but in the form of a modern, high-standard cooperative movement,'' gorbachev said
collective farms, where members jointly own farm buildings and machinery and share in earnings, have faded in importance in recent years in favor of state farms, where farmers, like employees in a factory, receive a basic wage
there were 33,000 collective farms in the soviet union in 1970, but their number dropped to 26,300 by 1986. in that same period, the number of collective farmers dropped from 16.7 million to 12.6 million
gorbachev has been striving to persuade soviets to enter into cooperative ventures to make up for shortages in the state-run economy. since reforms instituted last year, nearly 14,000 cooperatives have sprung up to offer restaurant services, pump gas, make clothes and provide other goods and services in short supply
a draft of a new law on cooperatives published earlier this month in the soviet press specifically prohibits government interference in their affairs but also forsees a progressive tax system to catch what gorbachev has called ``money-grabbing.''
gorbachev, in remarks at the farmers congress summarized by tass, said the new law aims to ``ensure the enhancement and development of cooperative and collective-farm property (and) create legal machinery to protect cooperative democracy.''
the summary of gorbachev's speech distributed by the official soviet news agency did not give any indication whether gorbachev would move give land to individual farmers
tass said the cooperative law would be a main item of discussion at the three-day session of collective farmers. it is the first such conference since 1969
according to tass, gorbachev said it was the cooperative movement that ``helped in many ways to overcome hunger and economic dislocation in the aftermath of the civil war, mend the financial and monetary systems, and get people more closely involved with the building of a new life.''
gorbachev said his re-emphasis on cooperatives is a result of greater democracy in soviet society and ``an important lever for furthering the democratic process and combatting administration by fiat and red tape.''
soviet agriculture has been plagued by central planners who tell farms what and how much to plant, lack of incentives for farmers to work the state-owned land, inefficient production, and poor storage and transportation facilities
the 3,100 u.s. troops dispatched to honduras as a warning to neighboring nicaragua are expected to return home next monday and tuesday, pentagon officials said today
the officials, who insisted on anonymity, described the withdrawal schedule as still tentative and subject to last-minute changes, depending upon developments in the region
but we said about 10 days for exercises and that's what it should be,'' another source said
the officials noted the soldiers had been airlifted to honduras over the course of two days last week and said that same procedure would be followed for the withdrawal
four battalions _ two from the 82nd airborne division at fort bragg, n.c., and two from the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif. _ were airlifted to honduras on march 17 and 18 after nicaraguan soldiers crossed the honduran border in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra guerrillas
the reagan administration insisted from the beginning that the u.s. soldiers would be kept away from the scene of the fighting, but said the deployment was necessary to demonstrate america's commitment to honduras and democracy in the region. update with details from services. picks up 11th graf, `on tuesday ...' edits to tighten.</note>
police announced today they were abandoning a policy of staying away from ira funerals because five people, including two british soldiers, were killed during funerals last week
protestant activists had demanded that police reinstitute the policy of clamping tight security on ira funerals
describing the ira threat as ``deadly,'' a police statement indicated security chiefs will order heavy police and troop presence at future ira funerals
experience has shown that maintenance of the law and prevention of outrages will only be guaranteed through the firm presence of the police and army,'' a statement from the royal ulster constabulary headquarters said
the statement marked the swift collapse of a policy introduced under pressure from moderate roman catholic leaders in the hope of avoiding clashes
at the first unpoliced ira funeral march 16, a protestant guerrilla launched a firearms and grenade attack from behind a tombstone in the catholic milltown cemetery, killing three people and wounded 68
at the ira funeral saturday for one milltown victim, two british soldiers drove up to the funeral cortege in an unmarked car were brutally slain
in britain, prime minister margaret thatcher joined grieving relatives at northolt air base north of london where the bodies of the soldiers, identified as signals corpsmen, were brought home
services for derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23, of the royal corps of signals, were scheduled for today in belfast, ballynahinch and lisburn, where they were based
security forces continued to search catholic areas of west belfast for their killers. police sources said investigators were looking for as many as 30 suspects
at northolt, mrs. thatcher glanced around anxiously while the sister of one of the men sobbed as the royal corps of signal band played chopin's ``funeral march'' and a bearer carried the flag-draped coffins to hearses
in belfast, some 25,000 people, mainly protestants, gathered this afternoon at the cenotaph outside the city hall for a memorial service to the slain soldiers
british and republic of ireland government ministers said they will hold a special meeting in london on friday to discuss tougher security because of the latest outburst of violence in northern ireland
the meeting was called under an anglo-irish agreement which gives the catholic republic an advisory say in britain's running of the protestant-dominated province
on tuesday, a protestant guerrilla said he killed three people at the ira burial in milltown because he wanted to avenge ira attacks aimed at mrs. thatcher and others, prosecutors said
the guerrilla, michael stone, 33, was charged with murdering three people in the attack on the march 16 funeral of three ira guerrillas killed by british soldiers in gibraltar. stone also was charged with killing three other roman catholics in sniper attacks dating back to 1984
none of earlier victims _ a milkman, a bread delivery man and a carpenter _ had any known links to the ira
stone was ordered to remain in custody until april 8, when he is next due in court. a trial date has not yet been set
flanked by heavy security in belfast magistrates court on tuesday, stone remained silent while a police superintendent read a statement he had made about the milltown attack
i alone carried out this military operation as a retaliatory strike against provisional sinn fein, the ira, in response to the slaughter of innocents at la mon, darkley, brighton and enniskillen,'' stone told police
i would state i am a dedicated free-lance loyalist (protestant) paramilitary. no surrender.''
the four attacks stone cited in his statement span nearly 10 years from 1978 to 1987 and claimed the lives of 35 people. mrs. thatcher escaped injury in the october 1984 brighton attack
in belfast, a senior bishop whose diocese includes the tense catholic ghetto of west belfast, denounced the ira as ``sheer evil.'' it was one of the strongest attacks yet by catholic prelates, who regularly condemn the mainly catholic guerrilla organization
bishop cahal daly said the ira posed a ``grave spritual danger to the catholic community.''
the mainly catholic irish republican army wants to end british rule in northern ireland and unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic republic of ireland under socialist rule. could come monday or tuesday. picks up 6th graf, `foreign minister ...'</note>
american troops will stay in honduras to complete emergency training exercises even though honduras says its border crisis with nicaragua is over, a u.s. military spokesman here said
in washington, pentagon officials who requested anonymity said the defense department was planning to withdraw the troops on monday and tuesday
president reagan ordered 3,200 american troops to honduras last week after nicaraguan soldiers allegedly penetrated honduran territory in pursuit of u.s.-supported contra rebels
on tuesday, president jose azcona hoyo told the associated press that sandinista troops had retreated and the american military contingent ``will leave honduras very soon.''
u.s. military spokesman maj. gary hovatter on tuesday said the soldiers first will finish their training exercises
right now the plans are to make it a 10- to 14-day exercise. we have not received any directive as to when to begin redeployment,'' he said, adding the exercises were taking place tuesday at four sites
in washington, a pentagon source stressed the withdrawal schedule was still ``tentative'' and subject to change, depending upon future developments in the region
but we said about 10 days for exercises and that's what it should be,'' another source said
the officials noted the soldiers had been airlifted to honduras over the course of two days last week and said that same procedure would be followed for the withdrawal
foreign minister carlos lopez contreras on tuesday said the border tension ``has virtually disappeared'' after both the sandinistas and the contras suspended hostilities and began truce talks in southern nicaragua
some u.s. soldiers expressed frustration on tuesday that they had not been allowed to join the fighting along the border
they get you all hepped up and then there's nothing to do,'' said pfc. jose pena, 23, of scottsdale, ariz., who was rushed in last week as part of what the white house called a ``measured response'' to the crisis
most of us were hoping to get a little action,'' he said at palmerola air base, headquarters for u.s. military operations
one soldier said he came prepared for anything
they told us it was a training exercise, but if things got hot and heavy, it was time for our training to kick in,'' said spec. 4 duane mccarty, a 25-year-old helicopter mechanic from novi, mich
the deployment of the u.s. troops bolstered the american military presence in honduras to about 6,000 servicemen. the reagan administration billed it as both a show of support for azcona and a warning to the sandinistas against further actions in the border region
the united states has been carrying out joint exercises with the honduran military periodically for five years as part of the reagan administration's policy of isolating the sandinistas
nobel laureate elie wiesel, a nazi death camp survivor who lectures on the holocaust, canceled an appearance here after learning his fee would come from a grant by a conservative publisher once accused of being an agent of south africa
wiesel had been scheduled as a speaker today at the john mcgoff distinguished lecture series at northern michigan university
but mcgoff's reported links to the south african government and the university's plans to pay wiesel's fee from a $300,000 grant from mcgoff brought protests from the school's faculty
when it comes to apartheid you cannot make compromises,'' wiesel said in explaining his decision
philosophy professor james green, who led the protests, said wiesel said he would have declined to appear had he known mcgoff's money was being used to pay for his appearance
mcgoff, former chairman of the northern michigan university board of control, was accused by the securities and exchange commission of illegally using south african money to try to buy u.s. newspapers and lobby on behalf of the south african government
mcgoff has denied acting as an agent for the south african government and the charges were dismissed
mcgoff, whose telephone number in williamston is unlisted, could not be reached for comment today
green said the university faculty voted to disassociate itself from the mcgoff lecture series. friday, the faculty voted 82-62 against using $3,000 from faculty funds to finance wiesel's talk
green said faculty members asked the university for assurances that none of the mcgoff money to be used for wiesel's lecture came from south africa, but the university never provided such an assurance
jim carter, news director at the university, said today the university received word late tuesday from the harry walker agency in new york city that wiesel's appearance had been canceled
we are making no further statement to that effect,'' carter said, declining to answer questions about how the cancellation came about
wiesel said some faculty members had urged him to use the lecture as a forum to denounce apartheid, which by law and custom establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs
the 5 million south african whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
when it comes to mass humiliation, a compromise is already playing the other side's game. and what is apartheid but collective humiliation; furhtermore, it is legal humiliation,'' said wiesel. ``in south africa, humiliation is the law of the land.'' graf pvs, when the</note>
the senate foreign relations committee today defeated the first attempt by sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., to change the u.s.-soviet treaty banning medium-range nuclear missiles
the democratic-controlled panel voted 12-3 against helms' amendment, which would allow non-nuclear u.s. cruise missiles to be deployed in europe
the pact signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev bans missiles of ranges from 300 to 3,400 miles. the prohibition includes cruise missiles, both nuclear-tipped and those armed with non-nuclear weapons
the ban covers both types of missiles because ``there's no way to verify the distinction between'' the two, said sen. alan cranston, d-calif
but helms said the ban means ``the conventional imbalance in europe will be even greater than it is now'' because nato will lose a major weapon in the cruise missile
cranston responded that the pentagon has no plans to build non-nuclear cruise missiles
the vote came on the first of 43 pending amendments or reservations, either to the treaty text or the resolution by which the senate would register its approval of the pact
of those amendments, 36 were proposed by helms, the committee's ranking republican and the chief opponent of the treaty. three more were offered by sen. larry pressler, r-s.d., who has also been critical of the pact
sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., the chairman of the committee, told his colleagues that he intends ``to oppose all reservations, conditions, etc.,'' with the possible exception of amendments designed to solve a long-running fight between the reagan administration and congress over treaty intepretation
helms said today the committee shouldn't be ``a rubber stamp'' for the administration, which has urged approval of the treaty without changes
both democratic and republican leaders predict overwhelming ratification when the treaty reaches the senate floor and say only 10 or 12 senators are likely to vote against it. ratification requires a two-thirds vote of the 100-member senate
i don't intend to obstruct'' the committee's work on the treaty, helms told his colleagues tuesday, but he added, ``i'm concerned that we're about to rush to judgment.''
given the large number of amendments, pell said the panel now ``seems very unlikely'' to meet its original goal of finishing work by friday
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., told helms, ``if you don't have the votes and you simply try to overload it with amendments, that isn't fair.''
most of helms' amendments are designed to improve what he says are compliance verification problems and clear up ambiguities
the majority of helms' proposals would amend the ratification resolution, which would not require new negotiations with the soviet union
any change made by the senate in the actual text of the treaty would have to be accepted by the soviet union, and administration officials have urged the senate to avoid so-called ``killer amendments'' that would cause the soviets to reject new talks
the treaty requires the elimination of nuclear-armed missiles with a range of 300 miles to 3,400 miles and includes on-site inspection provisions among its verification system, which is the most intrusive in arms control history
the foreign relations committee heard endorsements of the pact tuesday from two other committees, intelligence and armed services, which had also looked at the treaty during the past two months
but the congressional debate over the treaty has been clouded by the reopening of a long fight between the democratic-controlled congress and the white house
the complicated legal fight involves the question of whether an administration has the legal right to unilaterally change how the united states interprets a treaty. reagan asserts the administration has such a right, but sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the armed services committee, and other legislators have disagreed
the fight involves the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, but it has spilled over into the debate on the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, nunn told the foreign relations committee
nunn said letters written by white house counsel arthur b. culvahouse jr. effectively undercut previous assurances from secretary of state george p. shultz that administration testimony on the new pact is ``authoritative.''
nunn said culvahouse asserted that some administration responses may be less authoritative than others
culvahouse suggested that the testimony of a secretary of state may be more authoritative than that of other administration witnesses or responses in writing to questions by members of congress, nunn said
culvahouse has since issued a second letter asserting that his original remarks were not inconsistent with the shultz statement. but nunn said he finds that unacceptable
nunn said the new letter ``puts the shultz statement in the trashcan, saying that certain testimony is not to be taken seriously.''
the dispute should be resolved by the full senate instead of seeking another letter from the administration, even from the president, said nunn
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said the dispute ``is the major stumbling block and could create grave perils if we don't resolve it.''
six israeli warplanes today rocketed palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of this southern port city
thick black smoke billowed from the stricken targets southeast of sidon, 25 miles south of beirut, as the fighter-bombers struck shortly after 4 p.m., lebanese police said
the israeli military said the targets were buildings used by guerrillas for storing weapons and equipment. it said the buildings were also used as garages for the guerrillas' vehicles
there were no immediate figures on casualties. police said several ambulances raced with sirens wailing from sidon to pick up victims
the israeli announcement did not identify which guerrilla group had been attacked. israel radio's arabic service quoted beirut radio stations as saying the targets belonged to yasser arafat's fatah guerrillas and lebanese moslem militias
the army said that all the planes returned safely to their bases and that the pilots reported that the targets were destroyed
the army said israeli planes also destroyed a vehicle equipped with anti-aircraft guns
police said the planes fired at least 25 rockets in five runs on guerrilla bases in a cluster of villages near sidon's ein el-hilweh refugee camp
they said the pilots released air balloons to deflect heat-seeking sam-7 missiles unleashed by guerrillas
the air strike was the second against the palestinians in a week and the fourth this year. thirty-one people were killed and 43 wounded in the three previous israeli air raids this year
consumer prices, restrained by lower food and energy costs, rose a modest 0.2 percent in february, the government said today in a report that shows inflation remains tame
food prices fell 0.3 percent after rising 0.3 percent in january. energy costs, which had fallen 0.7 percent in the preceding month, fell 0.6 percent last month
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater hailed the report, and one showing that the nation's gross national product had risen 4.8 percent in the last quarter of 1987, as ``more good news on the economic front. ... the economy is doing well. the reagan miracle holds.''
so far this year, consumer prices have been increasing at a rate of 3.2 percent. that compares to the moderate 4.4 percent rate for all of 1987 and the scant 1.1 percent 1986 increase
some economists suggested that last month's moderate food and energy cost hikes may be masking hefty increases for other goods and services
subtracting these two volatile categories, however, the index for all other goods and services also advanced 0.2 percent in february after a 0.5 percent increase in january, when prices overall rose 0.3 percent
a restrained consumer price index had been expected since the labor department reported that the companion producer price index, also restrained by moderating energy and food prices, had dipped 0.2 percent in february
the department gave these other specifics on february retail price activity:
_grocery store prices fell 0.6 percent after a 0.2 percent rise in the previous month; restaurant meals were up 0.3 percent, the same as in january
pacing the drop in food prices was a 4.0 percent fall in the costs of fruits and vegetables, more than offsetting 0.4 percent rise for meats, poultry and fish
_gasoline prices fell 1.7 percent, down for the third month in a row. gasoline prices had fallen 1.7 percent in december and 1.6 percent in january
_heating oil prices were up 0.6 percent while the cost of natural gas and electricity rose 0.5 percent
_new automobile prices rose 0.3 percent
_clothing prices fell 0.3 percent
_alchoholic beverage prices rose 0.9 percent
last month's 0.2 percent gain was equivalent to an annual inflation rate of 2.1 percent
the february increase left the overall index at 116.0, meaning that a hypothetical selection of goods costing $100 during a 1982-84 base period would have cost $116.00 last month
unlike other figures in the report, the overall index is not adjusted for seasonal fluctuations
the labor department recently changed its base period. had the former computation been used, the february consumer price index would have been 347.4 compared to a 1967 base of 100
that means that the same selection of goods would have cost $13.00 more last month than in february 1987, when the cpi was 334.4
unexpectedly brisk economic activity is raising some economists' concerns that inflation may pick up in the months ahead, particularly as import prices rise further under pressure from a dollar that is now 50 percent weaker against key foreign currencies than it was three years ago
a weaker dollar makes imports more expensive. higher prices, particularly for japanese and european products, have been noticed on store shelves in recent months as a result of these exchange-rate movements
this is good for the u.s. trade deficit, because as imports get more expensive u.s. goods become cheaper and more competitive overseas. but analysts have long warned that any sustained increase in import prices could fuel overall higher inflation
adding to worries about inflation was the february unemployment report, showing that the jobless rate fell to 5.7 percent, the best performance since l979
as unemployment declines below a certain level, pressure builds for higher wages to fill vacant jobs. economists disagree on the exact level
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan told congress last week that he felt that inflation could be rekindled if unemployment fell another 0.5 percentage points
i don't think inflation will be a problem probably for the whole year, but the bond markets are worried,'' said michael k. evans, president of a private economic consulting service. up 3rd graf pvs, mackay said.</note>
the reagan administration and house speaker jim wright said today reports of progress at cease-fire talks in nicaragua are encouraging, and democratic leaders said agreement there likely would trigger a new package of strictly ``humanitarian'' aid for the contra rebels
we want to be cautious but we are encouraged (by the talks),'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``they do seem to be making progress,'' he said, adding that was ``somewhat surprising'' in view of previous actions by the sandinistas
we hope these talks succeed,'' fitzwater said
it is my earnest hope that we can obtain a bipartisan agreement on humanitarian aid so that the bill can be scheduled quickly,'' wright, d-texas, told reporters. ``that is the best way to encourage the peacemakers in central america.''
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., said such a bill could be approved next week if the cease-fire talks, in their third day in sapoa, nicaragua, bear fruit, and if aid would be consistent with whatever agreement is reached by the contras and the managua government
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said it was time that there be ``a ceasefire between the congress and the white house'' on the issue, but said he had no plans to bring an aid bill before the senate
wright indicated that an aid proposal being advanced by rep. buddy mackay, d-fla., one of the ``swing'' votes on the contra issue, would likely be acceptable to house leaders
mackay said he and other centrist house members who have traditionally determined the outcome on the polarized issue of aid to the rebels were left skittish by last week's incursion of nicaraguan troops into neighboring honduras in an effort to attack contra supply camps
it had an impact on all of us,'' mackay said in an interview tuesday. the sandinista military action on the eve of renewed cease-fire talks with the contras was a reminder that ``relying on their good faith is just not realistic,'' mackay added
all we are trying to say is that leaving the situation as it is is unacceptable,'' he said
the compromise bill, still being drafted tuesday, was similar to a package put together last week by senate backers of the rebels. it contained a one-year, $48 million infusion of ``humanitarian'' aid, to include food, clothing, shelter and medicine. it also would authorize the central intelligence agency to deliver existing supplies of weapons
but in contrast to the senate version, mackay's would permit president reagan to call for an expedited vote on new aid for the rebels if peace talks break down, but not to dictate the terms of the aid package. it would be up to congress to decide what kind of aid to send, he said
mackay said he expected to formally introduce the package this week and hoped to have about half a dozen other moderates join him
he said the effort is not intended to be a challenge to house speaker jim wright, d-texas. republicans have accused wright of using his scheduling powers to bottle up any aid bill that goes beyond a strictly humanitarian package democrats offered earlier this month, but which was defeated
president reagan on tuesday appealed to house republicans in a closed-door meeting to unite behind a new aid bill, but did not specify which provisions he would support
we are determined to get continued assistance to the resistance, and if we stick together, this time we'll make it,'' reagan told the lawmakers, according to a white house transcript. he also said democrats would be to blame if the contras ``are extinguished'' by the leftist nicaraguan government
democrats insisted the republicans were responsible for the narrow house defeat of a package of strictly ``humanitarian'' aid on march 3
what we're seeing is a public relations campaign here,'' said rep. tony coelho, d-calif. ``the republicans are very nervous about it because the finger's pointed right at them.''
a poll published in today's editions of the washington post found that 40 percent of the people surveyed support aid to the contras, while 56 percent oppose it. the support figure in the washington post-abc news poll is the highest since 43 percent on july 15, 1987, a day after lt. col. oliver north, the indicted former white house aide, testified before a congressional committee
the survey, completed monday, also found 55 percent to 43 percent disapproval of reagan's decision to send the troops to honduras. pollsters interviewed 1,007 randomly chosen adults in the continental united states by telephone. the poll had a margin of error of 4 points
the rebels released a television advertisement to begin airing this week that makes a direct appeal to u.s. viewers for contributions
your congress abandoned us,'' ernesto palazio, a washington lobbyist for the rebels, says somberly in the spot. ``we have nowhere to turn but to individual americans like you.''
the spot, which asks for money for ``medicine, blankets and food for our families and children,'' was to begin running this week in washington, charlotte, n.c., and wright's home town of fort worth, texas
the chief of security for a medellin newspaper that has fought drug trafficking was shot and killed today and his young daughter was wounded, police said
el colombiano security chief, jorge alberto stefan gomez, was leaving his house with his wife and child when several gunmen in parked cars opened fire with pistols and submachine guns
investigators said stefan's wife was not injured and that they did not know who was behind the attack
on tuesday, troops trying to arrest an alleged drug kingpin tripped a sophisticated alarm system at a country estate and the man got away
the army said pablo escobar gaviria escaped after a shootout in which one man, thought to be one of escobar's bodyguards, was injured
escobar, wanted in the united states on drug charges, is an alleged leader of the notorious medellin drug cartel and reportedly a billionaire
the u.s. drug enforcement administration says the cartel is responsible for 80 percent of the cocaine that reaches the united states
at least 25 of escobar's heaviy armed bodyguards were arrested after the clash and 13 vehicles, various firearms, ammunition, communications equipment and documents seized, the army said in a communique
escobar's wife, maria victoria, and her sister were arrested elsewhere in medellin carrying ``several documents of interest,'' the army said
escobar was indicted in 1986 on federal drug charges in the united states. last month, another u.s. drug indictment named him along with panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega and 14 others
colombia's justice ministry in january ordered the arrest of escobar and others named as cartel leaders for extradition to the united states
since then no cartel leader has been arrested
the newspaper el colombiano has urged the colombian government to pursue its war on drug traffickers. medellin, the cocaine capital of colombia, is where many drug traffickers live. it is also the site of cocaine processing plants
on march 10 two bombs were thrown from a speeding car at the newspaper's offices. a guard threw the bombs into the street and a passer-by was killed
last november gunmen shot up the home of el colombiano's publisher, juan gomez martinez. the gunmen apparently were trying to kidnap gomez to get the government to suspend extraditions of colombians to the united states
drug traffickers have killed a justice minister, an attorney general, 21 judges, two newspaper editors and scores of policemen and soldiers in the last four years
president reagan will travel to richmond, va., to tour a reynolds metals plant next monday, speak to employees and attend a republican party fund-raiser, the white house said today
chief spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan will fly to richmond for the series of events, inlcuding a speech to the reynolds employees
fitzwater said reynolds is a good example of a company that has had ``success as an exporter'' and reagan would emphasize in his talk the emergence of an international economy and the u.s. role in it
aside from his appearance at the reynolds headquarters, reagan also will attend a reception for major donors to the virginia republican party at the hyatt richmond hotel nearby
reagan will be in the city about 2{ hours before returning to the white house
an avalanche that plunged down on a helicopter skiing expedition left one skier dead, but an expedition guide was rescued after being buried under snow for nearly 90 minutes, authorities said
pandora chapman, 26, of davis, calif., died in avalanches on sale mountain near this southeastern british columbia community tuesday, said coroner sam olynyk
it was the second fatality this year involving selkirk tangiers heli-skiing, based in golden, british columbia
guide erik suchovs of revelstoke skied ahead of his party and was buried by an avalanche
the three skiers skied down to locate him and another avalanche came down behind them,'' olynyk said. chapman was buried, and the other two skiers were partly buried
suchovs was uncovered by searchers using emergency radio locators. according to queen victoria hospital administrator jim vaillancourt, suchovs was in good shape and was treated and released
the two surviving skiers, a california man and a woman from revelstoke, were also treated and released
jim bay, an avalanche technician with the highways ministry, said the avalanche occurred because ``basically, the snow of the past three or four days didn't bond to the surface.''
since 1972, 29 people have died while heli-skiing in british columbia. heli-skiers are taken to areas of deep powder snow accessible mainly by helicopter, allowing them to ski untouched areas
alma archer fox, a well-known authority on fashion, style and taste during her career as a syndicated columnist with the new york mirror, has died. she was 89
the galesburg native, who died tuesday, was a 1919 graduate of knox college in galesburg and landed her first fashion job in los angeles where she designed custom-made cadillacs
ms. fox moved to new york in 1924 where she ran a charm school on fifth avenue and became a columnist. highlights of her career included interviewing adolf hitler, drinking with ernest hemingway in paris and sailing south of france with james joyce
in 1937, at the height of her popularity, ms. fox was featured in a full-page ad in the saturday evening post promoting chrysler automobiles and proclaiming her ``one of the world's great authorities on style and smartness.''
she was editor of the women's section of the new york mirror and her column on fashion and style was syndicated by the united press association to more than 1,100 newspapers
ms. fox was married to broadway composer harry archer and later to t. edward fox. she returned to galesburg in 1959 following her second husband's death and wrote a weekly column for the galesburg post until her retirement in 1983
ms. fox, who died of pneumonia in a nursing home, is survived by two nephews.  up 9th graf, `the indictment ...' ^by wendy mitman</note>
a man whose ex-wife went to jail rather than let him see their children surrendered to authorities today after being indicted on a charge of sexually assaulting his daughter
mark russell murabito, 33, of derry, was awaiting arraignment in rockingham county superior court after turning himself in to the county sheriff
a grand jury indicted murabito on a charge of felonious sexual assault against his daughter, now 5 years old, county attorney carleton eldredge said tuesday
eldredge said the indictment was ``based upon a course of conduct'' since march 1987, when a superior court judge found no evidence to back jesse murabito's allegations that her husband molested their daughter
eldredge did not elaborate on the indictment. as a condition of bail, eldredge said he will ask that murabito be barred from seeing his children
in his 19-page divorce decree last march, judge douglas gray admonished both parents to stop ``tearing (the children) to pieces,'' and granted murabito unsupervised visitation with the girl and her brother, now 3{
murabito's lawyer, raymond kellett, said tuesday his client will plead innocent to any such charges. ``it is evident that (mrs. murabito) will do anything and everything to keep the children from mr. murabito,'' kellett said
mrs. murabito said tuesday the case ``is not murabito versus murabito. this is the state of new hampshire versus mr. murabito.'' she declined further comment
the indictment is a turning point in mrs. murabito's nearly two-year struggle to convince the courts and child welfare officials that her ex-husband was molesting their daughter
gray could not be reached for comment tuesday evening; there was no home telephone listing in new hampshire under his name
in february 1987, gray jailed mrs. murabito, now 39, after she hid the children in defiance of a court order to let her husband see the children during supervised visits
a week later, he released her after she agreed to allow supervised visits pending a hearing
in the subsequent order of march 20, 1987, in which murabito was granted unsupervised visits, gray said mrs. murabito and experts she called as witnesses during a seven-day hearing had failed to prove allegations that murabito sexually abused the daughter after mrs. murabito sought a divorce in late 1985
of course the possibility exists that the court is wrong, but that possibility exists in any judicial fact-finding process,'' gray wrote, but to uphold the abuse allegations ``would be to engage in blatant speculation.''
gray said mrs. murabito's chief witness, the children's psychiatrist since spring 1986, based many of her assertions on hearsay. mrs. murabito had said she contacted the psychiatrist when she noticed the children were losing sleep and weight and becoming irritable
gray cited an evaluation of the children by a court-appointed psychologist as ``by far the more clinically neutral and detached.''
the psychologist found no evidence of sexual abuse and said actions by the father that had been construed by others as abuse could be interpreted otherwise
the reagan administration today condemned the reported use of chemical weapons by iraq that iran says killed or wounded 5,000 people in kurdish border cities last week
we condemn the use of chemical warfare and the gas use by anybody, anywhere, anytime,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
referring to television broadcasts, fitzwater said, ``i saw _ everyone in the administration saw _ the same reports you saw last night. they were horrible, outrageous, disgusting and should serve as a reminder to all countries of why chemical warfare should be banned.''
asked if the united states would convey its reaction to baghdad, he said, ``our views are known ... to all governments.''
meanwhile, the international committee of the red cross also condemned the use of chemical weapons in the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war, calling it a ``new and tragic escalation'' of the conflict, and said it had taken urgent steps to end such attacks. addressing aremenian demands. picks up 2nd graf, `alexander ogorodnikov ...' edits to tighten.</note>
the soviet government today ignored armenian demands for annexation of a predominantly armenian section of a neighboring republic and called for efforts to improve social and economic conditions in the area
a session of the presidium of the national supreme soviet, called after carefully orchestrated appeals by 13 soviet republics, made no reference to the armenian demands
the resolution today appeared to be a definitive response from the kremlin leadership to the demands regarding the nagorno-karabakh region of the republic of azerbaijan
armenian activists want the region united with armenia
the presidium ordered the soviet council of ministers to ``work out all measures directed at deciding the immediate economic and social-cultural development of the nagorno-karabakh autonomous region.''
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and other top leaders participated in the meeting. it called on officials of armenian and azerbaijan to bring to ``strict accountability those who with their actions destabilized the situation.''
that statement appeared to indicate authorities would take action not only against those who have been arrested for violence in ethnic rioting that killed at least 32 people, but also armenian activists
earlier, a moscow dissident said soviet authorities had sent back to armenia an activist who had been giving foreign journalists information about the ethnic unrest between aremanians and azerbaijanis
alexander ogorodnikov, a former political prisoner, said armenian nationalist paryur arikyan was put on a plane for yerevan, the armenian capital, at 1:30 a.m
he said calls to armenian activists in yerevan today indicated that arikyan had arrived from moscow
another dissident source, tamara grigoryants, told the associated press on tuesday that police arrested arikyan in central moscow after he met with a western television journalist
thousands of armenians protested last month for approval to annex nagorno-karabakh
on feb. 28 rioting broke out in sumgait, a city of azerbaijan, in which officials say 32 people were killed
armenian activists say at least 78 armenians were killed by azerbaijanis in sumgait
arikyan, who said he spent 17 years in jail for armenian nationalist activities, arrived in moscow from yerevan last week and held news conferences for foreign journalists at ogorodnikov's apartment
he said saturday that officials had confiscated his internal passport, so he had traveled to moscow via soviet georgia and the russian city of tula to escape detection
the tass news agency, meanwhile, announced the governments of 13 soviet republics had addressed the violence in the republics of armenia and azerbaijan
tass said the supreme soviets of kazakhstan, lithuania, moldavia, latvia, kirghizia, tadzhikistan, turkmenia and estonia passed resolutions calling for ``discretion and composure, and at the same time for issuing a decisive rebuff to any illegitimate actions.''
that followed a tass report tuesday that the russian federation, and the republics of ukraine, byelorussia, georgia and uzbekistan had passed similar resolutions and urged the national supreme soviet to take action
such concerted action by those 13 republics, equal under the soviet constitution to armenia and azerbaijan, was very unusual and almost certainly orchestrated by communist party authorities
the government calls for action also came as the communist party newspaper pravda and the government newspaper, izvestia, ran articles sharply criticizing armenian activists
pravda's article monday charging that the annexation campaign had a ``clear anti-socialist spirit'' sparked a protest in yerevan. the pravda journalist whose name was one of three attached to the article disassociated himself from it in a telegram to the paper's editor
a fugitive wanted in the poisoning death of a las vegas beauty contest winner was arrested here, authorities said today
murray police sgt. bill brusik said steven paul mack was taken into custody about 10 p.m. tuesday after police stopped him in his car about half a mile from his home in this salt lake city suburb
mack, a convicted forger and burglar who served two prison terms and was paroled in 1985, was being held without bail today in salt lake county jail on a felony homicide warrant issued in sacramento, calif
brusik said sacramento detectives were expected to arrive today to question mack and begin extradition proceedings
mack, 39, is sought for questioning in the february 1987 slaying of karen grace winslett, 21, of carmichael, calif. winslett won the title of miss english leather in las vegas, nev., shortly before disappearing feb. 19
her decomposed body was found 12 days later hidden under the rear hatchback door of her sports car, parked behind a sacramento motel
sacramento detectives said she died of a large dose of percodan, a pain killer for which winslett had no prescription. she had no health problems, was not suicidal and had no background of drug abuse, authorities said
detectives concluded she had been poisoned, and said mack was linked to the crime by physical and other evidence they would not detail
sacramento police also said mack is a suspect in a similar slaying of a 19-year-old annette huddle in marion county, ohio
brusik said police discovered mack's identity during an unrelated forgery investigation involving sean paul lanier, the name mack purportedly used for the four or five months he had been living in murray
the senate refused today to limit debate on a bill that would require the government to individually warn thousands of workers each year that they face a high risk of cancer and other diseases from exposure to dangerous chemicals and other substances in their jobs
in a key test vote, democratic supporters of the house-passed legislation could muster only 33 of the 60 senate votes necessary to limit debate on the measure to 30 hours before an up-or-down vote on its passage
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, the primary senate author of the legislation, offered today to accept amendments expanding exemptions for small businesses and farms in an effort to pick up more support in anticipation of another vote scheduled friday on cutting off debate
the bill's proponents had filed motions to limit the debate as soon the measure was brought to the senate floor on tuesday after republican and business opponents made it clear they would try to prevent a vote on the bill itself through the use of a filibuster
ending a filibuster requires 60 votes while final passage of a bill requires only a simple majority, or 51 votes if all 100 senators are present
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, the leader of the opponents, said metzenbaum's willingness ``to whittle the bill down until he gets engouh votes to pass it'' demonstrates the problems with the legislation
if it's good enough for one, it's good enough for all,'' hatch said. ``the overwhelming majority of the business community opposes this bill.'' business groups that support it, hatch said, ``have worked out exemptions for themselves to the exclusion of everybody else.''
among the business supporters of the bill are the chemical manufacturers association, the american electronics association and dozens of the nation's largest companies, including general electric, ibm and atlantic richfield. most already have their own worker notification programs
opponents include the reagan administration, the national association of manufacturers and the u.s. chamber of commerce
the bill would establish an agency in the department of health and human services to determine which workers are most at risk. the national institute of occupational safety and health would then be required to send individual notices to between 100,000 and 300,000 of them every year and employers would be required to provide medical monitoring programs for them
the national association of manufacturers and other opponents claim that the monitoring programs and the possibility of subsequent lawsuits by workers and former workers against their employers could cost businesses up to $6 billion a year
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
march 17
roswell (n.m.) daily record on u.s. involvement in central america:
liberal congressmen are obsessively fond of comparing u.s. involvement in central america with what later developed into the vietnam war
the trouble is, their comparison is with the wrong war
double-dealing by nicaragua's sandinista government along with house leaders' blindness to the reality of the central american conflict is more reminiscent of the preliminaries to world war ii
like the sandinistas now, nazi germany claimed it supported peace, while working feverishly for war and conquest
the united states is not facing ``another vietnam'' by giving assistance to its contra allies, it faces far worse if it doesn't
march 19
the kennebec journal, augusta, maine, on sending u.s. troops into honduras:
keeping the contras in the field, if not in nicaragua, seems to be the basis for the $48 million emergency aid package introduced ... (march 18) in congress. only two weeks ago congress couldn't even agree on a $30 million ``humanitarian'' aid bill
the sandinista raid (into honduras) will probably turn around that vote in short order
daniel ortega has a history of snatching diplomatic defeat from the jaws of victory. after a previous contra aid vote, he flew off to moscow; this time he decided on military action. ..
but president reagan won't get a free ride. just by dispatching 3,200 troops to honduras, 100 miles from the war zone, he ignited what may be the largest anti-war protests since vietnam. ..
march 16
nashville (tenn.) banner on the hostages in lebanon:
in vivid contrast to the situation in 1980 when 52 american hostages were being held in iran, little is heard these days about the hostages being held in lebanon
the hostages are rarely allowed to communicate with the outside world, and their captors, believed to be moslem fundamentalists, rarely come out of the shadows
the hostages in iran were freed after 444 days. but one of the lebanon hostages _ associated press newsman terry anderson _ has now been held for a full three years. ..
anderson isn't the only victim of lebanese kidnappers. but he is the longest held of about two dozen westerners missing in beirut
and he was there because his job was to tell u.s. newspaper readers what was happening in that tortured country
march 18
westerly (r.i.) sun on toy guns that look real:
handguns, both fake and real ones, are sources of concern in what still seems to be a trigger-happy society ... given the shocking homicide rate in this supposedly law-respecting country
san francisco's city supervisors, following the lead of los angeles, have just banned the sale of toy guns not easily distinguishable from those they imitate
san francisco's action came after police, fearing for their lives when a mentally retarded boy pointed a real-looking pistol at them, shot and killed the boy. ..
there is no justification for the manufacturers to continue putting on the market accurate toy replicas of lethal weapons
it is folly ... to tolerate the manufacture and sale of toys that can easily be mistaken for real weapons, sometimes with tragic consequences
march 21
tulsa (okla.) world on irs penalties:
a horror story about the internal revenue service assessing a $400 penalty against a small businessman who paid two cents less than he owed has rightly outraged the public
but the nation's chief tax collector, irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs, offers a different perspective, one that clearly shows congress to be the source of a lot of the troubles between the irs and taxpayers
the tax code now includes 154 statutory penalties, he told congressional investigators, noting that congress has changed the tax code seven times in the last 10 years and enacted ``a seemingly endless array of ad hoc penalties.''
gibbs, in trying to carry out an unpopular job, knows that the whole system depends on public confidence ... and that wholesale stupidness on the part of congress is quickly eroding that confidence
it's enough to make one sympathize with the irs
march 16
east oregonian, pendleton, ore., on running for president:
it's time teacher-researchers, voter organizations and citizens in general tried to figure out why so many of the brightest americans are refusing to run for office..
politics and politicians have picked up rotten reputations. that stems partly from the watergate era, the trauma of the vietnam era and various investigations and charges against public officials
and it results in part from journalists' digging, reporting and commentary on those cases
lots of potentially strong public officials want to avoid putting themselves and their families in the glare of publicity
march 18
the seattle post-intelligencer on iran-contra indictments:
the indictments of the principals in the iran-contra affair are heartening evidence that the judicial system is working properly
this is a country based on the rule of law. democracy cannot survive if it accommodates those who put themselves above the law. corruption in government, even for an avowed noble purpose, cannot be tolerated
that's why those charged should stand trial to have their guilt or innocence determined. ..
it should be kept in mind in the months ahead that at issue here is not the political question of what ought to be the proper role of the united states in nicaragua. the question is whether these men broke the law
obtaining a judicial answer to this question is important for the spiritual health of the country, which depends on the faith of its citizens in the rule of law
march 21
the baltimore sun on iran-contra pardons:
shredders, obstruction of justice, contempt for routine governmental and political processes, lots of money, colorful characters, white house involvement, special prosecutor, multiple indictments. ..
if it all sounds familiar, that's because it is. the iran-contra affair is a repeat in many ways of the watergate scandal of the 1970s. ..
just as in watergate, the question of pardons is central to the outcome of this drama
as a general rule, we don't believe pardons ought to be granted or even discussed before guilt or innocence has been established in the courts. but the general rule doesn't apply here. the question of pardons needs some public discussion
the guilt or innocence of adm. john poindexter, lt. col. oliver north, general richard secord and albert hakim probably cannot be decided until after president reagan leaves office. ..
reagan should not pardon these men before trial, even though he sympathizes with them and had a lot to do with their troubles
march 18
the record, hackensack, n.j., on sending u.s. troops into honduras:
president reagan's emergency airlift of 3,200 troops in response to a supposed nicaraguan incursion into honduras is an example of an administration driven to desperation as a result of its inability to win additional aid for the contras
at best, the airlift is a splashy way of stampeding congress into voting the rebels additional military aid. if so, it would seem to run counter to the prevailing viewpoint of most americans as well as congress
the plain fact is that the white house's nicaraguan policy has failed, the victim of scandals, ineptitude and miscalculation, and it will take more than a war scare to bring it back to life
instead of a military drive, this seemed to be a time for holding the line, and reducing to a minimun the chances of added hostilities
march 17
charleston (w.va.) daily mail on mandatory use of seat belts:
the (west virginia) legislature has made the use of seat belts mandatory. it's the wrong idea, done the wrong way for the wrong reason
yes, everyone should wear seat belts when driving. but it is outrageous to have government decree such behavior
first, there's the approach itself. lawmakers are using another one of those rankling $25 fines to get their way
a more appropriate method would be to lower the amount of damages that juries award injured parties who were not wearing seat belts when they were involved in an accident
the motive was also wrong. lawmakers were pushed to pass the bill on grounds that it would help stop the u.s. department of transportation from requiring air bags on cars
ironically, west virginia's law contains exemptions which keep it from complying with the federal criteria for such laws
the state's new seat belt law may make lawmakers feel good. but as a practical piece of legislation, it's a dismal failure
march 18
marietta (ga.) daily journal on aid to the contras:
there is no joy in being able to say ``we told you so'' regarding aid to the nicaraguan contras when the criminal misjudgment of congress may cost us thousands of american lives
when the vote on military aid for the contra rebels fighting to overthrow the illegal marxist government in nicaragua came up last month, we argued that daniel ortega's recent peaceful overtures were merely for show, and that if congress cut off military assistance to the rebels, ortega would quickly resume his warring ways and attempt to wipe out the relatively defenseless rebels
the sandinistas have now begun to do just that
amazingly, many liberals in congress have refused to recognize that the man who they thought was their friend, ortega, has sold them down the river
they cannot see that they have been used as pawns by an avowed communist who exploited their weaknesses to achieve a military advantage
march 17
owatonna (minn.) people's press on the iran-contra indictments:
since the iran-contra scandal broke nearly one and a half years ago, president reagan has declined to answer questions about the possibilities of pardons, should those involved be convicted of crimes
while reagan's reaction to the indictments (issued last week against former national security adviser john poindexer, lt. col. oliver north, retired air force maj. gen. richard secord and businessman albert hakim) and questions about the possibilities of pardons are of immediate concern, so, too, are the thoughts of those seeking election to the office of the presidency
if reagan delays a decision on pardons, which he may grant prior to any convictions, the next person elected president of this nation may well face the decision
the indictments and the possibility of pardons have heightened the importance of the iran-contra scandal as a campaign issue
now more than ever, the american public needs some answers from the candidates, including vice president george bush
march 20
observer-reporter, washington, pa., on money for the poor:
if the united states took all the money spent each year on anti-poverty programs _ about $130 billion _ and divided it by the number of americans categorized by government as poor _ about 32 million, each poor person would receive over $4,000; each family of four over $16,000
even if we subtracted a reasonable amount for administrative costs, there would still be more than enough to lift all welfare families above the poverty-income threshold _ $11,202 for a family of four in 1986
march 18
the riverside (calif.) press-enterprise on the situation in panama:
the reagan administration cuts off aid and payment of canal fees to panama, and suddenly the rule of strongman manuel noriega is being challenged, openly and violently, in the streets by his own people
there is a temptation to say that the white house finally found the right button to push to get a rebellion started, but ... that interpretation is too simplistic by far. ..
the banks of panama have been closed for days, they aren't expected to reopen soon. a canal fee payment, due (last) week from the united states, is not in the mail. that's a $6.5 million shortfall right there. ..
it's a lot, but a ruler who had the support of his people could weather that much and more. but the fact is, the first demonstrations against the noriega regime occurred in panama city's streets last summer. ..
in the year of costa rica president oscar arias' nobel peace prize for his regional peace plan, there is even less of that commodity in central america than usual. ..
as for the people of panama, they can concentrate on the one problem at hand _ and it looks increasingly as if they aim to do that, for as long as it takes
march 22
st. louis post-dispatch on the balance of trade:
for america to seek an actual trade surplus is probably unwise
if the united states were to run a surplus, most of its trading partners would have to run deficits, and the majority of these nations' economies are neither large enough nor rich enough to afford them
while the u.s. economy continues to grow, even if slowly, europe's economies remain largely stagnant
perhaps japan could survive a trade deficit for a time, but south korea, hong kong, taiwan and singapore _ known as the four asian ``tigers'' _ could not, for the same reasons as the europeans. `the stumbling ...' inserts x grafs after 12th graf, `in other . ..,' to update with comment from white house. picks up 13th graf, `the sandinista ...' edits to tighten.</note>
sandinista and contra rebel negotiators resumed their cease-fire talks today closer than ever to reaching agreement on steps to end nicaragua's six-year war
but, as the two sides entered the third session of talks, the state-run voice of nicaragua radio reported a contra violation of the truce agreed on for the talks' duration
the broadcast said the u.s.-backed rebels ambushed an army truck near mulukuku in the northern province of matagalpa at 2 p.m. tuesday, killing two soldiers
bosco matamoros, a spokesman for the rebels, told reporters that ``there could be isolated cases, but there is a clear will from both sides to respect that decision (for a truce).''
a defense ministry spokesman in managua, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, ``we have no information about (the report), but we will see if we can confirm it.''
the main stumbling blocks facing the third round of talks appeared to center on the mechanics of how the contras would lay down their arms and be granted amnesty. on tuesday, both sides exchanged proposals that agree on major points
defense minister humberto ortega, who heads the government delegation, said today that he was optimistic there would be success in today's talks
tuesday, he said he expected a ``concrete agreement'' to emerge from the discussions. but sources close to the talks cautioned that they could still stall on final details. one source said the talks could continue beyond today
it is like a boxing match,'' a sandinista official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said tuesday. ``they were tense (monday) and they had some sparring (tuesday).''
adolfo calero, political leader of the u.s.-supported contras, described the second round of talks as ``direct and frank.''
the two sides stood far apart at the start of the talks, which opened monday at this border post 90 miles south of managua and which represented the government and rebel leaders' first face-to-face meeting in nicaragua. a battlefield truce that began monday appeared to be holding
in other developments, a pentagon source said today american troops are expected to return home monday and tuesday following emergency training exercises in honduras
and white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said u.s. troops should begin their withdrawal ``over the weekend.''
fitzwater also expressed cautious optimism about the talks
they do seem to be making progress,'' he said, adding that it was ``somewhat surprising'' in view of previous actions by the sandinistas
the sandinista proposal, outlined by deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco on tuesday, calls for a truce of up to 90 days during which the contras would lay down their weapons and join a ``national reconciliation dialogue.''
for every rebel who stops fighting, the government would release a political prisoner the sandinistas consider eligible for release. the government is holding an estimated 3,300 political prisoners
contrary to previous sandinista demands, tinoco said rebels who put down their arms would be free from prosecution without applying for amnesty and could take part in nicaraguan political life
they would be permitted to operate uncensored newspapers, magazines and radio stations, but television would remain a government monopoly. many press liberties were barred for almost six years under a state-of-emergency decree
the contra proposal calls for a 45-day cease-fire and would provide for zones to be set up for the estimated 10,000 contra combatants to gather while a permanent truce is negotiated
it does not mention when the rebels would be willing to give up their arms
the proposal calls for total amnesty, return of political exiles, full press freedoms, a suspension of the military draft during the truce and incorporation of contra representatives into the national dialogue process
the sandinistas called for an international commission to verify an end to hostilities, which the government says have claimed 26,500 lives since 1981
the sandinistas, according to sources who demanded anonymity, also want the contras to be more specific about a final cease-fire. the government also would not be expected to give in readily to the contra demand for suspending the draft during a truce or for an immediate, total amnesty
a national dialogue as well as the cease-fire are included in the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, costa rica, guatemla and honduras
that plan also calls for greater democracy and an end to foreign aid to insurgents and the use of one country's territory for attacks on another
a teen-ager was given a suspended death sentence and six classmates received prison terms ranging from two years to life for the stabbing death of a college student, an official newspaper reported tuesday
the beijing daily said the seven, all 17- and 18-year-old students from a technical school, were convicted monday of involvement in the dec. 2 slaying of zhang han, a student from beijing normal university
the report said the seven ran out of their dormitory and attacked zhang and others with bricks and knives after hearing people outside shouting insulting remarks. it was not clear if zhang was among the shouters
dong qiufei, identified as the assailant who stabbed zhang, received a death sentence with a two-year reprieve. that means the sentence will be changed to life imprisonment if he shows a good attitude in the next two years
long kaiyuan, who had a criminal record for thefts, was convicted of hooliganism and sentenced to life in prison. the other five received terms ranging from two to 10 years
zhang was among three college students murdered in brawls in december
land reform, the issue that helped trigger a 1973 military coup, has disappeared from the country's political agenda as effectively as the horse-drawn plow from the fields
experts say the country's ranks of landless peasants remain swollen and may be worse off than they were a decade or two ago. but social and economic changes have dulled their once-fierce thirst for their own acre to till
the loss of priority is evident in declarations by civilian politicians pressing for an end to the 14-year-old military government of president augusto pinochet. no longer do they cry out for expropriation of large land holdings for distribution among the poor _ a call that once chilled the blood of wealthy farmers and ranchers
a recent 91-page proposal by six opposition groups for a transitional government to restore democracy contained not a word on the issue. ``there will be no land reform'' during any such transition, patricio aylwin, president of the christian democratic party, told reporters
the young are calling for a well-paid job rather than for land,'' said emiliano ortega, a santiago-based agronomist and social scientists. ``they remember the experience of their fathers, who lost their land.''
the issue of land reform began sweeping latin america in the 1950s and 1960. in chile it reached its peak under the government of president salvador allende, a marxist elected in 1970. his adminstration expropriated about 16 million acres for distribution among 60,000 peasant families. some farms were directly seized by leftist groups
the upheaval helped trigger a 1973 coup that installed pinochet, commander of the army and a fierce anti-communist
pinochet quickly gave back more than half the expropriated land to its original owners or new farming companies, and tens of thousands of peasants were booted off their newly acquired plots. powerful peasant organizations, often aligned with the political left, were dismantled
a free-market economic program was launched, stressing agricultural exports. to compete in world markets, farmers were pushed to modernize with costly tractors and other machinery, fertilizers and insecticides. many made the expensive switch from traditional crops such as wheat and corn to more profitable products, especially fruit
the result has been an extraordinary agricultural boom, with production up by about half overall and annual exports soaring from about $20 million in the early 1970s to more than $500 million now
but the peasants found themselves without a secure role. the land reform efforts and ensuing modernization destroyed the traditional ``hacienda'' system, under which peasants worked as tenant farmers or farmhands with free housing. in addition, many peasants who did receive land found competition too costly and sold their plots
tens of thousands turned to seasonal and migrant labor, working eight to 16 hours a day for a monthly salary equivalent to less than $100, said solidarity, a church-sponsored magazine on human rights and issues. ``the peasant became just another laborer.''
ortega said that as a result of the changes, the peasant of the 1980s is more interested in his paycheck and working conditions than in being given land he can't afford to cultivate
there's been a very strong cultural change and a strong change in labor relations,'' he said. ``it's not going to be like in the past.''
before, peasants lived for generations on the land. now they don't, they don't live within the farms. thus, they don't identify themselves as much with a piece of land.''
ortega estimated the number of seasonal farm laborers at about 300,000 and said they will represent a powerful political force if given the opportunity to organize
people outraged over a protest group's announced plan to burn a puppy to demonstrate the brutality of war in nicaragua today flooded a radio station and the county humane society with calls
the dane county humane society office logged at least 30 phone calls in the first hour it was open from people opposing plans announced tuesday by david read, founder of the nihilist workers party, an animal shelter official said
the whole thing is we want to put people in touch with the worst feelings they've ever had,'' said read, 26, a university of wisconsin-madison philosophy student. ``i think this is really brilliant because it will hit a raw nerve with people.''
we're going to prevent it as best we can,'' mary collins, shelter manager, said today
humane society officials were meeting with the state humane officer to see what could be done and were recording the names and addresses of callers ``in case we need bodies to protest his protest,'' collins said
read's telephone number was busy this morning. collins said shelter officials had been giving it to callers, suggesting they contact read
some of the callers had suggested read set himself on fire, she said. callers to wiva-fm in madison suggested read should either burn himself or go fight in the war himself instead of torturing a puppy.police said harming the animal could lead to an arrest
shelter officials cannot confiscate the animal, even if they knew where it was, on the basis of a threat to burn it next week, collins said
read said war has become normal in our society and he wants to demonstrate its brutality by dousing the puppy with gasoline and burning it next tuesday on campus. if police or spectators try to stop the effort, read said, it will kill the puppy somewhere else
read said he fully expects to be arrested and jailed and to be criticized
we're going to be recruiting a lit of a goon squad for protection,'' read said. ``let's face it, people are going to try to stop us.''
he said the 10-week-old dog, which he described as a mutt, was being held at an undisclosed location outside madison
read said he and a friend organized the nihilist workers party in madison in 1986 to spread the doctrine of nihilism, a belief that existing social, political and economic institutions must be destroyed in order to make way for new institutions. read</head>
the education department on wednesday released a booklet with tips for parents who want to help their children read but may not know the best way to go about it
the surest prevention of illiteracy is making sure kids know how to read,'' chester e. finn jr., assistant education secretary for research and improvement, said in unveiling the 29-page booklet
and children's first and most important teachers are their parents. we want to help parents who want to help their children to read,'' he said
the booklet, ``becoming a nation of readers: what parents can do,'' begins by noting that reading is a skill that continues to improve with practice. then, starting with parents of preschoolers, the booklet offers suggestions for things parents can do to encourage their children to read
the education department's first tip to parents of young children is to read aloud to them. ``when adults read aloud, children quickly learn that a book is a wonderful thing,'' the booklet notes
for parents of children in kindergarten and first grade the booklet suggests parents continue to read aloud with their children, take their children on trips to the library or bookstores and listen to their children read. the booklet also recommends that parents ``place reasonable limits on tv viewing.''
and for parents of children in higher grades, the booklet suggests parents set aside a time and place at home for studying. it also recommends parents keep close tabs on their children's progress and encourage reading for fun
for some families, plainly this booklet is not necessary,'' finn said. ``but it's a useful book for parents who have the impulse and don't know how to go about it.''
the reading booklet, which is being printed by the lexington, mass.-based d.c. heath and co. textbook publishers, can be obtained by sending 50 cents to: ``what parents can do,'' consumer information center, pueblo, colo. 81009. numerous school districts and the american federation of teachers also are printing copies
newspapers likened government press restrictions to those of the soviet union and said wednesday the closure of a militant newspaper for blacks endangers all south african news media
the closing of the new nation is ``a chilling reminder of the lengths to which the government is ready to go in its attempts to impose thought countrol,'' the star of johannesburg said in an editorial
after this, no other newspaper is safe,'' south africa's largest daily declared
home minister stoffel botha, who has censorship powers under the emergency in effect since june 12, 1986, issued a decree tuesday prohibiting publication of the new nation for three months
the weekly tabloid is financed by the roman catholic church. its editor, zwelakhe sisulu, has been in detention for 15 months
botha also warned a monthly cape town community paper, grassroots, that it faces closure or prior censorship if it continues publishing ``subversive propaganda.''
grassroots was the eighth paper to receive a warning, the first step in the closure process, and the new nation was the first to be shut down
an editorial in the cape times said:
if the newspapers continue on traditional lines in spite of such warnings, will they share the fate of new nation? the censorship system seeks to achieve a compliant press on pravda-like lines, rather than a wholesale closure of publications, which would be embarassing and inconvenient
if it is really felt that newspapers are fomenting revolution, why not charge them in the courts? there are laws enough.''
business day, a conservative johannesburg daily, declared:
the decision to close new nation for three months confirms what has been plain for some time: south africa can no longer claim to have a free press and in this respect, as in others, it has left the ranks of civilized nations
in the past it was possible to argue that the press was restricted, but free, and even to make self-flattering comparisons with the british official secrets act. this is no longer so
it seems idle to protest at the closing of a newspaper when that newspaper's editor, zwelakhe sisulu, has been in detention without trial for more than a year. government's opponents _ or those it deems opponents _ are locked away indefinitely for crimes which cannot be defined in the law, and are punished without a chance to rebut the charges against them
the decision to suppress new nation rests on the minister's opinion that the newspaper propagated communism, but neither the minister nor the law can define the crime for which the newspaper is punished. radical newspapers will be circulated ... as they are in the soviet union, from hand to hand.''
a pro-government daily, the citizen, took a different view
newspapers still report most of the news that is fit to print, and where reporting is restricted, they still, in the main, give a fair picture of what is happening,'' it said. ``but south africa is in a state of emergency. the press is subjected to stringent restrictions.''
the citzen also said, however, that court proceedings would have been better than botha's action, which was taken ``on the recommendations of a faceless panel of so-called experts exercising judgments that are personal, based on no specific criteria or guidelines, and cannot be tested in a court of law.''
a radio program which bills itself as the ``voice of indian america'' is fighting to survive as the only nationally broadcast native american news program, its founder says
first person radio'' is heard on 35 stations in 13 states, down from 52 stations in 26 states, said laura waterman wittstock. and financial troubles for public radio have clouded the program's future, she said
we're sort of passengers in a sinking ship, so to speak, because the indian-owned radio stations are in equally distressed situations,'' wittstock said recently
the half-hour weekly news and commentary program is produced by migizi communications, an 11-year-old, non-profit organization based in minneapolis. migizi is ojibwe for eagle
the eagle symbolizes messages, and also it's a symbol of high standard,'' wittstock said. ``we wanted to have the highest standards of indian journalism, to train more indians into journalism and to develop a national news service.''
and the show enables indians around the country to feel a part of a community. in southern alabama, it serves 1,859 members of the poarch band of creek indians
we're the only reservation in alabama. the cultural exchange is really important,'' said dale gehman, a creek indian who is general manager of wasg-am in atmore, ala. ``i don't know what we'd do without it.''
alaska public radio offers separate stories about indians which are distributed by national public radio, but not in the format of a regular broadcast program, according to npr
correspondents in new mexico and idaho regularly file stories to give ``first person radio'' a national flavor, wittstock said. but affiliated stations have been unable to offer many stories because they are also struggling and have little time left over to make contributions, she said
the '80s have been disastrous for radio _ not just indian radio,'' she said, adding that interest in sponsoring minority radio programs has lost favor to shows with mass appeal
so why do wittstock and dale means, the show's program adviser, struggle to keep ``first person radio'' on the air?
i feel there is a market for indian programming, but nobody is doing it,'' said means, brother of former american indian movement leader russell means. dale means helped start kili-fm on the pine ridge indian reservation in south dakota that went on the air in 1983 to mark the 10th anniversary of the wounded knee occupation
early on, kili and migizi, which received promotional support from the american indian movement, were criticized within the indian community because of that association, means said
it wasn't an aim podium, so to speak. that's one of the good things about the radio station,'' he said. ``on occasion, it had some critical comments about aim itself.''
but the issue no longer arises, wittstock said. ``we've proven ourselves.''
before ``first person radio'' began in the late 1970s, wittstock said, ``you might get a little snippet about a demonstration, or a little snippet about a murder, or somebody going to jail for 99 years or something like that. that isn't indian news.''
recent news stories have included coverage of federal college loan problems for navajo students, an ongoing land claims dispute on the white earth indian reservation in northern minnesota, and a law requiring labeling to distinguish wild rice harvested by indians from the paddy-grown variety
training young journalists is an important goal for wittstock, 50, the last director of the defunct american indian press association, which distributed articles to about 100 indian newspapers nationwide
she and means, 46, run after-school programs for students interested in learning about communications, and have trained 50 college students over the years
water officials facing what could be the state's second-driest year ever have declared an emergency shortage and warned 1.1 million customers that water rationing may be ordered for homes and businesses
the east bay municipal utility district stopped short of imposing emergency restrictions but voted yesterday to approve a $300,000 campaign to teach the public water conservation methods
we don't want to make this a draconian thing, but we do want to save a lot of water,'' district general manager jerome gilbert said at the board of director's meeting tuesday
the board will meet again april 13 to consider rationing but is already divided over whether to allow more water in the warmer areas such as the san ramon valley
directors from berkeley and richmond argued it would be unfair if affluent suburbs such as san ramon receive an extra share of water for their sprawling lawns and gardens
water officials said studies show rain and snow runoff from the mokelumne river basin, the district's major water source, is estimated at 180,000 feet, 24 percent of normal
this year has the potential to be the second-driest year ever,'' said ted way, chief engineer
officials stopped short of declaring a drought for the district east of san francisco, but said river runoff from snow melt will average 60 percent of normal between april and july statewide
a nearly 2-year-old lawsuit that accuses several iran-contra figures of collaborating with colombian drug lords is under attack by the defendants who call the complaint ``legal terrorism.''
the lawsuit, filed in may 1986 several months before the iran-contra affair was exposed publicly, names some of the people in the private network that lt. col. oliver l. north formed to help the nicaraguan contras
the lawsuit has attracted widespread attention, and the christic institute, a liberal policy group representing the plaintiffs, has used it as a vehicle to raise money
daniel sheehan, the christic's chief counsel, has traveled around the country speaking about the suit, which was filed by martha honey and tony avirgan, two american reporters based in costa rica
the allegations in the civil lawsuit _ set for trial june 26 in federal court in miami _ are significantly different and much broader than the issues raised by lawrence walsh, the independent counsel in the iran-contra case
last week, a federal grand jury indicted four men on charges of conspiring to defraud the u.s. government in the program to sell weapons to iran and divert the proceeds to the contras
they are john m. poindexter, the former national security adviser; north, poindexter's one-time aide; and richard v. secord and albert hakim, two arms dealers who helped north run the iran-contra program
secord and hakim are among the 29 defendants in the miami lawsuit, which does not cite any u.s. government officials. central to the lawsuit is the claim that the defendants conspired to traffic in drugs and plot assassinations in central america and elsewhere
lawyers for both sides expect the trial to proceed despite walsh's criminal indictments
this case is going to trial,'' said thomas spencer, an attorney for retired gen. john singlaub, one of the defendants in the lawsuit
honey and avirgan are represented by attorneys for the christic institute, a liberal policy group based in the nation's capital
i think they (the plaintiffs) are desperately looking for a way to get out of the lawsuit,'' spencer said. ``they have come to the conclusion there is no basis for their case.''
peter dykstra, a spokesman for the washington-based institute, rejected spencer's claim. ``we want a trial _ why else would we be doing this?'' he said
spencer and other defense lawyers have waged a concerted effort to discredit the lawsuit. among other things, they have obtained affidavits from some of the christic's sources, contradicting information in the lawsuit
judge james lawrence king ordered the institute to reveal its sources
secord, meantime, has filed a $5 million slander suit against eugene wheaton, one of the institute's principal ources. wheaton's lawyer, robert thompson, said his client has not responded to the lawsuit
at the heart of the honey-avirgan lawsuit is the allegation that ``a secret team'' headed by former cia official theodore shackley worked over two decades to manage a covert, shadow government funded with drug profits. there has never been independent confirmation of the charge
shackley has waged a personal publicity campaign to defend himself and vowed to seek reprisals through the legal system
in an article in the journal of defense &amp; diplomacy, shackley described the plaintiffs as ``practitioners of character assassination through legal terrorism...''
the christic institute stands by its charges, and sheehan says he is developing more information that implicates the defendants. but many of the institute's theories will not be tested in court because king has limited testimony in the case to events between 1983 and 1986
specifically, avirgan and honey seek damages of $22 million to compensate avirgan for injuries he suffered inside nicaragua at a bombing at a may 1986 press conference held by former contra leader, eden pastora. three reporters died in the bombing
the lawsuit claims the defendants, who include known colombian drug smugglers pablo escobar and jorge ochoa, conspired to:
_ kill pastora because he would not cooperate with other contra rebels
_ smuggle cocaine into the united states to finance contra operations
_ assassinate a u.s. ambassador in costa rica in order to claim a bounty
the special congressional committees that investigated the iran-contra case last summer did not deal specifically with allegations raised in the lawsuit
but a senate panel chaired by sen. john kerry, d-mass., is looking into reports of drug-dealing by the contras. the rebels have denied they trafficked in narcotics
the iran-contra committees, however, heard public testimony from glenn robinette, a former cia security specialist who said secord paid him thousands of dollars to investigate the lawsuit in 1986
over the past several months, the institute has conducted depositions of witnesses, many of whom have refused to talk, citing their fifth amendment right to remain silent
spencer said the lawsuit has cost singlaub $150,000 in legal fees so far, and that could double. the institute has budgeted $3 million to cover operational expenses 1988, with 90 percent of the money expected to be spent on the lawsuit
a bone marrow transplant researcher was named wednesday as recipient of the $50,000 bristol-myers award for distinguished achievement in cancer research
george santos, professor of oncology and medicine at the johns hopkins university school of medicine in baltimore, will receive the prize at a luncheon may 4 in new york
bone marrow transplants are used to treat leukemia
santos was among the first researchers to realize the importance of suppressing the immune system with drugs in bone marrow transplants, to avoid a potentially fatal complication known as graft-versus-host disease, said e. donnall thomas, director of the fred hutchinson cancer research center and a member of the award committee
in the disease, immune system cells from the donated marrow attack the recipient's tissue as foreign
santos said he and colleagues are now studying use of marrow transplants as part of treatment of cancers of the breast, ovary and colon. the research involves using higher-than-usual doses of chemotherapy to kill cancer cells, then doing transplants to restore marrow destroyed as a side effect
another line of research is using the drug thalidomide in fighting graft-versus-host disease, he said. animal studies are encouraging, he said in a statement
thalidomide is best known for causing birth defects when taken by pregnant women as a sleeping pill in the 1950s. but apart from that, scientists say, it has far fewer side effects than cyclosporine, another suppressor of the immune system that can damage the kidneys
two iraqi jetfighters inadvertently violated turkish airspace when they bombed kurdish guerrillas in a joint security zone along the border, it was reported wednesday
the semi-official anatolia news agency said tuesday's air raid caused panic in villages in southeast turkey, a few miles from the border with iraq. it said the iraqi warplanes bombed kurdish guerrillas fighting for an autonomous homeland
it was not known if there were any causualties
an estimated 19 million kurds seeking independence live in the area where the borders of iran, turkey and iraq meet
turkey and iraq have an agreement granting rights to each other to operate in a 6-mile-wide joint security zone along the common frontier
turkish military units also have been fighting kurdish guerrillas over the past four years. turkish warplanes staged two air raids against kurdish rebel hideouts in the joint security zone in the past two years
here is the current breakdown of all the votes cast in the primaries so far. for each candidate the total is calculated by adding together the votes the candidate received in each of the primaries
61,828 of 62,100 precincts reporting -  99.6 percent

dukakis, 2,953,568 -  25.6 percent
gore, 2,616,159 -  22.7 percent
jackson, 3,142,935 -  27.2 percent
gephardt, 1,260,324 -  10.9 percent
simon, 900,796 -  7.8 percent
babbitt, 68,867 -  0.6 percent
hart, 305,742 -  2.6 percent
uncommitted, 200,001 -  1.7 percent
others, 100,116 -  0.9 percent

total states with primaries so far -  22

62,689 of 63,926 precincts reporting -  98.1 percent

bush, 3,897,944 -  56.7 percent
dole, 1,684,867 -  24 percent
robertson, 830,484 -  12.1 percent
kemp, 340,057 -  4.9 percent
du pont, 51,335 -  0.7 percent
haig, 25,578 -  0.4 percent
uncommitted, 43,700 -  0.6 percent
others, 3,820 -  0.1 percent

total states with primaries so far -  22 0357</first>
state republican party chairman ray shamie said today he will not challenge sen. edward m. kennedy this year. instead, longtime shamie aide joseph malone will run against the veteran democrat
shamie, a retired walpole millionaire, told a news conference he had decided, despite pleas from president reagan and other national party officials, to remain state party chairman
among other things, shamie said he was concerned about giving up a chairmanship won only last year to run what most observers agree is an uphill battle to unseat kennedy, who will be seeking his fifth full term
shamie, 67, endorsed malone, saying that none of the other republicans who expressed interest in challenging kennedy would be serious candidates
malone, 33, of waltham, has been a close aide to shamie since 1982, when shamie emerged by mounting a credible challenge to kennedy. currently, malone is executive director of the republican party under shamie
a graduate of harvard college in 1978, malone has helped operate a family trucking business and also is a partner in family real estate holdings
i have devoted 10 years of my life working to help bring back a two-party system to massachusetts,'' malone said in an interview. ``it's important that we have a strong, aggressive campaign in massachusetts.''
the top gop party brass was concerned that a weak challenge to kennedy would leave him free to roam the country helping other democratic campaigns, including the presidential race
but state rep. john macgovern said shamie, ``did not like being used by other people like a battering ram. he did not want to run. you're just banging yourself up to keep ted kennedy busy.''
malone is a virtual unknown in massachusetts except in political circles. he is well off from his family business interests but said he is not a millionaire
shamie spent $1.8 million against kennedy in 1982 when he lost 61 percent to 38 percent. he spent a record $2.3 million in 1984 against john kerry for senate in a race kerry won 55 percent to 45 percent
police on the lookout for terrorist attacks at the capitol report a 50 percent decline in seizures of handguns and rifles last year but a sharp increase in canisters of chemical sprays that visitors carry for self-protection
figures supplied by senior police officials appeared to contradict an earlier claim by house sergeant-at-arms jack russ that weapons seizures rose by a startling 147 percent at the capitol last year
members of a house appropriations subcommittee said russ left the impression at a recent hearing that many of the 1,162 confiscated weapons were guns. russ cited the figure in arguing for an $18.5 million plan to tighten security on the house side of the capitol
but capitol police chief frank kerrigan said in a subsequent interview that all 1,162 actually were canisters of mace, tear gas and other non-lethal chemical sprays, some in lipstick-style containers, that women carry to immobilize would-be attackers. the same seizures totaled 470 the previous year
tear gas and other chemical sprays are illegal in the district of columbia, including the capitol grounds. the capitol police classify them as weapons subject to seizure and destruction
kerrigan said chemical sprays accounted for the vast majority of the actual total of the 1,270 weapons confiscated at the capitol last year, a 125 percent increase over 1986. the police said gun seizures actually declined to 14 from 28 the previous year
the balance included knives, explosive liquids, clubs, blackjacks and various exotic weapons, plus non-lethal ``stun guns,'' which use an electrical jolt to render victims temporarily harmless
asked about kerrigan's details, russ said he must have misinterpreted the figures he received from the capitol police. senior members of the house panel that heard russ' testimony discounted suggestions that he might have given misleading figures in an attempt to gain support for his security plan
but rep. vic fazio, d-calif., the subcommittee chairman, said house members responsible for capitol security intend to take a much closer look at the situation, in consultation with the senate, before any decisions are made
fazio said he has heard conflicting arguments over the need for stricter anti-terrorist measures. ``we won't be stampeded,'' he said
i don't think jack was trying to mislead us, but it does raise a question,'' said rep. john t. myers, r-ind., a panel member
rep. jerry lewis of california, the subcommitee's ranking republican, agreed with fazio's go-slow approach
they're pushing very hard to increase security everywhere up here,'' lewis said. ``we must protect ourselves in this modern age of terrorism, but i tend to resist any unnecessary steps that would hinder the public's access to the capitol.''
kerrigan said the sharply higher number of weapons seizures probably reflected improved use of metal detectors in the capitol building and six nearby office buildings, better training of police officers and more thorough searches of visitors, rather than any increase in the number of visitors with criminal intent
russ said many of the visitors who carry firearms have out-of-state gun permits but are unaware that the permits are invalid on the capitol grounds
kerrigan said 63 people were prosecuted at the capitol last year on illegal-weapons charges, compared with 50 people in 1986. transition. picks up 10th graf pvs ``the feud...''</note>
the general assembly voted overwhemingly today to condemn the u.s. move to close the palestine liberation organization's u.n. mission
the assembly voted 148-2 to deplore the u.s. action and urge it to abide by the international u.n. headquarters treaty, which allows foreign missions to operate. the united states and israel voted against the resolution
general assembly resolutions are not legally binding, but carry moral weight
the vote came one day after the u.s. justice department filed a lawsuit seeking to close the plo mission and freeze its funds, in accordance with an anti-terrorist law
u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun, the deputy permanent representative, said the justice department was obliged by law to enforce the anti-terrorist legislation, which would close the mission
but he said the united states would take no further steps to close the mission until a court has ruled on the u.s. lawsuit filed in u.s. district court in manhattan
the plo envoy, zehdi labib terzi, told the assembly that the united states claims to be proud to play host to the united nations. then he shouted:
what pride to you have in throwing your guests out?
is this the message the u.s. delegation wants to bring to the world? that guests have no respect, the united nations has no respect, international law has no respect? ..
this is not gunboat policy any more. we are living in a stage where the human approach, where obligations are respected,'' said terzi. he said the plo will fight the u.s. lawsuit
of the united states, terzi said: ``is this the country which claims to be the bastion of freedom and democracy ... afraid to permit the voice of the palestinians?''
israeli ambassador johanan bein, the deputy permanent representative, told the assembly that the plo has been ``the principal terrorist organization of our time'' and it rejects the central u.n. principle of peaceful settlement of disputes
on tuesday, the plo accused the united states of engaging in ``financial terrorism'' by seeking a court order to close the mission and force the plo to transfer its bank funds out of the united states
the closure of the mission is required under the 1987 anti-terrorism act, which found the plo and its affiliates were a terrorist organization responsible for numerous violent incidents, including the murder of an american citizen during the hijacking of the cruise ship achille lauro in 1985
the feud over the future of the plo's mission on east 65th street has created a crisis in u.s.-u.n. relations
secretary of state george p. shultz also has called the law ``a very bad piece of legislation'' which unnecessarily glorifies the plo
terzi has said he will have to be dragged away from the plo mission and that if forced to move, it will be to the united nations on international territory, out of reach of u.s. marshals
in 1973, plo chief yasser arafat spent a night at the united nations because he could not stay on u.s. territory
nobody was surprised when president francois mitterrand finally announced he would seek re-election, but many were stunned by the pugnacity of his words and his version of charles de gaulle's ``me or chaos'' alternative
the 71-year-old socialist president declared his candidacy in a television interview tuesday night, waiting until five weeks before the first round of voting to end months of speculation
mitterrand had said he preferred to step down but would run for a second seven-year term if ``exceptional circumstances'' warranted it. he said tuesday that after listening to the speeches of other candidates, he was convinced france is in danger
i see a risk that the country might fall into the quarrels and division that so often have undermined it,'' he said. ``i want france to be united. and it will not be if it is taken in hand by intolerant minds, by parties who want everything, by clans, by gangs. ...there must be civil peace in france.''
though he named no names, the president's remarks were aimed at his two main opponents, conservative premier jacques chirac and former centrist premier raymond barre
typical of the reaction in the conservative press wednesday, gerard badel wrote in le parisien: ``the chief of state has, in sum, confronted the french people with the choice that he had so often reproached gen. de gaulle for: me or chaos.''
alain juppe, spokesman for chirac's government, said mitterrand ``goes to war against perils that do not exist.''
if there is really danger, one wonders why mr. mitterrand waited so long to say so. in reality, all that is pure fabrication,'' juppe said
french presidential elections are run in two rounds. the first, april 24, pits mitterrand against chirac, barre and a handful of minor candidates. if, as expected, nobody wins a majority, a runoff will be held may 8 between the top two vote-getters
for the past year, the polls have indicated that mitterrand will win the second round handily, no matter who his opponent is. but he could slip now that he has had to abandon his strictly presidential role
chirac remarked on what he called mitterrand's ``language of rare violence and sectarianism that risked setting the french against one another.'' the stakes, he said, are clear: ``on one side, there is the socialist party that wants to retake power and institute socialist policies ... on the other is the (conservative parliamentary) majority that has governed for two years in calm and union.''
barre said he doubted mitterrand could unite the country, adding that since the president's election in 1981 he has been ``the president of one fraction of the french population against another.''
the reality is that since the mid-1980s, french politics have moved toward the center. the gulf between the left and right has narrowed to the point where it is difficult to distinguish the two
without an overriding issue, the campaign has evolved into one of personalities
there is chirac, 55, the hard-driving, almost frenetic, political bulldozer, and currently the leading rightist; barre, 63, the thoughtful economics professor, who is more toward the center; and mitterrand, who in the two years since the right ousted the socialists from control of the national assembly, has become the sage father figure
the vocabulary is the same. each has presented himself as the only man capable of uniting the french
few differences exist in foreign policy and defense. even unemployment, now at 10.4 percent, has not emerged as a battleground. both right and left have tried and failed to come to grips with it
in his announcement, mitterrand presented no program, saying only that he would get to it later
since ``cohabitation'' between the socialist president and the conservative premier was forced on french politics by the 1986 legislative elections, mitterrand has profited the most. he has taken pains to distance himself from the socialist party, which he founded and led for years, and is trying to appear as a man above parties
the ailing leader of at least 150,000 pakistani refugees began a fast wednesday to demand that islamabad take back the refugees stranded here since 1971
if the pakistan government does not respond favorably to our request for early return to our country, hundreds and thousands of our brothers and sisters will be on fast unto death,'' said nasim khan, 64, who began his fast outside the national press club
khan suffered a heart attack two weeks ago. he told the associated press, ``it's better to die struggling to go back to our homeland than live in vice, hunger and disease ridden camps in an alien country.''
khan and the others were stranded in 1971 when bangladesh, formerly east pakistan, became an independent country after a liberation struggle and a war between india and pakistan
by 1973, 174,000 refugees returned to pakistan, but the repatriation ended abruptly when funds ran out, stranding 250,000 people. about 100,000 are believed to have returned since, but the rest remain in refugee camps in bangladesh
bangladesh foreign secretary nazrul islam told reporters wednesday that his government has renewed a longstanding request to pakistan to make arrangement for the return of the refugees
islam said pakistan has agreed in principle to take back the refugees. but a pakistani diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sufficient funds for the transfer still were lacking. moslem charitable organizations have been asked for help in raising the money
as khan began his fast, hundreds of other refugees held a silent march on a nearby street
nasim khan bazlul huda, 19, said, ``i will burn myself to death soon if pakistan does not announce a timetable for our repatriation.''
islam said that dhaka and islamabad had approached a number of countries and world organizations to raise enough money for a repatriation of refugees
four years ago, the stranded pakistanis planned a march to their homeland, but border guards crushed it. colter said...</note>
gov. evan mecham's former chief of staff testified today there was no effort to cover up an $80,000 loan from the governor's protocol fund to mecham's auto dealership
i just forgot or failed'' to record the check in the fund's checkbook register, former chief of staff jim colter told the senate
colter also told prosecutor william french that mecham had called his home on tuesday and left a message on the answering machine ``that i had done a good job, or something to that effect'' in his earlier testimony
meanwhile, the senate voted 25-4 today to drop the longer schedule it had adopted in an effort to speed up the impeachment trial. prosecution and defense lawyers complained the eight hours of testimony tuesday left them too little time for preparation, and lawmakers agreed to return to a six-hour schedule
voting against the shorter schedule were republican sens. carl kunasek, bob usdane, tony west and peter kay
the senate is now hearing testimony on the second impeachment charge, which accused mecham of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to mecham pontiac
there was certainly no effort to cover up'' the loan, colter testified today
colter testified tuesday that he warned the governor it would be ``politically unwise'' to borrow the money, but mecham instructed him to write the check anyway
you certainly were not anxious that the general public be aware of this loan, were you?'' french asked today
no, i did not broadcast it,'' colter replied
the former chief of staff acknowledged that he did not shop around for better interest rates before processing the loan to mecham pontiac, but added, ``as far as i'm concerned (the loan) was a good investment of the money.''
it had ``nothing to do with the governor's personal use,'' colter said
however, democratic sen. jones osborn questioned whether it would be a subsidy to mecham pontiac to loan it money if the interest rate were lower than the dealership would have had to pay to a bank
colter said mecham also asked him not to record a document securing the loan, although colter did not know why. he testified, however, that he did not think any law had been broken ``or i would have objected.''
the protocol fund, created with fund-raising revenues from mecham's inauguration, is intended to be used for state ceremonial gifts
the prosecution contends the fund is public money and therefore the loan was illegal, while the defense says the money can be used as mecham sees fit, except to repay his campaign expenses
however, the first two witnesses to testify on the charge said they were shocked when they heard that mecham had loaned the funds to his auto dealership
i was very surprised and disappointed and saddened,'' said warner lee, a former state attorney general who advised the mecham inaugural committee. ``i thought that it was a very awkward thing politically to have done.''
i personally was shocked and initially felt betrayed,'' said deputy maricopa county attorney howard schwartz, who helped draft an agreement for use of funds raised by mecham's inaugural committee
in an interview tuesday on ktar radio, mecham said he considered the protocol fund to be ``private association money ... not state money.''
he acknowledged he was told ``it was politically not a wise thing to do, but i wasn't thinking of that.'' the governor said he could have borrowed the money from other sources, but decided on the protocol fund so it would earn the 9 percent interest being paid by mecham pontiac
mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades, also said if he is exonerated, he will do a better job as governor
they'll probably say this is another one of those gaffes, but a lot of the rats have come out of their holes that's been after me, and now we know a lot more who they are,'' mecham said. ``quite frankly, i'll be a lot wiser governor from here on out.''
if he is allowed to resume his job, mecham said, he will fire department of public safety director ralph milstead, one of the chief accusers in his senate trial
a senate conviction, mecham said, ``will certainly not be on the basis of evidence and on that we'll go and appeal it of course ... probably direct to the u.s. supreme court.''
earlier tuesday, the senate finished hearing testimony on the first impeachment charge _ that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official against a former top mecham aide
after heated debate, a motion to vote on the first count immediately was dropped after it became clear most senators wanted to hear testimony on all three charges first
the third charge accuses the governor of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham and remove him from office
meanwhile, a lawyer defending mecham at his april 21 criminal trial on six felony counts related to the $350,000 loan sought dismissal of the charges. the lawyer, michael scott, said the governor has been singled out for prosecution because he is unpopular
the judge did not rule on the motion. mecham also faces a may 17 recall election. ld-writethru and expands throughout</note>
state republican party chairman ray shamie said today he will not challenge sen. edward m. kennedy this year. instead, longtime shamie aide joseph malone will run against the veteran democrat
shamie, a retired walpole millionaire, told a news conference he had decided, despite pleas from president reagan and other national party officials, to remain state party chairman
among other things, shamie said he was concerned about giving up a chairmanship won only last year to run what most observers agree is an uphill battle to unseat kennedy, who will be seeking his fifth full term
shamie, 67, endorsed malone, saying that none of the other republicans who expressed interest in challenging kennedy would be serious candidates
malone, 33, of waltham, has been a close aide to shamie since 1982, when shamie emerged by mounting a credible challenge to kennedy. currently, malone is executive director of the republican party under shamie
a graduate of harvard college in 1978, malone has helped operate a family trucking business and also is a partner in family real estate holdings
i have devoted 10 years of my life working to help bring back a two-party system to massachusetts,'' malone said in an interview. ``it's important that we have a strong, aggressive campaign in massachusetts.''
the top gop party brass was concerned that a weak challenge to kennedy would leave him free to roam the country helping other democratic campaigns, including the presidential race
but state rep. john macgovern said shamie, ``did not like being used by other people like a battering ram. he did not want to run. you're just banging yourself up to keep ted kennedy busy.''
malone is a virtual unknown in massachusetts except in political circles. he is well off from his family business interests but said he is not a millionaire
shamie spent $1.8 million against kennedy in 1982 when he lost 61 percent to 38 percent. he spent a record $2.3 million in 1984 against john kerry for senate in a race kerry won 55 percent to 45 percent
a physicist reported wednesday the discovery of a new superconducting compound that he believes may work at minus 100 degrees fahrenheit, potentially setting a new temperature record for superconductivity
the compound, made of lanthanum, copper and oxygen, forms crystal structures that are relatively pure examples of the basic copper-oxygen lattice found in all the new superconductors, said stuart wolf, who reported the development along with colleagues from the naval research labortatory
because of their relative purity they may be able to attain superconductivity at higher temperatures than other materials, he said
the compound now appears to become superconducting at above 280 degrees below zero fahrenheit, but that could go to minus 100 degrees fahrenheit or higher, he aid
the substance can be made only at temperatures of 2,700 degrees fahrenheit and at pressures 65,000 times those of the atmosphere, but it can then be cooled and studied at normal temperatures and pressures, he said
allen hermann of the university of arkansas reported that he has now achieved superconductivity at a temperature of 234 degrees below zero fahrenheit with a superconductor he discovered late last year
ibm scientists had been the first to push hermann's new superconductor to that temperature, even before hermann himself could do it, demonstrating how rapidly research is spreading and advancing
when hermann and his arkansas collaborator zhengzhi sheng announced the discovery of the material, ``within two days we had confirmation around the world,'' he said _ almost before the ink was dry on his laboratory notebooks
for physicists, who are accustomed to working in exotic realms, minus 234 degress fahrenheit is warm. previous superconductors had operated at no higher than minus 418 degrees fahrenheit
no one can yet be sure how much higher temperatures will go, but many are optimistic that temperatures will continue to climb. ``i think we have simply uncovered the tip of the iceberg,'' said hermann
the so-called high-temperature superconductors that have set physics ablaze offer the promise of dramatically cheaper electricity generation, transmission and storage, faster and smaller computers and 300-mile-an-hour magnetically levitated trains
but initial enthusiasm for those applications is now somewhat lower, as each discovery raises as many questions as it answers, physicists said
we don't want to promise too much to society,'' said robert cava of bell laboratories. ``but the promise exists.''
the latest batch of reports came at an unscheduled session held tuesday night during a meeting of the american physical society
the meeting, convened by researchers eager to swap their latest findings, followed by one year the ``woodstock of physics'' in new york, at which the first reports of the new superconductivity were presented to scientists in a session that continued until the wee hours of the morning
physicists in new orleans discussed new experiments with two superconductors first reported earlier this year _ the thallium-containing compound found by hermann and sheng and another containing bismuth, which was first reported by hiroshi maeda and colleagues in japan
fears the new superconductors would be unable to carry currents large enough for practical applications have diminished, the researchers said
it has now been shown that the materials are potentially capable of carrying huge amounts of current, and researchers reported that they have devised ways of making them that bring them closer to their theoretical current-carrying capacity
theoretical physicists are still trying to figure out how the new superconductors work, but the availability now of four distinct superconductors has made some aspects of their operation clearer
all the superconductors include sheets of copper and oxygen, suggesting that these sheets are critical. furthermore, the materials that operate at higher temperatures have these copper oxide sheets, as they're called, layered in twos and threes
physicists are now trying to make compounds with the copper oxide layers grouped in fours, on the hunch those materials will have even higher operating temperatures
here are the latest major developments in central america:
nicaragua:
sapoa, nicaragua _ negotiators for the sandinistas and contra rebels resumed their truce talks today after exchanging proposals that for the first time agree on major points. the proposals, put forth on the second day of talks tuesday, call for an extended cease-fire, amnesty and release of political prisoners. among obstacles still to be worked out are how the contras will lay down their arms and be granted amnesty
the state-run voice of nicaragua today reported a violation of the truce agreed on during the peace talks. the radio said the contras ambushed an army truck tuesday, killing two soldiers. a defense ministry spokesman said the ministry had no information about the report
washington _ the reagan administration and house speaker jim wright called reports of progress at cease-fire talks in nicaragua encouraging. democratic leaders said agreement there likely would trigger a new package of humanitarian aid for the contra rebels
president reagan is seeking to revive his stalled effort to aid the contras. the last aid package ran out feb. 29
honduras:
palmerola air base, honduras _ honduras says its border crisis with nicaragua is over, but u.s. military officials say american troops sent as a response will stay on to complete emergency training exercises. in washington, pentagon officials say the american troops will return monday and tuesday
panama:
panama city _ a general strike aimed at ousting gen. manuel antonio noriega was in its third day today. it closed an estimated 90 percent of offices and industries on tuesday, and food is running low. on tuesday, noriega again rejected a u.s. call for him to surrender power and go into exile
washington _ reagan administration officials say they've tried to encourage noriega to leave panama by offering to fly him into exile along with family and friends. noriega told two high-levle u.s. envoys who visited him last week that he was not willing to accept any arrangement that involves leaving panama. firms</head>
a trial lawyers' group has sharply criticized members of two prominent law firms for concealing evidence from families who sued their clients over water pollution alleged to have caused six cancer deaths
in documents filed with a federal appeals court, the massachusetts academy of trial attorneys said the conduct of attorneys representing beatrice foods co. and the owner of a woburn tannery threatened to undermine the judicial system by encouraging lawyers to flout court rules
the court must support those who abide by the rules and expose those who bend them to their own advantage,'' the academy said in a brief filed to support the request by eight woburn families for a new trial in their suit against beatrice and the john j. riley co. tannery
a wrongdoer should be unable to take comfort or benefit in a judgment obtained by cheating,'' the academy said in the brief filed tuesday with the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals
the lawyers' group singled out beatrice attorney jerome facher of the law firm of hale &amp; dorr for its harshest criticism
the concealment of information through misrepresentation and misconduct was accomplished by the lead attorney for the defendant,'' the academy said. ``as a senior member of the bar, he commands respect and attention. how the court determines the appropriateness of his conduct will not go unnoticed.''
without naming her, the academy also lambasted mary ryan of the law firm nutter, mcclennen &amp; fish, the attorney for riley, which bought the tannery from beatrice. the families blame the tannery for polluting the town's water supply
neither facher nor ryan returned telephone calls wednesday from the associated press
the academy frequently files briefs in cases involving complex and controversial legal issues. it did not specify requested sanctions against the lawyers
the filing with the appeals court followed u.s. district judge walter jay skinner's decision in january denying the families a new trial
their original suit contended four parties were responsible for the pollution, beatrice and riley, w.r. grace co., and unifirst, a uniform supply company. unifirst settled prior to trial and w.r. grace settled for a reported $8 million halfway through the trial. skinner dismissed the portion of the suit against beatrice and the tannery
the families asked for a new trial after their attorney learned of a 1983 report that was not disclosed by facher or ryan. the report said it was possible that dumping on the tannery property contributed to groundwater pollution near two town wells
skinner ruled that facher and ryan were aware of the report but failed to disclose it to the families. but the judge refused to order a new trial, saying he did not think the report would have affected the outcome of the case and that the families failed to prove the concealment was deliberate
the families' attorney, jan schlichtmann, and the academy said skinner applied the wrong standard in deciding the issue, saying that he was wrong to speculate that the report would not have led to evidence favorable to the claim that pollution on the tannery property seeped into the town's water supply
just say no to sex. that's the idea being promoted in a new book by the leader of the nation's largest hare krishna community
kirtanananda swami bhaktipada on tuesday said he's looking for a publisher for his work, titled ``the joy of no sex,'' in which he urges people to practice celibacy
sexual pleasure is a perversion of the real pleasure, which is spiritual living,'' said bhaktipada, spiritual leader of 700 krishna devotees at new vrindaban
he said people should engage in sex only to procreate
the national epidemic of fear over aids will make his ideas more palatable in the united states, bhaktipada said. in addition, he said he will mail a copy of the book to pope john paul ii.  days'</head>
rkdesr1
dean martin was expected to be hospitalized for several more days with kidney problems that forced him off the ``rat pack'' tour with frank sinatra and sammy davis jr., a hospital spokesman said tuesday
his condition is fair. it appears that it is a flareup of an old kidney problem,'' said cedars-sinai medical center spokesman ron wise
wise said no surgery was contemplated for martin, 70, who was admitted monday
davis and sinatra will continue the tour without martin, said publicist susan reynolds, who left open the possibility that martin would rejoin his buddies later
president saddam hussein has dismissed the ministers of light industry and heavy industry from his cabinet and replaced them with the army officer who supervises the manufacture of iraq's military hardware
a presidential decree issued tuesday night and published wednesday by government newspapers said heavy industry minister abdul-tawab mulahuwaish and light industry minister hatem abdul-rashid were relieved of their duties
it did not say what prompted their dismissal, but added that col. hussein kamil has been appointed minister of industry and minerals
government sources said the cabinet reshuffle is designed to merge the two ministries and give the military industry a boost
kamil, a career military man, has been heading the war industry committee that supervises the manufacture of military equipment
iraq says it is making some of its own ammunition and weapons, including long-range missiles
more than 100 missiles have been fired at the iranian capital, tehran, since feb. 29 in a missile duel by the nations
while the iraqis say these were homemade, western military analysts believe they are soviet-built, surface-to-surface scud-bs that the iraqis have equipped with boosters to increase their range. policy</head> to update with comment from dukakis campaign.</note>
republican presidential contender bob dole on wednesday accused michael dukakis and the rest of the democratic white house hopefuls of a ``failure of nerve as well as a failure of vision'' in responding to the soviet-backed regime in nicaragua
the call to defend the freedom of nicaragua, which should be easy for them to answer, instead produces endless foot-shuffling and sophistry,'' dole said in a speech that made little mention of his own presidential candidacy and avoided even a single reference to gop front-runner george bush
dole said the issue of the sandinista government in nicaragua is ``as symbolic for our time as hitler's brazen aggression was for an earlier generation.''
he warned that failure to confront it might eventually lead to communist governments in costa rica, panama or even mexico as the sandinistas strengthen their grip at home and begin supporting guerilla movements elsewhere
what will the democrats say then?,'' he asked in a speech that marked the beginning of an effort to lay out his views on a variety of issues. the kansas senator is far, far behind bush in the race for delegates to the republican national convention, and is widely viewed as a candidate for withdrawal after the wisconsin primary on april 5
in his speech to the center for strategic and international studies, dole addressed an issue that has divided republican candidates _ who favor military support for the contras fighting the nicaraguan government _ from the democrats who oppose it
he turned his fire on massachusets gov. dukakis, the other democratic presidential hopefuls and the ``democratic left.''
dole said dukakis ``says that the monroe doctrine, which has defined america's security in its own neighborhood for some 200 years, is `obsolete.' he says that this country ... has no choice but to tolerate the existence of soviet client states wherever subversion might install them.''
broadening his attack, dole added, ``today, all the democratic party presidential candidates sound themes similar to the `dukakis doctrine' for latin america .... instead of joining president reagan in challenging the thieves, they have found ways to rationalize the loss of liberty in nicaragua.''
dole's charges brought a sarcastic reply from dukakis' communications director, leslie dach
i guess bob dole is taking after michael dukakis because he's accomplishing what bob dole can't _ beating george bush in the polls,'' dach said
dole said democrats are guilty of an attitude that says ``america must not be too forceful'' that stems from the belief that america, rather than the soviet union, poses a threat to peace
perverse but pervasive, this attitude has enveloped the democratic side of the primary campaign like nerve gas,'' he said
dole cited anti-communist stands taken by democratic presidents harry truman and john f. kennedy, but said the party has abandoned its heritage
the question (among democrats) has become whether we should bear any burden at all? will the liberal democrats pay even a small price, one reckoned in american money rather than american lives?'' he said
dole said, ``what we see on the democratic side of this presidential campaign is a failure of nerve as well as a failure of vision.''
he added, ``today we stand and watch as nicaragua slowly twists in the wind and the fate of the americas begins to tilt.'' ^by harry f. rosenthal</byline>
the club lady in illinois never knew what a flap she caused when she wrote the president of the united states asking to use air force one as a party room for the ``spectacular event'' she had to plan
frankly, we can't think of anything which would be more thrilling,'' she wrote to richard nixon, who was president then. ``you can land on our property, seven secluded acres.''
the letter, which has rested all these years in a file folder, was only one document out of 400,000 that were opened to public view for the first time tuesday by the national archives. but while hundreds of people begged for a ride on the presidential plane, it was the only one that asked to use it for something other than transportation
her answer came directly from ralph d. albertazzie, an air force colonel, who was the president's pilot
landing air force one on seven acres of ground would certainly be a spectacular event in itself!'' albertazzie wrote. ``i can only say for reasons far too numerous to enumerate: no.''
according to the records, that didn't sit too well with gen. james d. hughes, who was nixon's military aide. in a note, he chewed out the colonel for making light of ``a sincere effort on the part of the writer to score a million in one shot for her club.'' a chastened albertazzie replied, ``i've goofed,'' and a white house functionary wrapped up the whole thing with a note ``for obvious reasons, please keep this in your restricted file.''
a ride on the president's airplane, a blue and silver boeing 707 with ``the united states of america'' lettered boldly across each side, is the ultimate status symbol and a lot of americans want one
dear mr. president,'' one letter began. ``my nephew will be leaving shortly to start his three years as a law student at georgetown school of law in washington, d.c
with some of his money he purchased quite an expensive stereo with speakers and we are quite reluctant to ship, mail or whatever this item. is it permissible in any way for this stereo and speakers to be transported on air force one when you return to washington from your sojourn in california?''
no
i see you are flying to california and i wonder if i can hitch a ride,'' a young man wrote. ``i'm going there to see a girl i haven't seen in 14 months. i'm a small guy and i won't take up much space. all i'll have is a small suitcase and my guitar.''
no
correspondence and memos about air force one _ renamed ``the spirit of '76'' for a time in the nixon tenure _ fill a half-dozen thick file folders in the national archives. such requests undoubtedly come to every president
if politicians wanted to be seen on air force one _ and they did, desperately _ the white house reciprocated by using rides as a political tool
it is a prized thing to ride on air force one and we intend to keep it that way,'' said presidential appointments secretary dwight chapin in chewing out political adviser murray chotiner for inviting a congressman
no one is allowed to place a guest on the president's aircraft without prior approval of the president,'' chapin wrote
chapin also asked another presidential assistant for a memo ``detailing the responsibilities and duties of the hand-holder when he travels on air force one.'' hand-holders, chapin explained, are people carried on the plane ``for the purpose of massaging vips.''
another time, chapin complained to hughes that the wife of white house chief of staff h.r. haldeman ``was placed in a three-abreast seating area whereas there was a forward compartment with sundry military personnel in two-abreast and more comfortable seating.''
the pleasures of riding air force one were more image than comfort. a dozen memos complained about lousy food. others griped about the temperature in the cabin being too cold. in one, chapin groused that meals used to be served with crystal glasses and china and ``now, plastic seems to be the in-thing.''
there also was a curious memo from chotiner to chapin. he asked for a ride ``in the event the president has a plane going to california for his niece's wedding.'' a handwritten notation, signed only ``c,'' said, ``tell him the president isn't going _ but not to tell don nixon.''
whether chotiner got his ride or not isn't indicated. but nixon did attend the wedding of his brother's daughter, lawrene, and kissed the bride
the reagan administration said wednesday it would be premature to impose new economic sanctions on haiti because the new government of president leslie manigat ``has shown a determination to move haiti in a democratic direction.''
while the administration is not prepared to seek a lifting of sanctions imposed on haiti after election violence late last year, new incentives may be in order as the caribbean nation makes steps toward developing democratic institutions, said richard holwill, deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs
if we hope to play a constructive role in haiti ... we will be obliged to consider incentives as well as sanctions, and be willing to judge progress by specific interim milestones,'' holwill told a house foreign affairs subcommittee
we should not expect perfection before we offer assistance,'' he said
several members of congress have introduced legislation to impose a series of trade sanctions on haiti unless a more democratically elected government is installed. the sanctions include revocation of haiti's lucrative sugar quota and suspension of other trade preferences
but holwill said the legislation would be counterproductive. ``the haitian people..., not we, should determine the fate of the manigat government,'' he said. ``they now appear willing to give that government a chance.''
the administration last nov. 29 suspended all direct aid to haiti's government, leaving in place only humanitarian assistance operated through private organizations
the move cost haiti some $60 million in economic aid and about $2 million in military aid in the current fiscal year, the state department estimates, while about $36 million in humanitarian aid continues to flow
an unemployed streetsweeper who burned himself to death in a car near prime minister margaret thatcher's residence took his life in a ``futile gesture,'' a coroner said wednesday
westminster coroner paul knapman made the remark after an inquest ruled that derek bainbridge's death feb. 16 was a suicide
bainbridge, 40, who lived in worksop in central england, had been depressed about his inability to find work a year after leaving his job as a streetsweeper
i am quite satisfied he has taken his life in a rather dramatic but futile gesture,'' knapman said
on wednesday, bainbridge's brother visited mrs. thatcher's residence and presented a photograph of derek inscribed with the words from his suicide note, ``too young to retire ... too old to live.''
we are not a political family,'' said joseph bainbridge. ``but we want mrs. thatcher to see the man who died at the end of her road.''
unemployment in britain was 9.1 percent in february, down from 9.2 percent in january and 11 percent in february last year
congressional supporters will seek about $100 million in 1989 funding for the superconducting super collider project, around a third the amount requested by president reagan, rep. carl pursell, r-mich., said wednesday
pursell and house members from five other states hoping to win the project met to map strategy for pushing appropriations through congress
the $4.4 billion physics research center has been attacked by congressional critics, who argue the massive project would siphon away money needed by research in other areas
the energy department is expected to decide in november where to build the super collider
in his 1989 budget, reagan proposed spending $363 million on the facility.
congressional supporters of the project, however, are considering funding ``somewhere around the bottom of $100 million plus,'' pursell said after the private meeting. ``we have not fixed on exact figures.''
the house members also discussed target dates in their drive to ensure the project survives congressional budget cuts
as long as we've got good support from the leadership, we're sure we can get through the budget process,'' pursell said
the project proponents, members of an ad hoc task force, will meet soon with house speaker jim wright, d-texas, and minority leader robert michel, r-ill., to discuss appropriations for the facility, pursell said
the super collider, involving a 53-mile-circumference particle accelerator, will produce 4,000 jobs and have an annual operating budget of $279 million
physicists have said the project is necessary to gain a greater understanding of the physical structure of the universe
besides michigan, states that remain in the running for the project are arizona, colorado, illinois, north carolina, tennessee and texas
arizona was unrepresented at wednesday's meeting, pursell said
frank e. terpil, a fugitive former cia agent turned gunrunner, went to cuban four years ago and works for that country's intelligence service, a cuban defector says
maj. florentino aspillaga lombard, in an interview with the washington times published on wednesday, said terpil has helped the cuban dgi intelligence agency recruit americans and conduct counterintelligence operations
aspillaga, a career employee of the dgi until he defected to the united states last june, also said nicaragua's sandinista government is under the ``complete control'' of cuban leader fidel castro
at the time of his defection, which took place in vienna, austria, aspillaga was the head of the dgi in czechoslovakia
aspillaga said terpil ``travels with a cuban passport and was with me in czechoslovakia.'' the cuban said he hoped to bring terpil with him to vienna, but cuban intelligence officers blocked terpil from leaving the east bloc
terpil, a fugitive since 1980, was convicted in absentia in may 1981 of conspiring to sell machine guns to undercover agents posing as south american revolutionaries. he was sentenced to 53 years in prison
terpil and former cia agent edwin wilson were also charged with selling explosives to libyan leader moammar khadafy. wilson was convicted and sentenced in the case
after fleeing the united states, terpil was reported living in lebanon
the justice department spokesman john russell said he had no information about terpil's activities
bessie heard, who endowed her hometown with a wildlife sanctuary and natural science museum, has died, a museum spokesman said wednesday. she was 101
more than 40,000 visitors each year come to the heard natural science museum and wildlife sanctuary, which miss heard endowed in 1964. it includes more than five miles of nature trails, said steve runnels, the museum's director of development
the non-profit museum and sanctuary are funded by the bessie heard foundation, membership dues, tuition fees, gift shop sales and contributions
at the heart of the museum was ``miss bessie,'' as she was known for most of her life
miss heard died tuesday night at home, runnels said
she was born may 26, 1886, the eldest of five daughters. her father, john spencer heard, spent four years in the confederate army and then opened a general store in mckinney, north of dallas, with his brother
miss heard attended mary baldwin college in staunton, va., but spent most of her life in mckinney
survivors include two cousins. a funeral was scheduled friday
a man accused of making millions by selling worthless mail-order cures for ills from impotency to baldness to obesity has been banished from living and working in florida
mitchell friedlander, the 38-year-old owner of robertson-taylor co., entered pleas of no contest tuesday to 13 charges of operating a scheme to defraud
in return for his pleas, broward county circuit judge mel grossman, gave him a suspended one-year jail term, put him on probation for five years and barred him from doing business or living in florida
grossman withheld adjudication in the case, meaning friedlander will have no criminal record if he complies with probation terms. if he forms a corporation, owns retail outlets or warehouses, or obtains a mail drop in florida, he can be sent to prison
friedlander's mail-order company, which had 400,000 customers and grossed millions in sales, began operating from a fort lauderdale office in early 1984, police and his lawyer, william richey, said
through ads in national magazines, it offered pills and lotions to cure baldness, turn fat to muscle, relieve stress, increase breast size, dissolve cellulite, cure impotency, and provide the ``ultimate orgasmic experience.''
three months after the business opened, police began investigating customer complaints. in july 1985, police charged friedlander with 43 counts of racketeering, scheming to defraud, misleading advertising and cheating
six weeks later, he was charged with 70 new counts of fraud and grand theft after police searched his office
friedlander's no contest plea, which is not an admission of guilt, was prompted after grossman ruled that none of the evidence gathered during the search would be admissible at trial. the ruling wiped out 70 charges
the plea came as jury selection was beginning for trial
today, friedlander lives in atlanta, in debt, according to richey. workers</head>
washington _ federal collective-bargaining laws should take precedence over state laws protecting union employees who are fired for filing workers' compensation claims, a lawyer told the supreme court on wednesday
giving states the authority to govern union contracts ``would be a threat to collective bargaining,'' said charles c. jackson, a chicago attorney representing the norge division of magic chef inc
federal laws regulating collective bargaining agreements provide for arbitration to resolve unfair labor practices
but the lawyer for an illinois woman fired by norge said federal law never was intended to thwart state statutes prohibiting retaliatory firings
if this were (not) true, all states' rights could be channeled away by arbitration,'' lawyer paul alan levy contended
the supreme court agreed to weigh both arguments before ruling _ probably in july _ in the case of jonna lingle, who was fired in late 1984 from her job at herrin, ill
the woman had notified norge that she was injured on the job and asked the company, under the state workers' compensation law, to pay her medical bills. norge fired mrs. lingle a week later, contending she filed a false claim
however, her union contract contained a provision protecting workers from dismissal without just cause, and the union filed a grievance the day she was fired
an arbitrator ruled the firing violated the just-cause provision and ordered her reinstatement. but before the ruling was issued, mrs. lingle filed a lawsuit contending the dismissal was contrary to illinois law
the relief available through the courts was greater than what she could receive through arbitration, which did not include punitive damages and compensation for lost overtime
a u.s. district court judge threw out her lawsuit, ruling that the state law was pre-empted by the arbitration remedy available under federal labor law, and the 7th u.s. circuit court upheld the dismissal in june 1987
levy asked the supreme court to overturn the lower-court rulings
the right of action is available to both union and non-union employees alike,'' levy argued. ``if there is any state cause of action that is independent of a labor agreement, lingle's case ought to be one of them.''
but jackson said congress gave states authority to supercede federal law only on health and safety issues and said the power does not extend to rules against retaliatory firings
if independent state laws were enacted that flew in the teeth of a labor contract, they were pre-empted,'' he said. ``mrs. lingle's claim is exactly what arbitration is all about. this is why we have collective bargaining agreements.''
a brief filed on mrs. lingle's behalf by the state and local legal center in washington said 21 states and the district of columbia have laws protecting workers filing workers' compensation claims
it identified the states as california, connecticut, hawaii, illinois, louisiana, maine, massachusetts, minnesota, missouri, montana, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, south carolina, texas, virginia, washington and wisconsin
bonnie blair, the olympic speed-skating champion, dispensed some blunt advice wednesday for girls whose boyfriends don't want them to be athletic:
tell them to go jump in the lake,'' said blair, who took the gold medal in the 500-meter race and bronze at 1,000 meters in calgary. ``maybe they're not worth having around.''
blair spoke at the city hall launch of a drive by the women's sports foundation to encourage girls to take part in a new athletic program at city high schools
donna de varona, a 1964 olympic swimming champion who heads the foundation, said the drive should help dispel myths about females participating in sports
blair said sports help girls to compete and to cope with other challenges in life
there are lots of goals you can set for yourself,'' she said. ``you can apply that in everyday life. once you find the thing you like the most, stick to it and get the most out of it you can.''
talk-show host sally jessy raphael and her husband plan to convert a dilapidated barn along the delaware river into a seven-bedroom home
karl a. soderlund said he and his wife and their eight children will move into the barn as soon as the conversion, expected to cost at least $225,000 and take six to 10 months, is completed. the family also maintains a new york city apartment and a peekskill, n.y., home
we just love it down there. sally was born in easton and, even though she hadn't been down there in a while, we made a drive down there and we just love bucks county,'' soderlund said monday
the barn, along with an 1837 mansion operated as a bed-and-breakfast inn, are part of a 10.5-acre property the couple bought last october for $550,000
acting gov. rose mofford and her staff sang the ``mickey mouse club'' song wednesday and posed for pictures with the cartoon mouse and former mouseketeer annette funicello
i don't think it will stay,'' mrs. mofford said as she tried to fit a set of fake mouse ears over her beehive hairdo. the governor also donned a black and red ``mickey mouse club'' jacket with her name on it
the occasion was a proclamation recognizing april as cable television month in connection with a charity drive by the disney cable channel and local cable distributors
i really owe everything to those years,'' ms. funicello said as she recalled her days with the original mouse club
actress audrey hepburn called her tour of ethiopia last week ``one of the most heart-rending and heartwarming experiences.''
at times tearful during a news conference here wednesday, miss hepburn said she was moved not only by the ``ravages of the famine on the children'' but also by efforts being made by volunteers
the country suffers from two grave injustices,'' she said. ``one is man-made _ they get too little aid. and the other from god _ they get too little water. but i plan to talk to him.''
miss hepburn, recently named a special ambassador for the u.s. committee for unicef, will go to several american cities to help raise $22 million for the united nations children's fund
poet allen ginsberg says the reagan administration has spawned an era of ``troglodytes and fundamentalists,'' with the ``moral minority trying to control what the majority hears.''
speaking to a university of maine audience tuesday, ginsberg railed against a recent federal communications commission ruling that material judged to be indecent can be broadcast only between midnight and 6 a.m
the ruling has a ``chilling effect'' on broadcast programs of art and literature and ``reduces the listening radio public to the level of children,'' ginsberg said
the ruling stemmed from fcc action last november against three radio stations in california and pennsylvania, one of which scrapped plans to air part of ginsberg's controversial epic poem ``howl.''
actor-singer kris kristofferson denounced american policy in central america after returning from a visit to nicaragua
speaking to reporters at los angeles international airport tuesday, kristofferson, 51, said, ``i'm so sick of hearing the lies that are being told by our government and even by the so-called friends of nicaragua.''
kristofferson claimed the u.s. government had lied about nicaragua's recent incursion into neighboring honduras in an attack against american-backed contra rebels based there
he also lashed out at the american news media, saying he wished network television cameras would show the popular support in nicaragua for the sandinista government
nobel laureate elie wiesel canceled an appearance here after learning his fee would come from a grant by a conservative publisher once accused of being a south african agent
the nazi concentration camp survivor had been scheduled as a speaker today at the john mcgoff distinguished lecture series at northern michigan university
but mcgoff's alleged links to the south african government and the university's plan to pay wiesel's fee from a $300,000 grant from mcgoff brought protests from the school's faculty
when it comes to apartheid you cannot make compromises,'' wiesel said in explaining his decision. and dukakis. adds byline. no pickup.</note>
new jersey sen. bill bradley today endorsed the presidential bid of michael dukakis, calling the massachusetts governor the democrat's best hope against republican front-runner george bush in november
today i endorse michael dukakis for president of the united states,'' bradley said with the democratic hopeful by his side. ``i do so because among the candidates of both parties, he would make the best president. and among the democratic candidates, he is the one who can beat george bush.''
bradley, often mentioned as a possible dark-horse nominee if the democratic convention is deadlocked, said dukakis can defeat the vice president ``because he is tenacious, innovative, resilient and disciplined.''
and he has the personal depth and life experience that embodies the promise of america,'' he said
dukakis, who is expected to draw strong support in the state's june 7 primary election with the endorsement, welcomed bradley's decision
this is a very important endorsement because it comes from one of the most respected and one of the most accomplished public figures in america today.''
bradley made the sought-after endorsement in an old railroad terminal at liberty state park, in the shadow of the statue of liberty. the terminal, now a museum, was used at the turn of the century by immigrants who came through ellis island
dukakis' parents came through the new york entry point in 1913
bradley, a second-term senator, has declined repeated calls to enter the presidential race himself. a former rhodes scholar and pro-basketball star who is viewed as one of the democratic party's rising stars, bradley has said he is not ready to seek the presidency. dukakis; picks up 7th graf pvs, bgng: gephardt hammered...</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis today picked up the endorsement of new jersey sen. bill bradley, once mentioned as a possible rival for the democratic presidential nomination
the endorsement came as dukakis' campaign was under attack from democratic and republican presidential candidates on issues ranging from trade to central america
bradley, who for months has fended off suggestions that he would enter the presidential race if no front-runner emerged, today called dukakis the ``candidate who can beat george bush.''
he can beat george bush because he is tenacious, innovative, resilient and disciplined and he has the personal depth and life experience tht embodies the promise of america,'' bradley said
dukakis, who appeared with bradley at a new jersey park, said the endorsement came from ``one of the most respected and one of tghe most accompliched pubblic figures in america today.''
meanwhile, democratic presidential contender richard gephardt today accused dukakis of talking tough on trade to entice michigan voters
bush, too, came under fire for supporting president reagan's veto of a major civil rights bill
gephardt, who has staked out michigan's caucuses on saturday to revive his battered presidential campaign, issued a statement today accusing dukakis of trying ``to have it both ways.''
he may talk tough on trade in michigan, but everywhere else he has opposed tough legislation,'' gephardt's statement said
and sen. bob dole, a candidate for the republican nomination, also attacked dukakis today for failing to stand up to soviet-backed subversion in central america
he says that the monroe doctrine, which has defined america's security in its own neighborhood for some 200 years, is `obsolete,''' dole said of dukakis. ``he said this country ... has no choice but to tolerate the existence of soviet client states wherever subversion might install them.''
gephardt hammered away at dukakis as a new poll suggested he trailed the massachusetts governor by a 2-1 margin in michigan, which holds democratic caucuses on saturday
according to the survey, dukakis had 35 percent; jesse jackson 29 percent; gephardt 17 percent; sen. albert gore jr. 6 percent and sen. paul simon 5 percent, with 9 percent undecided, detroit television station wjbk said tuesday night. the telephone poll of 400 democratic or independent voters, with a margin of error of 5 percentage points, was taken over the weekend
gephardt, who has made trade a campaign centerpiece, questioned the sincerity of dukakis' support for senate trade legislation, calling it a ``political ploy'' to win workers' votes in michigan
who is for a tough trade policy? who is going to be for a tough trade policy after michigan?'' gephardt asked. ``dick gephardt is. ... mike dukakis hasn't been, isn't and won't be.''
but the dukakis campaign countered with a tape-recorded interview in which dukakis praised the senate trade measure as long ago as last year
i think the senate bill, which is very, very different from the gephardt amendment, is sound policy. i would have voted for it,'' the governor told the des moines register on july 11
the dukakis camp also hinted that if gephardt keeps up the accusations, it will strike back. a dukakis aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: ``our gun is loaded and ready if any salvos are fired at us.''
dukakis collected endorsements from connecticut gov. william o'neill and sen. christopher dodd on tuesday, a week before the state's primary. o'neill said he expected dukakis, who has won in every new england state so far, would do ``extremely well.''
meanwhile, a survey published in today's washington post suggested dukakis was the only democrat who could outpoll bush. fifty percent said they would vote for dukakis in an election held today and 45 percent said bush. the newspaper said the survey, conducted with abc news, had a margin of error of 4 percentage points
bush was the chief target of democrat gore, who faulted him for lacking the ``gumption'' to break with reagan over the president's veto of a civil rights bill, which congress overrode tuesday
gore interrupted his campaigning to fly back to washington and vote for the override, as did fellow democrat simon
when push comes to shove the vice president never disagrees with president reagan,'' gore said in traverse city, mich. ``he really has not carved out an identity of his own in this election.''
simon hailed the civil rights measure and attacked the white house for trying to quash it
it's another indication of the insensitivity of the administration to women, to people with disabilities, to minorities,'' simon said
jackson used the occasion to blast both reagan and bush
when you have a president who vetoes a civil rights act and a vice president who suports him, there's a leadership gap in washington,'' he told an audience at benton harbor high school in michigan
too many lives (were) lost in the struggle for civil rights to stand on the sideline while those policies are abandoned,'' said jackson, a onetime associate of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr
bush announced on the eve of the veto vote that he supported the president, although he said he agreed with the main thrust of the bill. new jersey gov. thomas kean, who had endorsed bush just hours before the vice president sided with reagan, said tuesday it was time for bush to start speaking his mind
the vice president in this instance should have said publicly the way he felt. he said instead that he was going to be loyal to the president,'' kean said
bush wasn't the only one put on the spot by the veto override. bob dole, who did not vote on tuesday, said if he were casting the deciding vote he would have sided with the president. but he indicated tuesday night on cnn's ``larry king live'' that otherwise, he would have voted for the override
dole stressed he's not conceding the nomination _ yet _ but said he wouldn't mind if his wife, elizabeth, ended up on a ticket with bush
it would be all right with me,'' he said. ``i'd probably get a car and driver out of it.''
mrs. dole stepped down as transportation secretary to campaign for her husband
the government reported wednesday that the u.s. economy performed even better than previously thought from october through december, growing at a robust 4.8 percent rate which further eased fears of a recession triggered by the october stock market collapse
the commerce department said the increase in the gross national product, the total output of goods and services, was the fastest advance in almost two years and represented an upward revision from last month, when the gnp gain was put at a slightly lower 4.5 percent
especially encouraging to economists was the upward revision in particular sectors. the new gnp report said that both consumer spending and business investment were not as weak as previously feared and u.s. export sales were even stronger than originally reported
when the fourth quarter gnp report was first released, many economists expressed concern because the bulk of the growth came from production of unsold goods which was occurring at the same time that consumer spending was falling sharply
many analysts worried that this overhang of excess business inventories would cause a big drop in factory production and job layoffs at a time when consumers were already worried about the impact of the huge 508-point drop in the stock market which occurred on oct. 19
some analysts even forecast that a recession would start in early 1988, caused by weak consumer spending and falling industrial production
but the economic evidence so far this year shows those worries were overstated. many analysts, while still looking for significantly slower growth than last year, are now predicting the economy will get through this presidential election year without a downturn
one thing is clear _ the economy has shrugged off oct. 19 pretty well,'' said donald straszheim, chief economist for merrill lynch. ``we will not have a recession in 1988.''
the brighter economic outlook is certain to cheer republicans campaigning to hold onto the white house. president reagan, speaking to a group of business executives wednesday, boasted that the country is now in the midst of its longest peacetime economic recovery with the percentage of the labor force at work at an all-time high
with the new revisions, the economy during 1987 grew 4 percent, almost double the 2.2 percent increase turned in during 1986 and the best showing since 1984. this figure measures growth from the fourth quarter. averaging all the quarters, the gnp grew 2.9 percent in 1987, identical to 1986
the administration is forecasting gnp growth of 2.4 percent this year, with almost half of that gain expected to come from a further rise in export sales
private economists, whose original forecasts were well below that estimate, have been busy revising their own projections upward
william dunkelberg, dean of the business school at temple university, said he believed many private economists are still underestimating economic strength, citing the february unemployment report, which showed the jobless rate dropping to an 8{ year low of 5.7 percent
i think the economy is going to look a lot stronger in the first half of the year than people have been predicting,'' he said. ``we see tremendous strength in the export side of the economy.''
the 4.8 percent gnp growth in the fourth quarter followed growth of 4.3 percent in the july-september quarter and was the fastest quarterly growth rate since an increase of 5.4 percent in the first three months of 1986
the rapid growth occurred without a pick-up in inflation. a price index tied to the gnp rose at an annual rate of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter, little changed from a 3.4 percent third quarter increase
in a second report, the commerce department said u.s. corporations' after-tax profits rose 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter, closing out a year in which business profits shot up 8.4 percent, reflecting the boom in export sales that boosted the fortunes of american manufacturing companies
the state council on the arts, under fire for funding homosexual-oriented art projects, espouses freedom of expression and not points of view, chairwoman kitty carlisle hart said wednesday
the process is like democracy,'' the actress told a joint legislative committee hearing. ``it may not be perfect, but it's the best thing we've got.''
hart was summoned before the assembly and senate arts committees following a new york post report last week that the council had provided $7,200 to help pay for a photographic exhibit on transvestism sponsored by the national gay and lesbian task force fund for human dignity
other council grants went to create an archive on gay and lesbian writers and to fund a feminist magazine with an emphasis on writing by lesbians
hart, who complained of being put on the ``hot seat,'' said the council supports a variety of groups in the name of artistic expression
we fund art,'' she said. ``we are neutral as far as anyone else is concerned. we don't fund anyone's point of view.''
about 100 spectators watched the hearing, with the majority applauding lawmakers who defended hart's viewpoint
assemblyman philip healy said the arts council should show ``delicacy and discretion'' in how it spends taxpayers' money. he said he sees ``an element of propaganda creeping in'' with some of the programs funded
to have only one side portrayed on any level, be it the war in nicaragua or lesbians, shows a lack of judgment,'' healy said. ``i don't know if this was an overt act or a mistake. i hope it's a mistake.''
fellow republican assemblyman frank talomie said the arts council should have a greater system of checks and balances to ensure proper funding decisions
i think there's a concern regarding the public's best interests and the taxpayers' dollar ... that we have to go back and justify to our constituents,'' he said
hart said each funding request is reviewed by the arts council staff and a ``peer group committee'' before it is approved or turned down by the 20-member council. council members are appointed by the governor and serve without salary
mary hays, the council's executive director, said the council funded 3,633 different programs last year from 6,000 requests
i defy you to find any prejudice or imbalance in what we do,'' she said
the environmental protection agency will not use data from a nazi poison-gas experiment on prisoners of war and will study whether such data should ever be used, an agency official said wednesday
the decision was prompted by a letter to epa administrator lee m. thomas from 20 agency employees, many of them scientists, asking that the issue be studied and the report in which the data appeared be put on hold
we don't need this kind of data,'' was thomas' response, according to craig deremer, an assistant to the administrator
the gas is phosgene, used as a weapon in world war i and used today in the production of other chemicals. there is a wealth of data from animal experiments and other human exposure
deremer said thomas was ordering a study of the issue, probably by the agency's risk assessment forum, an interoffice group that tries to forge common policies in epa's programs
this has not been nailed down yet,'' deremer said wednesday
epa has listed phosgene, which forms hydrochloric acid in the lungs, among the most toxic 406 chemicals that communities should consider in disaster planning
small quantities can be deadly since effects may take three or four hours to appear. the occupational safety and health administration permits exposure of only 0.1 part per million over an eight-hour shift and says 2 ppm represents ``imminent danger to life or health.''
the agency is considering whether to add phosgene to the airborne chemicals it regulates, and as part of that work asked a consultant to ``validate some computer models,'' deremer said. it was the consultants' report that prompted the letter to thomas
the report of the consultant, icf-clement inc., referred to the findings of a french military court which tried those responsible for exposing french prisoners to phosgene, according to one of the signers of the letter who saw the report, microbiologist morris levin
levin said he believed the consultant found the court report in its own research, but deremer said he understood epa officials had called it to the attention of icf-clement when they discussed the work to be performed
the icf-clement vice president in charge did not immediately return two telephone calls wednesday
some have suggested that such data, if scientifically sound, and verifiable, should be used if some `good' to humans can result,'' the letter to thomas said. ``others feel that to use such data debases us all as a society, gives such experiments legitimacy and implicitly encourages others, perhaps in less exacting societies, to perform unethical human `experiments.'''
his own view, levin said, had changed in discussions in the group of 20 from acceptance of use to the belief that such findings should never be used. the use of radiation data by epa and others from the u.s. nuclear bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki, japan, in 1945 is ``not in the same category, but close,'' levin said
the german phosgene results, he said, are ``useless. they had no proper controls (an untested group used for comparisons) and no idea what the dose was until halfway through. if anyone had brought us those results from mice, we would have said, `do it over.'''
a former army captain who was paraguay's most famed political prisoner fled virtual house arrest wednesday with the help of two opposition leaders and sought asylum in the colombian embassy residence
colombian ambassador vicente ramirez emiliani told the associated press a diplomatic note had been sent to the paraguayan foreign ministry advising that napoleon ortigoza had taken refuge in the residence and asked for political asylum
the colombian government will proceed to study the situation,'' he said, adding that he did not know how long that might take
hermes rafael saguier, a leader of the opposition authentic radical liberal party, said he and attorney felino amarilla went to see ortigoza, 56, at the home where he has been held under armed guard since completing a 25-year prison sentence for his involvement in a 1962 slaying and an alleged plot against president alfredo stroessner
at first the guards wouldn't let us in or let ortigoza out,'' saguier said by telephone from the embassy residence
then we asked ortigoza if he was prepared to recover his freedom and he said `yes,' and we forced our way past the guards and put him in a car and drove him to the residence of the colombian ambassador,'' saguier said
the last thing we heard were three or four shots,'' saguier added. ``i can't tell you for sure because we were too scared to listen.''
saguier said no one was injured
the opposition leader, whose party is a frequent critic of the 34-year-old stroessner government, said the colombian residence was chosen because it is only a block and a half from where ortigoza was confined
half a dozen armed police blocked the entrance to the embassy residence
ortigoza was released from an asuncion prison on dec. 19 and confined in a hotel in san estanislao, 135 miles northeast of asuncion. on feb. 9, he was taken to asuncion and confined under guard in a house belonging to his invalid mother
saguier said he and amarilla decided to remove ortigoza from the home after attorney general clotildo jimenez benitez told reporters tuesday that the ortigoza case was closed and the former captain was ``in complete freedom.''
questioned about the presence of armed guards at the house, the attorney general said they had been there to protect ortigoza and not restrict him
ortigoza was sentenced to 25 years in prison in 1962 after he confessed to having participated in the slaying of army cadet alberto benitez. also convicted in the case was sgt. guillermo ovando, who was freed in 1984 after spending 21 years behind bars
the former captain, who never was allowed to appear in court in his own defense, maintains his confession was obtained under torture
paraguayan human rights leaders have said ortigoza's imprisonment was meant by the government to serve as a lesson to those who might conspire against stroessner's authoritarian rule
the police van's megaphone issued a strange warning to the crowd of over 100 people hovering around the manhattan exit from the queens midtown tunnel early wednesday
do yourself a favor and don't touch the cages.''
up from under the river came ringling bros. and barnum &amp; bailey circus' annual three-mile parade of animals as the big top moved into madison square garden for a six-week run
the caged lions and tigers came first, 14 of them in two strands of cages linked together and pulled by trucks
living things in manhattan that are not people, and are not cockroaches!'' yelled amy slaton, a 30-year-old art critic. ``this is the happiest night of my life.''
the crowd roared as the 19 elephants walked out of the tunnel. the cry went up, ``wooo-oooo! elephants! elephants! aaaall right!''
richard dunne, a 37-year-old lawyer from baltimore, bought his seat atop one of the elephants in a charity auction
it was like a gigantic horse,'' dunne said. ``it's so fresh for new york. everyone is smiling and happy, even the cops were happy.''
after the elephants came 15 horses, five zebras and six camels
inevitably, the rear was brought up by a department of sanitation street sweeper
a former new yorker living here was astonished when a denver policeman showed up at his front door, apologized and ripped up a four-point traffic citation he had issued just a day earlier
in new york, this just doesn't happen. i couldn't believe it,'' said joe milotta, 34
but the action by patrolman glen miller, an eight-year veteran, didn't surprise deputy chief cliff stanley
he has, on more than one occasion, admitted his mistakes,'' stanley said. ``police officers are human and we do admit our mistakes. in fact, we encourage it.''
miller said he mistook milotta's car for a similar vehicle that used an emergeny lane to avoid morning rush-hour traffic on march 9
rush county farmer andy ariens has a built-in barometer so accurate it has earned him a countywide reputation as an ace weather prognosticator
i told trudy before we got married, `now, there's something you need to understand about me,''' said ariens, 56. `` `whenever there's a storm on the way, i'll go off to bed and i'll just sleep right through it. i may sleep all afternoon and all night long if you let me.'''
ariens also reads the winds and watches the behavior of animals and insects to predict mother nature's plans. he said if he sees an ant cover its hole or if cows refuse to graze, he knows it is going to rain
neighbors say ariens has a 90 percent accuracy rate. he correctly predicted the ice storm that coated central indiana march 3
so what's his forecast?
in two weeks, we'll have above-normal temperatures, say around the first of april,'' ariens said recently. ``it'll be a wetter spring than last year, so planting season should be a little later.''
the last two weeks of spring will be quite cool with below normal temperatures, he added
an avalanche hit a group of skiers in the stubai valley of tyrol province on wednesday, killing one person and injuring six others, authorities said
the victims were part of a 17-member swiss ski group. the injured were flown by helicopter to an innsbruck clinic
a group of austrian army soldiers who happened to be near the accident site dug out the people buried by the snowslide
the men wore firefighting gear, and a fire truck was parked on the street, but the ``firefighters'' served a search warrant and made an arrest on drug charges
the men were deputies disguised to trick occupants of the house into opening the door. it worked, but it made fire officials angry
orange county fire chief john hunt said he didn't know one of his subordinates had lent the truck, and he said he would not permit a recurrence
people could become suspicious that firefighters are really police, and real firefighters could come under fire,'' he said
and hunt's boss, deputy county administrator phil brown, said tuesday that nobody told the deputy sheriffs they could use the coats, hats and boots firefighters wear
police officials disagreed
we're not at all upset about the way we did this. we got two stolen guns and some drugs off the street,'' said sheriff's spokesman randy means
i don't think there is any threat to firefighter safety,'' said sheriff's sgt. mike foreman. ``this was the safest way to execute the search warrant. it involved us not having to make any forced entry.''
the head of the 427-member firefighters' union, jerry polk, said he wouldn't object in some situations, such as those involving hostages
let's say there was a kid in there and the police needed a decoy to get in. that is within the realm of reasonable judgment,'' polk said. ``but going into the criminal community is a daily occurrence the police world deals with. to intermingle the fire department, which has no protection, well, that's not a very smart move.''
deputies arrested sammie battle, 66, on a charge of possession of cocaine. they said they found less than a fifth of an ounce of rock cocaine. also seized were two stolen guns. battle was released on bond
mikhail s. gorbachev called for greater freedom for collective farmers and other cooperatives wednesday to rejuvenate the soviet union's struggling agricultural sector and enable the nation to feed itself
gorbachev called the possibilities of cooperatives a ``brilliant discovery'' of soviet founder vladimir i. lenin that had been underused, and even despised, by subsequent rulers
we should revive co-ops not in their old, often too-primitive forms, but in the form of a modern, high-standard cooperative movement extensively integrated ... with government-run enterprises and organizations,'' he said, speaking at the first national congress of collective farmers to be held since 1969
the soviet leader's remarks opening the three-day session in the kremlin were carried by the official tass news agency and broadcast on state-run tv
collective farms, where members of a cooperative jointly own farm buildings and machinery and share in earnings, have faded in recent decades in favor of state farms, where workers, like employees in a factory, have traditionally received a basic wage
there were 33,000 collective farms, or ``kolkhozes,'' in the soviet union in 1970, but their number dropped to 26,300 by 1986. in that same period, the number of collective farmers dropped from 16.7 million to 12.6 million
gorbachev has been striving to persuade soviets to enter into cooperative ventures to make up for shortages in the state-run economy. under reforms instituted last year, nearly 14,000 cooperatives have sprung up to offer restaurant services, pump gas, make clothes and provide other goods and services in short supply
starting in the late 1920s, when josef v. stalin was soviet leader, cooperatives were liquidated and kolkhozes were transformed into state-owned farms. a taste for giant state-run enterprises was accompanied by bans on private farm plots, gorbachev said
the consequences of such an attitude to kolkhozes, to cooperatives as a whole, are well-known,'' he said. ``to it must be laid the delayed solution of the food problem, the deficit and narrowness of an assortment of many consumer goods, the limited nature of the service sector.''
soviet agriculture has been plagued for decades by central planners who tell farms what and how much to plant, lack of incentives for farmers to work the state-owned land, inefficient production, and poor storage and transportation facilities
gorbachev said grain harvests, meat production and milk supplies are improving, but the soviet union still is forced to spend millions of dollars of its hard currency every year for imported grain
a wider role for kolkhozes and co-op ventures should help the country become self-sufficient in foodstuffs, gorbachev said
by breeding the feeling of ownership, initiative and enterprise, co-ops are able to render substantial help in solving the food problem, in increasing the output of good-quality consumer goods,'' gorbachev said
to define the widened prerogatives and responsibilities now envisioned for cooperatives, a draft law was published this month in the press that prohibits government interference in their affairs
gorbachev said the new law aims to ``ensure the enhancement and development of cooperative and collective-farm property (and) create legal machinery to protect cooperative democracy.''
he said, however, that the land farmed by kolkhoz members would continue to belong to the state. the law also foresees a progressive tax system to catch what gorbachev has called ``money-grabbing.''
his re-emphasis on cooperatives is a result of greater democracy in soviet society and ``an important lever for furthering the democratic process and combatting administration by fiat and red tape,'' he said
gorbachev, the son of a south russian peasant, was the communist party official responsible for agriculture before becoming the party's general secretary in march 1985
he said it was essential to increase the growth rate of grain harvests by at least 50 percent and to begin harvesting from 260 million to 280 million tons of grain annually under the next five-year economic plan, in 1990-95
grain harvests for the past two years have been about 210 million tons, well above figures for the previous several years but below the government targets of about 240 million tons, which western experts regard as unrealistic
he also stressed the importance of the small individual plots whose produce soviet farmers are allowed to sell for themselves, and called for steps to help people manage them
gorbachev said the ruling politburo had decided to hold a special meeting of the central committee, the party's policy-making body, to consider national agricultural policy
reforms enacted last year permit the farms to sell directly to shops and restaurants up to 30 percent of the fruits and vegetables planners require them to produce. excess production can be sold at farmers' markets, where prices are not controlled, or to state stores
aix-en-provence, france (ap) _ a criminal court wednesday ordered prison terms or fines for three men convicted of attacking several amateur swiss football players during a brawl in may
marco bagarri, 27, was sentenced to 18 months in prison, with 16 months suspended, according to court officials. guy distanti, 35, was given an eight-month suspended sentence and fined $890. distanti's brother, alexandre, 38, was given a one-month suspended sentence and an equal fine
the men were involved in a fight during a football match in the southern city of fos-sur-mer in which several footballers from the swiss canton of vaud were injured. update with bradley endorsement, comments from senator and dukakis.</note>
michael dukakis, fighting to establish himself as the democratic presidential front-runner, picked up a key endorsement wednesday but also came under fire from rival richard gephardt for his trade views and from republican bob dole for a ``failure of vision'' on foreign policy
new jersey sen. bill bradley, once mentioned as a possible candidate for the democratic nomination, announced his support for dukakis at an old railroad terminal in jersey city, n.j
among the candidates of both parties, he would make the best president. and among the democratic candidates he is the one who can beat george bush,'' bradley said with the candidate by his side
the senator said dukakis can defeat the vice president in november ``because he is tenacious, innovative, resilient and disciplined.''
dukakis, who is expected to draw strong support in the state's june 7 primary election with the endorsement, called bradley's decision ``a very important endorsement because it comes from one of the most respected and one of the most accomplished public figures in america today.''
dole, setting aside his attacks on republican rival george bush, focused on the democrats in general and dukakis in particular in a foreign policy speech at the center for strategic and international studies in washington
after the speech, dole flew to hartford, conn., to address the state legislature, but before he landed, top connecticut gop officials announced their backing of bush for the presidential nomination
bush and dukakis were heavily favored to win most of the delegates at stake next tuesday when connecticut holds its presidential primary
in his washington speech, dole said dukakis ``says that the monroe doctrine, which has defined america's security in its own neighborhood for some 200 years, is `obsolete.' he said this country ... has no choice but to tolerate the existence of soviet client states wherever subversion might install them.''
the kansas senator went on to say that ``what we see on democratic side of this presidential campaign is a failure of nerve as well as a failure of vision.''
michigan, which holds democratic caucuses on saturday, was the next major battleground for dukakis and his rivals, and gephardt was hammering away at the massachusetts governor for allegedly waffling on trade
the gephardt campaign produced a sheaf of dukakis quotes opposing trade legislation and used them to support the missouri congressman's contention that dukakis' support for senate trade legislation was a ``political ploy'' to win workers' votes in michigan
the president of the united states today has all the authority he needs to do something about those unfair trade practices,'' gephardt quoted dukakis as saying during a debate last august in iowa. ``we don't need more laws or more amendments.''
campaigning in michigan, gephardt asked, ``who is for a tough trade policy? who is going to be for a tough trade policy after michigan? dick gephardt is. ... mike dukakis hasn't been, isn't and won't be.''
the dukakis campaign produced a tape-recorded interview in which dukakis praised the senate trade measure as long ago as last year
i think the senate bill, which is very, very different from the gephardt amendment, is sound policy. i would have voted for it,'' the governor told the des moines register on july 11
a new michigan poll commissioned by detroit television station wjbk said dukakis was leading in the state with 35 percent support. jesse jackson had 29 percent; gephardt 17 percent; sen. albert gore jr. 6 percent and sen. paul simon 5 percent, with 9 percent undecided
connecticut gop state chairman robert s. poliner announced his support for bush, saying, ``among republicans i believe george bush has the best chance of winning the presidency in 1988.''
i'm sure that a connecticut ticket led by george bush and (u.s. sen.) lowell weicker will be strongly supported by many independents and democrats as well as most republicans, and will give connecticut republicans a chance to increase our numbers in congress and in the state legislature,'' poliner added, predicting that bush would take 25 of the 35 connecticut delegates at stake in next week's primary
a poll published wednesday by the hartford courant showed bush favored by 64 percent of likely gop voters, while his nearest rival, dole, is the choice of 20 percent. the margin of error for the random sampling of 432 likely republican voters was 5.5 percent
gore also talked about trade as he toured a giant iron ore processing plant in ishpeming, mich. and said, ``we have to take steps to remove unfair trade barriers overseas.''
in london, democrats living overseas picked a largely uncommitted delegation to the party's national convention. dukakis, who won a non-binding preference poll, picked up a fraction of a delegate
democrats abroad send 22 delegates to the convention, where they will cast nine votes. nine of those delegates were uncommitted, one was backing dukakis
corporations' after-tax profits shot up 8.4 percent in 1987, the best performance in three years, as american manufacturers benefited from the weaker dollar, the government reported wednesday
the commerce department said after-tax profits rose to $137.4 billion last year, the first increase since a 12 percent rise in 1984
in 1985, corporate profits plunged 12.3 percent and they dipped another 1 percent in 1986 as the widening trade deficit cut into sales by american manufacturing firms
u.s. companies have been enjoying an export boom this past year as declines in the dollar made american products competitive again on overseas markets
for u.s. manufacturing, 1987 was a turnaround year. exports rose and american companies benefited tremendously from previous cost-cutting measures,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co
analysts said the rise in profits was particularly significant because it occurred at the same time corporate taxes were being boosted substantially by the landmark 1986 tax overhaul law
sinai predicted further gains in corporate profits in 1988, estimating they should rise by between 6 percent and 7 percent
we will see continued increases in corporate profits until the start of the next recession,'' he said
the report said the dividends corporations paid to stockholders rose along with their improved profit picture, increasing 8.1 percent to $93.8 billion. this followed a 6.8 percent increase in dividends paid out in 1986
for the fourth quarter, after-tax profits rose 1.6 percent at a quarterly rate following a 5.5 percent increase in the third quarter
corporate leaders on wednesday described the nightmares of doing business with federal agencies that refuse to pay their bills on time, and pleaded with congress to crack down on washington's bureaucratic deadbeats
small businesses cannot afford to carry any customer for an indefinite period of time, even if it is the u.s. government,'' joseph a. schaedel of the national federation of independent business told a house hearing
kenton pattie of the international communications industries association said the defense department was more than 19 months late paying its $1,424.15 bill to a small virginia supplier, and didn't pay the delinquent penalty required by law
worse, he said, an alabama company waited nearly two years before the air force paid the $8,833 due for some playground equipment, after sen. howell heflin, d-ala., was enlisted to exert pressure
when the air force check finally arrived, the company was cheated out of $648.21 in interest penalties
one contractor, frustrated after waiting three months for the navy to pay for a shipment of steel pipe, drove a truck to the main gate at the philadelphia naval shipyard and told guards: ``we want it back!'' the navy returned the goods, pattie said
an august 1986 report by the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, estimated that 24 percent of all federal agency bills were unpaid for more than 30 days
members of a house government operations subcommittee listened sympathetically as other legislators and witnesses for small businesses, industrial contractors and trade associations urged congress to close loopholes in the 1982 prompt payment act, which requires the federal government to pay its bills within 30 days
the witnesses endorsed amendments, which the senate approved unanimously last october, that would provide a stricter statutory definition of when a federal agency receives an invoice, which triggers the 30-day time clock for payment
the senate bill also would set a five-day limit for an agency to accept or reject a supplier's goods or services; eliminate a 15-day grace period for payment of late penalties; require automatic payment of penalties with a double penalty if not paid within 10 days; and prohibit agencies from taking an early-payment discount after payment is due
raymond s. wittig of the u.s. chamber of commerce said the government's late payment of bills causes the most damage to small businesses, which lack large capital funds and depend heavily on cash flow to finance their operations
they often do not have the resources to battle the federal bureaucracy over late or incorrect payments,'' wittig said. ``as a result, small businesses concentrate on selling to customers who pay on time.''
he added: ``if the government does not pay on time, all taxpayers and citizens are injured because fewer businesses choose to sell to the government. this decreased competition raises the costs of goods and services purchased by the government.'' recipients ^for release at 6 p.m. est, time set by source</head>
scientists have triggered disease-fighting defenses in bone marrow transplant recipients with an experimental procedure, a scientist said wednesday
the recipients had their immune system defenses raised against poisons that are produced by tetanus and diphtheria bacteria, showing they benefited from vaccines given marrow donors a week before the marrow was harvested, said albert donnenberg of johns hopkins university in baltimore
those diseases are not particular problems in marrow recipients, but the experiment suggests that a similar process might one day protect against potentially lethal fungal and viral infections that do appear in recipients, he said
recipients had to be immunized within 35 days of their marrow transplants, or else the transferred immunity was lost, he said
donnenberg described results to science writers at a seminar sponsored by the american cancer society
marrow transplants are performed in cases where radiation or chemotherapy for cancer is powerful enough to destroy a patient's own marrow. bone marrow produces the white blood cells of the immune system, as well as red blood cells and platelets
the experiment included 38 recipients who got marrow from immunized donors that was then treated with a technique designed to prevent graft-versus-host disease. this is a potentially fatal complication in which immune system cells from transplanted marrow attack the recipient's body
the technique uses a centrifuge to strip the marrow of about 99 percent of the white blood cells called lymphocytes that cause graft-versus-host disease
the experiment, designed to look for side effects rather than effectiveness, found the technique did little to reduce the incidence of the disease. but it did appear to reduce the number of moderate to severe cases in comparison to standard experience with non-treated marrow, donnenberg said
the transfer of vaccine effects from donor to recipient occurred because the processing of the marrow enriched it, in the lymphocytes remaining, with a ``memory'' for the vaccine, donnenberg said
such transfer has been shown before, said david golde, chief of hematology and oncology at the university of california, los angeles, school of medicine
a key research problem now is how to retain some disease-fighting capability in marrow recipients but not enough to trigger graft-versus-host disease, he said in a telephone interview
another study reported at the meeting found that cancer patients whose marrow had been destroyed by therapy regained marrow function after injections of their own blood cells
such injections may allow aggressive cancer treatment in patients who cannot get marrow transplants or store some of their own marrow for use after cancer treatment, said margaret kessinger of the university of nebraska college of medicine in omaha
marrow transplant experts said the technique's near-term usefulness would be limited, but that it may have potential for wider use
kessinger said the experimental technique begins with extracting white blood cells from a patient's blood
the goal is to harvest a kind of cell called the pluripotent stem cell, which essentially replaces lost bone marrow
kessinger described a study of 26 patients who went through that procedure and received the injections of blood cells, rather than marrow, after cancer therapy
in comparison to 83 patients whose marrow had been harvested by conventional means and later returned, the experimental group first showed white cells in the blood three days sooner, for an average of eight days after the procedure, she said
both groups took the same amount of time to recover other marrow function, she said
the world's only coon dog graveyard may need the help of some patrol hounds to keep vandals at bay
caretakers of the key underwood coon dog memorial graveyard in northwest alabama say vandals have damaged the unique tombstones and littered the tourist attraction with beer and soda cans, the florence timesdaily reported sunday
it used to happen just once in a while,'' william o. bolton of russellville, secretary-treasurer of the tennessee valley coon hunters association, told the newspaper. ``but it's been happening more frequently lately.''
underwood started the graveyard when he buried his coon dog troop on the 10-acre site in 1937. many of the graves are marked with elaborate epitaphs, stones with statues of dogs or wooden crosses
i just think some people are jealous for some reason,'' said bolton. ``i think they go out there and drink beer and smoke pot, and i guess they want to do something bad before they leave.''
erecting a tall fence around the graveyard, as some people have suggested, is not a solution because it would discourage visitors, he said
the kremlin on wednesday rejected demands by armenians who want to control an area of neighboring azerbaijan, and it threatened to crack down on armenian activists who cause further ethnic unrest
the presidium of the supreme soviet, the country's highest executive body, did not directly address armenian demands to annex the nagorno-karabakh region of azerbaijan. but it made it clear that the government would not bend to pressure to change internal borders
at least 32 people were killed in riots after armenians demanded that the predominantly armenian section of azerbaijan be united with armenia. aremenians are mostly christian while the azeris are mostly moslem
in what appeared to be the soviet union's definitive statement on the territorial dispute, the presidium ordered government ministries to make efforts to improve ``the economic, social and cultural development of the nagorno-karabakh autonomous region.''
armenian activists have said such efforts would not meet their demands
the meeting, attended by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, president andrei a. gromyko and other senior officials, was held after carefully orchestrated appeals by 13 soviet other republics
a statement carried by the tass news agency said it was ``intolerable'' to use pressure to ``resolve complicated national-territorial issues.''
such actions can lead to ``unpredictable consequences,'' tass said
armenians held a series of large protests in february to demand that nagorno-karabakh, which is three-quarters armenian, be annexed from azerbaijan. ethnic rioting broke out in the azerbaijani city of sumgait on feb. 28, and officials said 32 people were killed
armenian activists put the death toll at 78 armenians, killed by azerbaijanis. most armenians are christian, while azerbaijanis are predominantly shiite moslem
the soviet officials condemned violence that caused loss of life and also called on armenian and azerbaijani officials to ``bring to strict account those who by their actions destabilize the situation.''
that statement appeared to indicate an impending crackdown on armenian activists and on those arrested for taking part in violence
in early february, the policy-making communist party central committee turned down an appeal by armenians to annex nagorno-karabakh. but gorbachev promised in a feb. 26 speech that the region's problems would be considered when the central committee meets to discuss problems between the soviet union's nationalities
as recently as march 17, communist party officials in nagorno-karabakh appealed for permission to join the armenian republic
before the government's decision wednesday, armenian activists had been planning a meeting for march 26 to determine their course of action
wednesday's pronouncement was seen as an attempt to discourage further protests
the presidium said armenian and azerbaijani officials must speak out against any ``nationalistic or extremist manifestation,'' protect the rights of citizens of all nationalities. it ordered armenia, azerbaijan, the national prosecutor's office and the interior ministry to ensure order
the soviet leadership also demanded that armenian and azerbaijani officials drastically improve their political and education work to ensure that riots do not happen again
the presidium's pronouncement came at a time when the official press had started to sharply criticize armenian activists
the activists said 7,000 people turned out in yerevan on monday to protest an article by the communist party daily newspaper pravda that said the annexation campaign had a ``clear anti-socialist spirit.''
y. arakyelan, an armenian correspondent whose name was one of three attached to the article, later disassociated himself from it
at a news conference sponsored by the soviet foreign ministry, yulian bromley, director of the soviet union's institute of ethnic studies, indicated that top government and party officials soon would establish an apparatus for handling differences between soviet republics after many years of pretending they did not exist
but he and the institute's deputy director, solomon bruk, said transferring territory from one republic to another would not help gorbachev's effort to restructure soviet society. bruk said economic development rather than ethnic differences would be a more likely reason for any changes in internal borders
earlier wednesday moscow authorities sent home an armenian activist who had been providing foreign journalists with information about the unrest
alexander ogorodnikov, a moscow religious activist, said paryur arikyan was put on a plane for yerevan, the armenian capital
while the sandinistas and contras worked wednesday on a cease-fire and journalists waited for scraps of information, the sleepy village of sapoa stayed sleepy
tight security segregated the international press corps of about 150 journalists and most the 2,000 residents of this town about 90 miles from managua on the costa rican border
the delegations met in the main customs house at the border crossing, the only building big enough for the talks
covering the negotiations, which began monday, has meant hours of waiting punctuated by frenzied activity. whenever negotiators leave the customs house, cross the blacktop road and mount a makeshift stage, photographers shove and push for position as writers grab for pens and notebooks
otherwise, the press waits in the constant wind blowing off lake managua, said to harbor the world's only freshwater sharks
some reporters meandered down to the lake. others went to san juan del sur to work on their tans. one slept in a hammock tied to a utility pole
but most passed the time chatting, reading, writing or sipping beer bought with u.s. dollars, costa rican colones or nicaraguan cordobas from a snack bar the government set up in a storage room
another room held the phones for international calls the government had installed for the talks. payment _ in u.s. dollars _ had to be on the spot
the contra delegation is staying in liberia, costa rica, about 37 miles miles away
they arrive each day in a pale green schoolbus with smoked windows accompanied by costa rican and sandinista security agents and with contra fighters in u.s.-made fatigues flanking the leader of the delegation, alfredo cesar
nicaragua's state-run radio sandino, which is heard here, refers to the contras as the ``delegation of the u.s. government.'' radio impacto, a u.s.-financed station in costa rica that broadcasts the contra point of view, can also be picked up in sapoa
the sandinista delegation, headed by defense minister humberto ortega, arrives in four-wheel drive vehicles with motorcycle escorts. the sandinistas are staying in san juan del sur, a beach town on the pacific ocean about 10 miles away
one report said phone lines there were cut as a security measure
sandinista security has been tight along the panamerican highway, but the border crossing itself has stayed open throughout the talks
journalists are searched by state security agents and issued credentials each day at a site about a mile away, then bused to the scene of the talks, a complex of customs buildings next to the village
most of the area is closed to reporters, roped off by security agents. the governnment set up a covered press area outdoors, across a road from the customs house
japan and the nato allies are doing more to ensure the free world's security than they get credit for, but the administration will continue to press them to assume a larger share of the burden, defense secretary frank c. carlucci said wednesday
in a 14-page report requested by congress, carlucci said, ``i intend to follow up personally on this issue and to reiterate at every opportunity the need for progress in improving both allied defense capabilities and the equity with which the roles, risks and burdens of the alliance are shared.''
carlucci, while promising a more extensive report later this spring, said it appeared that japan and eight european countries might have increased their defense spending by 3 percent or more in 1987 _ matching the nato goal
he identified the eight as greece, italy, luxembourg, norway, spain, turkey, france and portugal
only greece, however, appears to be allocating as much of its gross national product to defense as the united states ``and there are substantial variations in the performance among the individual allies,'' carlucci wrote
while some are doing at least their fair share, others are making a contribution that can best be characterized as mixed, and a few are doing far less than their fair share,'' he continued
progress to date has likewise been mixed, with the good performers generally making the greatest improvements in their defense postures while the others fall further behind.''
former south korean president chun doo hwan paid a 30-minute courtesy call wednesday on president reagan at the white house
according to a korean official, both men laughed as chun suggested that after reagan leaves the white house early next year, they meet again to discuss life in retirement. reagan accepted, said the official, who asked not to be named
the two men also discussed the transition to democracy in south korea and the upcoming olympic games in seoul
reagan noted that korea's economic development was strengthened during chun's time in office and that his efforts contributed to the organization of the olympics, the official said
chun arrived here tuesday and will be leaving the united states on april 10. he will be traveling to new york, where he plans to meet with former president nixon and former secretary of state henry a. kissinger
an iranian delegate said wednesday the palestinians in israel's occupied territories should emulate iran's islamic revolution and destroy their enemy
mohammed ali taskhiri addressed a conference of the 46-member organization of islamic conference, which has issued a statement about the palestinian rebellion but is is not expected to make headway toward a truce in the iran-iraq war. the persian gulf neighbors have been fighting since september 1980
taskhiri cited the revolution of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini against the pro-u.s. regime of the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi, which he called a ``nest of evil.'' the shah was ousted in february 1979
our children faced it like the children who are throwing stones in palestine, who are facing the enemy with his american weapons,'' taskhiri said
the zionist enemy is killing our children, is burning their bodies and breaking their arms and burying them alive,'' he said of the rebellion in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, which began dec. 8. more than 100 arabs have been killed
palestine is a moslem issue,'' he said. ``it is the main issue, but we haven't done anything about it yet except talk about it.''
his reference was to a statement issued by the delegates tuesday that condemned israel's ``oppressive and criminal'' measures and advocated political and financial support for the protesters
it did not say what form the aid should take or whether it would be forthcoming
iran claims the rebellion is inspired by islam, but observers say opposition to israeli occupation is the chief motivation
authorities have reopened hueco tanks to rock climbers, ending a three-week moratorium that gave rangers time to remove bolts climbers hammered into the rock to aid tricky maneuvers
park officials had feared the bolts might have destroyed ancient indian rock paintings, but said they found no damage
hours after the moratorium was lifted friday, park rangers were fielding calls from as far as europe
hueco tanks is one of two good winter-climbing spots in the united states,'' david cottom, spokesman for the texas parks and wildlife department, said wednesday. ``the world climbing community is tight-knit; you wouldn't believe how fast word gets around.''
officials closed the 860-acre park about 35 miles east of el paso to climbers after rangers discovered the steel bolts they said had been placed mostly by european visitors. some climbers had even used epoxy to create handholds and footholds on the sheer rock faces
climbers often embed bolts into rock to secure safety ropes. most climbers use bolts only to halt falls and consider it cheating to use them as handholds or footholds
a lot of (bolts) are for safety, but these aren't for safety,'' said ranger bob parker, pointing at three bolts in the face of a 30-foot-high boulder. ``bolts like these are for acrobatics. that's what we disagree with.''
rangers removed 23 bolts and epoxy handholds, and filled the holes with brown epoxy to blend in with the rock, parker said
drilling bolts is banned at hueco tanks, though rangers have decided to leave bolts necessary for safety on the many established routes
and park officials plan to call a conference of climbers next month or next winter to discuss the ethics of bolting _ a hot topic in climbing circles
parker said he hoped the moratorium and the conference will get climbers to police themselves and report illegal bolting
park officials want to make sure everyone follows the rules because the sport is growing fast at hueco tanks, cottom said. several hundred climbers from the americas, europe and asia traveled to hueco tanks this winter. a few years ago, most of the park's climbers were from texas and new mexico
hueco tanks and joshua tree national monument, east of los angeles, are the most popular north american winter climbing sites
a judge sentenced 10 people to death by hanging for murdering a left-wing politician and his son three years ago, news reports said wednesday
judge kazi golam rasul passed the sentence at narail, 60 miles west of dhaka, on tuesday
the convicts, who will be hanged unless they appeal to higher court, were found guilty of killing eklasuddin ahmed and his 22-year-old son, tutu, in june 1985
ahmed was a local leader of a left-wing baksal party
a spokesman for the baksal party said in dhaka on wednesday that the convicts were former supporters of the governing jatiya party
spokesman abdur razzak said that the killing of ahmed was politically motivated to eliminate rivals
an assistant state prosecutor has been suspended with pay following claims that she led police on a 90-mph car chase and was naked from the waist down when stopped
assistant state attorney jan bamping, 32, was charged with fleeing to elude an officer and improper passing, both misdemeanors, the bradenton herald reported wednesday
police reports cited by the herald said bradenton beach patrolman ron robertson stopped bamping and fellow assistant state attorney jerry blevins, 27, a passenger in the car and owner of the vehicle, at about 1:45 a.m. sunday after a 1{-mile chase
robertson said bamping had been drinking, but he didn't order her from the car to take a roadside sobriety test because she was naked from the waist down. he said he could see she had ``a tattoo on the inside of her leg.''
robertson said that when he asked ms. bamping why she was partially nude, she became upset and answered that it's ``not against the law to drive nude.''
ms. bamping could not be reached by phone wednesday for comment
blevins was fully clothed, robertson said. he was not charged and the herald reported there was no indication he was disciplined
police reports also said ms. bamping and blevins tried to use their positions as prosecutors to intimidate robertson, but blevins denied that
i don't think we did anything improper as far as using this office,'' blevins told the herald
chief assistant state atorney mack futch said he will request that gov. bob martinez appoint a special prosecutor to handle ms. bamping's case
ms. bamping was scheduled to appear in traffic court may 11. statement from fatah-revolutionary council. picks up 5th graf pvs bgng, a base ...</note>
israeli fighter-bombers blasted palestinian and moslem guerrilla bases on the outskirts of sidon on wednesday, destroying at least six in israel's second anti-guerrilla air strike in a week
police said four skyhawks and eight phantom f-4s roared in at 4:05 p.m. and staged eight dive-bombing and rocketing runs in a one-hour raid
at least five bases manned by guerrillas of terrorist mastermind abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council went up in flames in the villages of bekesta, majdelyoun and salhiyeh near sidon's ein el-hilweh refugee camp, police said
one rocket struck a guerrilla arms depot in bekesta, setting off a two-hour chain of ammunition explosions that demolished the building, police said
in a military communique fatah-revolutionary council claimed the jets raided only ``one of the organization's positions.'' it vowed to ``severely strike back against the zionist enemy's arrogance and barbarism ... at the adequate time and venue.''
the attacks left a number of our heroic fighters martyred or wounded. we will announce specific figures in a later communique,'' the statement said. ``this crime will be added to the black record of the zionist enemy.''
a base of the moscow-oriented democratic front for the liberation of palestine also was destroyed as the jets fired 25 rockets and dozens of delayed-action bombs in the area, police reported
they said the warplanes also hit sidon's power plant, plunging the city into darkness. sidon residents watched the raid from balconies
guerrillas cordoned off the stricken targets after the raid, preventing police and reporters from getting a casualty figure. however, police said two boys aged five and 10 were rushed to sidon's hammoud hospital from bekesta
israel radio's hebrew broadcast said explosions in sidon prevented red cross vehicles from reaching the bombed areas. it said residents of sidon and its palestinian refugee camps closed their stores and rushed in panic to bomb shelters
a communique from the democratic front for the liberation of palestine said an unspecified number of lebanese civilians were injured in the raid
the escalation of the enemy's aggression reflects the deepening crisis engulfing israel as a result of the continuous palestinian uprising in the occupied west bank and gaza strip,'' said the communique, released in beirut
it described the raid as ``the first fruit'' of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir's recent visit to washington
the israeli command said its planes destroyed buildings used by guerrillas for storing military hardware and vehicles
police said israeli gunboats cruised off sidon, 25 miles south of beirut, during and after the raid. it was israel's fourth into lebanon this year
the israelis said all planes returned safely to their bases and that the pilots reported accurate hits
sidon police said the israeli pilots released air balloons that deflected waves of heat-seeking sam-7 missiles shoulder-fired by guerrillas
a communique issued by the popular liberation army militia of sidon's sunni moslem nasserite leader, mustafa saad, said its positions east of the city were also hit by the israeli jets
it charged the air attack was aimed at breaking the ``lebanese-palestinian nationalist alliance.''
saad's militia, which has controlled sidon since the 1975 outbreak of lebanon's civil war, has been allied with yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization and maintained close ties with abu nidal's group, which opposes arafat
thirty-one people were killed and 43 wounded in the previous israeli air raids on lebanon this year
the supreme court was urged wednesday to allow states to place strict new regulations on professional organizations that solicit contributions for charities
attorney general lacy h. thornburg of north carolina said the rules his state seeks to impose would not violate free-speech rights
professional fund-raisers ``are keeping too much'' of the money, he said. ``we want it to go back to the charities.''
but charitable groups said if the north carolina plan were adopted nationwide it would severely threaten their ability to raise money
the north carolina regulations, invalidated by a lower court, force fund-raisers to tell prospective contributors what percentage of the money the solicitors raised over the past 12 months had been used for expenses and the fund-raisers' fees
the law also could limit the fees paid by charities to the professional fund-raisers. a licensing provision of the statute presumes that in most cases if more than 35 percent of donations goes for the solicitor's fee, that is unreasonable
errol copilevitz, an attorney representing professional fund-raisers and charities, said the law ``creates a real and present danger of censorship.''
i'm telling you professional representatives will not make their services available if this regulation is allowed to stand,'' he said
copilevitz particularly challenged the requirement that solicitors tell a prospective contributor at the outset how much money goes for expenses. that could cripple fund-raising over the phone, he said
by the time the solicitor provides that information he ``will have received a dial tone,'' copilevitz said, adding, ``high costs are not a measure of fraud or the worth of a charity.''
the north carolina law, enacted in 1985, was designed to prevent fraud and assure that most of the money goes to charities and not fund-raising costs
u.s. district judge earl britt declared the law unconstitutional in 1986
britt said that without the help of professional solicitors, many charities might be unable to communicate their views and goals
the judge also said that requiring a solicitor to disclose his track record for the past 12 months ``is not relevant to the particular solicitation campaign he is involved with at the time.''
during an hour of supreme court arguments wednesday, the justices briskly questioned lawyers for both sides. the court is expected to announce a decision by july
chief justice william h. rehnquist compared north carolina's law to a state regulation that sets a maximum price on theater tickets
copilevitz said that would be permissible if the purpose was to make artistic performance more widely available
but when justice antonin scalia asked whether a state could place a ceiling on the cost of a renting a hall for a political rally, copilevitz said that would be unconstitutional
justice thurgood marshall questioned the authority of states to tell charities how to allocate their resources
could you stop them from throwing away their money?'' he said
thornburg said the charities need such protection. he said a survey by north carolina officials showed that from 1980 through 1984 the five largest professional fund-raisers in the state spent approximately 80 percent of the money they raised on expenses and their fees
the supreme court in 1980 and 1984 barred states from limiting the amount of money charities spend on fund-raising. thornburg argued that those rulings do not preclude the type of regulation north carolina seeks to impose
many states require fund-raisers to disclose to regulatory agencies how much is spent on expenses
but copilevitz said north carolina's plan goes far beyond that
he is representing the national federation of the blind, the optimist club and professional fund-raisers. other charities have joined in urging the court to declare the north carolina law unconstitutional
the case is riley vs. national federal of the blind, 87-328
portugal has asked the united states to equip its air force with f-16 fighter-bombers to compensate for a shortfall in u.s. funds for the use of a strategic air base, a government official said wednesday
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said lisbon was seeking substantial u.s. help in modernizing its armed forces
the military assistance would offset cuts made by the u.s. congress in aid paid for use of the mid-atlantic lajes air base
prime minister anibal cavaco silva last month formally requested a review of the defense agreement under which the united states uses the submarine-warfare and refuelling base on the azores archipelago because of falling u.s. aid to portugal
the request for the f-16s, described as the world's finest fighter-bombers, was presented to a u.s. military delegation that visited lisbon march 1-5, the official said
he refused to specify how many f-16s portugal is seeking but indicated the number requested in the first phase of negotiations could approach 50. washington officials are studying the proposals, he added
the official said portugal also sought hawk missiles, combat helicopters, sophisticated radar equipment, armored personnel carriers and m-60 combat vehicles from the united states
portugal's request for f-16s comes after neighboring spain asked the united states withdraw 74 f-16s from an air base outside madrid. there was no indication of where portugal would station the planes if they were supplied
cavaco silva called for a review of the defense agreement after congressional cuts caused u.s. aid to portugal to fall from $208 million in 1985 to $117 million this year
defense secretary frank carlucci visited lisbon to try to soothe portuguese dissatisfaction. the two countries agreed to set up a joint task force to examine the posssibilities of supplying portugal with surplus u.s. military equipment to make up for the shortfall in financial assistence
apparently portugal rejected the offer
we wanted to take the initiative by informing the united states of the equipment we need instead of being presented with a list of available surplus material that we can choose from,'' said the government official
he said the proposals for u.s military equipment supplies were based on portugal's needs to modernize its armed forces so that it could adequately fulfill its defensive role within the north atlantic treaty organization
opposition parties on wednesday said the government must not cover up the growing scandal involving alleged corruption by the brother of former president chun doo-hwan
the opposition alleged that corruption by chun's relatives and the saemaul development movement was widespread
saemaul, or new community, which claims a membership of more than 5 million community leaders, was formed in 1971 to improve rural and urban living standards
we warn the government against minimizing, covering up or whitewashing the scandal,'' said park young-sook, acting president of the party for peace and democracy. the rival opposition reunification democratic party also called for an independent parliamentary probe
kim tae-ryong, rdp spokesman, also demanded an investigation into the ilhae foundation, a semi-official think tank established by chun
the government is investigating charges that saemaul, while headed by chun's younger brother, embezzled millions of dollars, sold patronage and forced donations
the former president, who is on a private visit to the united states, installed his brother, kyung-hwan, as saemaul head. chun kyung-hwan resigned in 1987 after being linked to gangsters locked in a bloody power struggle
many political observers contend the saemaul probe stemmed from a power game between president roh tae-woo and chun, with roh's supporters working to reduce the former president's power
roh, a former general picked by chun to succeed him, is widely thought to be building popular support by proving corruption under chun. roh has promised reforms since he won the country's first democratic election last december
the new government faces an unavoidable challenge ... the burdensome legacy of the old government,'' don-a ilbo, an influential seoul newspaper, said in a commentary
newspapers said the saemaul probe could be roh's efforts to distance himself from chun, who tried to retain power. but governing party officials fear the growing scandal would erode their chances in national assembly elections in april
the prosecutor general's office said wednesday it had questioned about 50 government and saemaul officials about allegations of fraud, embezzlement and influence peddling
the prosecutors said saemaul was found to have diverted some of an estimated $130 million in funds to profit-oriented projects, land speculation and other irregular activities. warships</head>
a house subcommittee has quietly voted to delete funding for the trident submarine in next year's budget and use that $1.4 billion to build two aegis destroyers instead, lawmakers disclosed wednesday
rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., said the house armed services seapower subcommittee voted in a closed session tuesday to cut out all trident funding for fiscal 1989, a move pushed by rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla
bennett, chairman of the subcommittee, is opposing an administration plan to sell two aegis ddg-51 destroyers to japan, fearing that the united states would lose technology secrets
under the funding plan approved by the subcommittee, the government would order five aegis warships in 1989. the administration had requested three. the two extra ships would be deployed in japan under u.s. control, protecting japanese security interests while keeping the aegis technology under wraps
gejdenson, whose district includes the electric boat shipyard, the division of general dynamics corp. that builds tridents, sought to play down tuesday's vote
while i am clearly disappointed by the decision of the seapower subcommittee, the subcommittee's decision is only the first step in a lengthy and complex budget process,'' gejdenson said
the congressman, who is not a member of the armed services committee, noted that the seapower panel deleted funding for the trident two years ago, but funding was later restored by congress
gejdenson said he was confident trident funding would be restored again
but bennett said in a telephone interview that he would fight to keep the trident out and the two extra aegis ships in. he said the program, which traditionally calls for one new trident each year, would be continued in the 1990 budget
a critical test comes next week when the full committee takes up the defense budget
electric boat is the sole builder of the 18,750-ton submarine, which is armed with 24 long-range, multi-warhead missiles. the subs are built at the company's yards in groton, conn., and north kingstown, r.i
the 8,300-ton aegis destroyer, equipped with 90 missiles, is being built by bath iron works in bath, maine, and the ingalls shipbuilding in pascagoula, miss
a study of last year's wheat quality showed that 76 percent of the hard red winter wheat samples graded no. 1 or no. 2, compared with 70 percent in 1986, the agriculture department said wednesday
for hard red spring wheat, 75 percent graded no. 1, compared with 70 percent in 1986, the department's federal grain inspection service said
the annual survey involved 12,739 wheat samples from the 1987 crop, said w. kirk miller, administrator of the agency. the samples were taken during the first four weeks following local harvests around the country
the democratic party's chances in november would suffer if a non-candidate such as new york gov. mario cuomo won the presidential nomination after a deadlocked national convention, a top party official said wednesday
it would be a difficult situation and there would be increasingly bad feelings, lynn cutler, vice chairman of the democratic national committee, said at a news conference. ``to the general electorate it might not make any difference at all, but to the people who have to go out and win the election ... i think it would be very tough.''
cuomo has said much the same thing, but has refused to rule out accepting a draft if the convention is deadlocked. he has also declined, as yet, to endorse any of the democratic candidates
he's fully aware of the power of his endorsement and what it means,'' ms. cutler said. ``it makes a national statement. without question i think it would have a big impact in a place like california where there's a great deal of affection for the governor.''
lenora fulani says her presidential campaign gives blacks and other minorities someplace to go when, she predicts, jesse jackson is denied the democratic nomination
ms. fulani, 37, of new york, candidate of the new alliance party, says she is the first black woman presidential candidate to qualify for federal election matching funds
she said her campaign will give jackson leverage at the democratic national convention this summer
they're going to know he's sitting there with an ace up his sleeve. and that ace is a well-orchestrated, viable third-party road,'' she said. ``what i'm building in this country for jackson is something to broker with.''
ms. fulani said she will give up her campaign if jackson wins the democratic nomination in july. but she said that is unlikely because ``he is too black and too progressive'' and the democrats will pick ``a white moderate, conservative of pseudo-liberal.''
she was in tulsa on tuesday to boost her petition campaign for a place on oklahoma's ballot
mayor edward i. koch predicted wednesday that george bush will be the next president _ unless the democrats turn to new york gov. mario cuomo or bush puts ``both feet in his mouth.''
he predicted the democratic ticket will be massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and tennessee sen. albert gore
as i perceive it now, i think we will have a very tough time,'' said koch, a democrat. he said bush, as evidenced by his many defeats of sen. robert dole in the republican primaries, was drawing strength from president reagan's popularity
but koch said he thought bush was ``capable of putting both feet in his mouth'' and added, ``maybe we'll be lucky.''
as for the democrats, he said, ``i hope at the convention we'll turn to mario cuomo. he (would make) a most articulate candiate, charismatic.''
but if that doesn't happen,'' he said, ``i expect the candidates will be dukakis and gore.''
mayor tom bradley has decided not to endorse any presidential candidate in the june primary, despite pressure to back jesse jackson
i have been asked by every democratic presidential campaign to support their candidate,'' bradley, a democrat, said in a statement tuesday. ``i have told each of those campaigns exactly the same thing. i am not going to be involved in the democratic primaries in 1988.''
jackson backers said the mayor's decision could cost him some black support in next year's election, when he will run for an unprecedented fifth term as mayor of the nation's second-largest city
tom takes a chance by not supporting jesse,'' said businessman bondie gambrell, a local jackson supporter and one of bradley's biggest financial backers
here are the key points in truce proposals by nicaragua's sandinista government and the contra rebels:
sandinistas
a cease-fire of up to 90 days during which the contras would lay down their weapons and join a ``national reconciliation dialogue.''
for every rebel who stops fighting, the government would free a political prisoner considered eligible for release. nicaragua has an estimated 3,300 such prisoners
rebels who put down their arms would be free from prosecution without applying for amnesty and could take part in political life. they would be permitted to operate uncensored newspapers, magazines and radio stations, but television would remain a government monopoly
contras
a 45-day truce, with zones where rebel fighters could await negotiation of a permanent truce, keeping their weapons. there is no mention of when the rebels would give up their arms
total amnesty including release of all political prisoners, return of political exiles, full press freedom, suspension of the military draft and inclusion of contras in the sandinista dialogue with the domestic opposition
verification
the sandinistas propose an international commission to verify an end to hostilities. the contras suggest a commission run by cardinal miguel obando y bravo, roman catholic archbishop of managua, and joao baena soares, secretary-general of the organization of american states
officials have declared a water shortage emergency in the communities east of san francisco and are warning they may ration water to 1.1 million customers for the first time in a decade
if a voluntary conservation plan approved by the east bay municipal utility district on tuesday fails, the agency may impose water restrictions of up to 25 percent for homes and businesses in the burgeoning alameda and contra costa counties from may through september
rationing measures under consideration include refusing water hookups to new housing developments, and restricting new or expanded landscaping, car washing and street washing. swimming pools could not be filled after a certain date and lawns could be watered just two days a week
the proposed conservation measures would be the most severe steps taken by the district since the 1977 drought, when water customers were charged up to 10 times the normal rate for excessive water use, district spokesman gayle montgomery said wednesday
we don't want to make this a draconian thing, but we do want to save a lot of water,'' said district general manager jerome gilbert, at a packed, four-hour public hearing tuesday
from oct. 1 to march 1, precipitation was 85 percent of normal statewide, water officials said. that means there's much less snow in the mountains ready to melt and flow into rivers and reservoirs this spring
state water resources department engineers said last week that river runoffs from snow melt will average below 60 percent of normal between april and july statewide, even if spring rainfall is normal. if rainfall stays sparse, the situation will be even worse
at least one farm irrigation district has already declared a drought emergency and cut back water allotments to its farmers
the turlock irrigation district, which serves central valley farmers in southern stanislaus to northern merced counties, said farmers will be allotted only about one-fourth their typical water amount this year
without question, we are in a drought situation,'' said district general manager ernest geddes. ``even with normal precipitation for the remainder of the spring, the tuolumne river runoff will total no more than 50 percent of the historical average.''
in the east bay municipal utility district, gilbert said reservoirs that are half-full now could be one-quarter full by september unless there are major storms during the next two months
runoff this year is the second-lowest year on record in our area and follows a year that was the fourth-worst,'' said ted way, the district's chief engineer. he predicted this year's dry conditions will become as severe as those in 1977
if the dry spells continued into a third year, the effect would be ``devastating,'' said montgomery
san francisco, marin and santa clara counties face possible water shortages next year, but are in better shape than alameda and contra costa because they have more water sources and have received more storms
at a meeting in sacramento last week, state water experts considered whether to declare a drought for the state as a whole, deciding to take a wait-and-see approach for the time being
every day without a storm, the picture gets worse,'' said jack pardee, a snowpack survey engineer with the state water resources department
but maurice roos, chief of the department's water supply branch, said declaration of a drought is premature because even though river runoff from the mountains is substantially below average, storage in reservoirs is only slightly below normal in most parts of the state
water officials aren't the only ones worried about the dry weather. fire officials say it could be the sign of an early and dangerous fire season. during the grim fire season last year, lightning-spawned blazes blackened nearly a million acres of mostly forest lands in california
this is very similar to the weather pattern we saw last year at this time,'' said maryn pitt, assistant director of the state department of forestry. ``it will only further distress the watershed, and to date already this year we've had 520 fires over 448 acres. our 90-day forecast (for rain) is below normal through may.''
east bay water district directors will consider specific rationing proposals april 13, and judging from tuesday's hearing the issue threatens to set suburban residents against city dwellers
i think we should share the pain,'' said sandy skaggs, water board president and a resident of an affluent development in san ramon, where suburbanites take their lawns seriously
but danville mayor beverly lane, whose lawn died in the 1977 drought, agreed with landscapers that the area could suffer layoffs and financial losses if new landscaping was restricted or valuable grasslands allowed to die
we are the hot weather part of the district,'' lane said tuesday during four hours of spirited debate by more than 100 city leaders and landscaping and gardening industry representatives. ``our needs are different than the cooler parts of the district.''
in a move some analysts called risky, northwest airlines announced wednesday it will become the first major u.s. airline to ban smoking on all domestic flights except those to and from hawaii
the ban by the minneapolis-based carrier, the nation's fifth-largest airline, also covers some foreign routes. it goes beyond federal regulations that go into effect next month for domestic flights lasting two hours or less
the stringent non-smoking policy appears to be aimed at attracting new passengers but could backfire and cost the carrier some traffic, some analysts believe
it does run the risk of some loss of business,'' said james v. cammisa, the publisher of travel industry indicators, a new york-based newsletter. ``i guess they (northwest officials) really stuck their neck out.''
wall street seemed unimpressed by northwest's smoke-free innovation. the airline's stock closed on the new york stock exchange at $45.75 per share, down 12{ cents from tuesday
the northwest ban is ``somewhat contentious from a marketing point of view,'' said robert joedicke, an airline analyst for shearson lehman hutton inc. ``if there is a danger, why try to be a leader?''
it is fairly unlikely that the other big u.s. airlines would match northwest's policy, creating a financial risk for the carrier, some observers believe
but northwest says the prohibition is a response to its passengers' and employees' requests. a.b. ``sky'' magary, northwest's executive vice president for marketing, told a news conference in new york that while the policy is not without risk, ``we believe more non-smokers will switch to northwest than smokers will leave.''
he cited a northwest study showing that nine out of 10 passengers prefer to sit in the no-smoking section of a plane. more surprisingly, about 30 percent of smokers express the desire for smoke-free flights, according to the survey
the new policy, called ``northwest clears the air,'' will take effect on april 23 _ the same day as the less restrictive federal law. it will apply to flights within the contiguous 48 states as well as flights to and from alaska, mexico, canada, jamaica and the cayman islands
northwest flights to and from hawaii and overseas will continue to offer smoking sections because those flights ``carry a greater proportion of foreign passengers who feel differently about the issue,'' the airline said in a statement
we still have competitors that are handing out cigars to passengers on board,'' magary said
about 30 percent of northwest's domestic flights last more than two hours, and could have kept their smoking sections under the new federal regulations. the longest flights covered by the smoking ban are four or five hours, according to the airline
under those rules, passengers who insist on lighting up will face civil fines of as much as $1,000, and passengers who tamper with smoke alarms in airplane lavatories will be liable for as much as $2,000 in penalties
air canada, which banned smoking on some flights between canada and the united states last april, said it has gained customers as a result of its no-smoking policy. ``it's been very successful,'' said steve pisni, a spokesman for the carrier
northwest's announcement drew praise from several quarters, including officials of the american cancer society, the american lung association and the u.s. surgeon general's office, who participated in the news conference with magary
rep. richard durbin, d-ill., the prime sponsor of the new federal non-smoking law, also hailed northwest's move. he said he is sending letters to all the other major u.s. carriers, urging them to follow northwest's lead
this action by northwest just proves what we've been saying all along: cleaning up the air in airplanes is a good business decision and a good health decision,'' durbin said
some travel agents also praised the new policy, saying many of their customers have been pressing for a tougher stance
i think it's a good move ... because the public is the one that wants it,'' said jack bloch, owner of jb's world travel in new york. proposal</head> pvs bgng: ``for the ...</note>
the house approved with rare bipartisanship wednesday a $1.1 trillion budget that would tighten domestic and military spending but boost high-profile items including aids research, education, the space program and the war on drugs
the fiscal 1989 plan, which follows the outlines of last fall's budget summit between president reagan and congressional leaders, was approved 319 to 102. a majority of both democrats and republicans voted in favor of the package
the house brushed aside criticism from reagan's budget director, who said the plan used accounting gimmicks to stay within the prearranged spending limits. it also rejected three alternative budget proposals
many members conceded they were putting off tough deficit-reduction decisions until next year, but republicans and democrats praised the plan and spent much of the debate reveling about the absence of acrimony
we've got a miracle,'' said house speaker jim wright, d-texas
for the first time in many many years, we've seen a budget resolution out before cherry blossom time or autumn leaves,'' said rep. silvio conte, r-mass
lawmakers had far less to haggle over than in past years. the totals for military, foreign aid and domestic spending were predetermined by last fall's summit between reagan and congressional leaders. the tax increases envisioned in the summit, $14 billion for fiscal 1989, were enacted in december
using the president's own optimistic economic estimates, the budget claimed a $134 billion deficit, which is within the limits of the gramm-rudman budget balancing law
like reagan's plan, the house budget would not touch social security. the lawmakers rejected a cut in medicare the administration said was needed. they also refused to go along with reagan's plan to eliminate some domestic development and mass transit programs
instead, the election-year plan would give most federal agencies a little more money to spend than in the current year, but not enough to keep pace with inflation
in addition, the agencies would be required to find enough savings to absorb half of a 3 percent pay raise for federal employees. reagan had proposed a 4.3 percent pay boost for the militay and 2 percent for civilian workers, but the house made them equally 3 percent
in selected areas, spending was increased. the budget authorizes $1.5 billion for aids research _ a little more than reagan proposed _ and it would increase space and science spending, though not as much as the president asked
the $134 billion deficit figure for the year beginning oct. 1 was about $5 billion above the president's mark, largely because reagan wanted to sell more government assets. the deficit in fiscal 1987 was $150.4 billion. the administration estimates it will go down to $146.7 billion this year
the house budget claimed to hit exactly the limits in the budget summit pact for cash outlays and for budget authority _ the legal obligations by agencies for spending that could stretch over more than one fiscal year
the pact included: $299.5 billion in budget authority and $294.0 billion in outlays for the military; $148.1 billion in budget authority and $169.2 billion in outlays for annually appropriated domestic programs; and $18.1 billion in budget authority and $16.1 billion in outlays on foreign aid
in crafting the budget, the house budget committee ran into difficulty meeting the limits on domestic spending authority. in the end, the panel reclassified about $3.7 billion in spending authority out from under the categories covered by the agreement
james c. miller iii, director of the white house office of management and budget, said in a letter he was ``disturbed'' by the accounting shift. in addition, he said there appeared to be ``deliberate underfunding of certain programs that would require a supplemental appropriation next year.''
rep. william h. gray iii, d-pa., chairman of the budget committee, said he considered miller's letter a sign that the administration would keep working with congress to control spending. he called the dispute a ``scorekeeping issue'' that would be resolved later
the budget technique could lead to higher spending allowances when the fiscal blueprint is translated later into actual pending bills. several lawmakers said that while the budget was in the spirit of the bipartisan ``summit,'' it also avoided any tough belt-tightening in an election year
this budget is in a real sense a delay budget,'' said rep. charles schumer, d-n.y
next year is going to be the real problem,'' said rep. amory houghton, r-n.y
the house approval of the budget was far earlier than in past years, but it was still unlikely that congress would meet its april 15 deadline for final approval of a budget resolution
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said wednesday he did not expect full senate action on the budget before the second week of april. director</head>
eugene o'neill's classic ``desire under the elms'' played to a sold-out audience on a moscow stage wednesday night, the first play directed by an american in the soviet union
mark lamos, 42, artistic director of the hartford stage co. of connecticut, received a standing ovation after the opening performance of o'neill's 1924 play about the struggle for dominance between father and son on a 19th-century new england farm
lamos had to confront linguistic and cultural barriers in bringing the play before a soviet audience
the 870 people at the performance applauded politely in rhythm for the soviet actors, and then rose to applaud energetically for lamos
the director, wearing a dappled blazer and red tie, was given an ornately painted samovar and bouquet of flowers. he plucked one out and presented it to the lead actress, nina popova, who was still in tears from the final wrenching scene
the feeling of great personality is missing,'' alexander aronov, who writes for the youth newspaper moskovsky komsomolets, said in an interview
he said he believed lamos strayed from o'neill's conception, although the actors' movements and attire seemed more american than previous soviet performances of the play he had seen
lamos said he believed his version was closer to o'neill's because the original russian translation was too poetic and smooth. he said during a break in a rehearsal tuesday that he tried to tone down what he called the overemotional and unnatural style of the actors
several soviets in the audience said they found the language in lamos' version too crude
aronov said part of the blame should be placed on the actors of moscow's pushkin theater, with the exception of ms. popova
o'neill and tennessee williams are the best known and best loved american playwrights in the soviet union. lamos said soviets know little about other american playwrights, especially more contemporary ones whose work he prefers, and was unhappy with the choice of ``desire under the elms'' for his direction
the exposition of the play is a bit crudely done,'' lamos said
the play was chosen by the pushkin theater's artistic director, yuri yeremin, as an appropriate way to celebrate the centennial of o'neill's 1888 birth
desire under the elms'' was the first play performed in the pushkin theater in 1926 and has become a standard in the soviet repertoire
lamos was invited to stage the play in moscow after he met a group of soviet theater directors in new york last summer
another american, nagle jackson of the mccarter theater in princeton, n.j., is directing a production of ``the glass menagerie'' by williams that is scheduled to open later this year at leningrad's gorky theater. two other americans are scheduled to direct plays in moscow in the fall
lamos relied on a soviet interpreter to communicate with the all-soviet cast and crew
language difficulties seemed especially severe when he was first reviewing the script with the actors and came across the phrase ``to pull the wool over his eyes,'' he recalled
when lamos explained that the phrase meant to fool someone, the actors came up with a russian equivalent _ which translates into ``he has noodles on his ears.''
the american didn't believe the expression was appropriate, but he said one participant chimed in: ``let me put it this way, mark, we've had noodles over our ears in this country for 70 years.'' slayings linked to stone to six total, sted nine; picks up 10th graf pvs: the royal ...</note>
police on wednesday said they were abandoning their policy of staying away from ira funerals, following the slayings of five people _ including two british soldiers _ at rites last week
prime minister margaret thatcher joined grieving relatives at northolt air base near london as the bodies of two british soldiers arrived home and were lifted from a transport plane to the strains of chopin's ``funeral march.''
mrs. thatcher's appearance marked the first time a prime minister had watched the coffins of soldiers brought home from northern ireland in the nearly 20 years since britain deployed troops in the province
in central belfast, police mounted heavy patrols at the cenotaph as 25,000 people turned out for an emotional service for the soldiers
the two corporals were dragged from their unmarked car, beaten, stripped and shot after they drove up to an irish republican army funeral on saturday. no police had been assigned to the funeral
a british army spokesman said that a security patrol ordered to intervene after an army helicopter reported disturbances at saturday's funeral arrived ``within three minutes of the shots having been fired'' at the british soldiers
at another unpoliced ira funeral in belfast on march 16, a protestant fired shots and hurled hand grenades at mourners, killing three people and wounding 68
the no-police policy was implemented at the march 16 funeral when three ira guerrillas shot by british commandos in gibraltar were buried. moderate roman catholic leaders had urged police to stay away to avoid clashes with mourners
michael stone, a protestant guerrilla, is accused of killing three people and wounding 68 at the funeral. he told police he was on a mission of revenge against the ira and was charged with those three killings and three other sectarian slayings in the past four years
the royal ulster constabulary, the province's police force, announced wednesday that security chiefs will resume their presence at the funerals of ira members
experience has shown that maintenance of th law and prevention of outrages will only be guaranteed through the firm presence of the police and army,'' a police statement said
sinn fein, the outlawed ira's legal political front, sinn fein, condemned the police decision
any return to the violence of saturation tactics at funerals will only ensure confrontation,'' said sinn fein vice president martin mcguinness. ``all we want is to be allowed to bury our dead with dignity and peace.''
at northolt, mrs. thatcher stood with the families of royal signals corp corporals derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23, as a hercules transport landed with the coffins
the prime minister, who presence underscored national outrage over the killings, glanced around anxiously as wood's mother and sister sobbed when the army band struck up and a bearer party carried the flag-draped coffins slowly toward hearses
since 1969, 563 british soldiers have been among the nearly 2,700 people killed in the sectarian violence in northern ireland. of the soldiers killed, 391 have been from mainland britain and 172 from the locally recruited ulster defense regiment
in another development, britain's two television networks gave police untransmitted video footage of the rampage at saturday's funeral after they were threatened with prosecution
the networks had initially refused to yield the footage, saying it would endanger the lives of their crews
earlier, the catholic bishop whose diocese includes west belfast denounced the ira as ``sheer evil'' in one of the strongest attacks yet by a prelate on the guerrilla organization
ira violence is often disguised with a mask of romantic rhetoric and militaristic mock ritual,'' said bishop cahal daly. ``for a ghastly half-hour on saturday, the mask slipped. the real face of ira violence was shown and it was horrible to see.''
the ira is fighting to unite northern ireland with the catholic republic of ireland under a leftist administration. edits to tighten</note>
the senate foreign relations committee cleared the way wednesday for an early vote to endorse the new arms reduction treaty with the soviet union after a series of lopsided tallies against amendments proposed by the pact's chief opponent, sen. jesse helms
helms, r-n.c., had introduced a series of 36 amendments to the accord. but he agreed to press for substantive action on just four of them after republican and democratic senators accused him of obstruction and deliberately engineering a series of delays
committee chairman claiborne pell, r-r.i., announced the panel will vote next tuesday afternoon on reporting the treaty to the senate floor with a favorable recommendation
pell had promised to keep the committee in lengthy session to dispose of the helms amendments, none of which had attracted more than three votes among the 19 committee members
helms's reversal of course came after a morning session of the panel in which sen. richard lugar, r-ind., complained: ``we're just in a delay, stall situation which i find disagreeable.''
if you don't have the votes and just try to overload it with amendments, that isn't fair,'' lugar said shortly before the committee defeated the first of the helms amendments, 12-3
i don't know what is the magical effect of racing to get this thing reported'' to the senate floor, helms said at that point
meanwhile, pell and several other key committee members said the last major factor complicating senate consideration of the new agreement banning u.s. and soviet medium-range missiles is the dispute between congress and the reagan administration over the interpretation of treaties
sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee, seeks to add language to the treaty text declaring the senate's understanding that administration testimony about the contents and impact of the accord is authoritative and binding
the dispute stems from the administration's earlier reinterpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty to permit the deployment of a star wars missile defense system which most arms control treaty experts believed had been effectively banned
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., told the senate on wednesday he has concluded it will be essential to attach a reservation or understanding to the pact spelling out the senate's position
byrd said that while there have been exchanges of letters on how the treaty should be interpreted, ``this matter is not going to be resolved, in my judgment, by any exchange of letters, because a future administration can say ... `we don't agree with that interpretation at all.'''
the initial 12-3 committee vote rejected a helms amendment which would have changed the treaty to permit the united states to deploy a ground-launched cruise missile armed with conventional and not nuclear explosives
only sens. larry pressler, r-s.d., and frank murkowski, r-alaska, joined helms in supporting the amendment
adopting the amendment would mean reopening negotiations with the soviets, sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said. ``and that would mean we would plainly not get a treaty anytime soon. so this can fairly be labled as a killer amendment.''
he said conventionally armed cruise missiles were included in the pact because it is impossible to differentiate them from identical weapons armed with nuclear warheads
with the conventionally armed missiles excluded, the treaty would not be verifiable, cranston said
but helms said the ban means ``the conventional imbalance in europe will be even greater than it is now'' because nato will lose a major weapon in the cruise missile
however, helms later relented, the tuesday vote was set, and the committee overwhelmingly rejected three amendments, all of which were described by opponents as having the potential to kill the treaty by forcing the reopening of negotiations with the soviets
an amendment by sen. larry pressler, r-s.d ., which would have delayed implementation of the treaty until negotiations reduced soviet surperiority in conventional arms in europe also was rejected, 15-2
both democratic and republican leaders predict overwhelming ratification when the treaty reaches the senate floor and say only 10 or 12 members of the 100-member senate are likely to vote to reject it. ratification requires a two-thirds vote. subs last graf with 3 grafs background and additional quotes.</note>
the house ethics committee wednesday sharply rebuked rep. charles rose, d-n.c., after concluding he improperly borrowed funds from his campaign and then failed to publicly report the transactions
finding ``clear and convincing evidence'' of house rules violations, the committee also said rose wrongly pledged a certificate of deposit from his campaign as collateral on a personal loan; and failed to report liabilities to financial institutions on his financial reports, filed publicly by all lawmakers
the panel, formally the committee on standards of official conduct, wrote rose that his behavior was ``deserving of reproach.'' but the committee concluded there should be no punishment by the full house because the eight-term lawmaker has tried to rectify his mistakes
the committee recognizes and takes into consideration the fact that all funds borrowed were replaced in full without the insistence of this committee, and that this action was taken by you prior to this committee beginning a preliminary inquiry,'' rose was told in the letter, signed by panel chairman julian c. dixon, d-calif., and ranking republican floyd d. spence of south carolina
furthermore, the committee recognizes that the campaign certificate of deposit in question is no longer encumbered, due to restrictions placed on it in connection with your personal financial dealings.''
rose said he was ``very happy that the committee found that no further action was warranted, other than the letter to me.'' he said he did not expect the situation to hamper his future re-election bids, and that the committee's decision not to take tougher action demonstrated it considered his mistakes technical in nature
i'm happy that it's behind me, i'm satisfied with the result and i'm glad i can move on to total concentration on what the people elected me to do,'' he said in an interview. ``my head is high.''
a house rule restricts the use of campaign funds to bona fide campaign purposes. the committee called the requirement ``crucial to maintaining public confidence in the fund-raising system governing house members
the use of your campaign funds, as alleged and proved, is entirely inconsistent with this principle,'' the committee letter said
the panel said the personal benefit rose received in each instance of borrowing, and the lower interest rate received from use of the certificate of deposit, ``are the kinds of abuses'' house rules were designed to prevent
for this reason, the committee instructs that you refrain from any future campaign borrowings and-or use of campaign assets as collateral,'' the committee said
rose said he was disappointed the committee did not accept his contention that money he took from his campaign amounted to repayment of loans. he said he apologized for signing his name to the certificate of deposit, contending he hadn't known doing so violated house rules
rose, 48, was first elected to the house in 1972. the state republican party first raised allegations about rose's finances in 1986. but rose easily won election to an eighth term in the house, where he is chairman of the agriculture subcommittee on tobacco and peanuts
i rather expect that the republicans will be angry that the committee gave me the lightest possible action they can give,'' he said
the new president of a moderate group of southern baptists said wednesday the organization has no intention of forming a separate denomination, but he acknowledged it appears headed in that direction
the rev. john thomason of jackson, miss., was elected president tuesday of the 25,000-member southern baptist alliance, a group of moderates formed in response to fundamentalist control of the 14.7 million-member southern baptist convention
the alliance, which was formed more than a year ago, concluded its annual meeting here wednesday
while both factions generally are conservative, they disagree on key issues, including ordination of women and biblical inerrancy, the view held by fundamentalists that the bible is the literal truth
the fundamentalists have gained control of the sbc hierarchy through nine years of electing their presidential candidates
during the next year, thomason said in an interview, he will ``keep pressing the concern of the alliance, to continue sounding the word about our threatened heritage.''
while some have accused the alliance of being the nucleus for a denomination, thomason said: ``we are not a fringe group, we are not an avant garde faction of the southern baptist convention. the great majority of sba members are denominational loyalists.''
thomason acknowledged that the alliance may appear to be headed toward denominational status because of its publishing activities and its discussions concerning the possible need for a new seminary or divinity school
whenever we take specific steps like that, we are acting independently of the institutions of the southern baptist convention and that gives the appearance of independence, but it is not our desire to forge a permanent split with the sbc,'' thomason said
he said the alliance has to be an ``advocate for groups and causes we feel are disenfranchised. ... if this means acting independently of the existing agencies and channels of sbc life, then for the time being, we are willing to do that.''
fundamentalists, who oppose ordination of women, say the bible is without factual error in historical, scientific and religious areas. moderates maintain there is room for interpretation, especially in non-religious areas
before fundamentalists gained control of the sbc, thomason said, there was no ``creedal litmus test'' for appointees. if the practice continues, ``one by one, we will see our institutions succumb to creedalism,'' thomason said
fundamentalists have clear control of southeastern baptist theological seminary in wake forest, n.c. and the home mission board in atlanta
r. randall lolley resigned last year as president of southeastern rather than carry out the board's order that only biblical inerrantists be hired as professors. the home mission board has refused to help pay women ministers
thomason is pastor of the 561-member northminster baptist church, the third church to join the alliance after its formation in february 1987. the alliance includes 40 churches in 11 states
britain's two television networks on wednesday gave police unbroadcast videotapes of a mob attack leading up to the killing of two british soldiers at an ira funeral procession in northern ireland
the british broadcasting corp. and independent television news had refused earlier to comply with police demands for the film, on grounds that doing so would endanger their crews in the british province
on wednesday night, however, the bbc in belfast said it gave police a 49-second videotape from the funeral
an irish republican army mob at the procession dragged the two soldiers from a car saturday and beat them with iron bars. the soldiers were hauled away and later found shot to death nearby
an announcement from itn said the commercial network also gave police untransmitted footage from the funeral in belfast, the provincial capital
having considered our legal position, we have complied,'' itn said. ``the principle of withholding our untransmitted material remains important to us, but itn's policy is to observe the law.''
bbc director michael checkland said the network relinquished the footage in ``response to a legal requirement'' after plainclothes officers visited its belfast office
the bbc has never set itself above the law,'' checkland said. ``in dealing with this matter, we have been concerned with the difficult and dangerous position of our crews in northern ireland. i very much hope ... the bbc's future newsgathering in the province will not be damaged.''
both networks had shown the mob attack, but not the killings, in their regular newscasts. the royal ulster constabulary, the provincial police, demanded untransmitted film to assist its investigation
network spokesmen said their untransmitted tapes did not show the soldiers being shot to death and would be of little help, but police demanded the material under britain's antiterrorist legislation
officials of bbc, itn and the irish network rte had said they would not release footage that had not been broadcast unless a court ordered it. rte said wednesday the police had not yet made a formal request
all the networks said terrorists had threatened the lives of employees who covered the funeral, and argued that crews covering future violence would not be safe if they were thought to be cooperating with police
prime minister margaret thatcher rejected the networks' argument that they must maintain an impartial stance in their coverage of violence
either one is on the side of justice or on the side of terrorism,'' she told parliament on tuesday
i believe everyone, the media included, has a bounden duty to do everything they can to see that those who perpetrated the terrible crimes we all saw on tv, which disgusted the whole world, are brought to justice.''
a witness at abbas hamadi's kidnap trial testified wednesday that hamadi confided to a friend that he was involved in abducting one of two west germans kidnapped in lebanon
the lebanese-born defendant is accused in the separate kidnappings of the two germans in january 1987 in a bid to force the bonn government to release his brother, mohammed hamadi, who is charged with hijacking a twa airliner
el saheli, who was hired by west german investigators to listen in on abbas hamadi's wiretapped telephone calls after the abductions, testified that abbas hamadi acknowledged at least one kidnapping
saheli said a lebanese friend asked abbas hamadi in one telephone conversation whether he helped kidnap businessman rudolf cordes
he answered `yes,''' said saheli
but defense attorney eckhardt hild told the court his client was ``only bragging to make himself look good'' in the eyes of his lebanese friends in west germany
in other testimony wednesday, abbas hamadi said two members of the extremist pro-iranian hezbollah group prevented him from boarding a plane leaving beirut just before cordes was kidnapped on jan. 17, 1987
hamadi said an employee of beirut airport, whom he identified as ``l. ham rachan,'' could verify he was forced to miss his flight to europe
the 29-year-old defendant did not indicate what he thought hezbollah's motives might have been
west german investigators suspect hezbollah was involved in the kidnappings and that hamadi had links to the group
abbas hamadi returned to west germany from lebanon on jan. 26, 1987, and was arrested at frankfurt airport
since his trial began on jan. 5, abbas hamadi has appealed for the release of cordes, and has denied any role in the kidnappings
west german engineer alfred schmidt, abducted in beirut on jan. 20, 1987, was released in september
mohammed hamadi, 23, was arrested at frankfurt on jan. 13, 1987, carrying liquid explosives and forged identification documents
west germany has refused a u.s. extradition request for the younger hamadi, but has charged him in connection with the june 1985 hijacking of a twa airliner in which 39 people were held hostage 17 days and a u.s. navy diver was killed
mohammed hamadi is being held in a frankfurt prison pending trial. abbas hamadi's trial is to resume on april 5 and a decision is expected by april 19. picks up 6th pvs bgng, `panama is ...'</note>
a u.s. diplomat was given 48 hours to leave panama on wednesday, the third day of a general strike that has virtually shut down the country but not loosened gen. manuel antonio noriega's grip on power. david miller, an economics counselor, was the second american diplomat ordered out by the foreign ministry, which gaveno reason for its decision
in washington, the state department said wednesday night it would ignore the order because the united states considers the government that issued it illegitimate. it gave the same reason for rejecting the previous order against terence kneebone, head of the u.s. information service in panama, who remains in the country
panama is out of cash because washington cut off the supply of u.s. dollars, the panamanian national currency, in its effort to drive noriega into exile. federal grand juries in florida indicted noriega last month on narcotics and money laundering charges
a u.s. medical batallion truck returning from maneuvers with a dozen soldiers was surrounded and stopped by national police after straying onto a city highway wednesday afternoon
the truck and men were held for an hour at the roadside, then taken to fort amador, a panamanian base with a u.s. liason
a panamanian soldier outside the military police office where the americans were taken would not allow reporters inside and said the incident was being handled as an administrative process. under u.s.-panama treaties, such military trucks are prohibited outside the former canal zone
the panama canal operated normally, as it has through weeks of protest against noriega, who holds the real power in panama through his position as commander of the 15,000 soldiers and police. officials say the daily average of 35 ships has been passing through the waterway throughout the months of unrest here
some opposition leaders were frustrated wednesday that the strike had not loosened noriega's grip on the bankrupt nation
we're well aware of the situation, that gen. noriega appears unmoved by all the human suffering,'' jose mulino, an attorney, told a news conference. ``we'll be considering new strategies. i'm not sure what it will take.''
mulino is prominent in the national civic crusade, an alliance of about 200 professional, business, labor and other groups formed last june to lead the campaign against noriega
he and other opposition leaders vowed to continue the strike
in a clear attempt to dramatize its cause, the alliance sponsored a roman catholic funeral mass on wednesday for a young private security guard killed by a shotgun blast during riots rioting last saturday
the site of the mass, the church of christ the king, was not the dead man's parish but has been the scene of several clashes between noriega's opponents and supporters
after hearing the victim eulogized as a ``young man who died for patriotism,'' more than 100 people stood at the church entrance and chanted ``justice!'' and ``noriega, your end is near!''
about 300 people, including several directors of the civic crusade, attended the mass, along with more than 100 journalists
there was no disturbance
officials of the panamanian committee for human rights say alcibiades vasquez, 24, was killed by a pro-government paramilitary squad
his death was the first in a nearly a month of often violent civil unrest that began after president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire noriega on feb. 25 and was dismissed the next day. the united states still recognizes delvalle, who is in hiding in panama
churches throughout panama have started soup kitchens to feed the destitute. the catholic welfare agency caritas said it is feeding 6,000 families in poor neighborhoods around the capital with donated supplies
civic crusade leaders joined delvalle in appealing for donations of food from abroad through the catholic church or international relief agencies
i am very concerned and fear for the health and lives of many panamanians,'' delvalle said in a videotaped message from his place of hiding
he has not appeared in public since the legislature dismissed him on orders from noriega
another leading opposition figure, ricardo arias calderon, is expected to try to enter the country thursday after four weeks of forced exile in miami
arias, head of the christian democratic party and a presidential aspirant, was denied entry when he returned from a business trip on the day delvalle was ousted
hundreds of party faithful are expected at the panama city airport. several central american legislators plan to accompany him as a guarantee of safety
panama's economy, already hampered by a $4.8 billion foreign debt, started disintegrating when delvalle's dismissal caused a run on the banks. they were closed in early march and the cash shortage was aggravated by u.s. economic sanctions
a judge has dismissed one of two drug charges against john zaccaro jr., the son of 1984 vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro
district judge francis mccaffrey ruled monday there is insufficient evidence to support a charge of possession of cocaine with intent to sell
mccaffrey also said defense attorneys cannot claim at trial that zaccaro was a victim of selective prosecution because it does not relate to guilt or innocence
zaccaro was arrested in 1986 in a raid of his home and car while attending middlebury college. his trial on a charge of sale of a regulated drug is scheduled to begin april 4
mccaffrey in 1986 had ruled inadmissible eight grams of cocaine and records of drug transactions seized by police from zaccaro's car. the judge said at the time that the search warrant was based on insufficient evidence
addison county state's attorney john quinn argued he could prove the possession charge based on the observations of undercover state trooper laura manning
but mccaffrey disagreed, saying, ``there is no evidence ... to show that the other packets observed by manning contained cocaine.''
egypt warned wednesday it will consider any israeli attack on saudi arabia's new intermediate-range missile launchers an attack on egypt itself. other arab nations issued similar warnings
egypt, the only arab state that has diplomatic relations with israel, accused the jewish state of violating international laws by demanding that saudi arabia remove the missiles, which are capable of carrying nuclear warheads and of reaching israel
in amman, chairman sharifuddin pir zadeh of the organization of islamic conference said the group also would support saudi arabia. his statement echoed similar declarations of support by syria and jordan, which said they would consider any attack on saudi arabia an attack on them
they pledged to help the saudis militarily if necessary
i am sending a cable to king fahd supporting his moslem kingdom and our saudi brothers against the israeli threats,'' pir zadeh said
pir zadeh was in the jordanian capital for a meeting of foreign ministers of the islamic conference. he said conference members would support the saudis ``morally and, if necessary, militarily.''
saudi arabia recently acquired chinese css-2 missiles, which have a range of 2,200 miles. they are capable of being fitted with nuclear warheads, but the saudis have denied this will be done
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel said tuesday that his country and the united states were ``making efforts to deal with . .. (the) grave development.'' he did not elaborate
israel radio on sunday quoted a close shamir aide, yossi ben aharon as saying israel had a reputation of not waiting until potential dangers became actual ones, apparently a reference to israel's 1981 air raid against a nuclear reactor under construction in iraq. shamir said ben aharon denied making the statement
egypt warned it will deal with any israeli attack on saudi missile launchers ``strongly and with firmness.''
official cairo television broadcast the warning, attributed to a responsible source, as the first item of the main evening newscast. it was later carried by the middle east news agency
egypt reiterates that it considers any attack on saudi arabia an attack on itself which must be dealt with strongly and with firmness and the offender will have to bear the responsiblity for this attack,'' the source was quoted as saying
in the year's first defense spending vote, a house subcommittee decided wednesday to cut deeply into president reagan's budget request for his star wars anti-missile research project, according to congressional sources
the armed services research and development subcommittee also increased spending for the midgetman nuclear-tipped missile and sharply reduced the planned budget for deploying mx atomic weapons aboard trains, said the sources, who spoke only on condition of anonymity
the committee met behind closed doors to make the decisions
the votes by the subcommittee were the first step in the lengthy congressional budgeting process. the full armed services committee will later consider its subcommittee actions before sending the pentagon budget bill to the floor of the full house. the same procedure will also be followed in the senate
the overall pentagon budget for the 1989 fiscal year will be $299 billion, a figure set by the white house and congress last december during negotiations aimed at reducing the federal budget deficit
reagan had sought $4.5 billion in pentagon spending for star wars, known formally as the strategic defense initiative
but the subcommittee approved a $3.7 billion figure, which would be an increase of only 3 percent over the current star wars budget, the sources said
the fight over the midgetman and the mx involves a pair of nuclear-tipped weapons which have been at the heart of a long-running dispute between the reagan administration and the democratic-controlled congress
congressional democrats support the single warhead midgetman while the air force wants to build more than the 50 of the 10-warhead mx weapons allowed by congress. the second 50 mx weapons would be based, two each, aboard 25 trains that would be housed on western military bases until a crisis
reagan had wanted $1 billion for the two programs, including $800 million for study of the rail-basing plan, while the budget contained $200 million for midgetman. that latter total was enough to keep the program alive until the president who succeeds reagan can make a final decision on the dispute, according to defense secretary frank c. carlucci
as it worked through the budget, the subcommittee rejected a republican-backed plan to spend $650 million for mx railroad basing plans and another $350 million for midgetman, according to the sources
then, the panel turned down a democratic-proposed plan to spend $500 million for midgetman and nothing for the mx
finally, the panel agreed to split the $1 billion figure, giving $500 million for research into each weapon
president reagan marked the fifth anniversary of his plan for a star wars missile defense system on wednesday by asserting that the high-tech program is an incentive to u.s.-soviet arms control efforts
in a written statement issued the same day he announced a date for his fourth summit with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, reagan lauded the missile shield proposal, known formally as the strategic defense initiative, as ``vital to our future security.''
we must recognize that we live in an imperfect, often violent world, one in which ballistic missile technology is proliferating despite our efforts to prevent this,'' reagan said. ``we would be doing a grave and dangerous disservice to future generations if we assumed that national leaders everywhere, for all time, will be both peaceful and rational.''
the president warned, as he has many times, that the soviets ``not only are ahead of us in ballistic missiles, but also are deeply engaged in their own sdi-like program. if they are allowed to keep their near-monopoly in defenses, we will be left without an effective means to protect our cherished freedoms in the future.''
the president announced his proposal for the missile shield defense program on march 23, 1983
i put forward the vision of ... a future free from the threat of the most dangerous weapon mankind has invented: fast-flying ballistic missiles,'' reagan recalled in his statement
reagan, who has staunchly defended the plan despite soviet efforts to curb it and congressional efforts to cut its funding, said it had ``provided a valuable incentive for the soviets to return to the bargaining table and to negotiate seriously over strategic arms reductions.''
and as we move toward lower levels of offense, it will be all the more important to have an effective defense,'' reagan argued
the president has repeatedly insisted, however, that he will not use sdi as a bargaining chip in negotiations with the soviets
reagan, following an oval office meeting with soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze, announced he will go to moscow from may 29 to june 2 for his fourth meeting with gorbachev
the highlight of the summitt was intended to be the signing of a treaty to slash the superpowers' long-range strategic weapons, but reagan has suggested that the agreement will not be ready due to time limitations
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the issue of sdi did not come up in wednesday's meetings between u.s. and soviet officials at the white house
in his statement, reagan said the high-tech program now faces problems that ``are largely political.''
congress has cut funds for the program every year, reagan said, asserting this has put the program ``one to two years'' behind schedule
capitol hill slashed reagan's 1988 request for the program from $5.6 billion to $3.9 billion. he is seeking $4.6 billion in 1989
in the year's first defense spending vote, a house subcommittee decided wednesday to cut deeply into reagan's budget request for star wars, approving $3.7 billion, which would be an increase of only 3 percent over the current star wars budget, according to congressional sources speaking on condition of anonymity. the request will later go to the full house armed services committee, and later to the full house. 8-9 pvs, bgng: ``one amendment ...''; picks up 10th graf pvs: ``a similar ...''</note>
senate republicans succeeded wednesday in delaying any votes on a bill to require the government to warn millions of workers they risk cancer and other diseases from job exposure to hazardous substances
democratic supporters of the ``high risk occupational disease notificiation and prevention act'' were unable to break off lengthy orations by opponents led by sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, aimed a preventing a vote on the bill
in a key test vote, the bill's chief author, sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, was able to muster only 33 of the 60 senate votes necessary to limit further debate to 30 hours
the legislation is aimed at what the national institute of occupational safety and health says are the one in every four americans who have been exposed to carcinogens or other hazardous substances on the job, most of them unware of it
metzenbaum and other supporters of the bill on wednesday put together what he said were ``weakening amendments'' aimed at diminishing opposition from farmers and small businesses before making another attempt to limit debate on thursday
hatch, however, prevented votes on the amendments, as well, holding control of the sente floor for hours, but saying he might allow their consideration on thursday
i don't consider this a filibuster,'' hatch said. ``a filibuster is reading from the phone book. this is a discussion that is very necessary. this bill could cost taxpayers and consumers millions or billions of dollars.''
later wednesday, sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, substituted the bill entirely with a new version including several weakening amendments on which hatch had been blocking action
the new version effectively exempts companies with less than 50 workers and farms from having to continue to pay wages and benefits for up to a year to workers ordered off the job because of the danger continued hazardous exposure would raise for them
it also puts restrictions on what information from the program that workers and former workers could use in pursuing liability suits against employers and places a $250 ceiling on the medical monitoring expenses that companies would have to pay for each covered worker
do we have a `for sale' sign on the legislation so that you keep watering it down until you get enough votes to pass it?'' hatch asked rhetorically, calling kennedy's action a ``reprehensible tactic.''
democrats admitted that kennedy's parliamentary maneuver, although allowed by senate rules, could be used to keep repubicans from offering amendments of their own. but they maintained that was not the intent
democratic leader robert c. byrd acknowledged the ``unfairness that has been circumstantially brought about ... with no malicious intent.''
because of that, byrd said that on thursday he would vote against his own motion that was part of a second attempt to bring an end to the republican delaying tactics
metzenbaum, attempting to salvage the measure in what appears to be a swell of opposition to it, said he would urge fellow supporters to also vote against putting a limit on the gop delay tactics
a similar bill was passed by the house on a 225-186, largely party-line vote last october despite vehement opposition from the reagan administration
unions have been seeking the legislation for the past four years, contending the administration effectively had ``defanged'' the occupational safety and health administration from protecting workers from hazards
over the past two years, metzenbaum had succeeded in winning support for the bill from several trade groups and corporations, including the chemical manufacturers association, the american electronics association, ibm, general electric, occidental petroleum and w.r. grace and co
but hundreds of other business groups, led by the national association of manufacturers and the u.s. chamber of commerce, remained opposed to the measure in any form
jerry jasinowki, the nam's chief economist, called the legislation a ``ticking time bomb'' that could subject employers up to billions of dollars in lawsuits each year from workers and former workers that the government identifies as being at risk to occupational diseases
the bill would set up a panel of seven scientists in the department of health and human services to identify hazards and the groups at risk from exposure to them
the national institute of occupational safety and health would then be required to send individual notices to between 100,000 and 300,000 individuals every year, and employers would be required to provide medical monitoring programs for each. weapons use and raise references to claims. picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `the kuwaiti-bound... subs bottom three grafs, ``the netherlands ..' with 1 to trim.</note>
iran accused iraq on wednesday of using poison gas against civilians and warned it might retaliate with its own chemical weapons, and the united states urged a u.n. security council protest
the international committee of the red cross called the use of chemical weapons a ``new and tragic escalation'' in the 7{-year-old war between iran and iraq
also wednesday, iranian gunboats attacked a cypriot freighter in the persian gulf, leaving it in flames, and iran fired six missiles into iraqi cities
iraq claimed a number of civilians were killed or wounded by an iranian missile fired into iraq's capital, baghdad
iranian prime minister hussein musavi claimed iraqi troops killed 5,000 iraqi kurds with poison gas last week after their home villages and towns were ``liberated'' by iranian troops fighting with the autonomy-seeking kurds. he called the use of poison gas ``one of the greatest crimes of the middle east.''
it depends on international measures taken to stop these iraqi crimes,'' musavi was quoted as saying by iran's official islamic republic news agency, monitored in cyprus
western journalists who toured the affected area in northeast iraq and the hospitals where victims were taken corroborated the claims
iran's war information minister kamal kharazi said iran may retaliate with its own chemical weapons if the u.n. security council does not condemn iraq for its use of such weapons
iraq has denied using chemical weapons
the international committee of the red cross said in geneva that it had taken urgent steps to end such attacks and had informed iran ``of its readiness to provide emergency assistance for the victims.''
in washington, the state department urged the u.n. security council to mount an international protest
this incident appears to be a particularly grave violation of the 1925 geneva protocol against chemical warfare,'' said spokesman charles e. redman. he said there was also evidence iran may have fired chemical artillery shells against iraq
we call upon iran and iraq to desist immediately from any further use of chemical weapons, which are an offense to civilization and humanity,'' redman said
refering to film footage on american television showing victims of the alleged attacks, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters: ``we condemn the use of chemical warfare and gas use by anybody, anywhere at any time
i saw, everyone in the administration saw, the same reports you saw last night. they were horrible, outrageous, disgusting and should serve as a reminder to all countries of why chemical warfare should be banned.''
the kuwaiti-bound cypriot freighter, identified as the 34,346-ton odysseas h, was struck about 10 miles west of the strait of hormuz as it entered the gulf with a shipment of barley from tarragona, spain
the master issued a distress call at 4:45 p.m., saying two gunboats had raided his vessel and set it ablaze, according to gulf-based shipping executives who spoke on condition of anonymity
two salvage tugboats that rushed to the scene brought the flames under control by nightfall, and there were no reported injuries. the extent of damage to the cargo was not immediately known
about the same time and in the same vicinity, an iranian frigate challenged the saudi abha, a 42,600-ton vessel laden with motor vehicles for saudi arabia. the vessel, which flies the singapore flag, is operated by the national shipping co. of riyadh
the sources said that the saudi abha was told to wait for an iranian boarding party to check the cargo
interception of commercial vessels sailing through the strait of hormuz, the sole entryway to the gulf, is common practice by iranian gunboats looking for iraqi-bound cargo to confiscate
iran has struck nine vessels in the last week
the iraqi news agency reported that the latest missile lobbed by iran at baghdad crashed at 7:30 a.m. into a residential neighorhood, ``killing and wounding civilians and destroying property.''
it said iraqi gunners fired a similar projectile into tehran on tuesday
the iranian news agency said five other misiles were fired at ``economic and military centers'' in the iraqi towns of basra and karnaqin
iraq has fired more than 100 missiles against iran and iran has fired more than 60 at iraq this month
the netherlands announced that it is planning to withdraw one of its two mine hunters from the western european force protecting commercial shipping in the gulf. diplomatic sources cited assessments by western security analysts that the mine threat has diminished
a little-known, 33-year-old gop leader will run against edward m. kennedy in the fall for the senate seat kennedy has held without serious challenge since 1962, the republican state chairman said wednesday
joseph malone of waltham, executive director of the massachusetts gop, will challenge kennedy, said party chairman ray shamie, who himself declined a request from president reagan last week that he take on kennedy a second time
the kennedy campaign insisted the five-term democrat will ``take nothing for granted,'' and will wage a statewide grassroots campaign
in washington, b.j. cooper, a deputy white house press secretary, said the white house had no comment on shamie's decision
shamie aide charles manning said that malone represented a new generation of republicans and that as a catholic of italian descent, malone would be a departure from the yankee-protestant line of new england republicans
malone will have neither the name recognition nor the cash of shamie, who sold a high tech business three years ago for more than $60 million
kennedy, 56, was first elected for an interim term from 1962 to 1964, filling the seat once held by his brother john. he went on to victories against a succession of old-line republicans like george cabot lodge and josiah spaulding
a 1978 graduate of harvard college, malone has helped operate a family trucking business and also is a partner in family real estate holdings
i have devoted 10 years of my life working to help bring back a two-party system to massachusetts,'' malone said in an interview. ``it's important that we have a strong, aggressive campaign in massachusetts.''
state democratic party chairman chester atkins said malone is too closely tied to shamie to present himself as a ``new generation'' republican
if the people wouldn't accept the real thing in ray shamie, it will be even harder still for them to accept his understudy,'' he said
shamie, 67, launched his political career in 1982 by investing $1.8 million, mostly of his own money, in a kennedy challenge. while he lost in a landslide _ 61 percent to 38 percent _ it was also the best finish by a republican against kennedy
students at west virginia university who passed on to caterpillar co. confidential information gathered during a class exercise acted on their own, after grades were issued, dean said wednesday
the wall street journal reported tuesday that professor terry wilson, who did consulting work for caterpillar, had students gather information on rival heavy-equipment businesses as part of a class exercise
several current or former wvu graduate students told the journal they then released the information to two caterpillar dealers. the students charged they felt pressure to do so, in part because of wilson's connection to caterpillar
we were worried about getting through the course,'' mark wheatley told the journal. wheatley no longer attends the university and is not listed in the morgantown telephone directory
whatever the students might have done, was done after their grades were issued, said cyril m. logar, dean of wvu's college of business and economics. ``what their grade was based on was all legitimate,'' he said
wheatley and some other students in wilson's marketing class were assigned to do work for the two caterpillar dealerships _ h.o. penn machinery co. in armonk, n.y., and yancey bros. in atlanta _ last spring as part of a project designed to give them practical experience
at the two dealerships' direction, the graduate students obtained inventory and sales volume reports on those dealers' competitors, according to the newspaper
during the survey, those in the class identified themselves only as university students, not mentioning their link to the caterpillar dealers, and promised that information would remain confidential, the journal reported
but that promise was broken, students said, and former student herman flinder, who has since returned to his home in norway, likened the work to ``spying.''
wilson did not return phone calls to his home and office wednesday. the professor told the journal the exercise was good for students but added that he will no longer assign similar projects
spokesmen for both equipment dealers denied asking the students to do anything unethical
it was my understanding that the information would be made available to all the participants,'' said goodloe yancy iv, general manager of yancy bros. ``there are situational ethics involved. at no time were any of the students told to compromise their personal ethics
they chose whatever path they chose,'' he said
milton long, marketing manager for h.o. penn, said he never asked for or received the names of competitors used in the study
logar said that wilson, who is on sababatical, would be told to boost the emphasis on ethics in the curriculum
heavy snow and wind gusting to 89 mph chilled the northwest on wednesday, while the mercury in michigan and ohio hit record highs and most of the rest of the nation had sunny skies
eighteen inches of snow fell overnight across stevens pass in the oregon cascades, and a heavy snow warning remained in effect in the northern cascades of oregon during the afternoon. advisories for snow also were posted in the washington cascades and olympic mountains, as well as the southern cascades of oregon
as the storm system moved eastward, a winter storm warning was posted for wednesday night and thursday in the northern and central mountains of colorado
gusts were clocked at 89 mph in reno, nev., in the morning, but no serious damage was reported. in idaho, winds gusted to 58 miles at twin falls and 54 mph at idaho falls, and thunderstorms and hail also were reported
gale warnings extended along the northern pacific coast through the afternoon
warnings or advisories for high winds were posted from the sierra nevadas of california and much of inland southern california, to parts of washington, nevada, arizona, wyoming and colorado
it was springtime in michigan and seemed like summer in ohio. the temperature at lansing, mich., hit 69, tying the record for the date, while in alpena, mich., the thermometer hit 61, breaking the record by one degree
in southeastern ohio, chesapeake reported 79 degrees. the 73-degree mark in toledo broke a record of 72 set in 1945
rain and occasional thunderstorms continued over the pacific northwest into the afternoon, with snow showers in the idaho panhandle and western wyoming
showers and thunderstorms also extended over western louisiana. afternoon skies were sunny in much of the remainder of the nation
there were no reports of measurable snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est. heavier rainfall during the period included 0.37 inch at newport, ore., and olympia, wash
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 31 degrees at limestone, maine, to 87 degrees at palm springs, calif. the early-morning low for the nation was 3 degrees above zero at montpelier, vt
the forecast for thursday called for snow in the rockies. rain, possibly including severe thunderstorms, was predicted across the plains and much of the missouri, mississippi and ohio valleys, stretching as far as alabama. there will also be rain in northern maine and the northern pacific coast
high temperatures will be in the upper 30s and 40s in the upper great lakes and mississippi valley, the dakotas, the rockies, and northern maine; in the 50s and 60s from southern maine across maryland, the lower great lakes region, the central mississippi valley, middle plains and the northern half of the pacific coast; the low 80s in western florida and from western louisiana across to southern arizona, and in the 70s in most of the rest of the nation. evening. picks up 3rd graf pvs, `the jurors ...'</note>
the jury in the ``preppie murder'' trial of a man accused of strangling a teen-ager during sex in central park deliberated a seventh day wednesday, rehearing testimony about the autopsy on the woman
the jury was interested in the internal injuries revealed by the autopsy performed by dr. maria alandy, associate medical examiner in new york city. she testified about injuries to jennifer levin's mouth, neck, head and internal organs
the jury deliberated until early evening and will return thursday morning
the jurors apparently were trying to discern how badly miss levin, 18, was beaten and how much physical force it would take to cause the injuries. a day earlier, their request focused on how long miss levin had to be choked to produce pinpoint hemorrhaging on her eyelids
the prosecution contends robert chambers punched miss levin before strangling her in a rage. the defense contends the death was accidentally caused when he yanked her backward during rough sex, as chambers said in a videotaped statement to police
after the reading of the testimony, jurors spent several minutes sitting in the jury box speaking with one another before returning to deliberations, which is highly unusual
chambers, 21, is accused of second-degree murder in the death of miss levin on aug. 26, 1986
the jury, which got the case last thursday, could also convict chambers of the lesser crimes of first- or second-degree manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide
the commerce department said wednesday that safeway stores inc. has agreed to pay a $995,000 penalty to settle anti-boycott violations in saudi arabia and kuwait last year
undersecretary paul freedenberg said the sum was ``the largest civil fine in the department's 10-year enforcement of federal anti-boycott laws.'' under the department order, safeway has 20 days to pay the fine
the anti-boycott provisions of the export administration act were designed to keep u.s. firms from participation in foreign boycotts the u.s. government does not sanction
the supermarket chain was charged in july 1987 with multiple violations in connection with operations of supermarkets in saudi arabia and kuwait, including refusing to do business with u.s. suppliers on a saudi arabia boycott list and using a ``whitelist'' of approved suppliers from which it offered products for sale to arab supermarkets
safeway was also accused of furnishing prohibited information to kuwait about its business relationships with israel and furnishing prohibited information about its affiliations with charitable and fraternal organizations which support israel
safeway neither admitted or denied the allegations but agreed to pay the civil fine in a settlement march 14, the commerce department said
had the case gone to trial, and the supermarket chain found guilty on all counts, safeway could have received an administrative sanction and a civil fine of $4.5 million, the department said
a safeway spokesman did not immediately return a reporter's phone calls seeking comment
gold rose $1.13 an ounce thursday, opening at $453.19. it closed wednesday at $452.06
u.s. district judge walter l. nixon of mississippi reported to federal prison wednesday to begin serving a five-year sentence for perjury
nixon, 59, is the second federal judge convicted of crimes while in office. he has refused to step down and continues to draw his $89,500 annual salary
last week, house judiciary chairman peter w. rodino jr., d-n.j., introduced a resolution to impeach him
nixon was convicted in 1986 of lying to a grand jury investigating whether he tried to influence a local drug case involving the son of man with whom he had business dealings. he was sentenced to two concurrent five-year terms
the u.s. supreme court on jan. 19 refused to review nixon's appeal
the first federal judge convicted in office, harry e. claiborne of nevada, was impeached and removed 1{ years ago. he was convicted of tax evasion
at least two rockets were fired from a bazooka at the u.s. embassy wednesday night, police said
the rockets were launched from outside the front of the diplomatic mission by two men from a distance of about 55 yards, police said
there was no immediate information about damage or injuries at the embassy, which is in downtown bogota
richard pyle of the associated press is a member of the pentagon media pool in the persian gulf
the iraqi air force has begun using a second type of soviet-built bomber on its forays against iranian oil shipping in the persian gulf, u.s. naval officers said wednesday
the supersonic tu-22, a twin-jet aircraft known in nato's military lexicon as blinder, apparently carries only iron bombs instead of the air-to-surface missiles that are on iraq's other attack aircraft in the gulf
the u.s. officers, who spoke on condition of not being identified, also said blinders operating over the gulf fly at about 450 mph. that is faster than other iraqi warplanes but less than the aircraft's top speed of 900 mph
one officer said it was possible that the blinders were flying training missions to prepare for regular action against iranian tankers
this guided-missile frigate observed several of the soviet bombers in action during a recent 14-day assignment in the northern gulf
the officers wouldn't indicate whether the flights began before or after a visit to baghdad by an american military delegation last month. the meeting was set up to discuss the problem of iraqi aircraft flying down the gulf in a manner that appeared to pose a threat to u.s. warships
the talks were known to have dealt with flights by iraq's french-built f-1 mirages and soviet-made t-16 badgers, both of which are armed with anti-ship missiles
many u.s. officers have expressed concern that the flight patterns of the iraqi aircraft could lead to another mistaken attack such as that which devastated the frigate stark last may 17, killing 37 of its crew
as the roberts sailed toward the strait of hormuz on tuesday, an iraqi warplane ventured further ``down the pipe'' than usual _ posing no threat. but far enough for a call from the ship's combat information center to interrupt the skipper's dinner
the plane veered eastward toward iran before it reached the point at which cmdr. paul x. rinn said he would have ordered a precautionary increase in alert status
on wednesday, the roberts went to what rinn called a ``modified condition zebra,'' an upgrading of damage-control precautions, when it entered waters about 20 miles from abu musa, a small island that iran uses as a base for gunboat attacks on gulf shipping
u.s. military sources in washington say iran has recently begun installing launch platforms for its chinese-made silkworm anti-ship missiles on the island
rinn, a native new yorker who now lives in summerville, s.c., told members of a pentagon news media poll that there has been no change in navy procedures around abu musa, and there was no evidence of the silkworms having been placed on the island
we've always been careful around abu musa because it's a base for the iranian speedboats,'' he said
iranian gunboats, on the lookout for war-related materials bound for archenemy iraq, were heard conducting their usual challenges of commercial vessels as to their cargoes and destinations
a major rebel group appears ready to sign a peace agreement drafted during a week of talks in northern uganda, the government newspaper and sources said wednesday
ugandan soldiers and the rebel uganda people's democratic army have observed a cease-fire since negotiations began last thursday at gulu, a town 170 miles north of kampala, the government paper new vision reported
we are coming out fully to join the government,'' said mike kilama, chief rebel negotiator. ``we are coming to join hands with the nra to work and rebuild our nation.''
uganda's army is called the national resistance army, the name yoweri museveni gave it during a five-year bush war that gained him the presidency two years ago
a proposal drafted in the negotiations says the army will accept rebels who are found not to have taken part in atrocities under previous regimes, sources reported
reports from the sources and in new vision said the agreement excludes politicians. among them are otema allimadi, who was prime minister under former president milton obote and directed the rebel army from london
new vision said the peace agreement was to be signed within days and the rebels were assembling at lukome, 8 miles north of gulu
they consist almost entirely of soldiers from the previous national army, which museveni's forces drove into southern sudan at the end of the civil war. the rebel army began its insurgency in august 1986
rebel spokesmen say there are 7,000 insurgents, but the government puts the strength at 3,000. more than half a dozen rebel groups operate in uganda, but the uganda people's democratic army is the most professional
museveni declared a six-month amnesty in which rebels would be allowed to surrender. it expires at the end of march, and museveni said tuesday he was reluctant to extend it. pvs, `india protested ...' minor editing throughout to conform.</note>
troops detained hundreds of arabs in a huge crackdown to contain four months of unrest in the occupied lands, and israeli jets bombed palestinian guerrilla bases in south lebanon wednesday for the second time in a week
overnight raids which went into wednesday morning were israel's latest strategy for ending a rebellion which, by u.n. count, has killed 107 arabs and one israeli soldier
arab reports said about 500 palestinians were rounded up. defense minister yitzhak rabin said 3,000 have been detained since riots began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip
israeli troops in gaza shot and wounded an arab protester in jabaliya refugee camp, shifa hospital officials said. they said another arab from deir al balah camp was badly hurt with beating injuries to his head
the number of major demonstrations and clashes has fallen dramatically in recent days and rabin credited israel's tough policies of mass arrests and economic sanctions
the phenomenon of large violent demonstrations has been substantially reduced ... as a result of the general activity of the army, the security forces, the riot police,'' rabin told officers on a tour of gaza. ``we feel a certain tiredness among the (arab) population.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir said simply restoring quiet was not enough
no doubt, it is possible to turn the situation back to normal and even a better one,'' shamir said wednesday on israel television. ``but i think it's not enough today to restore order and normal life. we have to prepare ground so this does not repeat itself.''
there are things to be done to prevent the return of these dangerous events,'' he said, without elaborating
nearly all the 107 palestinians killed died by israeli army gunfire or beatings. the israeli soldier was shot to death by an arab last weekend
india protested israel's handling of the arab rebellion by canceling a match in israel by its davis cup tennis team scheduled for next month. it was the first such cancellation of a sports or entertainment event
gad yacobi, israel's economy minister, said the violence and strikes have cost israel more than $335 million in lost production, exports and added security expenses. he said the figure did not include losses to tourism and agriculture
in the air raid, israeli pilots destroyed buildings used by guerrillas to store weapons and equipment near sidon, a port in south lebanon, the military said. it was the fourth israeli air raid in lebanon this year
the army did not identify a guerrilla group, but beirut radio stations said the warehouses belonged to yasser arafat's palestinian guerrilla group fatah and lebanese moslem militias
shamir reported to the 10-member inner cabinet on his talks in washington. a minister who attended said shamir had found no signs the united states would yield to israeli requests for changes in its middle east peace proposals, which involve trading territory for peace
the army said it might allow israelis to volunteer for three to six months of paid reserve duty in addition to annual compulsory duty. last week, the army increased the compulsory tour from 42 days to 50
according to the arab-run palestinie press service and arabic daily al quds, soldiers detained about 500 palestinians overnight, including 200 from hebron and the nearby west bank village of dura
palestinian witnesses said the army sealed off villages and refugee camps after midnight, then went from house to house with lists of names. the arab news agency said 80 people were arrested in attil, 12 miles north of nablus
army spokesmen confirmed mass arrests overnight but would not give numbers
an israeli official said rabin told a parliamentary committee israel has jailed 3,000 arabs since dec. 8, including 700 since sunday
he said, on condition of anonymity, that 1,000 more arabs had been arrested and released. the official also confirmed a report in the daily haaretz that the army planned to put 300 arabs under administrative detention, meaning they could be jailed for up to six months without trial
a palestine liberation organization leaflet circulated in the gaza strip said payments will be made to arabs who lose family members, property or jobs because of clashes with israeli soldiers
it cited $2,900 for ``martyrs'' killed fighting soldiers, $600 for anyone arrested and $1,450 for a merchant unable to open his store because of a strike. arab policemen who resigned would get $1,450 as a first payment, the leaflet said
israel had imposed rules limiting the flow of money into the territories in an attempt to prevent such compensation and other plo financing of the rebellion
a house subcommittee has decided against seeking perjury charges against the chairman of the nation's largest meatpacker for testifying falsely last year that only one set of injury records was kept at its dakota city, neb., packinghouse
rep. tom lantos, d-calif., chairman of the house government operations committee's subcommittee on employment and housing, said that although the testimony by ibp corp. chairman robert peterson was misleading, the panel will not ask the justice department to prosecute him
peterson, testifying before the panel last may, denied charges from the united food and commercial workers union that the company was keeping two sets of injury logs _ one for internal use and the other to be shown to government inspectors _ at its dakota city plant
afterwards, the company sent the subcommittee a 28-page statement again denying there were two sets of records. later, however, peterson wrote lantos a letter saying that he had learned that two sets of logs were in fact kept
at a subsequent hearing last september, ibp officials said their earlier testimony was based on misunderstandings between the plant's medical director and a vice president of the company
while some of the explanations offered by top ibp officials strained credibility or were incongruent and raised serious questions, there is insufficient evidence to warrant referring the matter to the justice department for perjury proceedings,'' lantos said tuesday
he made the statement in presenting the subcommittee's report on the occupational safety and health administration's handling of the ibp case to the full 39-member government operations committee
committee officials said they expect that report to be released within the next two weeks
ibp, then a subsidiary of occidental petroleum co., and the ufcw were engaged in a bitter lockout turned strike at the dakota city plant during the subcommittee's first hearing
as the result of proddings from the union, osha initiated a thorough inspection of the plant and subsequently fined ibp more than $2 million for a series of health, safety and record violations
at the time, it was the largest fine ever levied by osha. ibp has contested the osha charges and is appealing the fine
texts for an afghan peace settlement have been sent to lawyers for finishing touches but there still is no agreement on two essential issues, sources close to the geneva negotiations said wednesday
the sources said one question still open was whether the current afghan government or another would oversee implementation of the deal. the other is the future of aid to afghanistan from the soviet union, which now has an estimated 115,000 soldiers in the country helping fight moslem insurgents
moscow and its communist allies in kabul say both issues are outside the scope of the geneva talks and raising them with a third country _ pakistan in this case _ would constitute interference in afghanistan's internal affairs
diego cordovez, the u.n. mediator, was said to be confident a third problem could be resolved by compromise language. that problem arose last week when abdul wakil, the afghan foreign minister, accused pakistan at a news conference of creating new ``complications'' by reviving an old border dispute
it concerns the durand line, a boundary between afghanistan and british india agreed upon in 1893. it was accepted by pakistan after independence in 1947, but afghanistan claimed an area south of the line
pakistan's chief negotiator in geneva, acting foreign minister zain noorani, told reporters on the same day wakil made his allegations that his delegation ``never raised any question as to the pakistani-afghan border.''
he said the border was a ``non-issue'' and pakistan accepts the passage in the agreements requiring the parties ``to refrain from violations of the existing internationally recognized boundary between the two countries.''
pakistan acts as spokesman for the afghan guerrillas. fund</head> including accountant saying dealership was in deep trouble, picking up 8th graf pvs, `donna carlson...'. deletes 12th graf pvs, `asked by...'., and last 3 grafs to tighten.</note>
gov. evan mecham's auto dealership would have been overdrawn and unable to meet its payroll if he hadn't borrowed $80,000 from a state fund, an accountant testified at mecham's impeachment trial wednesday
the testimony contradicted mecham's claim that he didn't need the money and that he borrowed it in july solely to help the state earn higher interest than it was receiving on the money
an accountant hired by the prosecution to analyze the financial records of mecham's company indicated the money was badly needed
unless these funds had been paid from the protocol fund, mecham pontiac would have had an overdraft the following wednesday in excess of $60,000,'' said randall sorensen, referring to the payday following the loan
the senate is investigating allegations mecham misused the funds, which were raised by his inaugural committee but transferred to the protocol fund because of a state law barring use of such contributions to pay campaign debts
sorensen took the stand after former mecham chief of staff james colter acknowledged he filled mecham's request for the $80,000 loan to his car dealership without checking the company's financial condition
when sen. manuel pena suggested to colter, who left the mecham administration in the fall, that mecham pontiac was overencumbered when the loan was taken, colter said: ``if that's so, it's a bummer deal. but it was repaid, so i guess it wasn't a bummer deal.''
prosecutor paul eckstein noted that mecham testified before the house that his company did not need the money to pay the bank for overdue loans on cars
however, sorensen said mecham pontiac paid first interstate bank $81,309 owed for six cars on july 17, 1987 _ the same day that the $80,000 loan was received
on cross-examination, mecham's lawyer, jerris leonard, suggested that the mecham car dealership had assets that could have been converted to cash when needed. but sorensen said he saw no records indicating such assets
leonard also said the dealership had a net worth of $4.25 million. but sorensen said some of the figures he saw indicated otherwise. he did not elaborate
prosecutors had said they would show that mecham pontiac was in deep financial trouble and ``desperately needed the loan'' to survive
in his statement tuesday, leonard said of mecham's loan: ``the governor is going to tell you he did it for one purpose and one purpose only, to try to improve the earnings of the fund.''
the governor's lawyers had objected vehemently to testimony about the dealership's financial condition but were overruled
before the trial recessed for the day, former arizona attorney general jack lasoto testified that he analyzed state laws relating to the mecham loan and found it was improper
he said it was clear that money placed in the governor's protocol fund became public money intended for promoting arizona's image
also wednesday, mecham's former legislative aide testified she quit because she was worried that ``people could possibly go to jail'' if the loan was discovered
donna carlson, who was the subject of an alleged death threat investigated earlier in the trial, testified she and other mecham staffers believed the fund could be used only to ``promote the interests of the state of arizona.''
in addition to charges of obstructing the investigation of an alleged threat against ms. carlson and of misusing state funds, mecham is accused in the impeachment trial of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
ms. carlson described a conversation with colter late last summer which she said involved both loans
mr. colter was extremely upset,'' said ms. carlson. ``he said, `i don't think the governor understands the magnitude of the debt.' ... he said, `i had to loan him $80,000 out of the protocol fund.'''
i believe i came out of my chair,'' ms. carlson said. ``i made a remark ... that people could possibly go to jail for something like that.''
witnesses have said that ms. carlson was the subject of an alleged death threat just before she was called to testify before a grand jury about mecham's campaign finances
the first-term republican governor also faces an april 21 criminal trial on felony charges of concealing the campaign loan. mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, also faces a recall election may 17
during intensive quizzing by senators, colter insisted he never tried to cover up the protocol fund loan to the dealership even though it was never recorded in the fund's check register
i'm a poor record-keeper,'' he said
an ominous warming of the atmosphere and depletion of earth's protective ozone shield have given urgency to plans by nasa, japan and europe to launch four satellites to study the planet's ecological system
the project ``will bring about a revolution in our understanding of the earth as a whole system,'' said dixon butler, project scientist for the national aeronautics and space administration, which plans to spend more than $2 billion on its share
instruments planned for the first satellite include a laser to measure movement along faults such as the san andreas in california; radar that can by peer through clouds and vegetation, and devices to measure wind speed and direction, air temperature and humidity
officials said the polar-orbiting satellites could improve weather forecasts by allowing meteorologists to study developing weather patterns worldwide
other instruments also are scheduled to be placed on the space station, which is set for operation in the mid-1990s, but the eos is being designed so it will work even if the space station is delayed
the program recently moved into high gear because of ominous changes in the earth's atmosphere, butler said tuesday, speaking via satellite to scientists at nasa centers across the country, including the jet propulsion laboratory in pasadena
the four satellites will operate for 15 years, and one of their tasks will be to monitor the greenhouse effect, in which earth's temperature is gradually rising because of increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, butler said from nasa's goddard space flight center in greenbelt, md
the satellites also will keep track of depletion of earth's protective ozone layer, he said
scientists fear the greenhouse effect may cause crop failures and raise sea levels, threating threaten coastal cities. loss of high-altitude ozone will let more harmful solar ultraviolet rays reach earth, increasing skin cancer and possibly killing microscopic ocean organisms that are at the bottom of the food chain, scientists say
nasa plans to launch its first eos satellite, a 60-foot-long spacecraft carrying 20 instruments, in 1995, followed by the launch of a european space agency satellite in 1997. nasa's second satellite could lift off in 1997, followed by a 1998 launch for the fourth satellite, which would be japanese
butler said the soviet union, which has many satellites in polar orbit, also may participate
nasa is asking for $20 million in next year's budget to determine what instruments should be placed on the satellites, then will seek money in 1991 to build the equipment, nasa spokesman charles redmond said
satellites in polar orbit circle earth from north to south, allowing onboard instruments to study the whole planet as it rotates
customs agents seized $1 million worth of caviar in three states and arrested two men on charges of importing the delicacy in violation of an embargo on iranian goods, authorities said wednesday
about 3,400 pounds of iranian caviar were flown into miami in counterfeit russian caviar tins and repacked in iranian tins, said customs service spokesman michael sheehan
gerald stein, 49, of new york city and patrick bachelier, 38, of miami were charged with violating a 1987 presidential ban on imports from iran
the caviar was seized march 15 at caspian caviar co. in miami, iron gate caviar co. in new york city and epicurean international inc. in rockville, md., sheehan said
the caviar was in fact falsely labeled in western europe in order to circumvent the embargo,'' sheehan said. ``after the cavier was released by customs, bachelier would transfer the caviar into iranian tins, which he had imported separately.''
bachelier, who owns caspian caviar, said wednesday, ``i'm innocent. it's a mistake.''
he said he imported some iranian caviar under a permit issued to a person he declined to identify. the rest of the caviar was genuine russian caviar, he said
stein is president of iron gate products, a wholesaler, and is author of ``caviar! caviar! caviar!'' a published report last year said his company supplies macy's department stores
telephone calls to iron gate products went unanswered wednesday
stein is scheduled for an appearance in federal court in miami on april 5 and bachelier was arraigned march 16. they face up to 16 years in prison and $150,000 fines if convicted
the legislature's chief abortion foe said the odds of a rape victim getting pregnant are ``one in millions and millions and millions'' because the trauma causes a ``certain secretion'' that kills sperm
doctors specializing in reproduction dismissed the claim, made by republican rep. stephen freind, as nonsense
freind, who made the assertion during an interview on a hanover radio station earlier this month, said tuesday he stands by the claim and will provide medical documentation to support it in about a week
gov. robert p. casey has said he will sign a bill that requires victims of rape or incest to report the crimes to be eligible for government funding of abortions
in a debate with barry steinhardt of the philadelphia branch of the american civil liberties union, freind said, ``it is almost but not quite impossible to become pregnant on the basis of rape. the odds are one in millions and millions and millions. and there is a physical reason for that
rape, obviously, is a traumatic experience,'' he said. ``when that traumatic experience is undergone, a woman secretes a certain secretion, which has a tendency to kill sperm.''
there's no basis for that. that's nonsense,'' dr. richard depp, chairman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at thomas jefferson university in philadelphia
dr. luigi mastroianni jr., director of the division of human reproduction at the hospital of the university of pennsylvania in philadelphia, said tuesday: ``boy. if i could find out what that (secretion) was, i'd use it as a contraceptive.''
mastroianni, a past president of the american fertility society, said: ``there is no such secretion.''
he said freind's statements ``reflect a lack of concern for women who have been victimized by rape'' by dismissing the act as not having consequence
freind has been trying for years to get strong anti-abortion laws through the legislature
most americans believe president reagan should not have sent troops to honduras last week, according to a cbs news-new york times poll released wednesday
thirty-five percent of the participants in the survey conducted between friday and tuesday said the troops should have been sent, 52 percent said they should not have been, and 13 percent said they did not know
the poll asked respondents if they were more concerned about the united states getting into a war in honduras or about a communist takeover in the area
it found that 53 percent were more worried about getting into a war and 37 percent about a communist takeover, while 4 percent said the factors were equal and 2 percent said they were worried about neither. four percent said they did not know
when asked if president reagan should pardon oliver north if he is convicted of theft, fraud and conspiracy charges in the iran-contra affair, 43 percent said yes, 43 percent said no and 14 percent said they did not know
the poll also found that 48 percent of those interviewed did not think the united states should be giving military aid to the contras while 39 percent said the aid should be given and 13 percent said they did not know
when asked if vice president george bush is hiding something the public ought to know about the iran-contra matter, 51 percent said he is, 28 percent said he is not and 21 percent said they did not know
a total of 1,654 people were interviewed for the poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent
president jose sarney on wednesday hailed the decision to keep the presidential system of government, but some brazilians wondered how long sarney himself would be be allowed to keep the office
lawmakers writing a new constitution ended a year of political uncertaintly tuesday by deciding to have a president, rather than a prime minister, as chief of government
it's a victory for the nation. it is not a personal victory,'' said sarney, who has complained that uncertainty about the country's political direction was a factor in brazil's economic and social ills
sarney told reporters, ``this decision was better for the country. congress understood that.''
lawmakers decided 344-212 to have a presidential system of government. legislators who argued in favor of parliamentarism said a prime minister was a modern alternative and a protection from military leaders, who have made it clear they favor a presidential system
sarney said parliamentarism ``would bring chaos and threaten democracy,'' an indirect reference to possible government intervention by the military
lawmakers also voted a five-year term for the presidential office, another victory for sarney
but whether sarney can serve that long should be known in about a month, when lawmakers are to vote on the remaining length of sarney's tenure
his term likely will be the last item voted on by the 559 legislators rewriting an authoritarian constitution. the present constitution was handed down without a vote in 1969 by a military junta that seized power in a 1964 coup. brazilians haven't voted for president since 1960
the country's leftist faction and most brazilians, according to polls, would like to see sarney's term reduced by one year, from five to four
but some brazilians said trimming a year off sarney's term is harder now, after congress voted to give the office of president a five-year term
it would be hateful to have other presidents with five years and reduce sarney's to four,'' said communications minister antonio carlos magalhaes
the lawmakers' vote was preceded by heavy lobbying by sarney and his supporters
jornal do brasil, the influential daily of rio de janeiro, condemned the ``methods used'' to obtain victory and criticized sarney for not keeping a promise to step down in four years
the intervention of the government was obscene,'' said rep. ronaldo cezar coelho of the brazilian democratic movement party
indirectly elected in an electoral college election, sarney was running mate on a liberal ticket headed by tancredo neves. neves died before taking office and sarney became president in march 1985
as former leader of the military-backed party, sarney was a compromise candidate to appease the outgoing generals
the neves-sarney team was to be a transitional marriage to smoothly lead south america's largest country to democracy. but under three years of sarney, brazil has had its highest inflation rate in history
authorities outlawed an independent students union at warsaw university on the grounds that it threatened to stir unrest and engage in anti-state activities, organizers of the group said wednesday
members of the organizing committee of the warsaw university independent students union, known by its polish initials nzs, said they would defy the ban and organize a rally next week to protest delays in dormitory renovations
the ban, dated monday, was signed by the city's socio-administrative department, which has the power to decide the legality of organizations established by citizens
student union activists announced at a march 8 campus rally, attended by about 2,000 students, that they were giving up underground activities to work openly for more academic freedoms and to protect students' material interests
the banning order said the program of the nzs chapter shows the student union's ``intention is to undertake activities which could cause a threat to the peace and public order.''
a copy of the order was made available to western reporters wednesday
student activists have campaigned at several major universities this year for communist authorities to legalize the independent students union, which was officially registered in february 1981 but outlawed a year later after the martial law crackdown on the solidarity free trade union movement
about 1,500 warsaw university students have joined the warsaw university nzs chapter since march 8, said andrzej papierz, a history student and union organizer
also on wednesday, a gdansk misdemeanor court meted out fines ranging from 30,000 to 50,000 zlotys ($76 to $128) to 11 opposition activists who were detained monday at an anti-government happening marking the first day of spring, said maciej jankowski, a gdansk opposition spokesman
one of those fined, cezary waluszko, said he would file a complaint charging that police severely beat him after he was detained at the happening in which a doll with dark glasses like those worn by polish leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski was thrown into the baltic, said jankowski
in wroclaw, misdemeanor courts fined two people 50,000 zlotys each for taking part in illegal political protests, said barbara labuda, a wroclaw opposition spokeswoman
the church was unavailable and the doors on other buildings are too small, so a traveling exhibit on the u.s. constitution will be displayed at the horse around bar when it reaches town next month
people are kind of enthused about it,'' said bar owner galan hanson, who added that he was surprised when he was asked to be host of the display in his building's garage
the exhibit on the constitution's bicentennial, mounted on large panels that can't be squeezed through an ordinary door frame, is making the rounds of all 53 counties in north dakota and is due in slope county on april 12-16
folks here say amidon is believed to be the smallest county seat in the nation. the 1980 census listed the population as 43, but hanson thinks that overstates the case. ``there are 29 people who live here all the time,'' he said
the door-frame problem ruled out amidon's courthouse and its school, and the only church in town with big enough doors couldn't work the state-sponsored exhibit into its schedule
we came up with the idea that they have large enough doors (at the horse around bar),'' said lois anderson, county superintendent of schools
hanson's business is a former gas station and auto shop. the exhibit will be in the shop area, separated by a wall, so visiting schoolchildren will be spared the sight of anyone downing a brew while they ponder the founding fathers
we'll just have to move some things around,'' hanson said. ``i'll have to move my pickup out.''
the tavern will be the most unusual place the exhibit has been displayed, said john schmaltz of the state department of public instruction, which helped create the exhibit
we've been booking it primarily in schools, public libraries, shopping malls and, in some cases, courthouses,'' he said. ``but in the town of amidon, it's going to be in the horse around bar.'' word referendum sted refenderum; ams separates moved as a0764 on gray and as a0743 on heard; jacobs moved on the sports wire.</note>
l. michael gray, a gospel singer who appeared in broadway musicals and performed with stevie wonder, phoebe snow and billy preston, died saturday of a pulmonary embolism. he was 35
gray began singing gospel songs in los angeles church choirs as a boy. he was the singing voice for the cartoon character ``fat albert.''
gray appeared on broadway in ``your arms too short to box with god'' and the ``the wiz.'' he also was a back-up singer to eddie kendricks and connie stevens
bessie heard, who endowed her hometown with a wildlife sanctuary and natural science museum, died tuesday at age 101
more than 40,000 visitors each year come to the heard natural science museum and wildlife sanctuary, which miss heard endowed in 1964. the non-profit museum and sanctuary are funded by the bessie heard foundation, membership dues, tuition fees, gift shop sales and contributions
jimmy jacobs, a handball great, boxing historian and a central figure in heavyweight champion mike tyson's career, died wednesday of pneumonia at age 58
jacobs was a 9.8 100-yard dash runner, a championship skeet shot and a basketball player good enough to be invited to an olympic tryout
jacobs became one of the greatest handball players in history, winning six u.s. handball association singles championship and being part of the usha championship doubles team four times
robert p. mccarney, an anti-establishment conservative who led several successful drives to cut state taxes, died wednesday of pneumonia and heart failure. he was 76
mccarney made his first campaign in 1964, when he ran unsuccessfully for the gop gubernatorial nomination. he won the 1968 gop primary but lost in the general election
mccarney led referendum drives that overturned tax packages passed by the legislature in 1963 and 1965. in 1976, he sponsored a successful initiative measure that cut the state sales tax from 4 percent to 3 percent. two years later, he sponsored a measure that cut state income taxes by a third
a bomb explosion injured 16 people wednesday in a department store in southern davao city on mindanao island and a larger bomb was defused in the same building, police said
the bomb exploded shortly before midnight in a building that also houses an office of the government's passport bureau, said police sgt. dominado balicoco
he said those hurt were passers-by hit by flying glass. balicoco said police found a larger explosive device later in the same building and defused it
it was the second bombing in a major mindanao island city in two days. on tuesday, two air force sergeants were killed when they tried to defuse bombs found at andrews air force base in zamboanga city, 270 miles west of davao
police said they did not know who planted the bombs, but there was speculation moslem rebels were responsible. both davao and zamboanga are largely christian cities, but mindanao is the stronghold of the 5 million-strong moslem minority
the leader of the nation's largest moslem rebel group called on wednesday for an uprising against president corazon aquino and said her government was planning ``to resume genocide in our homeland.''
nur misuari, head of the moro national liberation front, claimed in a telephone interview with radio station dzxl that the government wanted to wipe out moslems seeking autonomy on mindanao and other southern islands
he spoke from amman, jordan, where he was attending the annual meeting of foreign ministers of the 46-nation organization of islamic conference
the government had no immediate comment on misuari's charge
fighting between moslem rebels and the government has claimed more than 50,000 lives since 1976, by official count, but has been reduced to only occasional skirmishes in recent years
the military said eight people were killed tuesday when gunmen believed to be from the moro national liberation front attacked a marine detachment on basilan island
defense minister fidel ramos predicted less trouble with moslem rebels in mindanao because the islamic conference rejected the moslem group's bid for membership, indicating it considers the rebellion strictly a philippine matter
but misauri denied the conference rejected his group's application
jordan's foreign minister, taher masri, the conference chairman, told reporters tuesday the group was not qualified for membership
they are not a state and therefore their status cannot entitle them to become'' a member, masri said
the islamic conference has been mediating the philippine moslem conflict since shortly after rebel factions began a secessionist war on mindanao and the sulu island chain in late 1972
a jury wednesday ruled that a radio station owned by jimmy swaggart ministries owes $28,000 in back taxes to the city of shenandoah
swaggart ministries, based in baton rouge, la., had claimed kjoj-fm qualified as a place of worship and was therefore tax exempt, but city officials said it owed $64,043 in real estate and personal property taxes from from 1980 to 1987
the state district court jury decided 10-2 that the ministry should pay $28,000 because only half the building qualifies as a church. the other half was real estate and leased property, the jury said
shenandoah city manager natalie kelly said city council will consider an appeal
swaggart's ministry has been rocked by allegations swaggart hired a prostitute to pose nude for him
michael darlow, representing the city of shenandoah, had told jury: ``what happens if you grant jimmy swaggart ministries a religious exemption? what if a restaurant opens up and has passages from the bible in its menu and says they're a place of religious worship?''
we have to stop somewhere. i suggest the place to stop is here and now,'' darlow said
swaggart ministries attorney james bradford argued the ministry is asking to pay real estate taxes only on the half of the building not used for the radio station. he said the ministry should receive a full tax exemption on personal property related to the second floor of the building, which houses the station. kabul marxists</head>
secretary of state george p. shultz on wednesday night ruled out any agreement to end the 7{-year war in afghanistan unless the soviet union suspends military aid to the marxist government there
shultz also outlined sharp disagreements on central america and the middle east at the end of three days of talks with soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
he said the soviets wanted u.s. military aid to an unspecified number of central american governments halted as a condition for them to stop supplying nicaragua in its war with contra rebels
it did not seem something we could pursue,'' shultz said
on the middle east, he said shevardnadze envisioned an active role for moscow in arab-israeli negotiations
shultz said that would get in the way of talks between the two sides. ``the soviet concept is sharply different from ours,'' shultz said
on human rights, however, there was apparent progress
shultz said shevardnadze gave assurances that moscow would consider changes in visa requirements for would-be emigrants and also in the way religious observances are treated
but, at a state department news conference, shultz stressed the disagreements with shevardnadze, especially over afghanistan
he said the foreign minister had rejected a u.s. proposal for a moratorium on new weapons shipments to kabul while the soviets withdrew their troops and for three months afterward
he said the united states offered to suspend its support for the afghan resistance during the same period
they didn't feel they could agree to that,'' shultz said
and yet, shultz said, ``those conditions are needed for us to be able to sign as a guarantor'' of an international agreement to end the conflict
shevardnadze told a news conference that the soviet union had no intention of stopping its aid to the afghan government
the aid is required by a soviet-afghan treaty, ``those are legitimate supplies, and we are not going to rescind that treaty,'' shevardnadze said
he repeated statements by a soviet spokesman last week that moscow is willing to undertake a troop withdrawal even without an agreement at afghan peace negotiations under way in geneva
but he did not give a date for withdrawal
shultz said the soviets were willing to withdraw the red army by the end of the year, beginning with a 50 percent pullout during the first three months in which the agreement was in effect
the guarantee of a withdrawal filled ``a great big hole'' in the situation, shultz said
but, he said, soviet military aid to the marxist government must cease for stability to return to the war-torn country and for an estimated 5 million refugees to go home
the proposal remains on the table,'' shultz said. ``if our thought or something close to it is accepted we would be pleased to sign on as a guarantor.''
the negotiations are being conducted by diego cordovez, a united nations mediator, between afghanistan and pakistan. graf pvs bgng: secretary of ...; picks up 5th graf pvs bgng: the two ..., deleting outdated grafs 17-19 pvs bgng: shevardnadze said ...</note>
president reagan announced wednesday he would go to moscow from may 29 to june 2 for his fourth summit meeting with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and his first visit to a nation he once branded an ``evil empire.''
the five-day visit will mark the first trip to moscow by an american president since richard nixon's 1974 summer meeting with leonid brezhnev. later that same year, in november, gerald ford met with brezhnev in the soviet port city of vladivostok
the summit's intended centerpiece is the signing of a treaty to scrap 30 percent to 50 percent of the superpowers' long-range bombers, missiles and submarines. however, reagan already has suggested an agreement will not be ready, saying time is too limited
secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze reported wednesday night that differences remained between the two sides on the accord
at separate news conferences they also disclosed sharp disagreements on explosive regional issues: afghanistan, the middle east and central america
shultz told reporters at the state department that he ruled out any agreement to end the war in afghanistan unless the soviet union suspends military aid to the marxist government. the united states will continue aiding afghan rebels
he said shevardnadze rejected a u.s. proposal for a moratorium on new weapons shipments to kabul during the soviet withdrawal and for three months afterward. the united states would suspend its support for the afghan rebels during the same period
i have ruled out this,'' shevardnadze told a news conference
he said the aid was a soviet treaty obligation ``and we're not going to rescind that treaty.'' as shevardnadze spoke, the chants of critics of soviet policies in armenia, demonstrating outside the soviet embassy, could be heard in the room
shultz said the soviets wanted military aid to an unspecified number of central american governments halted as a condition for them to stop supplying nicaragua in its war with the contra rebels
as for bringing peace to the middle east, ``the soviet concept is sharply different from ours,'' shultz said
the two said in a joint statement they would meet again in moscow on april 21-25 and also in may, but did not indicate where that session would be held
both sides have worked hard and some progress has been realized in a number of areas, but much more needs to be done,'' the statement said
asked wednesday if a treaty would be completed, reagan said, ``i have no way of answering that'' and added that the two nations were committed to the cutback
shevardnadze, asked if a treaty would be ready, said through a translator: ``it is possible. this is not an easy task. this is a very complicated task, but we are becoming convinced that it is doable
there are many difficult questions of a technical nature, mostly in verification, but in principle this can be done,'' the foreign minister said as he left the white house following two hours of talks and lunch with reagan
the summit announcement capped three days of meetings between shevardnadze and shultz. after a morning round of talks at the state department, shevardnadze went to the white house
within minutes of his arrival, shevardnadze and reagan stepped from the oval office to the sun-splashed rose garden to disclose the long-awaited summit dates
we have set the date and now we shall take care of good substance, good content for the summit,'' shevardnadze said
the soviet foreign minister returned to the state department in mid-afternoon and met with shultz past the dinner hour. they received reports from separate groups of u.s. and soviet experts working on arms control, human rights and regional issues including afghanistan, central america, the middle east and the iran-iraq war
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the president would spend all of his time in the soviet capital, following the pattern set by gorbachev when he remained in washington during his december summit with reagan. however, first lady nancy reagan is planning a day trip to leningrad
white house planners are exploring the possibility of setting up meetings with soviet dissidents and refuseniks, as well as arranging a presidential trip to a performance by the bolshoi ballet
asked what the summit would achieve if an arms agreement is not sealed, reagan said, ``there are a number of other subjects that we continue to discuss with each other.''
in recent weeks, a number of dates were rumored for the summit, all of them in the week before may 29
fitzwater said the timing was not finally settled until mid-morning wednesday. ``we had a set of dates at the end of may; they had a set of dates at the beginning of june. these are the compromise dates we came up with,'' he said
at the white house talks, shevardnadze devoted most of his presentation to the strategic arms talks. reagan's star wars missile defense system, which has been an obstacle to an arms agreement, did not come up, fitzwater said
reagan will leave washington on may 26 or may 27, stopping two or three nights in helsinki, finland, the spokesman said. that is intended to let him adjust to the eight-hour time difference between washington and moscow and to make a scene-setting speech for the talks with gorbachev
before returning to washington, reagan will stop in london to brief allies and make another speech summing up the trip. fitzwater said a news conference also is planned after the summit, but that the location has not been determined
the actual summit in moscow probably will be confined to three days, the same as the december meeting in washington, fitzwater said. the five-day schedule includes arrival and departure dates, he added
reagan, who built his political career as an ardent anti-communist, came into office in 1981 saying kremlin leaders did not hesitate to lie or cheat to achieve their goals. toughening his line, he later called the soviet union ``an evil empire.''
however, he softened his tone in his second term, and worked out a treaty _ signed in december _ to abolish u.s. and soviet medium-range nuclear missiles
reagan has said gorbachev is different from other soviet leaders, with his campaign for openness and reform. after the december summit, he said he felt the soviets no longer were intent on world domination and that the two superpowers can live in peace. dealership unavailable. no pickup.</note>
a used-car salesman fired over what his boss said were his loud and ugly sport coats said wednesday he wore a pink one to sign an agreement settling his age-discrimination suit against the dealership
i was going to wear the pink sport coat on the first day of the trial,'' said 62-year-old lee grant, who sued darby buick of sarasota. contacted at another used car lot where he now works, he said, ``i believe i have proved my point.''
the suit, which had become known in courthouse circles as ``the dress of a salesman,'' was to go to trial in u.s. district court on wednesday
grant's lawyer, nancy donnellan, said the terms of the agreement require that the amount of the settlement be kept secret. the two sides are awaiting an order by judge wendell a. miles officially dismissing the suit, she said
i wanted those sports coats vindicated,'' said ms. donnellan. ``they aren't really that bad.''
telephone calls wednesday to the office of william sizemore, darby's attorney, were not returned
grant had claimed he was forced out of his job because of age in 1985, even though with 30 years experience he was the top salesman
at the start of 1984, grant said, the average age of 13 salesmen at darby was 50. between january 1984 and august 1985, he said, the average had been reduced to 38
sizemore contended grant was discharged ``based on his behavior'' at the car lot
grant said he was fired after c. conrad darby jr. had taken over management the dealership from darby's father in 1983 and started a ``new image'' campaign. he said he was told to wear sports coats for a more professional look
after forcing darby to put the policy in writing, grant said he bought jackets he described as pale pink and rainbow plaid. the latter, he said, has every color in it and matches gray slacks or green, or red or blue
rather than promote the new image, grant was being stubbon, sizemore said in court documents
one jacket was multicolored ... and the other was a loud fuchsia color,'' he said
sizemore said grant had other iritating habits, such as catnapping at work. grant said he only took a few winks, a habit he acquired when the elder darby was in control
supporters of a civil rights bill enacted over president reagan's veto say it will help cure ``an epidemic of discrimination'' that followed a 1984 supreme court decision limiting federal protection for many groups
discrimination in federally funded institutions is occurring at accelerated rates,'' rep. don edwards, d-calif., said tuesday as the house joined the senate in overriding reagan's veto of the civil rights restoration act
edwards, chairman of the house judiciary subcommittee on civil rights, said the education department closed or suspended hundreds of sex bias cases after the court ruling
even as the voting occurred, reagan was calling the bill ``a power grab'' by the federal government. but the white house later issued a statement acknowledging the override and saying the administration would ``work to implement the new law.''
the postal rate increase that will push the cost of mailing a first-class letter to 25 cents next month is likely to affect consumers in a host of other areas as well, as businesses pass along their own higher costs
while first-class rates will be most readily noticed, the charges to businesses for mailing bills and advertising and sending books and magazines to american homes also affect individuals. prices and subscription rates may well increase, with the postage costs being cited as a factor
the new rates, for example, would add about $1.15 to the annual cost of mailing a weekly newsmagazine to one home. utilities, credit card companies and department stores will have to spend about 36 cents more, annually, to bill one customer. the cost of an average book club mailing will rise by about 50 cents
the reagan administration is trying to encourage panamanian leader manuel antonio noriega to leave his homeland by offering to fly him into exile along with family and friends, u.s. officials say
the proposal was made last week when noriega met with two state department envoys who encouraged him to step down as commander of panama's defense forces and to accept a spanish offer of political exile, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
but noriega told the envoys he was not willing to accept any arrangement that involves his departure from panama
a general strike aimed at ousting gen. manuel antonio noriega closed shops nationwide, but food was running low and noriega again rejected a u.s. call for him to surrender power and go into exile
i am a panamanian not a gringo,'' noriega said after meeting tuesday with a small group of union supporters. ``let the world know we are fighting the ultimate battle for dignity and against colonialism.''
an estimated 90 percent of offices and industries were shut by the strike on tuesday. most shops and stores were closed, public transportation was halted and many government employees did not go to work
henry kissinger, alexander m. haig jr. and other advisers to president nixon from 1969 to 1974 rejected proposals for a more outspoken policy on soviet human rights and refused to let some jewish groups use the white house as a platform, according to newly released presidential documents
the advisers favored a more low-profile effort involving behind-the-scenes negotiations with the soviets, the documents indicate
the guidance from general haig is that we should not get the president involved in our replies to soviet jewry correspondence,'' aide a. denis clift said in a memorandum on how the white house should respond to letters from critics of soviet policies
kissinger himself wrote ``there is virtually no way'' the united states could exert public pressure on the soviet union to improve the plight of jews
federal manufacturing safety inspectors will begin actually checking the factory floor rather than just office records, in a major reagan administration policy reversal on the eve of congressional hearings
beginning next week, occupational safety and health administration inspectors will start ``walking through'' high-hazard areas of every factory they enter instead of just looking at plant office records of job illnesses and injuries, the agency said tuesday
the change will take effect monday, a day before the senate begins hearings on a two-year congressional investigation into what critics maintain has been osha's excessive reliance on employer records in ferreting out job hazards
prime minister yitzhak shamir returned from the united states to the cheers of thousands of singing and dancing supporters who welcomed his steadfast refusal to accept an american peace plan
i return satisfied, especially after people tried to frighten me before i left that the visit would be a difficult one and that i would hear harsh words,'' shamir told an airport news conference tuesday. ``i'm satisfied that didn't happen.''
in israel's occupied lands on tuesday, a palestinian motorist was ambushed and killed near the gaza strip town of khan yunis, and israeli troops shot and killed a palestinian in the west bank village of tubas.   
president jose napoleon duarte and the rightists who defeated his party in legislative and municipal elections have declared a willingness to work together on this country's tremendous problems
but the leftist guerrillas waging an 8-year-old war against the u.s.-backed government said tuesday the result of sunday's vote would make the nation ``ungovernable.'' a rebel commander said the electoral result _ an outright majority for the rightist opposition in the national legislature _ favors the guerrillas by giving the people ``a clear alternative.''
in addition to the war, el salvador has crippling economic problems
church people prefer being led by ordained clergy rather than lay professionals, even though the clergy are not considered very effective, a national study of roman catholics and protestants finds
catholics were found somewhat more confident in lay leadership than protestants, but also favored ordaining women and married men _ which catholicism forbids _ to keep up the clergy supply
the year-long study by hartford seminary's center for social and religious research was prompted by growing concern over a clergy shortage
lay leaders at more than 200 parishes across the country were asked to consider 12 leadership tasks, rating them according to importance and how effective the clergy handle them
for preaching, liturgical leadership, pastoral counseling, directing religious education, parish evangelization and parish planning, the gap between importance and effectiveness ranges from 30 perceent to 40 percent'' among catholics, the study found
the gap among three protestant denominations surveyed ranged between 20 percent and 30 percent. the protestants studied were the episcopal church, the lutheran church in america and the united methodist church
the study also found both protestants and catholics somewhat cool toward professional lay leaders, but with catholics more willing for lay professionals to perform many of the chores now undertaken by the clergy
aproximately 60 percent of members of each denomination expressed strong or moderate agreement that the morale in their parish or congregation would be adversely affected were they not able to secure a full-time, ordained pastor
also, except for lutherans (52 precent) over 60 percent of all respondents agree that the average lay person responds best to ordained leadership,'' the researchers wrote
when asked what option they would chose if unable to afford a full-time pastor, more than 80 percent preferred some form of ordained, part-time leadership to either full-time or part-time lay leadership
the seminary, an interdenominational theological center, released a preliminary report on its year-long study last week. a fuller report is due later this year
one purpose was to examine attitudes toward professional lay leadership, and its comparative costs
in general, protestant clergy were compensated at a rate nearly double what catholic priests receive _ an average of $45,005 a year for an episcopal priest compared to $26,376 a year for a catholic priest. compensation includes salary, plus such items as housing, health care and retirement benefits
the study said protestants would save if professional lay leaders replaced clergy to run parishes. for catholics, the costs would be closer to the same
full-time lay professionals earn an average of $23,246 a year among united methodists, the top among protestants, compared to $16,754 among episcoplians and $18,527 a year among catholics
the research team included jackson w. carroll, hartford seminary's research director; dean r. hoge, a sociology professor at catholic university in washington, d.c.; and the rev. francis k. sheets, a church management specialist
they gathered information from eight metropolitan areas: nashua, n.h.; trenton, n.j.; orlando, fla.; mobile, ala.; dallas; cleveland; colorado springs, colo.; and bremerton, wash
the 2,209 lay leaders in 201 parishes submitted 1,829 completed questionaires
the question of who will minister to churchgoers in the future is of critical importance to church officials
among catholics, it's estimated that the number of priests will decline by 40 percent by the year 2000. the number of catholic seminarians declined from 8,885 in 1965 to 4,063 in 1985, the researchers said
among protestants, there is an oversupply of clergy for some larger, well-to-do parishes, while there's an increasing shortage among smaller parishes unable to afford the cost of full-time clergy members, researchers said
the study found that catholics pay substantially less per household to suport their priests compared to protestant households. catholics contribute an average $28 per household annually to pay for priests, compared to lutherans, who topped the survey with an annual contribution of $342 per household
among other findings:
_about 75 percent of catholic lay leaders compared to about half the protestants believe ``most tasks currently done by ordained pastors can be done equally well by lay persons with special competence for the task.''
_about half the catholics prefer priests rather than lay people give sermons, compared to 75 percent among protestants
_more than two-thirds of the protestants want their priests to lead the confirmation classes compared to 25 percent among catholics
churches can be effective partners in helping the poor, but ``we cannot go it alone,'' says auxiliary bishop john h. ricard of baltimore
testifying recently for the u.s. catholic conference before a house subcommittee, he said churches and other private groups have labored valiantly to take up the slack caused by erosion of government programs
but he said the private sector can't substitute for the ``essential responsibility'' of the government
increased church efforts, he said, are ``a desperate attempt to feed hungry people when others have abandoned their responsibility,'' but ``we cannot pretend that soup kitchens and shelters'' are sufficient
they cannot substitute for a national commitment to end hunger and invest our common resources to feed the hungry,'' he added
the united methodist commission on religion and race says a nationwide movement to make english the official language of the united states is a ``new form of racism''
the rev. yolanda pupo-ortiz, a commission staff member, said that on the surface the ``english only'' movement appears harmless, but ``its real purpose is to make a legal base for discrimination.''
supporters of the movement contend that multilingualism perpetuates divisions. thirty-two states have introduced constitutional amendments to recognize english as their official language
bishop herbert chilstrom, head of the evangelical lutheran church in america, told a meeting of presidents of lutheran collegs:
the first thing you can expect from the church is money. the second thing you can expect is not much of it.''
there are 52 lutheran colleges in the country
a delegation of protestant and roman catholic leaders from mozambique, which suffers from drought, hunger and brutal civil strife, has appealed to americans for relief and development aid
anything withheld for political or ideological motives simply means we are allowing people to die in front of us just because we are unsure of their political preferences,'' the churchmen said
they said an estimated 4.5 million people in mozambique are threatened by starvation, that about 100,000 have been killed by roving anti-government ``bandidos'' and more than 2 million people displaced as refugees
a nebraska pastor told students at southern baptist theological seminary that preachers need to do more story-telling in their sermons
stories are life changers,'' said the rev. calvin miller of omaha. ``they produce and their product is real.''
termed the first such direct shipment from this country to the soviet union, two tons of kosher food and other passover supplies were sent by manhattan's park east synagogue to the chorale synagogue in moscow
rabbi arthur schneier, leader of the manhattan synagogue and president of the appeal of concience foundation, worked out plans for the shipment with soviet officials in january. passover week is april 2-9
mainline churches _ protestant, roman catholic and eastern orthodox _ have a long-time policy against endorsing or opposing specific political candidates seeking election
but the united church of christ decided last week that the rule doesn't apply to nominees appointed for public office, such as the u.s. supreme court
the 1.7 million-member denomination's executive council approved speaking out on such appointed candidates after hearing a study report that neither the bible, the u.s. constitution nor irs regulations forbid it
some religious leaders, including the denomination's president, the rev. avery post, had opposed the nomination last year of judge robert bork to the high court, while others supported him. he eventually withdrew
parker stevenson smiles at the suggestion that his character on the new abc series ``probe'' appears to be a cross between sherlock holmes and tom swift
austin james is an eccentric scientist who uses his remarkable mental skills to fight crime. his knowledge has made him fabulously wealthy, but he prefers to avoid the think tank he founded and live in an old warehouse he calls the ``batcave.''
i think of him more as sherlock holmes and elmer fudd,'' said stevenson, ``since there is a fumbling aspect to his personality. i'm playing a whacko. he's clever, but whacko. that's what made me anxious to go back and do another series. i don't see myself getting bored doing this
he sleeps naked in an isolation tank. actually, it's a tool cabinet. he drink martinis and eat blocks of frozen peas. he's different than `macgyver' or `the knight rider.' you always know that sherlock holmes can figure it out. in some episodes you're never really sure if austin james will get it.''
austin james in ``probe'' is sort of a one-man brain trust. he solves crimes by being receptive to data that other people miss. ashley crow plays naive and inexperienced mickey castle, his dr. watson
her point of view becomes valuable to him,'' stevenson said. ``and she's fascinated enough by what he does to stick around and put up with the grief.''
the one-hour series was created by famed science-fiction writer isaac asimov and michael wagner, former story editor of ``hill street blues.'' asimov came up with the characters and concept and wagner wrote the pilot
i've never met isaac,'' said stevenson. ``but i'd love to have him come on the show as my mentor and throw me a few words of wisdom if i start to run amok. isaac lives in new york and won't fly.''
probe'' appears on abc at 8 p.m. est thursdays, where it's up against nbc's ``the cosby show'' and ``a different world.'' fortunately for stevenson, it's not up against nbc's ``cheers,'' which stars his wife, kirstie alley
this is the first series for stevenson since he did a half-season on cbs' ``falcon crest'' in the 1984-85 season. before that he was in ``the hardy boys'' in 1977-79
i was a bad guy on `falcon crest,' which was fun,'' he said. ``you don't want to do the same kind of character all the time. the last few years i've been doing different kinds of roles. it's helped me rediscover why i went into this business in the first place
i think the intention was to bring me in and kill me off. i did more episodes than i thought i would, but they still ended up burying me in a graveyard.''
in recent times he's also played an amoral newspaper reporter in the cbs movie ``betrayal of trust'' and in episodes of ``alfred hitchcock presents'' and ``the hitchhiker.''
last year he was in the second part of the abc miniseries ``north and south.'' he played bill hazzard from the northern family, who married genie francis from the southern family. kirstie alley played his sister in both installments
stevenson grew up in new york city, where he started doing commercials and movies when he was about 14. his first movie was ``a separate peace.'' he was also in the cult film ``lifeguard'' with sam elliott
`the hardy boys' got me established,'' he said. ``i learned about directing, studios, networks. it was a paid education. then came the hangover, which has to do with being typecast and inexperienced. i feel i've had several shots at an acting career. i feel lucky because usually you have only one chance in this business.''
and, the answer to that lingering question is, yes, he and jameson parker of cbs' ``simon &amp; simon'' are frequently mistaken for each other. ``we get each other's mail,'' he said. ``i got an invitation for an expense-paid trip to florida to attend the premiere of one of his movies. the funny thing is jameson and i did a commercial together in new york years ago. now we laugh about all the mixup.''
elsewhere in television:
usa today _ a daily television show based on the newspaper usa today is being prepared for a sept. 12 debut. steve friedman, president of gtg east, said the four anchors for the syndicated show would be introduced on a ``flying press conference'' to six cities in april. the front page anchor will be announced later, but anchors already chosen are bill macatee for sports, robin young for life and kenneth walker for money. ``this is my dream team,'' said friedman. ``people who will take television into the '90s. folks who have been born and raised as part of the television generation.''
mainline churches _ protestant, roman catholic and eastern orthodox _ have a long-time policy against endorsing or opposing specific political candidates seeking election
but the united church of christ decided last week that the rule doesn't apply to nominees for appointed public offices such as the u.s. supreme court
the 1.7-million-member denomination's executive council approved speaking out on such appointed candidates after hearing a study report that neither the bible, the u.s. constitution nor irs regulations forbid it
some religious leaders, including the denomination's president, the rev. avery post, had opposed the nomination last year of judge robert bork to the high court, while others supported him. he eventually withdrew
termed the first such direct shipment from this country to the soviet union, two tons of kosher food and other passover supplies were sent by manhattan's park east synagogue to the chorale synagogue in moscow
rabbi arthur schneier, leader of the manhattan synagogue and president of the appeal of concience foundation, worked out plans for the shipment with soviet officials in january. passover week is april 2-9
a nebraska pastor told students at southern baptist theological seminary that preachers need to do more story-telling in their sermons
stories are life changers,'' said the rev. calvin miller of omaha. ``they produce and their product is real.''
bishop herbert chilstrom, head of the evangelical lutheran church in america, told a meeting of presidents of lutheran colleges:
the first thing you can expect from the church is money. the second thing you can expect is not much of it.''
there are 52 lutheran colleges in the country
a delegation of protestant and roman catholic leaders from mozambique, which suffers from drought, hunger and brutal civil strife, has appealed to americans for relief and development aid
anything withheld for political or ideological motives simply means we are allowing people to die in front of us just because we are unsure of their political preferences,'' the churchmen said
they said an estimated 4.5 million people in mozambique are threatened by starvation, that about 100,000 have been killed by roving anti-government ``bandidos'' and more than 2 million people displaced as refugees
the united methodist commission on religion and race says that a nationwide movement to make english the official language of the united states is a ``new form of racism''
the rev. yolanda pupo-ortiz, a commission staff member, said that on the surface the ``english only'' movement appears harmless, but ``its real purpose is to make a legal base for discrimination.''
proponents of the movement contend that multilingualism perpetuates divisions. thirty-two states have introduced constitutional amendments to recognize english as their official language
churches can be ``effective partners'' in helping the poor, but ``we cannot go it alone,'' says auxiliary bishop john h. ricard of baltimore
testifying recently for the u.s. catholic conference before a house subcommittee, he said churches and other private groups have labored valiantly to take up the slack caused by erosion of government programs
but he said the private sector can't substitute for the ``essential responsibility'' of the government
increased church efforts, he said, are ``a desperate attempt to feed hungry people when others have abandoned their responsibility,'' but ``we cannot pretend that soup kitchens and shelters'' are sufficient
they cannot substitute for a national commitment to end hunger and invest our common resources to feed the hungry,'' he added
at 92, val browning piles his two dogs into a car each day and drives 17 miles to keep alive the name and reputation of the most prolific firearms inventor in history
browning is the former president and now honorary chairman of the board of the firearms company named for his father, john m. browning, who designed more than 80 military and sporting arms
a list of john browning's inventions could serve as the framework for any history of firearms over the last century. it includes the winchester model 1886 lever-action repeating rifle, america's first smokeless-powder sporting rifle, the automatic shotgun, the colt .45 automatic pistol and all the machine guns used by u.s. troops on land, sea or air from world war i to the korean war
he was a most unpretentious man. you would never know he was a man of any renown to meet. there was never any kind of show,'' says val browning, whose description of his father could apply equally to the son
respected firearms inventor himself with 48 patents, generous benefactor of colleges and hospitals, decorated by belgian royalty, val browning nevertheless has lived his life in the shadow of a giant
he was such an extraordinary genius and accomplished so much that there wasn't much left to do in firearms design except to take advantage of modern materials and methods,'' val browning said of his father during an interview at corporate headquarters
indeed, val browning's two most satisfying inventions were improvements to his father's designs _ a quick-loading feature for the automatic shotgun and a single-trigger mechanism for the over-under double-barrel shotgun
val's son, john val browning, 62, was president of browning for 14 years until just before it was acquired in 1977 by fabrique nationale d'armes de guerre of belgium. he speaks with insight about the challenge his father faced as a son of the great inventor
it's a very difficult problem for him,'' the younger browning said. ``but i think that he always understood it. he was always striving to do something on his own. he just didn't sit down and live off the fame of his father. and what he could do, he did.''
two years ago, father and son returned to belgium, where val browning had charge of his father's firearms interests from 1920 to 1935, and to northern france, where as a young second lieutenant in 1918 he instructed american troops in the use of two john browning inventions _ the .30-caliber water-cooled machine gun and the fabled browning automatic rifle, or b.a.r
i was up at the front to keep track of them and to report on their performance,'' val browning said
his father's .50-caliber machine gun was produced too late for use in world war i, a conflict triggered in 1914 when a john browning-designed .32-caliber pistol was used to assassinate austrian archduke franz ferdinand and his wife sophie at sarajevo
eight years after the war, at the fabrique nationale plant at liege, john browning, 72, suddenly took ill. val browning, who was with him, recalls the moment:
he said, `son, i think i'm dying.' i said, `no, i don't think so.' i was of course trying to encourage him. but he was, and he did.''
returning to his native ogden, utah, in 1935, val browning became president of the j.m. &amp; m.s. browning co. and browning arms co., a post he held until 1962, when he was succeeded by his son, john
but today, only val browning remains associated with the sporting arms company formed the year after his father's death. ``that's one reason why i stayed on, so there would be somebody with the name connected with it,'' he said
like his father, val browning is a habitual walker and was, before injuring his shoulder four years ago, an avid hunter of duck, pigeons and small game
if i didn't eat what i shot i wouldn't shoot it,'' he said, touching on reasons he believes the sporting arms business has a rocky future
population growth, dwindling wildlife habitat and ``the general feeling against firearms in this country make it so that it's rather an undesirable business to be in,'' he said
his son puts it another way: ``the idea of going out hunting is considered somewhat reprehensible. the same sensitivity does not seem to extend to fish.''
val browning, father of four and a widower since 1975, embraces life with an avidity and humor that belie his years. his dogs, beau and jill, join him as he drives up weber canyon to company headquarters at mountain green. he keeps busy there for three or four hours a day, sometimes test-firing browning's latest line
an early riser who walks two miles a day, he quit smoking 50 years ago when an errant cigarette ash ruined a good suit
also, ``i used to like a cocktail very much indeed. and sometimes three of them.'' but he's learned to ``sort of listen to what my system was trying to tell me'' and a single cocktail every couple of months, in social settings to ease a natural shyness, is all he allows himself
he has the blood pressure of a 16-year-old,'' says his cook, nancy clifford
more refined than his frontier father, he reads constantly, has a substantial art collection and loves music
i'm trying to understand atonal music, but i think i'm a little bit too old for that,'' he says in the deadpan that sets up the punchline. ``in other words, i can't whistle it.''
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of march 25 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner is blanche du bois and aidan quinn plays stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available. closes april 9
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``joe turner's come and gone,'' august wilson's new play about the search for identity by the sons and daughters of slaves. ethel barrymore, same number as telecharge. ticketron
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``m. butterfly,'' john lithgow stars in a play by david henry hwang about the love affair between a former french diplomat and a chinese opera star. eugene o'neill, 246-0220. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oba oba,'' a brazilian dance revue. now in previews, opens march 29. ambassador, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the gospel at colonus,'' a gospel version of a greek classic by sophocles. lunt-fontanne, 575-9200. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available. closes april 9
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult. florida suit; and to recast to clarify that both man and wife died in crash. picks up 5th graf pvs, `we don't...'. adds 4 grafs with detail on second case.</note>
the death of an ibm executive in a 1985 airplane crash deprived him of more than $6 million in earnings, according to a federal jury that awarded $7.95 million to the estates of the man and his wife
attorneys for delta air lines immediately moved to set aside the verdict, delivered monday night after five hours of deliberations in the case brought by the estate of philip d. estridge, 47, of new canaan, conn., and his wife, mary ann, who also died in the crash
tuesday, another ibm executive who lost a daughter in the crash, and claimed his career was damaged by his emotional reaction to that loss, won a $3.5 million damage judgment against delta in a case that was tried in west palm beach, fla. the flight originated in fort lauderdale
attorney lee kreindler, who represented the estridge estate, said the sum awarded in the new york case was a record for compensatory damages in a wrongful-death suit. the breakdown was $6.25 million for estridge's loss of earning; $750,000 for loss of enjoyment of life; and $100,000 for mental anguish
for the estate of mrs. estridge, the jury awarded $750,000 for loss of enjoyment of life; and $100,000 for mental anguish. the couple's three daughters had sought $25 million for estridge and $5 million for mrs. estridge
we don't think anything could have happened any better, and we're definitely relieved it's over,'' said evelyn eubanks, one of the daughters. ``it doesn't make it better, but it helps us to live with it.''
estridge, who received much of the credit for moving ibm into the personal computer market, and his wife were among 137 people killed when a lockheed l-1011 crashed on approach at dallas-fort worth international airport on aug. 2, 1985
ibm chairman and chief executive john f. akers testified at the trial that there was ``a strong possibility'' estridge would have become one of the company's six senior executives
those executives make an average of $350,000 per year, with an additional $150,000 per year in ibm stock which cannot be sold until retirement. shortly before his death, estridge was named overseer of ibm's worldwide manufacturing operations at a yearly salary of $240,000
akers also testified there was a competitive market for computer executives and estridge could have moved to another company offering more money
although the trial was held in new york city, the award was reached under the law of estridge's home state of connecticut to allow for the salary projection figures, kreindler said
delta lawyer john sabetta declined to comment on the award, but asked u.s. district judge john e. sprizzo to set the jury award aside shortly after it was announced. legal briefs on that motion are due may 21
delta spokesman bill berry referred calls to the company's insurance carrier, u.s. aviation underwriters, and had no other comment. a u.s. aviation spokesman, bob albert, was in a meeting and unavailable to comment
in the florida case, a federal jury deliberated less than two hours before awarding dennis and gayle zarnt of boca raton $3.5 million for the death of their 15-year-old daughter, julie, who coincidentally was aboard the same flight as the estridges
ibm executives testified in videotaped depositions that the girl's death left zarnt, a member of the management team responsible for the introduction of the original ibm-pc, an emotional ``basket case'' unable to continue what had been an outstanding career
delta attorney howard barwick, who had argued to the jury that an award of about $500,000 would be adequate, declined to comment on the verdict. the zarnts' attorney, robert m. montgomery jr., said he expected delta would appeal. he had sought $5 million in damages
much of ibm's development of the personal computer was done at boca raton, and the estridges had formerly lived there
higher postage rates, including a 25-cent charge for first-class letters, will take effect april 3, the postal service says
the new rates, announced tuesday, reflect higher costs of delivering mail, said john l. griesemer, chairman of the postal service board of governors
the board set the effective date for the sweeping series of new rates recommended by the independent postal rate commission earlier this month. rates were last changed in february 1985, when the price of a first-class stamp rose to 22 cents from 20 cents
dissident stockholders dropped their opposition to texaco inc.'s financial reorganization plan as a federal judge opened a hearing on whether to implement the proposal
texaco, the nation's third largest oil company, announced tuesday that the plan was overwhelmingly supported in a vote by shareholders. some 96 percent of the 181 million shares voted backed the plan, which would allow the company to emerge from bankruptcy court protection
u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg heard comments on the plan from various parties, and recessed the hearing until today
campeau corp. has sweetened its bid for federated department stores inc. and proposed a friendly merger with the retailer
campeau raised its two-tier, all-cash offer to approximately $73 a share, or $6.53 billion, on tuesday from $68 a share, or $6.18 billion
at the same time, campeau extended the deadline for expiration of its offer until midnight est april 4, when a competing $6.3 billion tender offer by r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. that federated has accepted is also due to expire
american stores co. has offered $1.72 billion to acquire lucky stores inc. of california in a deal that would create one of the nation's largest supermarket and discount drug chains
the $45-per-share bid announced tuesday for lucky stores came some 16 months after lucky derailed a hostile takeover attempt by new york investor asher edelman
the latest unsolicited offer sent lucky's stock soaring by $14.50 a share to $46.37{ on the new york stock exchange
black &amp; decker corp. has withdrawn its $77-a-share bid for american standard inc., halting the bidding war over the plumbing giant
tuesday's action permits a $78-a-share leveraged buyout of american standard, spearheaded by kelso &amp; co. and valued at $2.45 billion, to go forward
under the agreement, kelso will pay black &amp; decker $25 million for withdrawing its bid, as soon as kelso begins purchasing stock under its tender offer or acquires at least 20 percent of american standard's shares in any other transaction
koppers co. has rejected a revised cash tender offer of $56 a share, or about $1.6 billion, from a takeover company formed by britain's brian beazer and the u.s. investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc
koppers chairman charles r. pullin said tuesday that the koppers' board believes remaining independent ``is a superior alternative to accepting'' the revised offer from beazer's bns inc
entertainer merv griffin has raised his bid for hotel and casino operator resorts international inc. by $70 million to $295 million
the new offer disclosed tuesday is for $45.73 per share, more than twice the $22 per share that his rival bidder, real estate tycoon donald trump, is proposing to pay for the portion of the company he doesn't already own
trump, who is resorts' chairman, controls 88 percent of the company's voting power. trump's lawyer, jack nusbaum, said tuesday that trump would be willing to withdraw his own offer for resorts under certain conditions
orders to u.s. factories for major durable goods fell 1.8 percent in february, the government says
but analysts said tuesday that the second consecutive monthly decline in durable goods orders _ which matched the 1.8 percent decline in january _ had not shaken their belief that manufacturing will be a bright spot in the economy this year
federal fuel-economy standards will cause thousands of traffic deaths next year by discouraging the use of safer, larger cars, two researchers say
a study released tuesday by robert w. crandall of the brookings institution in washington and john d. graham of the harvard school of public health in boston said fuel-economy regulation ``inevitably leads to smaller, lighter cars that are inherently less safe'' than bigger cars
meanwhile, the transportation department told congress that passenger cars sold in the united states got 28.2 miles per gallon last year overall, up 0.2 miles per gallon from the previous year
three zeros may mean nothing by themselves, but leaving them off the end of a number may cost the nation's largest insurer about $11 million
prudential insurance co. of america is offering the payment to settle claims resulting from a clerical error in which a lien it held was listed as worth $92,885 instead of $92,885,000
u.s. bankruptcy judge howard buschman iii heard closing arguments on the proposed settlement tuesday and is expected to rule within several days
eight states have filed suit accusing dozens of insurance companies of conspiring to create the liability insurance crisis, making coverage unavailable or too costly for many governments and businesses
texas attorney general jim mattox said tuesday that the suits alleged that eight american property and casualty insurance companies, along with other industry representatives, plotted to create the liability insurance crisis beginning around 1984
david ostwald, a vice president of the insurance services office, which is named in the suit, called the charges ``unfounded and meritless.''
the stock market finished narrowly mixed tuesday as the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 0.99 point to 2,066.15
bond prices were narrowly mixed and short-term interest rates edged up
the dollar finished mixed against most major currencies
platinum future prices surged, petroleum futures prices finished mostly higher, wheat and soybean futures prices rose but corn slipped
energy futures prices have turned mixed in moderate trading, with crude oil falling sharply on the final day of trading in the april contract
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intemediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, settled at $16.09 per 42-gallon barrel tuesday, down 40 cents from monday. the contract had fallen 9 cents on monday
traders attributed the decline largely to technical factors stemming from the imminent expiration of the april contract, which traded for the last time on tuesday. the may contract for wti rose 6 cents to $16.37 a barrel
among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale heating oil closed up 0.75 cent at 46.15 cents per gallon, after rising 0.35 cent monday. unleaded gasoline, which increased 0.12 cent on monday, gained 0.21 cent to 46.32 cents a gallon on tuesday
richard redoglia, a trader for merrill lynch energy futures, said prices were supported by speculation that a pending weekly report from the american petroleum institute would show a reduction in crude oil stock levels
he said the market generally ignored the cancellation of a tuesday news conference by rilwanu lukman, president of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, that was expected to have focused on stabilizing sagging oil prices
no one expected him to say anything of great importance anyway,'' redoglia said
down but not out of its battle for federated department stores inc., campeau corp. has launched a counterattack: a sweetened buyout offer and a proposal for a friendly merger
campeau's move on tuesday appeared to give it back the edge it recently lost to r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. in the high-stakes campaign to acquire the cincinnati-based retailer
campeau raised its two-step, all-cash offer to approximately $73 a share, or $6.53 billion, from $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. under the new offer, campeau said it would pay $82 each for 70.5 million federated shares and $37 for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares in a subsequent merger
campeau also extended the expiration of its offer to midnight est april 4, when macy's competing $6.3 billion offer is to expire
campeau, a toronto-based developer, also proposed to federated's board of directors an alternate friendly merger under which it would pay $73 a share for 70.5 million shares in a tender offer and $73 for the remaining shares following the merger
federated has agreed to merge with macy, which is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares
federated stock was up $2.37{ to $69.25 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading tuesday. campeau announced its sweetened offer an hour before the end of the session
campeau had been expected to sweeten its offer or propose a friendly deal after the company lost two rounds in court to invalidate federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
campeau contended its bid could not go forward while the pill was in effect, leaving macy with the upper hand following the court rulings
the defense makes a takeover prohibitively expensive by allowing federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount
it was not immediately clear how a simultaneous expiration of both offers would affect the application of the pill, over which federated has sole discretion
that's not something we can really comment on at this point,'' said jim sluzewski, a federated spokesman
nancy raeside, a campeau spokeswoman, said the company would continue its legal battle to strike down the defense
on monday, a federal judge rebuffed campeau's proposal that he remove the pill in exchange for campeau extending its tender offer to expire simultaneously with macy's offer
u.s. district judge leonard sand said the pill would remain in place at least until federated makes a final recommendation to its shareholders, ms. raeside said. on friday, sand denied campeau's request to invalidate the pill
before sand's ruling, analysts had given campeau's all-cash offer the edge over macy's cash-and-stock bid. but campeau appeared to regain the advantage with its sweetened offer, said edward johnson, an analyst with prescott ball &amp; turben inc
johnson said federated shareholders likely would jump to take advantage of the higher price in the first stage of campeau's offer. ``it puts campeau's bid ahead and leaves the ball up to macy's,'' he said
macy had no immediate comment on campeau's move, said maureen milano, a spokeswoman for the retailer
federated spokesman sluzewski said if the federated board received a revised offer from campeau, the directors would consider it. he said the board was scheduled to meet this week, but would not confirm that the revised offer would be on the agenda
in a letter to the federated board, campeau proposed that a campeau-federated merger be structured along lines similar to the retailer's agreement with macy
campeau said it also would continue fighting federated's agreement to pay macy millions of dollars in fees if the macy-federated deal falls through
lucky stores inc., a takeover target for the second time in two years, is highly regarded in the supermarket industry for its quality management and shrewd marketing practices
the company is on a roll,'' analyst jonathan ziegler of sutro &amp; co. inc. said tuesday after american stores co. made an unsolicited $45 a share, $1.72 billion buyout that sent lucky's stock soaring
i think american wants lucky's management as much they want a stronger foothold in california,'' ziegler said
lucky said from its headquarters in dublin, 30 miles east of san francisco, that it was not prepared to comment on the surprise offer
but investors reacted quickly, sending lucky's stock climbing $14.50 a share to $46.37{ tuesday in heavy trading on the new york stock exchange. the rise above american stores' offer could indicate speculators believe the bids will go even higher _ some analysts say $50 a share is not out of the question
if successful, the acquisition by salt lake city-based american stores would create the nation's largest supermarket chain
lucky stores, the nation's no. 6 grocery retailer, has 480 stores and had $6.4 billion in 1987 sales. american stores, the third biggest, has 1,600 stores and $14.1 billion in sales
the bid for lucky came just over a year after takeover strategist asher edelman formally dropped a hostile takeover attempt, in return for the company's agreement to $2.8 million of his legal costs
lucky thwarted edelman partly by selling off non-grocery divisions and adopting anti-takeover measures that make it difficult but not impossible for an unwanted suitor to grab the company
a lot of people were looking to see how the restructured lucky's would wind up,'' said ron rotter, an analyst for morgan, olmstead, kennedy &amp; gardner in los angeles
they're seeing a very healthy company that got out of its one link, the midwest, and is left with very strong market shares in much of the country,'' he said
in its defensive restructuring, lucky stores closed its popular gemco department stores and sold other non-grocery divisions, shedding thousands of employees in the process
industry observers say the slimming gave company management the impetus to make long-needed structural changes that have been beneficial in the long run
the ``poison pill'' anti-takeover measure adopted during the edelman battle clash limits the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
today, the company is a major force in the discount supermarket business. its main competitors are oakland-based safeway _ the nation's largest grocery chain _ in northern california and von's and ralph's in southern california
the one thing that makes them (lucky's) successful is they have a clearly defined identity as the every-day, low-price leader,'' said rotter. ``even the competition will admit that they are the king at that
other stores are constantly shifting what their identity is,'' rotter said
if successful, american stores is expected to merge its weaker alpha beta grocery chain in california with lucky's stores, according to ziegler
i think it makes a lot of sense for american stores, and lucky's management would get a chance to shake up alpha beta,'' he said
if the dublin-based chain fights the bid, its might attempt a leveraged buyout or to seek a ``white knight'' friendly suitor to make a more attractive offer. but lucky stores, which had been exploring a possible acquisition of ralph's and further expansion in the food retailing business, may not be able to stand on its own through a second takeover battle, analysts said
until tuesday, the company's stock had been creeping up gradually since the october stock market crash. it stood at $35 a share last oct. 1, then fell to $21 before recovering to the levels it held before the american stores offer. stock</head>
in an unexpected twist, real estate developer donald trump has offered to end his bid for resorts international inc. and back a rival offer by entertainer merv griffin _ but only if griffin agrees only to seek stock with lesser voting rights than that owned by trump
mr. trump's position is quite simple,'' his attorney, jack nusbaum of new york said tuesday. ``if mr. griffin wishes to buy the (other) stock and become mr. trump's silent partner, god bless him.''
griffin _ who raised his cash offer for resorts by $70 million to $295 million on tuesday _ quickly rejected trump's proposal as ``ludicrous,'' said spokesman mark gill
we are trying to buy the entire company,'' gill quoted griffin as saying. ``we aren't interested in fooling around with portions or in sparring on the board with mr. trump.''
trump, who is resorts' chairman, controls 88 percent of the company's voting power by owning nearly all of its 752,000 class b common shares, which have 100 votes each
the company also has 5.7 million class a common shares with one vote each. trump owns none of those shares
nusbaum said if griffin amended his offer to seek only the class a stock, trump would withdraw his bid and recommend that shareholders accept griffin's
griffin on raised his cash bid for all of the company's stock to $45.73 per share, from his initial offer of $35 per share made last week
trump is offering $22 per share for the resorts stock he doesn't already own, principally its class a shares
resorts' class a stock price jumped $3.62{ to $32.25 on tuesday. that is up from $21.87{ before griffin began his overtures
the entertainer's privately-held investment concern, griffin co., said it decided to boost its offer after spending the weekend studying resorts appraisal documents released late friday by trump, a new york-based real estate developer
those documents show a $1.3 billion appraisal of resorts properties, including a when-completed value for its luxurious but troubled taj mahal hotel-casino in atlantic city, n.j
resorts, which is based on north miami, fla., has operations in new jersey and the bahamas
the documents also say the appraiser would be willing to support a $550 million bank mortgage loan secured by resorts. that is the amount trump has said will be needed to complete the taj mahal, whose estimated total price has ballooned to $938.5 million currently from $535 million four years ago
a $500 million suit griffin filed monday in new york federal court accused trump of failing to disclose ``material facts,'' including the $1.3 billion appraisal, to resorts shareholders in making his offer. it also accused trump and resorts directors of breaching fiduciary duty by refusing to consider the griffin offer
because griffin's offer is contingent on getting the backing of trump and trump has repeatedly said he won't agree to that condition, resorts' board has declined to pursue griffin's proposal, saying it is moot
griffin's offer also hinges on trump agreeing to terminate a five-year management contract worth an estimated $100 million to operate resorts' properties. trump also has spurned that condition
the justice department says it will sue real estate developer donald trump for allegedly violating federal notification provisions in his purchases of stock in holiday corp. and bally manufacturing corp
at the request of the federal trade commission, the department said it will file a lawsuit accusing trump of violating the hart-scott-rodino act fro aug. 22 through nov. 9, 1986 when he bought stock in memphis, tenn.-based holiday without complying with reporting and waiting-period requirements
the suit also will accuse trump, an operator of hotels and casinos, of violating the act from nov. 13, 1986 through jan. 22, 1987 when he bought stock in bally without complying with the law's requirements
discussions are under way to determine if a settlement can be reached, the department said in a statement issued tuesday
the act imposes notification and waiting requirements on companies and people over a certain size that are contemplating mergers or purchases of stocks or assets
the law is intended to improve antitrust enforcement by ensuring advance notice to the government of significant mergers and similar transactions
trump sought control of bally, a chicago-based hotel and amusements company, in 1987 but ended the attempt after bally agreed to buy 2.6 million shares back from him
holiday disclosed in september 1986, amid unconfirmed takeover rumors, that trump had purchased between 2 percent and 5 percent of its stock. holiday later underwent a recapitalization and adopted a ``poison pill'' takeover defense to thwart potential suitors
separately, the justice department said it will sue wickes companies inc. of santa monica, calif., accusing the company of violating the hart-scott-rodino act in its purchase of stock in the owens-corning fiberglass corp. of toledo, ohio in late 1986
but the department will file a proposed consent decree under which wickes, which sells lumber and other building materials, would pay $300,000 to settle the matter
sanford c. sigoloff, wickes chairman and chief executive officer, issued a statement saying his company did not believe it violated the disclosure requirements but settled the matter to avoid litigation costs
sigoloff also contended wickes had filed under the law in connection with the stock purchase and the ftc initially had cleared the filing
this settlement involves a long-standing technical dispute between the ftc and the investment community over the use of option agreements under the hart-scott-rodino rules,'' sigoloff stated
in a third case, the department said it will accuse roxboro investments ltd. and a subsidiary, first city financial corp. ltd., both of vancouver, british columbia, and three officers of the companies, with violating the hart-scott-rodino act. they will be accused based on their purchase in early 1986 of stock in ashland oil inc. of russell, ky
the three officers are samuel belzberg, president of roxboro and first city, and hyman belzberg and william belzberg, vice presidents of the two companies
the complaint will accuse the two companies and the three officers of violating the act from feb. 19 through april 2, 1986 when they bought ashland stock without complying with some of the law's requirements
first city attorneys issued a statement late tuesday saying they had been discussing a settlement with the department and believed a final agreement would be reached soon. trade</head>
japanese construction companies have proposed a meeting with their u.s. counterparts to help defuse tension over a construction trade issue causing serious friction between their respective governments, according to industry officials
officials of the japan federation of construction contractors said tuesday it sent a letter proposing the meeting in response to an unofficial approach recently made by the international engineering and construction industries council (iecic) in the united states
the japanese move came following last week's breakdown in negotiations over the u.s. demand that japan allow u.s. companies to participate in various construction projects in japan
the united states has given japan two weeks in which to come up with a satisfactory response, or face retaliation
last week, the japanese government advised u.s. commerce secretary william verity that it was ``working hard in order to present a further substantive offer'' and a fresh round of talks was expected to start in washington this week
according to officials of the construction federation, the letter noted the dispute has been escalating and the two nations' differing viewpoints may have arisen from a ``perception gap.'' the two trade rganizations should hold a private-sector meeting and find the ways of cooperating to defuse the tension, the letter stated
officials said construction companies in other countries had strong interest in gaining access to the japanese market, where projects worth more than 50 trillion yen _ about $393 billion at current exchange rates _ are undertaken annually
the federation last may established a special office to handle queries from other countries on legal and other procedures for taking part in construction projects in japan, and reportedly received more than 30 queries
hostile suitor black &amp; decker corp. has dropped its bid for american standard inc., allowing the target company's $2.45 billion leveraged buyout to go forward
black &amp; decker's announcement tuesday that it would drop its months-long pursuit of american standard followed a bizarre turn of events that halted trading in the company's stock for several hours for no apparent reason
american standard agreed last week to a $78 a share leveraged buyout led by the investment firm kelso &amp; co., thwarting the rival $77 a share, $2.4 billion bid from black &amp; decker
under the agreement reached tuesday with american standard, the towson-based tool and appliance manufacturer withdrew its hostile tender offer and agreed not to purchase american standard stock until kelso had an opportunity to pursue the leveragd buyout
kelso will pay black &amp; decker $25 million for withdrawing its bid, and black &amp; decker reserved the right to mount another takeover of american standard if kelso terminated its offer or failed to acquire shares by may 2
seventy-seven (dollars) was our top price,'' said barbara lucas, a black &amp; decker spokeswoman. ms. lucas also said black &amp; decker initially had thought kelso would be unable to finance its proposal, but tht apparently was not the case
an american standard spokeswoman said the company had no comment on the agreement
earlier tuesday, the new york stock exchange halted trading in black &amp; decker and american standard shares for three hours in anticipation of an announcement by black &amp; decker that never materialized
nyse vice president richard torrenzano said black &amp; decker ``initiated a call'' to the exchange and ``shared with us information concerning the american standard bid which materially could affect the price of their stock.''
but after trading was halted at 10:46 a.m. est, several conversations took place between black &amp; decker and exchange officials before it was determined that no announcement was forthcoming
the exchange also conferred with american standard, ``who advised us that it knows of no reason why trading in its stock should not resume,'' torrenzano said. the exchange resumed trading trading in both stocks at 1:43 p.m. est
the stock exchange most often halts trading when announcements that could affect a company's stock price are anticipated. typically, however, trading is only suspended for about 30 minutes while news is being disseminated, torrenzano said
it was unclear immediately whether the unusual turn of events would provoke an investigation by market regulators such as the securities and exchange commission
on the day, american standard shares dipped 12{ cents to $76.62{ per share on the nyse. black &amp; decker rose 37{ cents to $20 a share
black &amp; decker made its initial offer of $56 a share in late january, and sweetened it several times in response to rejections by american standard
american standard, a new york-based plumbing and air conditioning equipment maker, several weeks ago proposed a defensive recapitalization aimed at making the company a more expensive takeover target by loading it up with new debt
wall street analyst cornelius v. sewell said the buyout led by kelso would leave american standard with a ``some very heavy debt.''
they will presumably have a negative book value,'' said sewell, of argus research corp. in new york
sewell speculated that american standard was likely to sell its transportation products division, valued at about $600 million, to help pay off buyout costs
koppers co. has spurned a sweetened $1.6 billion cash buyout offer from british investor brian beazer and the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc. and said it still was pursuing alternative plans to remain independent
the board continues to believe that the company remaining independent is a superior alternative to accepting your offer,'' chairman charles r. pullin told beazer in a letter released tuesday by koppers
the beazer-shearson group raised its offer on sunday to $56 per share from $45 per share for the pittsburgh construction materials, paving services and chemicals company
pullin also declined beazer's invitation to negotiate a friendly merger
koppers stock declined 50 cents to $57 a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange
koppers announced earlier it was considering a recapitalization plan that might include a special cash dividend to shareholders, along with equity interest in the recapitalized company. such a program would make koppers a more expensive takeover target because of the debt it would incur to make the cash payment to shareholders
koppers said two major banks, which it declined to identify, have offered to arrange $1.125 billion in credit to fund the recapitalization
koppers has also said it might sell all or part of the building materials and paving services businesses sought by beazer
the british investor has indicated he might settle for just those parts of koppers. previously, he said he would sell the chemicals operations if bns succeeded in the hostile tender offer it launched march 3
bns holds 1.6 million, or 7.3 percent, of koppers' outstanding common shares
ailing first republicbank corp. may have to divest itself of some of its banks to become more attractive to investors, experts say
first republicbank, weakened by a run on deposits and recent multimillion-dollar losses, received a $1 billion injection of capital last week from the federal deposit insurance corp
but because it could take as much as $5 billion to rescue the nation's 13th-largest bank holding company, banking regulators are considering selling first republicbank's individual operations as a marketing alternative
fdic chairman l. william seidman said such a move ``certainly is an option.''
no spokesman for firstrepublic bank was available tuesday to comment on the idea
the first thing you think of is splitting the company into bite-size morsels,'' said james sexton, a former fdic director of supervision who is a consultant at bracewell &amp; patterson, an austin, texas law firm
the holding company's banks in major markets could be packaged together or in regional or in statewide combinations, analysts said. the holding company has banks in dallas, austin, houston and san antonio
it's a very large bank for someone else to acquire,'' said tanya azarchs, a banking analyst with new york-based standard &amp; poor's corp. ``i don't see anyone on the scene that's willing to do that.''
although the breakup of the holding company could make it more accessible to investors, some argue it would be better if the company remained intact
these banks are intertwined, having common management, borrowers and computer systems,'' sexton said. ``breaking off chunks presents some tough administrative problems.''
the bank holding company already is consolidating some of its banks, which could make a breakup more difficult. first republicbank already has cut the number of banks from 103 to 73, and plans to consolidate until only 40 banks are left
first republicbank reported a 1987 loss of $656.8 million, $3.92 billion in problem assets and had deposit outflows of more than $2 billion this year. its assets total about $33.2 billion
the dollar fell against most major currencies in quiet early trading in europe today. gold prices rose
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 127.15 yen, up 0.08 yen from tuesday's close. but later, in london, the dollar was quoted lower at 126.92 yen
the trading was quiet in the absence of market-affecting news and notable movements among participants,'' said ken iiya of the bank of tokyo in japan
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late tuesday's rates, included: 1.6928 west german marks, down from 1.6935; 1.3940 swiss francs, down from 1.4015; 5.7540 french francs, unchanged; 1.9003 dutch guilders, down from 1.9015; 1,252.90 italian lire, down from 1,253.25; and 1.2455 canadian dollars, down from 1.2468
in london, the dollar also fell against the the british pound which was quoted at $1.8357, more expensive than $1.8300 late tuesday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $449.60 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $448.75. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $450
in zurich, the bid price was $449.75 at noon, up from $448.50 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose 19 cents an ounce to close at $452.06 bid
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.48 a troy ounce, up from late tuesday's $6.46
the dollar, which fell sharply against the japanese yen tuesday, recovered slightly today, while stock prices also rebounded moderately in tokyo trading
after opening at 126.91 yen, the dollar edged up and closed at 127.15 yen, the day's high, up 0.08 yen from the close of 127.07 yen on tuesday, when the dollar fell 1.28 yen
the trading was quiet in the absence of market-affecting news and notable movements among participants,'' said ken iiya of the bank of tokyo
the market also was nervous about possible intervention by the bank of japan to support the dollar, he said
japan's central bank reportedly bought dollars to prop up the sagging u.s. currency when it fell to near 126.90 yen tuesday, traders said
the prevalent market view is that the dollar lacks strength, iiya said
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei average of 225 selected issues, a 123.51-point loser tuesday, gained 52.48 points, or 0.2 percent, closing at 25,895.23
the afternoon trading was not active as corporate investors took a cautious attitude, waiting for any market-affecting news, such as the u.s. consumer price index for february, which will be released later in the evening,'' said toshihisa haruumi of wako securities
most buy orders centered around large-capital issues, such as steels and heavy electricals, and they boosted the overall volume of trading, he said
the volume of first section trading today was a heavy 1.5 billion shares, up from 1.1 billion shares tuesday
besides major heavy industries, chemicals and papers were popular. shipbuilding issues, pulps and many issues of securities companies and banks also rose
here is a rundown of the historical cost of mailing a first-class letter in the united states
in the first half of the 19th century the cost of sending a single sheet of paper 40 miles or less was between 6 cents and 8 cents, with the cost rising by distance. letters going 400 miles and over cost 25 cents to send, per sheet of paper
by the middle of that century postage stamps were introduced, along with standard rates regardless of distance traveled. these started at 2 cents per half-ounce in 1863, rising to 3 cents in 1883
in 1885, the current first-class standard based on one-ounce was started. the one-ounce rates since then have been:
july 1, 1885: 2 cents
nov. 3, 1917: 3 cents
july 1, 1919: 2 cents
july 6, 1932: 3 cents
aug. 1, 1958: 4 cents
jan. 7, 1963: 5 cents
jan. 7, 1968: 6 cents
may 16, 1971: 8 cents
march 2, 1974: 10 cents
dec. 31, 1975: 13 cents
may 29, 1978: 15 cents
march 22, 1981: 18 cents
nov. 1, 1981: 20 cents
feb. 17, 1985: 22 cents
when the new postage rates take effect april 3, americans will be using special ``e'' stamps on an interim basis
the stamps were printed bearing the letter e, instead of the amount of postage, because the new first-class rate was not known in time for printing of the millions of stamps needed for a new rate to take effect
the e stamps will represent 25 cents postage
in addition some post offices should have supplies of the 25-cent stamp featuring the portrait of adventure writer jack london, which was introduced last year
and most offices have supplies of 1-cent, 2-cent and 3-cent stamps to combine with current 22-cent stamps to reach the new quarter rate
undenominated stamps have been used four times in the past, although the basic design of the stamp has changed
the a, b, c and d stamps all showed the head of an eagle, each in a different color
the e stamp carries a multi-colored space-based image of the planet with the word earth printed beneath
the stamp also carries the notation ``domestic'' since it can be used only for mail within the country. mail traveling to other nations requires stanps that show their denomination
here are some examples of the new postage rates, scheduled to take effect april 3
_letter or bill payment: 25 cents, up from 22 cents. (first class, one ounce)
_monthly bank statement: 65 cents, up from 56 cents. (first class, three ounces)
_bill from department store: 21 cents, up from 18 cents. (first class, presorted by 5-digit zip code)
_credit card bill: 20.5 cents, up from 17.5 cents. (first class, presorted by 9-digit zip code)
_high speed business mail, $8.75, down from $10.75. (express mail, 8 ounces)
_weekly news magazine, 14.2 cents, up from 12 cents. (second class, 7 ounces)
_selective advertising, 16.7 cents, up from 12.5 cents. (third class, presorted, two ounces)
_volume advertising, 10.1 cents, up from 8.3 cents. (third class, sorted by letter carrier route, two ounces)
_christmas gift: $5.92, up from $5.32. (parcel post, 7 pounds, distant zone)
_book club package: $1.95, up from $1.44. (book rate, four pounds)
_legal signature: $1.75, up from $1.45. (certified mail with return receipt)
_collect on delivery ($40 value item): $2.50, up from $1.80
despite the impending increase in u.s. postage rates, mailing a first-class letter in this country remains among the lowest in the industrialized world
here is a list of postage rates for foreign nations, supplied by the u.s. postal service, with the cost in u.s. funds
_ italy, 48.5 cents
_ west germany, 47.6 cents
_ japan, 46.9 cents
_ austria, 42.3 cents
_ norway, 42.2 cents
_ netherlands, 39.8 cents
_ france, 38.8 cents
_ belgium, 37.1 cents
_ switzerland, 36.8 cents
_ sweden, 36.5 cents
_ united kingdom, 31.8 cents
_ canada, 28.9 cents
_ australia, 26.4 cents
here is a list of the 32 insurance companies, underwriters and associations named in lawsuits filed in u.s. district court here:
the insurance services office; aetna casualty and surety co.; cigna corp.; hartford fire insurance co.; allstate insurance co.; peter n. miller; robin a.g. jackson; merrett underwriting agencies mgt. ltd.; three quays underwriting ltd.; janson, green ltd.; edwards and payne management (u.a.) ltd.; c.j. warrilow-hine &amp; butcher ltd
also, j. brian hose &amp; others ltd.; harvey bowring ltd. _ murray lawrence &amp; partners; k.f. alder &amp; others (u.a.) ltd.; d.p. mann &amp; others (u.a.) ltd.; unionamerica insurance co. ltd.; cna re (u.k.) ltd.; terra nova insurance co. ltd.; excess insurance group ltd.; kemper reinsurance london ltd.; continental reinsurance co. (u.k.) ltd
also, thomas a. greene &amp; co. inc.; ballantyne, mckean &amp; sullivan ltd.; r.k. carvill &amp; co. ltd.; general reinsurance corp.; constitutional reinsurance corp.; mercantile &amp; general reinsurance corp. of america; prudential reinsurance corp.; north american reinsurance corp.; winterthur swiss insurance co.; reinsurance association of america
also named in a separate suit in texas were:
the insurance services office; aetna; cigna; hartford; fireman's fund insurance co.; liberty mutual insurance co.; st. paul fire and marine insurance co.; the travelers insurance co.; usf&amp;g corp
also, the reinsurance association of america and reinsurers merrett non-marine syndicate no. 799 and robin a.g. jackson. merrett is part of lloyd's of london, and jackson is its underwriter
stock prices were lower at midday wednesday, depressed by continued lack of trading volume and concern about a further rise in the value of the pound
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index was down 7.0 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,828.4
volume was light at 221.2 million shares, compared with 211.7 million at the same time tuesday
the pound's rise was ``holding everything back,'' one dealer said, adding that many investors were waiting to see if the bank of england would take further steps to halt the currency's rise. the central bank cleared the way last week for a half-point cut in commercial banks' base lending rate to 8.5 percent. 3rd graf pvs, the new rates.</note>
the price of a stamp will rise to a quarter on april 3, the first hike in 38 months and one the postmaster general said today he hopes will hold for at least that long
we hope we will go that long or longer the next time'' postmaster general anthony frank said on cbs-tv's ``this morning'' show
frank said the biggest reaction to the higher rates has come from major business mailers who will face the largest increase, and this could affect the amount of so-called ``junk '' mail sent out
i think there could be a little more space in your mailbox over the next few months,'' frank said
most noticeable to the public, of course, is the new first-class quarter rate, but the overall hikes affect many other areas too including mailing bills, books and magazines and other items
the new rates, for example, would add about $1.15 to the annual cost of mailing a weekly newsmagazine to one home. utilities, credit card companies and department stores will have to spend about 36 cents more, annually, to bill one customer. the cost of an average book club mailing will rise by about 50 cents
the increases are needed to avoid deficits for the agency that could reach $5 billion in 1989, postal officials said tuesday in announcing the april 3 rate hike. the last rate increase was in february 1985, and the postal service lost more than $220 million last year
the new 25-cent letter rate is part of a broad series of rate changes affecting all types of mail
these are the first adjustments in general postage rates in more than three years. they reflect the higher costs the postal service is experiencing,'' said john n. griesemer, chairman of the agency's board of governors
the postal service is required to break even _ over time _ by the 1970 law that made it an independent federal agency and ended the taxpayer subsidy for the mail
frank said post offices across the country will expand window service during the next two weeks to help customers cope with the changes
but while service is being expanded temporarily to help during the changeover, recently imposed reductions in post office hours and services are not related to the rate increases and are likely to remain in effect. those cutbacks result from congressional action in december, while these rate hikes have been in the works for nearly a year
facing the biggest increase will be the so-called ``junk'' mail, third-class advertising material that the independent postal rate commission concluded wasn't paying its fair share
advertising mail prices will increase 24.9 percent, compared to hikes of 18.1 percent for newspapers and magazines and 14.7 percent for items sent by individuals
the new 25-cent first class price means that sending a one-ounce letter will take about the same bite from the average budget as in 1932. adjusted for inflation, the 3-cent postage rate introduced in 1932 would amount to 25.5 cents today
the price for each additional ounce of mail will rise from 17 cents to 20 cents. the cost to mail a post card will increase from 14 cents to 15 cents
for mail going outside the country the rate will be 45 cents per half-ounce to most areas. for mail to mexico the rate is the same as in the united states, while sending a letter to canada will cost 30 cents per ounce
the agency did cut, from 7 cents to 5 cents, the minimum charge for a business using pre-paid envelopes that allow consumers to reply without a stamp. that, officials said, may encourage more businesses to offer the service
the postal rate commission said it determined that third-class advertising mail was responsible for more postal service costs than it was paying, and thus should have a larger increase
the minimum rate for third class mail will jump from 12.5 cents to 16.7 cents and the per pound rate will rise from 38 cents to 48 cents
for non-profit advertising mail the minimum rate will increase from 8.5 cents to 8.7 cents
second class mail, newspapers and magazines for the most part, face overall increases of just over 18 percent
newspapers sent within the county will rise to 9.8 cents per pound and 3.4 to 5.9 cents per piece. the current rate is 9.1 cents per pound and 3.1 to 4.9 cents per item
a new $8.75 rate for the highly competitive express overnight mail was set for packages of 8 ounces or less
a special, nondenominated ``e'' stamp has been prepared for use when the new rates take effect
because the agency had no way of knowing what rate would be recommended, it had the e stamps printed for use at whatever the rate turned out to be. the same procedure was used the last four times rates were raised. report on corporate profits. picks up 5th graf pvs, in its ...</note>
the u.s. economy grew at a brisk 4.8 percent annual rate in the final three months of 1987 while february consumer prices were modestly higher, indicating that inflation was under control, the government reported today
the commerce department said the gross national product, the broadest measure of economic health, grew from october to december at the fastest clip in about two years
it was the second upward revision in gnp growth. a month ago the government put gnp growth at 4.5 percent, up from a 4.2 percent original estimate made in january immediately after the quarter ended
today's revisions showed more strength than previously believed in such key sectors as consumer spending, business investment and u.s. exports
in a second report, the department said u.s. corporations' after-tax profits rose 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the poorest showing since profits fell 3.7 percent in the first quarter of 1987. profits were up 5.5 percent in the third quarter
in its report on inflation, the labor department said that last month's consumer prices rose a modest 0.2 percent due to lower food and energy costs
food prices fell 0.3 percent after rising 0.3 percent in january. energy costs, which had fallen 0.7 percent in the preceding month, fell 0.6 percent last month
so far this year, consumer prices have been increasing at a rate of 3.2 percent. that compares to the moderate 4.4 percent rate for all of 1987 and the scant 1.1 percent 1986 increase
on tuesday, the commerce department said that orders to u.s. factories for durable goods _ items expected to last at least three years _ fell 1.8 percent in february to a seasonally adjusted $111.4 billion, following an identical decline in january
in other economic news on tuesday, the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 0.99 point to 2,066.15; the dollar was mixed against other major currencies; and bond prices were little changed in light trading
february marked the first time since the spring of 1986 that durable goods orders declined for two consecutive months
but some economists maintained that manufacturing companies still were enjoying good business because the weaker dollar has boosted export demand
cynthia latta, an economist with data resources inc., said that while new orders fell in february the total backlog of unfilled orders rose 0.7 percent, the 12th consecutive monthly increase
this backlog suggests that factories can keep humming along for a while even though new orders dropped,'' she said
still, analysts said, the back-to-back declines showed businesses were cutting back on orders in the early part of 1988 in an effort to get control of bulging inventories. inventories swelled at the end of 1987 while consumer demand fell
lucky stores inc.'s stock soared $14.50 a share tuesday after the major california supermarket chain received a $1.74 billion tender offer from american stores co
if american stores' $45-a-share bid is successful, it would create the nation's largest grocery store chain. in heavy trading on the new york stock exchange, lucky's stock surged to close at $46.375 a share. american stores stock fell $2.62{ a share to $57.87{
officials at lucky's headquarters in dublin, calif., would not discuss the offer except to say company bylaws contain a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover provision, which limits the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
company officials noted in a statement that the limited voting rights provision, which expires dec. 22, may not be waived by the company's board
lucky, the nation's sixth largest grocery retailer, has 480 stores while american stores, the third biggest, has 1,600 stores
in a letter to lucky stores chairman john m. lillie, american stores chairman l.s. skaggs said he would combine american's alpha beta stores with lucky's operation under the lucky name
the letter, released tuesday, praised lucky's management and marketing strategies and invited lucky executives to stay on if the deal is completed. lucky's headquarters also would remain at dublin, skaggs said
officials at salt lake city-based american stores would not provide further details of their unsolicited offer and had no comment beyond a brief press release, said senior vice president michael miller
recent rumors have suggested that american stores itself may be a takeover target, according to an analyst here who said his company has extensive dealings with the company
under that scenario, the bid for lucky could be a defensive move to make an acquisition of american stores prohibitively expensive, said the analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity
if american stores doesn't get this acquisition, it puts the spotlight on them. they may be more open to takeover than before,'' he said
analysts agreed the lucky-american stores combination makes sense
susan c. schmierer, a retail analyst with prudential-bache securities inc., noted that the two companies operate in the same general geographic areas and that both want to increase their presence in california
i don't see any reason why it couldn't go through, given the right kind of management finesse by american,'' she said
the bid for lucky comes 16 months after takeover strategist asher edelman formally dropped his hostile bid for the company in return for lucky's agreement to pay $2.8 million of his legal costs
lucky thwarted edelman partly by selling off non-grocery divisions and adopting anti-takeover measures that make it more difficult for an unwanted suitor to acquire the company
american stores' most recent acquisition occurred in 1984 when it took over jewel companies inc., a chicago-based grocery, drug and convenience store chain, for $1.1 billion
the acquisition expanded american stores' operations from just over 1,000 retail outlets to 1,700 stores in 40 states and boosted sales to about $15 billion a year
the company is organized into three divisions. the skaggs division operates supermarkets in the western united states; american superstores runs stores in the midwest and the east; and osco drug stores operates stores nationwide, according to value line investment survey
store names include acme, jewel, star, buttrey, skaggs, skaggs alpha beta and osco drug stores
lucky, with annual sales of about $7 billion, operates about 480 supermarkets and food centers in the west, midwest and southwest, principally in california and arizona
stocks opened mixed this morning in light trading, which brokers called a reflection of the uncertainty that has pervaded the market following the post-crash highs reached last week
the dow jones averge of 30 industrials, which barely budged in slack trading tuesday, rose 0.33 point to 2,066.48 by 10 a.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues rose 0.13 to 151.65. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.56 to 299.36
gaining stocks outnumbered losers by a 5-to-4 margin on the nyse, with 548 up, 422 down and 480 unchanged. volume totaled 23.65 million shares after the first half hour
on tuesday, the dow jones industrial average fell 0.99 point to 2,066.15
gaining issues narrowly outnumbered declines in composite nyse trading, with 765 up, 736 down and 481 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 142.0 million shares, vs. the 1987 low of 128.83 million shares traded monday. title.</note>
many banks seem more willing to lend money to poor countries abroad than to take a chance on redeveloping poor neighborhoods in their own area, community representatives are telling congress
we're saying, `look ... you lend billions of dollars across the border and you can't lend to our community that is on this side of the border,''' said tony reyes, mayor of san luis, ariz., a town of 2,000 near mexico
i don't think that is fair,'' he told the senate banking committee, which is reviewing compliance with the community reinvestment act of 1977
the law requires banks to lend in their depositors' neighborhoods and prohibits ``redlining,'' the practice of denying loans to an entire neighborhood based on the race or economic class of its residents
it gives regulators the authority to block banks with poor records from opening new branches or merging with other institutions
redlining hasn't disappeared,'' sen. william proxmire, the committee chairman, said tuesday. ``neighborhoods are still starving for credit. too many bankers still think the grass is greener elsewhere.''
he noted that an estimated $5 billion in loans have been made in poor neighborhoods as a result of the act, but said, ``that $5 billion pledged to developing neighborhoods is peanuts compared to the $100 billion loaned to developing countries.''
despite a rating system by regulators that gives the vast majority of banks high marks for their anti-redlining efforts, the actual performance of most is poor, said gale cincotta, executive director of the national training and information center, a chicago community group
hundreds of census tracts in low-income america did not receive a penny in mortgage loans,'' she said
proxmire, d-wis., said that 97 percent of all lenders pass community reinvestment act reviews with flying colors and only eight of 40,000 applications from banks seeking to merge or expand have been denied in the past 10 years
how is it that so many neighborhoods are continuing to fail, while so many lending institutions are continuing to pass?'' he asked. ``this record ... raises questions about whether the examination process has succeeded.''
allen j. fishbein, general counsel of the center for community change, a washington organization that provides training for neighborhood groups, said progress in enforcing the law during the late 70s has ``been virtually undone as a result of agency indifference over the past five or six years.''
ms. cincotta complained that bank examiners, in effect, rely on community groups to enforce the law for them by filing complaints
she said that although examiners are well trained at judging the financial soundness of a bank, many are poorly schooled in judging a bank's fair housing or equal opportunity record
jane uebelhoer, legislative representative of acorn (association of community organizations for reform now), said congress should revamp the regulators' rating system so that banks with poor records get poor marks
the committee, which is reviewing enforcement of the act with an eye toward possibly toughening it, planned a second session today to hear from federal bank regulators
the house banking committee has discussed attaching provisions strengthening the community revinvestment act to legislation primarily aimed at granting banks new investment powers
the senate committee has already passed its version of that bill but could go along with the house provisions if senators are convinced by testimony this week that changes are needed. housing notes</head>
the supreme court ruled today that short-term notes used to finance public housing projects are not exempt from federal estate taxes
the 8-0 ruling was a victory for the reagan administration, which said more than $260 million in federal tax revenue was at stake
the dispute stems in part from a 1937 law congress enacted to stimulate local financing of housing projects. the act allowed public housing agencies to issue tax-free obligations called ``project notes.''
for some 47 years, it was assumed the law exempted the notes from federal income tax but not from federal estate tax
but a federal judge in illinois ruled in 1984 that the notes were exempt from estate taxes as well. the decision touched off widepsread efforts to market project notes and prompted those who had paid estate taxes on the notes to seek refunds from the government
within months of the illinois ruling, congress enacted the deficit reduction act of 1984 that included a provision making the project notes subject to estate, gift and inheritance taxes
the law took effect on june 19, 1984
heirs to people who died before that date said the law cannot be applied retroactively and they sought refunds from the government for estate taxes they paid on project notes
but today the supreme court said the project notes have been subject to the estate tax all along, even if the 1937 law did not make that explicitly clear
justice william j. brennan, in his opinion for the court, said the 1937 act was designed to exempt the project notes ``only from the normal tax'' _ that is federal income tax and surtaxes that were in effect at the time
exemptions from taxation are not to be implied. they must be unambiguously proved,'' brennan said. ``on the rare occasions when congress exempted property from estate taxation it has generally adverted explicitly to that tax rather than generically to `all taxation.'''
he said it would not make sense for congress to grant special exemptions to the project notes without stating it explicitly since the purpose of such an exemption would be to attract investors
if congress really wanted to create an especially broad tax exemption for project notes ... one would expect it to do so notoriously enough to attract investors, not surreptitiously enough to evade detection for half a century,'' brennan said
he added that today's ruling made it unnecessary for the justices to decide whether the 1984 budget reduction law chould be applied retroactively
the ruling reverses lower court decisions granting estate exemptions to project notes
justice anthony m. kennedy did not take part in the ruling
the case is u.s. vs. crocker national bank, 86-1521
after-tax corporate profits shot up 8.4 percent in 1987, a sharp rebound from the previous year when profits declined, the government said today
the commerce department said that after-tax profits rose to $137.4 billion last year, an increase of $10.6 billion from 1986, when profits had actually fallen by 1 percent
analysts credited the turnaround in profits in part to the weaker dollar, which has boosted sales of american products on overseas markets. in addition, they said that labor wage demands remained subdued during the year
the increase in profits for 1987 was outstanding, especially when you consider that corporate taxes were substantially hiked during the year because of the tax reform act,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co
particularly, for u.s. manufacturing, 1987 was a turnaround year,'' sinai said. ``exports rose and american companies benefited tremendously from previous cost-cutting measures.''
sinai predicted further gains in corporate profits in 1988 but he said the rate of increase would slow somewhat
some of that slowdown was evident in the fourth quarter with after-tax profits rising 1.6 percent following a 5.5 percent gain in the third quarter
stocks remained stalled this morning in light trading, which brokers called a reflection of the uncertainty that has pervaded the market following the post-crash highs reached last week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which barely budged in slack trading tuesday, fell 2.16 points to 2,063.99 by 11 a.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 0.05 to 151.47. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.64 to 299.44
gaining stocks narrowly outnumbered losers on the nyse, with 634 up, 584 down and 503 unchanged. volume totaled 53.73 million shares after the first 90 minutes
we're just standing here,'' said william king, head trader at nikko securities co. international in new york. ``you need money to take stocks up, and the money's not there.''
as in recent sessions, takeover-related trading was the most active area. lucky stores, target of a $45-a-share acquisition offer from american stores, rose 1~ to 45| after surging 14{ on tuesday when the offer was announced
airline stocks were widely higher, reflecting a decline in oil prices that could reduce fuel costs. allegis rose 2 to 86{, amr rose ~ to 45\ and delta rose | to 52
on tuesday, the dow jones industrial average fell 0.99 point to 2,066.15
gaining issues narrowly outnumbered declines in composite nyse trading, with 765 up, 736 down and 481 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 142.0 million shares, vs. the 1987 low of 128.83 million shares traded monday. conference, clarify smoking continues on hawaiian, international flights; no pick up.</note>
northwest airlines said today it will ban smoking on all of its domestic flights except to and from hawaii, making it the first major u.s. airline to mandate a smoke-free travel environment in the air
the restrictions will begin on april 23, the same day a federal law is to go into effect banning smoking on all domestic flights of two hours or less
northwest noted in a statement that its program goes ``significantly beyond'' the requirements of the new law
in addition to flights within the contiguous 48 states, the program, dubbed ``northwest clears the air,'' will apply to flights to and from alaska, mexico, canada, jamaica and the cayman islands
flights to hawaii and ovrseas will continue to offer smoking sections because those flights ``carry a greater proportion of foreign passengers who feel differently about the issue,'' the airline said in a statement
a.b. magary, the airline's executive vice president for marketing, said a majority of passengers on international flights are foreign and are ``not yet culturally ready to move in this direction.''
he said the ban ``is a response to our customers' and employees' requests.'' a northwest study showed that nine out of 10 passengers prefer to sit in the no-smoking section of a plane
magary said, however, that the airline is not going ``macrobiotic.'' the ban ``does not imply some broader-scale effort to rid the united states of cigarettes,'' he said
northwest said it will offer refunds to passengers who purchased tickets before today and who have been assigned seats in the smoking section if they decline to fly because of the new policy
travel agents on tuesday complimented northwest on its plans
we're hearing from our customers that it's time to go more toward banning,'' said jay harrington, regional president of uniglobe, a national chain of travel agency franchises. ``we think it's inevitable it will be banned on all aircraft.''
in the short run, he said, northwest might lose some customers who smoke heavily, but generally, passengers choose flights on the basis of convenience and price
air canada, which banned smoking on some flights between canada and the united states, said it gained customers as a result of its no-smoking policy
northwest would have had to eliminate smoking on many of its flights anyway because about 80 percent of all u.s. flights last two hours or less
by extending the ban to all flights, northwest could be avoiding confusion expected to result from the new law. for example, it was not clear how the law would apply to flights that are scheduled to take under two hours but are delayed
more important, northwest could be saving itself some costs. airlines must install and maintain filters that are difficult and costly to clean, and they spend additional money on air conditioning to recirculate fresh air
the new law, part of a spending bill signed by president reagan in december, is a compromise version of no-smoking bills that the house and senate passed earlier. the federal ban will last for two years. smoking cigars and pipes already is prohibited on airlines
under the new law, passengers who insist on lighting up will face civil fines of as much as $1,000, and passengers who tamper with smoke alarms in airplane lavatories will be liable for as much as $2,000 in penalties
northwest airlines said it would launch an advertising campaign to promote the program on saturday
attending northwest's press conference were representatives of the u.s. surgeon general's office, the american cancer society, the american heart association and the american lung association
james swamley, managing director of the american lung association, credited northwest with ``jetting ahead of the industry.''
separately, singapore airlines unveiled plans to introduce the first no-smoking commercial flights in southeast asia next month
four of the 14 daily shuttle flights between singapore and kuala lumpur, the capital of neighboring malaysia, will bar smoking starting april 4, said a news release from the government-controlled carrier. the trip takes about 45 minutes
grain and soybean futures prices opened mixed to slightly higher today on the chicago board of trade
one analyst called traders ``gun-shy.'' that proved an accurate description as soybeans opened strongly, but then turned surprisingly calm
traders said there was a lack of follow-through buying after contract highs were set tuesday for new-crop months in soybeans
wheat, meanwhile, was firm on talk of export business with india and the soviet union
on the open, wheat was 1{ cents to 2\ cents higher, with the contract for may delivery at $3.09 a bushel; corn was unchanged to { cent higher, with may at $2.07 a bushel; oats were \ cent lower, with may at $1.69} a bushel; and soybeans were } cent lower to 1 cent higher, with may at $6.44 a bushel
livestock and meat futures prices were mostly lower at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle opened .40 cent lower to .02 cent higher, with april at 74.05 cents a pound; feeder cattle .05 cent to .25 cent lower, with march at 82.30 cents a pound; live hogs were .55 cent lower to .25 cent higher, with april at 46.02 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .38 cent lower to .50 cent higher, with march at 55.45 cents a pound. plan. subs 13th graf pvs, despite the, with omb letter sent. house vote not expected until early evening; top prospects uncertain.</note>
the house showed bipartisan support today for a $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget that averts deep cuts in domestic programs and glosses over a failure to comply fully with congress' deficit-reduction agreement with president reagan
debate began on the plan approved last week by the house budget committee with a procedural vote that was adopted without a roll call _ unheard-of during the recent years of pitched budget battles
we've got a miracle,'' said house speaker jim wright, d-texas, expecting easy passage later in the day
this degree of bipartisanship in developing a budget resolution is truly unprecedented,'' said rep. delbert l. latta of ohio, senior republican on the budget committee
the plan would leave a deficit of about $134 billion in the spending year beginning oct. 1 and would stay within the limits of the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law. the deficit would be about $5 billion higher than with reagan's budget, mostly because the president proposed to sell off more government assets
the lawmakers' election-year plan would freeze or slightly trim most domestic agencies. it would spend $1.5 billion on aids research _ a little more than reagan proposed _ but not boost the space program as much as the president asked. it rejects his plans to cancel aid to mass transit and other popular domestic subsidies
as in the president's plan, the government's total cash outlays on the military, foreign aid and certain domestic programs would be held to levels set last fall when the president and congressional leaders held a budget ``summit.''
however, that agreement also contained limits for budget authority _ the legal obligations by agencies for spending that could stretch over more than one fiscal year. the house plan would violate the agreement if it weren't for some accounting wizardry
to avoid breaking the limit on budget authority, the house budget committee shifted about $4 billion in the domestic budget, mostly ongoing agriculture credit expenses, outside of the categories controlled by the summit pact
the accounting change made room for the kind of budget lawmakers support _ one that would not terminate urban and rural development programs and other items the president sought to end
in its report to the house, the budget committee said the technical changes were the only way it could find to hit the budget marks for both outlays and budget authority
it is not our intention that this (budget authority) adjustment not result in higher outlays in fy 1989 than the $169.2 billion (domestic) ... allowed under the summit cap,'' the committee said
rep. william h. gray iii, d-pa., chairman of the committee, said he believed it stayed within the budget pact. ``the outlay is what you're really going to be judged by,'' he said
despite the committee language, the budget technique could lead to higher spending allowances when the fiscal blueprint is translated later into actual spending bills. the president's office of management and budget send a letter to congress critical of the approach and promising to monitor spending closely as the budget is implemented
house action on the budget today was the earliest in years, as democratic leaders were keeping to their vow to put fiscal affairs on schedule this year
members of the senate budget committee have begun private meetings on their version. the two chambers must agree on identical budgets by april 15 to meet their deadline
the budget resolution is a guideline for congress' fiscal legislation, and it does not require the president's signature
with the accounting changes, the house budget would hit exactly the limits in the budget summit pact. those are $299.5 billion in budget authority and $294.0 billion in outlays for the military; $148.1 billion in budget authority and $169.2 billion in outlays for annually-appropriated domestic programs; and $18.1 billion in budget authority and $16.1 billion in outlays on foreign aid
the summit agreement also included $14 billion in new taxes for fiscal 1989. those levies were enacted last december, and congress plans no further increases this year
the gramm-rudman law mandates a deficit of $136 billion in fiscal 1989 as an interim step toward a balanced budget by fiscal 1993. neither the house plan nor reagan's met that mark without relying on selling government assets _ which aren't counted under gramm-rudman
however, both plans would be within $10 billion of the goal, keeping below the threshold at which the law would mandate automatic, across-the-board spending cuts
those estimates are based on the white house assumptions for economic growth and government performance next year. estimates by the non-partisan congressional budget office, which are less optimistic, show the deficit some $35 billion higher. ^by vivian marino</byline>
richard and stephanie hack have not only picked out where their two small children will be attending college after the turn of the century _ they've already paid their tuition in full
the bethel park, pa., couple bought that peace of mind for about $10,000 through a ``tuition-futures'' program that had been offered for about three years at duquesne university, their alma mater
other young families may wish they had it so easy as they watch tuition increases outpace inflation. the cost of some private colleges, for instance, now comes close to the median price of a single-family home _ around $80,000
financial advisers and educators agree the only way to stay out of the poor house, yet provide a college-bound child with a good education, is to develop a strategic plan as early as possible
people need to save for a university just as they buy a house,'' said richard f. rosser, president of the national association of independent colleges and universities
it was for that reason that duquesne, a small roman catholic univeristy near pittsburgh, developed its tuition-futures plan in 1985, a program mrs hack believes will benefit her children, melissa, 5, and brian, 4. about a half-dozen other schools established similar programs, but some of them, as duquesne did last week, have stopped taking new applicants due to unexpectedly high tuition increases and falling interest rates on bonds, the schools' main investment vehicle
aside from the obvious drawbacks _ what if a grown child doesn't want to go to college or to the one already paid for _ the program seemed like a good deal. at duquesne, for instance, the family of a 1-year-old eligible to go to college in 2005 would have paid a lump sum of around $8,600 last fall to cover projected four-year tuition of $102,600. the older the child, though, the higher the cost
most investment advisers say a family could almost do the same on their own by investing bit by bit in savings bonds or certificates of deposits, although they wouldn't have the same tax benefits enjoyed by the schools
since duquesne's trendsetting program, numerous programs and proposals have emerged
in washington, several bills are pending to set up tax-free savings accounts resembling individual retirement accounts to finance education. president reagan supports a tax-exempt savings bond program
six states _ michigan, indiana, florida, maine, tennessee and wyoming _ have passed laws establishing prepayment tuitition plans, according to the education commission of the states. (the internal revenue service just ruled the michigan education trust had to pay federal taxes on earnings, but individual investors wouldn't have additional tax liabilities
california, illinois, missouri, new jersey, new york, ohio, oregon, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas and west virgina have similar legislation pending, it said. and illinois and north carolina have passed special savings bond plans, it said
on the commercial side of things, there's the college savings bank. the princeton, n.j., institution's main line of business is to sell certificates of deposit with interest rates changing annually to keep pace with rising college costs
keeping track of what's available to students and families in the way of investment plans, financial aid or scholarships is often half the battle as college-sponsored programs come and go, new laws evolve from state to state, or congress and the internal revenue service get involved
there's just so much change going on,'' said john b. cox, a spokesman for the national association of college and university business officers. the non-profit group, based in washington, d.c., publishes ``alternative approaches to tuition financing,'' available to the general public for $15. many other guidebooks also are available in book stores and colleges
cox suggests that parents start out by selecting a few prospective colleges, then contacting the financial aid departments of each to see what programs the schools have or might be considering
here's a thumbnail look at some of the many programs being offered, according to nacubo and other sources:
_prepayment plans. students have the option at some colleges and universities of paying for all four years up front, thus avoiding future tuition increases. about 50 institutions offer this program, including a number of ivy league schools like brown university, cornell university, and yale university
_delayed prepayment or installation plans. a number of colleges and universities allow tuition payments to be made in equal amounts or installments during a semester or year. some institutions require a down payment of as much as 50 percent
_tuition gift certificates. sold by a handful of colleges, including two-year schools, these certificates may be bought for a designated number of credit hours or other tuition unit. some are transferable but most cannot be cashed in
_interstate tuition plans. at least two regional consortiums _ on the west coast and in new england _ offer some students a chance to go to college out of state for slightly higher than the residential rate. the program is only limited to participating states and institutions. one of the groups, western interstate commission for higher education, also arranges for state-subsidized tuition across state borders
_loan programs. besides commercial banks and thrifts, a number of colleges and universities loan money directly to families or students, although most are intended to pick up where federally guaranteed student loans leave off. several states, such as massachusetts, connecticut, maryland and new york, also provide student loans
_others. work study programs and scholarships are available to a broad range of students. several research services will even help track down obscure scholarships for a fee
stocks slipped this morning in moderate trading, which brokers attributed to an overwhelming lack of buying interest and confusion about the market's overall direction
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which barely budged in slack trading tuesday, fell 8.13 points to 2,058.02 by noon on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues fell 0.26 to 151.26. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.52 to 299.32
losing stocks narrowly outnumbered gainers on the nyse, with 697 down, 623 up and 501 unchanged. volume totaled 81.58 million shares in the morning session, vs. 65.3 million tuesday morning
we're just standing here,'' said william king, head trader at nikko securities co. international in new york. ``you need money to take stocks up, and the money's not there.''
blue-chip stocks were widely lower. ibm fell 1{ to 111|, procter &amp; gamble fell 1\ to 80], mcdonalds fell } to 44], bethlehem steel fell | to 21~, sears fell } to 38 and boeing fell 1 to 47{
as in recent sessions, takeover-related trading was the most active area. lucky stores, target of a $45-a-share acquisition offer from american stores, rose 1} to 48{ after surging 14{ on tuesday when the offer was announced
among other rumored and actual speculative takeover stocks, american standard fell ] to 76\, moore mccormack rose 1\ to 38], pillsbury fell 1\ to 44{, and gillette rose 1] to 40]
airline stocks were widely higher, reflecting a decline in oil prices that could reduce fuel costs. allegis rose 1| to 86[, amr rose { to 44~ and delta rose | to 52. pvs: texaco was ...</note>
a federal judge approved texaco inc.'s financial reorganization plan today, clearing the way for the oil giant to emerge from the nation's biggest corporate bankruptcy case
u.s. bankruptcy judge howard schwartzberg issued the ruling at midday after a day-and-a-half hearing on the proposal for resolving texaco's debts to its creditors
the confirmation of the plan should allow texaco to emerge from bankruptcy court protection by mid-april, which would be a year after it filed to reorganize under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code
texaco had cleared one hurdle just before the hearing began tuesday, when it announced that dissident shareholders had dropped their opposition to the plan
it also was announced tuesday that 96 percent of the shares voted by texaco stockholders had supported the reorganization proposal _ 174 million shares out of the 181 million voted. the margin was far in excess of the two-thirds majority required by federal law
schwartzberg had been widely expected to approve the plan despite lingering objections to certain provisions of the plan by some shareholders _ notably takeover strategist carl c. icahn, texaco's biggest shareholder
texaco was the biggest company ever to seek refuge in the bankruptcy courts
texaco filed under chapter 11 contending it could not afford to post an $11 billion bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgment held against it by houston-based pennzoil co
the judgment stemmed from a november 1985 ruling by a houston jury that texaco had interfered improperly with an agreement by pennzoil to acquire part of getty oil co. before texaco bought getty itself
texaco agreed in december to pay pennzoil $3 billion to settle that dispute. the agreement formed the keystone of the bankruptcy reorganization plan that schwartzberg must confirm or reject after the present series of hearings
some of the dissident shareholders had objected to provisions in the agreement that would free officers and advisers of texaco, pennzoil co., the former getty oil co., the sarah getty trust and the j. paul getty museum from all liability arising out of the court fight resulting from the texaco-pennzoil battle
shortly before the hearing began, harvey miller, the bankruptcy lawyer representing texaco, announced that attorneys for those shareholders had dropped their opposition to the reorganization plan
in a document filed tuesday, the dissidents said they ended their fight partly because of ``overwhelming evidence that a settlement with pennzoil is not possible without the releases.''
pennzoil attorney kenneth klee said pennzoil had insisted the liability provisions be included in the settlement agreement. pennzoil chairman j. hugh liedtke testified his company wanted the releases mainly to help end the litigation, settle its claim against texaco, and win more cooperation from texaco's management
the dissident shareholders also noted texaco had agreed not to object if their attorneys applied for a maximum of $10 million in fees, plus $150,000 in expenses. miller told schwartzberg the company would assume half of those expenses, and that its insurance would pay the bill
while some shareholders opposed to the liability releases, others were unhappy with anti-takeover provisions of texaco's charter and bylaws that they argued entrenched management and lessened its accountability for its actions
the leader of the latter group was icahn, whose ownership of 14.8 percent of texaco's common stock has helped fuel takeover speculation in recent months. but despite his opposition to those provisions, icahn had indicated he would vote for the reorganization plan
during the hearing, texaco officials drew some pointed questions after disclosing they had just closed on an agreement to borrow $3 billion from a syndicate of banks to help refinance their pending reorganization
in repeated questioning of texaco treasurer david crickelair, icahn's attorney david friedman and dennis o'dea, an attorney representing texaco's shareholders committee, implied texaco helped entrench its management by accepting a ``change in control'' proviso in the loan agreement
under the provision, two-thirds of the banks could vote to call the three-year loan if 30 percent of texaco's stock wound up in one group's hands, or if there was a change of more than half of the members of the board
but crickelair said the provision had been demanded by the banks and was non-negotiable
that cow munching in a normandy meadow may not be all that she seems. her father might be bubba from rising sun, md., and her grandfather the famed american bull pawnee farm arlinda chief
such international hybrids are the result of artificial insemination and embryo transfer, two genetic breeding techniques now gaining favor on european farms
glossy pinups of champion bulls were a feature of the recently ended annual agriculture show in paris, catching the eye of french farmers eager to improve the quality of their herds
paris special offer _ low-cost embryos'' read the sign on another stand
the breeding methods offer common market farmers a way to improve the quality of their production without adding to europe's burgeoning surplus of milk
farmers who have slaughtered cows for meat to stay within milk quotas imposed by the european economic community are hoping to maintain production levels in the future with fewer animals
one high-quality cow is cheaper to feed than two which produce the same quantity of milk,'' said a french technical adviser to world wide sires, inc. of hanford, calif
artificial insemination involves taking semen from a bull and injecting it into a cow. the technique differs from embryo transfer in that no eggs are removed from a cow and fertilization takes place in the womb. with embryo transfer, an egg is fertilized in a test tube and later implanted in the womb
exhibitors interviewed at the agriculture show said the united states and canada have the best genetic stock in dairy cattle, and there is an active trans-atlantic market in frozen sperm and embryos
world wide sires has 10 million holsteins at nine cooperatives in the u.s.,'' said ginny barker, one of the company's regional marketing directors. ``it's a huge genetic pool.''
the black and white holstein cow, which was shipped from germany to the united states between 1850 and 1900, is the most popular milking cow worldwide
in france alone, it makes up 90 percent of the dairy herd,'' said gerard andre, director of a french cattle exporting company
and nearly all french dairy cows have american holstein blood,'' he said
it might seem ironic that european herds are being upgraded with north american imports of a european breed
the world wide sires representative explained that american breeders had aimed for specialized high-yielding dairy cows
but european farmers had stuck with dual-purpose beef and milk producers, such as the normandy cow,'' he said
not everyone agrees that artificial insemination is the best technique for getting the right kind of animals. the british company heine brothers is promoting embryos
our market is in commercial embryos for the everyday farmer,'' said richard price, heine's livestock manager
at the moment farmers are using artificial insemination. we say our embryos will take over,'' he said
when beef cattle are killed in the slaughterhouse, the ovaries are taken from the carcasses and the eggs removed. they are fertilized in vitro, then implanted in sheep's womb to mature for six days before being taken out and frozen
these embryos, from beef strains such as the limousin, are implanted in the wombs of holstein cows, in a simple operation
mike keeble, marketing manager of heine said ``a farmer has the best of both worlds with this technique, because in the same herd he will have some good beef animals and his super-efficient holsteins for milking.''
by introducing these embryos, we can change a whole herd,'' he said
heine is looking outside europe for new markets and hopes its embryos will be used to build up cattle herds in countries such as ethiopia and saudi arabia
many people in african and arab countries are unable to drink milk after they are 5 years old,'' said keeble. ``but their stomachs can take yogurt and they want to eat more meat.''
so we can build up dual-purpose herds, which provide milk for yogurt and beef, reducing the need for goat or camel meat,'' he said. ^by john cunniff</byline>
after examining the literature of business, including the expressions of folks who claim to be authorities on the subject, an academic asks: does business really know what it is talking about?
the horrifying thought occurred to professor eugene jennings as repeatedly he heard speakers define certain key words in one way and their listeners another
in practice, he observes, dozens of important business words have multiple definitions or definitions so fuzzy they can mean anything to anyone
tell me,'' he asks, ``what is meant by excellence?''
the word, as most people know, has become worn with usage in businesss, and now threatens to disappear from the lexicon without ever being understood. but if ever there was a word of multiple meanings, he suggests, it is this one
from his vantage point as a writer of books, teacher _ at michigan state university _ and adviser of top business executives, jennings has viewed an odd phenomenon: people don't like to ask the meaning of these new words
to do so, many otherwise confident business folks believe, is to reveal their incompetence or incredible stupidity. as a consequence, much of the business lexicon today is incoherent babble
jennings observed this first-hand when he examined the use of key words by institutional and private purveyors of professional management courses and found them to mean whatever the instructors wanted them to mean
the very meaning of ``manager'' is among the most vague. jennings found it is seldom defined but ``invariably confused with administrator, supervisor, executive and leader, as well as with role, position, title and function.''
important words, vital to communication, are thrown about without any precise understanding of their meanings. ``by so-called experts!'' jennings exclaims
strategy is confused with purpose, mission, process and function. planning is confused with purpose, role, technique and process
even ``business' itself is interchanged with definitions that indicate a confusion with art, science, profession, social system, institution _ almost anything but economic activity
cash flow is interchanged with net profit, money in till, and circulation of money. and, he remarks, attempts to define this and other words sometimes add little to understanding but much to confusion
what is it? ``the movement of cash into, through, and out of an entity,'' says one lexicon. anther: ``the amount of net cash generated by an investment or a business during a specific period of time.''
many of what jennings calls ``high-profile'' words and phrases began to be bandied about in the early 1960s and, though ill-defined, have remained to protect fuzzy speakers and impress or terrorize insecure audiences
self-esteem, win-win, decision-making _ and, more recently _ back-to-basics and just-in-time, the latter a procedure for inventory control
oddly, says jennings, some words remain in use because of their mystery. ``their power lies in remaining obtuse,'' he says
entrepreneur, motivation, communication, mbo (management by objective), spc (statistical process control), style, intelligence. care to define them? do it, he says, and then compare definitions with the person next to you
the confusion impels jennings to describe _ not define _ business ``as an activity conducted without a lexicon of basic language directed by individuals for whom a dictionary is an abstract work of art.''
ask top executives, as he has, if they regularly use a dictionary and you are likely to search long for a positive answer. yet, he states, nowhere could a good dictionary be used to better advantage than in the executive suite
jennings' confrontation with the babel of tongues became especially frustrating when he found that writers of management books and producers of management training programs were only adding to the confusion
much of business jargon today is mere vocal sound,'' he concluded. ``it is the use of words with intensified resonance or nasal dramatics pleasing or invigorating to the senses.''
he laments that ``good old fashioned meanings classical to our business traditions are being warped around words of convenience.''
intel corp. said today it will sell computer memory chips made by micron technology inc. and has received a warrant to buy stock in the boise, idaho-based chip maker
the deal with intel, one of the nation's biggest independent chip makers, should give micron some long-term stability in the volatile business
micron is one of only two u.s. companies, along with texas instruments inc., that have withstood competition from japan to continue producing the common chips known as dynamic random access memories, d-rams
the computer and electronics industry has been hampered in recent months by a severe shortage of computer memory chips. the intel-micron deal will initially apply only to 256k d-rams, the generation of chips that is gradually being replaced by the more powerful 1-megabit d-rams
intel, which dropped out of the d-ram business several years ago, said it received a warrant from micron to purchase 600,000 shares of micron stock at an exercise price of $19.37{ a share. that would represent less than 3 percent of micron's stock
micron's stock rose to $21.12{ a share in over-the-counter trading by midday wednesday from its close of $19.75 a share tuesday
intel said it would sell micron chips under the intel label and would use micron chips in its own products, such as circuit boards
micron's alliance with intel allows us to broaden our customer base, and strengthens our ability to expand and compete in the worldwide d-ram market,'' joe parkinson, micron's chairman, said in an announcement
intel's vice chairman, robert noyce, said the deal would help intel as well as ``support a key u.s. supplier of d-rams.''
retailing giant montgomery ward &amp; co. will celebrate its soon-to-be-granted independence from parent mobil corp., by opening 225 stores over the next five years
ward chairman bernard f. brennan said tuesday the expansion will cost the nation's ninth-largest retailer about $150 million a year
the new stores will be additions to existing markets and the majority will be specialty shops featuring home, audio-video, apparel or automotive products
only 10 of the new shops will contain all four product specialty shops under one roof. slightly more than half of wards' 316 stores nationwide already have been converted to the specialty-store format
an investor group headed by brennan has agreed to acquire the company from parent mobil for $3.8 billion. the transaction is expected to be completed in may
wards said earlier this month the acquisition would not result in the sale of any of its stores or a reduction in its 72,000-member work force
brennan said the only unit wards' acquirers planned to sell was its credit card operation
bat industries plc, the british conglomerate whose u.s. interests include the retailer saks fifth avenue and brown &amp; williamson tobacco corp., said its fourth-quarter pretax earnings fell 15.3 percent because of the weak dollar and the october stock market crash
bat, which recently made an unsolicited $4.5 billion offer for farmers group inc. of los angleles, said it had pretax earnings of 433 million pounds, or $792 million, down from 511 million pounds in the same period a year earlier
the company did not provide any further quarterly figures. it is not required to do so under british law
for the full year, pretax earnings edged up 0.07 percent to 1.394 billion pounds from 1.393 billion pounds in all of 1986
net income totaled 751 million pounds, down 13.5 percent from 868 million pounds in 1986. bat had 36 million pounds in extraordinary charges in 1987, and extraordinary gains of 75 million pounds in 1986
sales for the year fell 10 percent to 17.2 billion pounds from 19.2 billion pounds
the stock market crash reduced investment appreciation income from the company's eagle star financial services subsidiary to 47 million pounds in 1987 from 149 million pounds in 1986
saks fifth avenue and marshall field's, two of bat's retailing businesses in the united states, were affected by difficult trading conditions, especially in the fourth quarter, the company said
in addition, bat said its total 1987 pretax profit would have been 192 million pounds higher if exchange rates had remained at 1986 levels
in the stock market crash of 1987 few institutions suffered more damage, both real and perceived, than the national association of securities dealers' over-the-counter market
through the long winter that followed, the nasd and its president, joseph hardiman, have labored to repair the market's image and recover the momentum it had been building since the early 1970s
by all accounts, that effort has produced some notable successes to date
i feel that the nasd has done a real good job,'' said binkley shorts, portfolio manager of the over-the-counter securities fund, a mutual fund that concentrates in the market for unlisted stocks that are traded through a network of dealers overseen by the nasd
it feels pretty comfortable right now'' investing in otc stocks, shorts added
but few observers argue that the mission of restoring investors' confidence in the over-the-counter market, or in stocks in general, is anywhere near complete
we've taken some first steps, some important steps,'' hardiman said in an interview at his office here. ``there's more to be done.''
the crash hit at a time when the nasd, after a decade of dramatic expansion and innovation, was bidding to challenge the new york stock exchange for preeminence in the u.s. stock market
it claimed that its multiple-dealer system was superior to that of the big board and other exchanges, where a single broker known as a specialist operating on the trade floor acts as a meeting point for buy and sell orders in a given stock
but in the worst days of the crunch, some beleaguered over-the-counter dealers backed away from the nasd's automated small-order execution system, known as soes
investors and brokers ran into busy signal after busy signal as they tried to reach dealers who were either unable or unwilling to handle the volume of telephone calls and orders
the market was put to a severe test, and it suffered a hangover that lasted for at least a couple of weeks,'' recalled shorts
within a month, the nasd came up with plans to strengthen soes and increase the responsibilities of dealers. those measures have been approved and are scheduled to be put into effect by late may or early june, hardiman said
for one thing, participation in soes, formerly optional for dealers, will now be mandatory. for another, any dealer who pulls out of the market for a stock without a special exemption will be barred from returning for 30 days
if we have a recurrence of the kind of thing that happened last fall, market-makers must stay in,'' observed ralph costanza, head of the over-the-counter trading department at the brokerage firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
meanwhile, as stocks in general have staged a rally since last december, over-the-counter issues have enjoyed a particularly vigorous rebound
from jan. 1 through mid-march, the nasdaq (the aq stands for automated quotations) composite index of otc stocks rose 15.47 percent, outpacing a 10.43 percent rise in the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks
in the midst of the crash, said shorts, ``there was an opportunity for us to buy at ridiculously low prices.''
looking back, hardiman says, ``we took a lot of criticism early because the problem was access to our markets. but all markets had their problems.''
looking ahead, he says further efforts will be made to strengthen the system. a committee chaired by irving pollack, a former member of the securities and exchange commission, is due to report in may on a study of the structure and quality of the otc market, and hardiman expects it to make some significant recommendations
the changes that are already being made, he says, have prepared the nasdaq system to function better if and when another financial storm strikes: ``i think we can handle an event like that _ i don't say without difficulty _ but with far fewer problems.''
he acknowledges that the crash was a setback to the nasd's ambitions for its market, but adds that it may well prove to have beneficial side effects
we have experienced sensational growth, particularly over the last 10 years,'' he said. ``october, not by choice, gave us an opportunity to pause and reflect
we're going through a period of digestion _ some pundits may say indigestion,'' he added. ``it's great to grow, but we also want to have a quality marketplace.''
after the current process of reevaluation and remodeling, hardiman said, ``i believe we're going to be poised for another significant period of growth.''
burlington industries inc. wednesday announced it has signed definitive agreements for the sale of its two european businesses, which have manufacturing operations in ireland and italy
burlington said it has agreed to sell burlington sportswear fabrics limited to royal nijverdal-ten cate n.v., of the netherlands. it said it has also agreed to sell klopman international s.p.a. to dominion textile of canada
terms of the deals were not disclosed, but the announcement said the financing necessary to complete the transactions was committed to the buyers by financial institutions
the sales are subject to approval by the irish and italian governments
burlington sportswear fabrics limited is one of europe's largest manufacturers of denim fabrics for men's, women's and children's wear. it has plants at longford and tullamore, ireland
ten cate is a diversified manufacturer of textile and plastic products which is headquartered in almelo, the netherlands, and has extensive operations in the netherlands and other countries
klopman international s.p.a. is the leading european producer of finished polyester-cotton fabrics for the uniform, leisure wear and active wear markets. it has plants in frosinone, italy, and in tralee and gillope, ireland
dominion textile inc. is a diversified textile manufacturer with headquarters in montreal and was a partner with new york financier asher edelman in an unsuccessful attempt to buy out burlington last year
stocks were mixed today in moderate trading, which brokers attributed to an overwhelming lack of buying interest and confusion about the market's overall direction
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which barely budged in slack trading tuesday, rose 1.82 points to 2,067.97 by 3 p.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange composite index of all listed issues rose 0.12 to 151.64. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.63 to 299.43
gaining and losing stocks were about even on the nyse, with 719 up, 711 down and 504 unchanged. volume totaled 137 million shares with an hour of trading left
we're just standing here,'' said william king, head trader at nikko securities co. international in new york. ``you need money to take stocks up, and the money's not there.''
some traders said the market's confusion reflected conflicting economic news. evidence of relatively tame inflation reported by the government suggested interest rates will not rise significantly
at the same time, the government revised the fourth-quarter gross national product growth rate upward to 4.8 percent, suggesting that the economy is healthier than previously believed and therefore implying higher inflation and rising interest rates
blue-chip stocks were widely lower. ibm fell 1[ to 112, procter &amp; gamble fell 1 to 80|, mcdonalds fell | to 44{, sears fell { to 38\ and boeing fell 1 to 47{
texaco rose 1] to 46~. a federal judge approved the oil giant's bankruptcy reorganization plan
as in recent sessions, takeover-related trading was the most active area. lucky stores, target of a $45-a-share acquisition offer from american stores, rose 2\ to 49 after surging 14{ on tuesday when the offer was announced
among other rumored and actual speculative takeover stocks, textron surged 4] to 29|, philips petroleum rose } 1| and gillette rose 2{ to 41{. quarter 1987</head> add real earnings report. also moving on general news wires.</note>
the government delivered two welcome pieces of economic news on wednesday: consumer prices rose just 0.2 percent in february and the economy in late 1987 expanded at the liveliest pace in nearly two years
falling energy and food prices in february helped restrain the rise in the labor department's consumer price index after a 0.3 percent increase in january
for the first two months of the year, prices increased at an annual rate of 3.2 percent _ much better than last year's moderate 4.4 percent inflation
in a separate report, the commerce department said the u.s. economy grew at a brisk 4.8 percent annual pace in the final three months of last year. it was the second upward revision in the fourth-quarter gnp, estimated a month ago at 4.5 percent and in january at 4.2 percent
the department said better-than-expected performance in exports, consumer spending and business investment led to the latest revision, which pushed growth for the year to a rate of 4 percent, compared with 2.2 percent growth in 1986. it was the biggest annual increase since a 5.1 percent rise in 1984
the 4.8 percent fourth-quarter growth followed a 4.3 percent growth in the july-september quarter and was the fastest quarterly growth rate since an increase of 5.4 percent in the first three months of 1986
recent economic reports have shown an economy that rebounded quickly from last october's stock market collapse. analysts see little likelihood of an election-year recession
one of the best kept secrets in economic circles these days is that the reagan administration is going to end with a bang, not a whimper, as the economy makes a successful transition to an export-led economy,'' president reagan said in a speech to the american business conference
meanwhile, his spokesman, marlin fitzwater, hailed wednesday's reports: ``inflation remains under control, the economy is doing well, the reagan miracle holds.''
food prices fell 0.3 percent in february, erasing a 0.3 percent gain in january. fruits and vegetables led the way with a 4 percent tumble. lettuce prices, which more than doubled at the end of 1987, dropped 25.1 percent in february
energy prices fell 0.6 percent, with falling gasoline prices more than offsetting increases in household fuels
at-the-pump gasoline prices fell 1.7 percent in february, the third consecutive decline. gasoline prices have fallen 5.9 percent in six months
heating oil and other household fuels were up 0.6 percent; natural gas and electricity prices rose 0.5 percent
there is at this point no indication of any major widespread acceleration of inflation,'' said lawrence chimerine, chairman of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area economic forecasting service
competition in retailing contributed to the favorable inflation performance, chimerine said. ``stores have been holding down price increases.''
items other than food and energy were up a modest 0.2 percent in february
still, there remained pockets of inflation, particularly in service industries. medical care services were up 0.7 percent in february, while ``other services'' rose 0.6 percent
there are some chronic price problems in the economy,'' said sandra shaber, senior economist for the futures group, a washington management consultanting firm. ``these increases in health care are not going to go away.''
but if we continue to get a break on food and energy prices, that certainly is good news,'' she added
however, allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co., said the ``big issue is whether these good results we are getting so far this year are transitory or permanent. food and energy price declines are reversible almost any time.''
in other february price movements:
_new automobile prices rose 0.3 percent
_clothing prices fell 0.3 percent
_alcoholic beverage prices rose 0.9 percent
last month's seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent gain in the cpi was equivalent to a compounded annual inflation rate of 2.1 percent, labor department analysts said
the february increase left the overall index at 116.0, meaning that a hypothetical selection of goods costing $100 during a 1982-84 base period would have cost $116.00 last month
unlike other figures in the report, the overall index is not adjusted for seasonal fluctuations
the labor department recently changed its base period. had the former computation been used, the february consumer price index would have been 347.4 compared with a 1967 base of 100
that means the same selection of goods would have cost $13.00 more last month than in february 1987, when the cpi was 334.4
in two other economic reports:
_the commerce department said after-tax corporate profits shot up 8.4 percent in 1987 to $137.4 billion after declining the year before. analysts credited the turnaround in profits to the weaker dollar, which has boosted u.s. sales overseas, and to subdued labor wage demands
_the labor department said americans' average weekly earnings, after discounting for inflation, edged up 0.2 percent in february. it was the second monthly advance, matching an identical 0.2 percent january increase, but it still left americans' inflation-adjusted earnings 0.7 percent below where they were a year ago
stocks muddled through a third straight day of sluggish trading wednesday with no clear direction, and most of the action was confined to another surge of takeover speculation
some traders said the market's confusion reflected conflicting signals about the economy. others attributed the market's malaise to resilient investor reluctance to aggressively buy stocks in the aftermath of the october crash
it's really not a newsworthy day,'' said william king, head trader at nikko securities international inc. in new york
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 0.99 point tuesday, moved within a narrow range and closed 1.49 higher at 2,067.64
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3-to-2 on the new york stock exchange, with 925 up, 593 down and 448 unchanged
big board volume totaled 167.37 million shares, against 142 million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index rose 0.30 to 151.82
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.61 to 300.41
bankamerica corp., whose stock jumped 6 percent in active trading wednesday, denied rumors that it may be the target of a takeover by a japanese bank
bankamerica stock closed up 62.5 cents at $11.125 a share in heavy new york stock exchange trading
dan dorfman, appearing on cnn's ``moneyline'' program tuesday night, said he had heard a rumor that a japanese bank may be interested in acquiring part of all of bankamerica
bankamerica said in a statement from its headquarters in san francisco that there was ``no basis for the rumors.''
dorfman said wednesday from his office at usa today, where he works as a columnist, that he ``emphasized the word rumor'' and mentioned the rumor to explain the heavy dealing in bankamerica stock on tuesday
analysts quickly disputed the claim
it's unlikely,'' said mark alpert, an analyst with bear, stearns &amp; co. ``there have been plenty of opportunities in the past for japanese banks to take a position in bankamerica, and nothing has occurred
it doesn't mean it can't happen, but it's unlikely,'' he said
likewise, rodrigo quintanilla of argus research corp. said that while only west german and japanese institutions are in a financial position to take on the huge banking company, ``i still don't consider it to be a takeover target.'' ^by john c. given</byline>
texaco inc. on wednesday won final bankruptcy court approval for a plan that would settle its multibillion-dollar dispute with pennzoil co. and bring it out of chapter 11 protection early next month
after a day and a half of closing arguments, u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg confirmed the reorganization plan, which features an agreement by texaco to pay pennzoil co. $3 billion to drop a $10.3 billion judgement held by pennzoil against the nation's third-largest oil company
when the plan goes into effect, on april 7, texaco will deliver the money to pennzoil and will be officially free from the legal constraints that have limited its operations since the company filed for protection from its creditors last april 12
it was the largest corporate bankruptcy in u.s. history
texaco said it was driven to take that action to avoid having to pay a potentially ruinous $11 billion security bond while appealing the judgment held by pennzoil
a houston jury awarded the judgment to houston-based pennzoil in november 1985, after finding that texaco had improperly interfered with a pennzoil acquisition of part of getty oil company so texaco could buy getty itself
schwartzberg's approval marked the last step required for texaco to emerge from bankruptcy protection under federal law
texaco officials and pennzoil chairman j. hugh liedtke expressed profound relief that the four-year ordeal of litigation that had paralyzed both companies was finally over
i must say it has not been a particularly pleasant experience ... but it had to be done,'' said j. hugh liedtke, pennzoil's chairman
liedtke said he never doubted that the jury's verdict would be vindicated, despite lingering criticism from some quarters
quite frankly, all the smoke aside, people don't pay $3 billion for something who don't have some liability, '' he said
told of that remark, texaco chairman alfred c. decrane _ who at tuesday's hearing had stoutly defended texaco's view that it had done nothing wrong _ said: ``what we did here today is to settle this matter.''
noting that texaco's only other choice was a highly risky all-or-nothing attempt to win a u.s. supreme court reversal, he said the company settled ``to end that litigation.''
in announcing his decision to confirm the plan, schwartzberg noted that 96 percent of texaco's shares were voted in favor of the package, which was laboriously worked out among pennzoil, texaco, and committees representing texaco's creditors and shareholders
he also noted that the plan provides for full payment to texaco's creditors, with interest, and had been supported by representatives of all the principal parties during the final confirmation hearings
the only lingering bone of contention was the presence of provisions in the plan granting immunity to all parties involved in the original texaco-getty-pennzoil matter
on tuesday, dissident shareholders reluctantly dropped 16 suits against texaco, saying they would support the plan, knowing that the company would be in far worse condition if it were not approved
the dissidents contended _ along with texaco's largest shareholder, takeover artist carl c. icahn _ that the releases gave away a chance for texaco to recoup some of its losses by suing the parties responsible for texaco's ultimate defeat in houston
icahn, who owns 14.8 percent of texaco's stock, also protested that the measures served to entrench management and diminish its accountability to shareholders
while he voted in favor of the plan, he urged the court to strike the releases from the plan
schwartzberg refused to do so, agreeing with arguments by both pennzoil and texaco that the releases were, on balance ``in the best interest of texaco.''
noting that pennzoil, not texaco, had inserted the provisions, schwartzberg said it appeared inevitable that endless litigation would continue without the releases, which all parties wanted to avoid
he also suggested it was questionable that texaco officials could be found guilty of fiduciary irresponsibility for their roles in the getty affair
liedtke said the judge's action would trigger plans, already set up, to borrow a very substantial part of the $3 billion from a consortium of banks, which it will begin investing in short-term notes
when it receives the payment from texaco, it will then repay the banks, liedtke said
asked if pennzoil would be interested in buying any texaco assets, liedtke said it could not be done ``without their permission,'' because of a mutual agreement forestalling such action for five years
he said the company would be studying longer-range plans for the money, adding that decisions could not be expected for at least several weeks
with the case virtually closed, liedtke said he planned to ``sit and think a little bit,'' and that he hoped to retire from his chief executive post when the company holds its annual meeting next month
the european economic community threatened trade retaliation against the united states on tuesday unless it brings a tax on petroleum imports into line with an international agreement
christophe bail, an eec delegate, told a council meeting of the general agreement on tariffs and trade that the 12-nation economic bloc may seek trade restrictions that would offset the u.s. tax. he did not identify which u.s. products might be targeted
u.s. delegate michael samuels dismissed the threat as premature, said one source, who added that the eec has provided no evidence the current tax has harmed its trade
the reagan administration, in its 1989 budget proposal to congress, has sought a remedy with a uniform crude oil tax of 9.65 cents per barrel, samuels told delegates
the 96-nation gatt told the united states to change the tax last june on grounds that it violated international trade rules by discriminating against imports. the ruling followed complaints by mexico, canada and the eec
under the 1986 levy, u.s. domestic crude oil is taxed at 8.2 cents a barrel while imports are taxed at 11.7 cents. the proceeds finance the superfund hazardous waste cleanup program
gatt rules provide for retaliation if a member fails to act on a ruling
the dollar finished lower wednesday in dull domestic dealings, failing to react to the government's latest economic data
gold prices rose. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $451.15 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from tuesday's late bid of $448.65
traders said there was little activity throughout the session, and the dollar moved in a very narrow range
the currency had little reaction to a labor department report showing a 0.2 percent rise in consumer prices during february. ``as long as inflation is not a problem,'' the dollar is undaunted by the figures, said curtis perkins, a foreign exchange dealer with chemical new york capital markets group
the market showed no interest in a revision of the gross national product for the fourth quarter. the commerce department said the economy expanded at a 4.8 percent annual rate, up from the 4.5 percent growth figure it reported a month ago
traders said investors are in a holding pattern until the end of the japanese fiscal year on march 31
there are rumors that the japanese are trying to keep the yen weak until the end of the year,'' said david godwin, chief foreign exchange manager at union bank of switzerland
godwin noted that investors ``are looking at the european economies against the asian economies'' when making foreign exchange trades and are less interested in the dollar at the moment
similarly in european trading, the dollar stumbled in the sidelines as the british pound dominated foreign exchange trading. sterling rose above 3.11 marks several times during the trading session, but fears of intervention took it back down each time
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 127.15 yen, up 0.08 yen from tuesday's close. but later, in london, it was quoted at a lower rate of 126.83 yen. in new york, the dollar closed at 126.85 yen, down from 127.025 yen on tuesday
in london, the pound rose against the dollar to $1.8358, from tuesday's $1.8300. in new york it cost $1.83725 to buy one pound, more expensive than tuesday's $1.8330
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with tuesday, included: 1.6916 west german marks, down from 1.69175; 1.3985 swiss francs, down from 1.39895; 5.7470 french francs, down from 5.7500; 1,251.875 italian lire, down from 1,252.825, and 1.2430 canadian dollars, down from 1.24575
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late tuesday, included: 1.6915 west german marks, down from 1.6935; 1.3990 swiss francs, down from 1.4015; 5.7450 french francs, down from 5.7540; 1.9005 dutch guilders, down from 1.9015; 1,253.25 italian lire, unchanged, and 1.2434 canadian dollars, down from 1.2468
gold prices moved higher. on the new york commodity exchange, gold for current delivery closed at $451.10 a troy ounce, up from $448.70 on tuesday
in london, gold rose to a late bid of $453 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $448.75. in zurich, gold closed at a bid $450.50, compared with $448.50 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose 19 cents an ounce to close at $452.06 bid
silver on new york's comex finished at $6.610 a troy ounce, up from tuesday's $6.465. in london, the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.630 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $6.46. proven, latest decision based on no injury to ford and gm. picks up 3rd graf pv ``revenue canada ...''</note>
in a case with implications for all north american automakers, a canadian trade panel wednesday ruled that low-price imports from hyundai motor co. of south korea had not injured domestic manufacturers
the tribunal found no evidence of material injury to the canadian subsidiaries of ford motor co. and and general motors corp., which had accused hyundai of dumping its hatchbacks and small sedans at below-cost prices to gain a foothold in the north american market
revenue canada, a department of the federal government, initially agreed with ford and gm and imposed preliminary duties of 26 percent on hyundai imports
but the key to the case was not whether hyundai was selling cars in canada at prices below those on the south korean domestic market. ford and gm also had to prove they suffered ``material injury'' and failed to do so, according to the three-member canadian import tribunal
the government panel found no evidence of damage and ordered the preliminary duties imposed last november refunded. it was the first case involving autos ever handled by the trade tribunal, officials said
all proceedings against hyundai motor co. with regard to dumping will be terminated,'' tribunal secretary art trudeau said in ottawa, where the decision was announced
hyundai spokesman greg young said the refund amounted to ``millions and millions'' of dollars posted in bonds
the feeling here today is like a cloud has been removed from over our head,'' said young
george peapples, president and general manager of general motors of canada, expressed disbelief at the finding
it has been and it remains our contention that continued unrestrained dumping by hyundai will result in lost jobs and investment in the canadian automotive industry,'' peapples said in a statement
given the deputy minister of revenue's findings of dumping margins in excess of 26 percent, it's difficult to comprehend that the tribunal did not find any injury whatsoever.''
gm spokesman nick hall said he could not comment on whether a judicial appeal will be made until the tribunal explains the reasons for its verdict next month. ``there's been a lot of time and effort spent on it already,'' hall said
ford of canada spokesman jim hartford said the ruling points to flaws in canadian trade law and dangers lurking in the comprehensive canada-u.s. free trade agreement scheduled for ratification this year
he said ford was unable to prove substantial injury from hyundai imports because canadian law looked solely at ford production and sales in canada, where small-car production has been phased out, instead of examining ford's integrated north american operations
the tribunal was severely handicapped by the narrow scope of trade law coverage in canada,'' hartford said. ``we're alarmed by the implications today's decision has for other industries which may become rationalized under the free-trade agreement.''
the canadian auto industry, responsible for 140,000 direct jobs, is integrally linked with u.s. operations under a duty-free 1965 auto pact between the two countries treating the continent as a single market
the canadian government made a crucial intervention on hyundai's behalf in the anti-dumping hearing that ended march 10. the bureau of competition policy said hyundai had fostered competition in the small-car market and kept car prices down
hyundai came to canada in 1984 and within a year had a 21 percent share of the subcompact market with sales of 79,072 ponies and stellars. the cheapest of its hatchbacks sold for $6,000 canadian, or $4,500 in american dollars
hyundai then entered the u.s. market where it grabbed a 2.6 percent share last year with sales of 264,000 excels
when ford and gm accused hyundai of dumping and the government initially concurred, hyundai's sales plummeted and some dealers resigned. the company expects to sell about 45,000 cars in canada this year, third behind honda and toyota in the small-car market
auto industry analysts said victory for ford and gm would have opened a pandora's box in which u.s. carmakers might have launched similar attacks on japanese importers, as well as hyundai operations south of the border
i can only assume other importers will evaluate the case today very closely and apply it to their operations,'' said young. uaw comment</note>
the supreme court, in a decision three justices called anti-union, said wednesday the government may limit a family's eligibility for food stamps when a family member is on strike
the court said a 1981 federal law imposing such limits does not violate any constitutional rights. the 5-3 decision reversed a federal judge's 1986 ruling that had struck down the law
justice byron r. white wrote for the court that the law represents a rational effort by congress to remain neutral in labor disputes. but the court's three dissenters, led by justice thurgood marshall, said the law ``amounts to a penalty on strikers, not neutrality.''
the 1981 law, amending the food stamp act, generally bars a family from becoming eligible for food stamps at a time when one of its members is on strike. families already receiving food stamps when a member goes on strike are not dropped from the program but are barred from receiving additional food stamps despite the loss of income
the law was challenged by the united auto workers, the united mine workers and some of their members. they said the law violated strikers' freedom of association and speech, and denied equal protection to strikers' families
but white said, ``exercising the right to strike inevitably risks economic hardship, but we are not inclined to hold that the right to association requires the government to minimize that result by qualifying the strikers for food stamps.''
he added, ``union strike funds should be responsible for providing support and benefits to strikers during labor-management disputes. it was no part of the purposes of the food stamp act to establish a program that would serve as a weapon in labor disputes.''
but marshall contended that the 1981 law amounted to such a ``weapon'' for managment
no other purpose can adequately explain the especially harsh treatment reserved for strikers and their families by the 1981 enactment,'' marshall said
uaw president owen bieber called the decision ``a blow to working families throughout america.''
in a democracy which affords its citizens the legal right to form trade unions and engage in peaceful strikes, it is hypocritical and inconsistent to punish the family members of those who choose to exercise that right,'' bieber said
he said his union would urge congress to do away with the 1981 amendment
the food stamp act generally excludes benefits for people, and the households of people, unwilling to work. but marshall noted that people who can prove they quit their jobs for ``good cause'' may collect food stamps if otherwise eligible _ while strikers may not
white was joined in upholding the law by chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices john paul stevens, sandra day o'connor and antonin scalia
justices william j. brennan and harry a. blackmun joined marshall's dissenting opinion
justice anthony m. kennedy did not participate in the decision
the nation's food stamp program, paid for by the federal government and administered by the states, has supplemented the food-buying power of millions of low-income families since 1964
participating households receive food stamp coupons that can be used for food purchases at retail stores. eligibility for food stamps is based on income and several other factors
households encompassing 21 million people received food stamps in 1984, and the federal government spent $10 billion on the food stamp program that year
in another decision wednesday, the court ruled in an illinois case that short-term notes used to finance public housing projects are not exempt from federal estate taxes. the 8-0 ruling is a victory for the reagan administration, which said more than $260 million in federal tax revenue was at stake
petroleum futures prices soared wednesday and brought precious metals along for the ride after opec finally committed to a date for next month's much-anticipated meeting of its price committee
the runup in oil prices also helped trim losses in stock-index futures, which moved steadily lower early wednesday because of the release of a barrage of anti-inflationary news from the federal government
on other markets, livestock and pork futures were mixed, wheat futures were mostly higher and soybean and corn futures were lower
the advances in oil came on a third day of frenzied activity at the new york mercantile exchange. crude lost 9 cents in the spot month monday and 40 cents tuesday as traders awaited word from opec president rilwanu lukman on when the pricing committee would meet
oil opened under pressure again wednesday, but rose when lukman finally announced the regularly scheduled meeting would take place in april. it surged 58 cents during one early afternoon stretch to the day's high of $16.96 a barrel after saudi arabia endorsed the opec gathering
when anyone else says that, the market takes it with a grain of salt,'' said bob murphy, analyst with e.f. hutton &amp; co., new york. ``but when the saudis do it, especially since they've been making noises recently about discounting their own product, the impact was almost immediate
you could almost feel the psychology changing,'' he added
west texas intermediate crude settled 38 cents to 49 cents higher, with the may contract for delivery at $16.86 a barrel; heating oil was 1.32 cents to 1.54 cents higher, with april at 47.73 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was .93 cent to 1.30 cents higher, with april at 47.25 cents a gallon
the precious metals opened higher wednesday, but floundered after the government released a pair of new economic reports _ a modest 0.2 percent rise in consumer prices last month; a revised 4.8 percent economic growth rate in the last quarter of last year
once inflation concerns stabilized, everything stagnated,'' said bette raptopolous, analyst with purdential bache securities inc. in new york. ``but lukman's announcement touched off a rally. the perception is higher oil prices means inflation, and that confirmed other indicators people have been seeing.''
gold settled $2.40 to $3.30 higher on the new york commodity exchange, with march at $451.10 a troy ounce; silver climbed 14.5 cents to 15.6 cents, with march at $6.61 a troy ounce. platinum advanced for the third straight day, settling $3.10 to $3.40 higher, with march at $513.50 a troy ounce
stock-index futures settled .25 point lower on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poors 500 index settled at 270.40. the underlying spot index climbed .07 point, closing at 268.91
we broke down to tuesday's lows early in the day, but the fact that we didn't break them might have been one signal of strength,'' said john mitchell, a broker with elders futures inc., chicago
then, the oil news touched off a rally in interest-rate futures and we moved up alongside,'' he added
wheat futures prices climbed on the chicago board of trade on news the soviet union would take delivery of 500,000 metric tons of wheat under the government's export bonus program, as well as an offer extended to poland under the same program
but the bullish news was tempered when c&amp;d commodities, the major player in the grains pits the two previous days, sold off its wheat supplies
there is a feeling their big buys in recent days to cover short positions is over,'' said one analyst
c&amp;d's selloff in the bean pit added pressure to a market that was already losing steam on expectations of decreased exports. with rival producer brazil in mid-harvest, traders feared some of the u.s. bean business will be taken away
wheat settled wheat \ cent lower to 1 cent higher, with the contract for may delivery at $3.07\ a bushel; corn was unchanged to \ cent to 1{ cents lower, with may at $2.06\ a bushel; oats were { cent to 2\ cents lower, with may at $1.67} a bushel; and soybeans were 3\ cents to 5 cents lower, with may at $6.39} a bushel
the underlying cash prices were the driving forces in livestock and pork futures trading at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle opened .32 cent lower to .10 cent higher, with april at 74.35 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .18 cent to .10 cent higher, with march at 82.45 cents a pound; live hogs were .67 cent lower to .35 cent higher, with april at 45.90 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .43 cent lower, with march at 55.10 cents a pound
stocks gained wednesday in the busiest trading of the week, but brokers said much of the action stemmed from speculation about corporate mergers and that the broader market remained lethargic
today was mostly a takeover day,'' said hildegarde zagorski, market analyst at prudential bache securities inc. ``it seemed every stock on the board had a story attached to it.''
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which traded in a tight range all day, closed 1.49 points higher to 2,067.64
wider measurements of stocks also rose, and the american stock exchange market value index reached its highest level since the october market crash, up 1.61 to 300.41
gaining stocks outnumbered declines by a 3-to-2 margin in composite new york stock exchange trading, with 917 up, 611 down and 457 unchanged. big board volume totaled 167.37 million shares, relatively busy compared with the 142 million shares traded tuesday and the year-low 128.83 million traded monday
nevertheless, traders said disinterest in stocks pervaded the market, a pattern that has persisted in the aftermath of the october crash. the apathy has been compounded recently by confusion over the direction of the economy
as in previous sessions, investors focused on the bond market for clues about inflation and the direction of interest rates, the key to where they should put their money
despite a government report showing that inflation remains relatively tame, bonds fell wednesday and interest rates rose, partly because of rebounding oil prices and other evidence of economic strength. the net effect was to keep many investors out of stocks
we're just standing here,'' said william king, head trader at nikko securities co. international in new york. ``you need money to take stocks up, and the money's not there.''
whatever money there was went largely into stocks targeted in rumored and factual acquisitions
textron jumped 5 to 29\ in heavy trading attributed to speculation the company might receive an unsolicited offer. other speculative stocks included gillette, up 3{ to 42{, and lucky stores, up 2 to 48}
resorts international fell 3~ to 28 after the company rejected a sweetened takeover offer from entertainer merv griffin, who has been battling for control of the casino company with developer donald trump
computer stocks fell, partly reflecting a belief that the industry as a whole will not do as well as earlier predicted. lotus development fell 3{ to 25\ in heavy volume after the company announced delays in the introduction of new software and analysts downgraded their earnings projections
other losers included ibm, down 1{ to 111|; digital, down 1 to 111]; texas instruments, down 1[ to 50]; and compaq, down 2[ to 51{
texaco rose 1} to 47\ after a federal bankruptcy judge approved the oil giant's reorganization plan. there also was speculation that investor carl icahn might make a bid for the company
merck jumped 4{ to 165 on a reported buy recommendation for the drug company from wall street brokerage eberstadt fleming
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 196.97 million shares
the wilshire associates 5,000 equity index, which measures the value of all u.s. stocks, rose $5.51 billion or 0.21 percent to $2.669 trillion
the nyse composite index of all listed issues rose 0.30 to 151.82
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 0.01 to 312.03, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index rose 0.07 to 268.91
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose 0.33 to 380.09
northwest airlines' new smoking ban hits the air-travel market at a time when anti-puffing campaigns are gaining momentum, but it may revive a debate that snuffed out a pioneer of smoke-free flying
muse air corp. of dallas tried and failed to establish itself as the nation's only no-smoking airline in 1985
the effort _ which offered passengers discounted tickets if they turned in their cigarettes at the gate _ was scrapped when the airline was purchased later that year by southwest airlines co. for $65 million
while the regional carrier had begun to draw its identity from its no-smoking policy, its research showed the practice was chasing away as many as 35 percent of potential passengers
surveys revealed that fliers find ``price, convenience and service more important than non-smoking'' in choosing an airline, muse spokeswoman shari cohen said at the time
she said muse may have been a bit ahead of its time by banning smoking and that the pioneer role may have hurt
even now, in the wake of the federal government's move to ban smoking on all air flights lasting less than two hours, some militant smokers are holding fast
the great american smoker's club of dallas is scheduled to make its grand entrance on april 22, a day before the government's ban goes into effect. the group, founded by two businessmen, aims to evade the ban by charging a membership fee
for $25 a year or $40 for a family, smokers can join the club and pay the same fares southwest charges to fly from dallas' love field to austin, houston, new orleans, oklahoma city, san antonio and tulsa
the club is leasing several planes from las vegas-based royal west airlines, said club president glenn herndon, who estimated the startup cost at $2 million
we want to offer cigarette smokers a choice to continue their right to smoke,'' he said. ``to fly on a plane nowadays, smokers are treated like second-class citizens and must sit on the back rows. when the smoking ban begins, we want to offer smokers an alternative _ and, hopefully, make some money.''
herndon said the club's target is to serve 63 cities from five hubs with 60 planes within two years
by the way, non-smokers will be allowed on board, but they will have to be ``tolerant,'' the club says. to gentlemen's sted gentleman's. picks up 3rd graf pvs, the survey ...</note>
american men place a premium on marriage and families and say the father's role in raising children is as important as that played by the mother, a survey said wednesday
while modern courtship and romance may seem confusing to many american men, family remains their anchor in life,'' the survey commissioned by gentlemen's quarterly magazine said
the survey said 73 percent of those responding to a questionnaire indicated they felt strongly that their family is the most important facet of their lives
it said 54 percent felt strongly that a man's most satisfying accomplishment is to be a father, while 84 percent felt strongly that a father's role is as important as the mother's in raising children
the survey said that 60 percent rated their marriage as more important than their job, friends or other family ties and that only 10 percent agreed strongly with the assertion that marriage ``makes you lose your personal identity.''
this is hardly a confirmation that the '80s man is afraid of commitment as is so often thought,'' the survey said
the survey was conducted by the independent research firm, significance inc. of ridgewood, n.j., which said it received 1,062 responses to questionnaires that were mailed in mid-november to about 2,600 men aged 18 years and older. the men were asked to rank their reactions to various assertions on a scale of 0 to 10
the firm said that the replies generally indicated that marketers should pay more attention to attitudes rather than age, income or occupation in fashioning marketing strategies
the researchers said 52 percent of those surveyed can be categorized as ``change-adapters'' _ those who generally share a positive self-image and thrive in an atmosphere of change
the remaining 48 percent, the firm said, can be called ``change-opposers'' _those who in varying degrees are experiencing some degree of alienation from society and ``are having trouble coping.''
marketers trying to reach these groups may do well to ``understand their frame of mind and view it that way rather than their time of life,'' said jack kliger, publisher of gq
among some other findings of the survey:
_while only 25 percent of those surveyed said they strongly support the women's movement, 79 percent expressed strong support for the statement, ``it's only fair that women should get equal pay for comparable work.''
_fifteen percent said they strongly agreed with the statement, ``it's just unrealistic to expect a married man never to have an extramartial affair.''
_twenty-six percent said they felt strongly that their career was the proudest accomplishment of their lives, and 40 percent said they strongly felt it is an important expression of who they are. but only 15 percent agreed strongly that their career ``means as much to me as my family or friends do.''
_one-third of those surveyed said they spend 30 minutes or less a day on grooming, another third spends between 30 minutes and 45 minutes and the remaining third spends more than 45 minutes a day on grooming
_forty-eight percent said they strongly felt women ``go for the good-looking men first'' before considering brains or personality. forty-six percent take women's suggestions on appearance seriously, but only 25 percent say they strongly like getting such advice
domestic car sales fell slightly in mid-march despite a selling surge at chrysler corp., automakers reported wednesday
analysts said an earlier flurry of higher-than-expected sales due to incentives and a stock-crash rebound appeared to be tapering off
the eight companies that make autos in the united states sold 189,245 cars in the eight sales days from march 11-20, down from 217,939 in nine sales days in the comparable 1987 period. the daily sales rate was down 2.3 percent
sales of domestically made light trucks totaled 109,509, down from 115,684 in the year ago period but still a 6.5 percent increase in daily sales
combined domestic car and light truck sales totaled 298,754, down from 333,623 for mid-march 1987 but up 0.7 percent on a daily basis
sales of foreign-made cars are reported at the end of the month
domestic sales were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.4 million for the mid-march period
that would indicate a decline from the industry's 7.1 million in domestic sales in 1987. for the prior 30 days, however, sales ran at an 8.1 million seasonally adjusted annual rate
it looks like sales are beginning to drop back down to a more expected level,'' said chris cedergren, auto analyst at j.d. power &amp; associates in westlake village, calif
jeannette garretty, an analyst at the bank of america in san francisco, said sales surged prior to the mid-march period as consumers reacted to incentives and made purchases put off due to caution after the october stock market crash. ``now it is going to start to settle down,'' she said
industry leader general motors corp. sold 92,173 domestically made cars in the march 11-20 period, down from 105,438 in the comparable 1987 period. the daily sales rate was off 1.7 percent
ford motor co. auto sales of 54,186 were down from 67,672 in the year-earlier period, and down 9.9 percent on a daily basis
chrysler car sales jumped to 30,801 from 31,699 in the same period in 1987, up 9.3 percent on a daily sales basis, aided by strong sales of chrysler new yorker and landau luxury models, the company said
chrysler's domestic light truck sales jumped even more, totaling 24,691, up from 20,987 in the year-earlier period and up 32.4 percent in daily sales
it was the eighth straight period of rising car sales at chrysler, said tom pappert, group vice president for sales. ``we are clearly going into the spring selling season with momentum on our side.''
gm also was a gainer in truck sales with an eight-day total of 45,376, up from 43,515. the daily sales rate was up 17.3 percent
ford light truck sales sagged to 36,812, from 49,164 in the year-earlier period. the daily sales rate fell 15.8 percent
market shares of the big three automakers changed only slightly from the year-earlier period, with gm capturing 48.7 percent, compared with 48.4 percent; ford accounting for 28.6 percent, down from 31.1 percent, and chrysler moving up to 16.3 percent from 14.5 percent in the year-earlier period
aggressive incentives paid off for some japanese companies manufacturing cars in the united states. honda's sales of 7,270 represented a 9.8 percent increase in its daily sales rate
volkswagen of america sold 1,034 u.s.-made cars, down 12.5 percent from 1,330 a year earlier
the big three u.s. automakers accounted for 93.6 percent of u.s. sales of u.s.-made cars
we continue to be pleased with the strength of the market,'' said c.n. moore, vice president in charge of customer sales and service at gm
grolier inc. said wednesday its board had rejected as inadequate a $415 million takeover bid from french publisher hachette sa, and said it has talked with others who may be interested in making a rival proposal
on the new york stock exchange, grolier's stock rose 12{ cents a share to close at $26.50, a price that was well above the $21-a-share bid from hachette
the rejection of a $21 bid when the stock was at $26 was no great shock,'' said jane gilday, managing director of mckinley allsopp inc. in new york. ``grolier made it clear there are other bidders and they're committed to maximizing shareholder value.''
grolier said its board of directors was unanimous in rejecting as inadequate the unsolicited takeover offer from hachette
in this regard, representatives of grolier have had preliminary contact with several parties who have indicated an interest in making a proposal to acquire the company,'' robert b. clarke, chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. clarke did not name the companies
grolier said that if it is unable to negotiate an acquisition of the company on satisfactory terms, it will look at other alternatives such as a leveraged buyout or a financial restructuring
i think the next move is that grolier will now entertain these other bids,'' gilday said. ``and, hachette could raise its bid.''
hannah bruce, vice president of tucker anthony &amp; r.l. day in new york, said, ``the way the stock market has reacted throughout this whole two weeks, it appears the market feels grolier will be worth more.''
danbury-based grolier is a publisher of encyclopedias, reference and educational books and children's books, and owns a film processing firm. it earned $22.1 million on sales of $424.2 million in 1987. the company has 7,300 employees in 20 countries
hachette, france's biggest publisher, said last week that it was offering $21 a share in cash for the 95 percent of grolier's roughly 19.5 million shares that it did not already own
bruce said grolier has a strong management team and credited the company's turnaround in the last decade to clarke
the company was near bankruptcy in the late 1970s, clarke came in as chairman and he rebuilt it. he divested all non-publishing activity and structured the enclopedia group,'' bruce said. ``the company is very strong. ... earnings are growing 30 percent-plus a year.''
she said the company has some ``very attractive pieces,'' including its adult and childrens' book clubs
they basically sell their products to parents with young children,'' she said. ``they have a strong customer base.''
kansas city southern industries inc. said wednesday that a proposed buyout effort by a new york developer may be designed to stimulate trading in the company's stock and to draw attention to the developer's previously-disclosed plan to win two board seats
the railroad, data processing and financial services company noted that howard kaskel, the new york developer, had simply proposed talks toward a possible negotiated merger in his letter to the company this week
it said the letter did not contain an offer to shareholders, and does not state that financing for any transaction has been obtained
in the letter, kaskel proposed buying the 89 percent of the company's 11.1 million shares that his group doesn't already control for $60 a share in cash. such a transaction would be worth about $590 million
the letter appears to be an effort to stimulate trading in the kansas city southern industries' stock and perhaps to publicize kaskel's previously announced plan to nominate two persons for election to the kansas city southern industries' board of directors,'' the company's statement said
a call was placed after business hours to kaskel's lawyer for comment, but the lawyer could not be reached
wall street has indicated skepticism about whether an offer will be forthcoming. in trading on the new york stock exchange, kansas city southern fell $2 a share to $54.50 on wednesday
if mr. kaskel, as a large shareholder, wishes to nominate an individual ... we would certainly be pleased to consider such a person,'' kansas city southern president landon h. rowland was quoted as saying in his company's statement
the statement said the ``on-again, off-again efforts of the kaskel group to thwart kansas city southern industries' proposed acquisition of the southern pacific ... are viewed by management as inconsistent with the best interests of the company and its stockholders.''
rowland said earlier in the week that the kcsi board would consider the kaskel proposal at a special meeting, but declined to say when the meeting would be held. negotiating to terminate its management contract and to delete reference to los angeles and hong kong investors. picks up 9th graf, recreational properties...</note>
del e. webb corp. announced wednesday its board of directors approved a restructuring plan that includes selling off its casinos and other leisure operations and focusing instead on real estate
in recent years, webb's most profitable operations on a continuing basis have been real-estate oriented and particularly our adult community developments,'' said philip j. dion, the corporation's chairman. ``this, our greatest past and present strength, is where we will concentrate our efforts.''
present shareholder value will be maximized by the sale of our leisure facilities and use of the proceeds to strengthen the company's balance sheet and provide the capital necessary to continue expansion of our real estate business,'' dion said
the leisure operations the phoenix-based company owns and manages had revenue of $171 million in 1987, $127 million from the three nevada casino hotels and $44 million from recreational properties, dion said
gaming includes three casino hotels in nevada which del webb will reacquire complete control of next month _ the mint in las vegas, the high sierra at lake tahoe and the nevada club in laughlin
dion said the three casinos were sold to two limited partnerships run by webb executives in 1984
he said the reacquisition will allow for the orderly disposition of the properties by simplifying the ownership structure
the company also is negotiating with the limited partnership that owns the claridge hotel and casino in atlantic city, n.j., to terminate webb's contract to manage the hotel
recreational properties the company owns and operates include five marinas on lake powell in arizona and utah, and wilderness river adventures, a river-rafting company on the colorado river
when the restructuring is complete, dion said the company will consist of del e. webb communities inc. and del e. webb commercial properties corp. the communities concern is the developer of sun city west vistro in arizona and sun city summerlin, an adult community in las vegas
