m police chief on investigation, picking up 8th graf pvs, `firefighters on...'. ^by james l. eng</note>
an arsonist who burned the town's elementary school and damaged a church that opened its doors to students may have set a fire monday that destroyed another church and its classrooms, authorities said
omak, a central washington town of 4,000 that boasts okanogan county's only stoplight, has been terrorized by the arson spree
it's affected everyone in town. people are very, very grim,'' said mary koch, managing editor of the weekly omak chronicle. ``they were somber as they drove by it going to work this morning. it was still burning.''
the north omak elementary school was heavily damaged in a january fire, its second in two months. in the past two weeks, two churches and a church parsonage have been set afire
they're a kook ... someone who is unbalanced,'' said vic power, superintendent of omak's school district
school officials have checked through their records for any former employee or student who has a grudge but have turned up nothing, he said
one of the interesting things in omak is we haven't had any particular problems with people, haven't had anyone out there we could identify who had been on our case for any particular reason,'' power said
police chief peter sirois said police are looking at two or three ``persons of interest'' at this point. police have interviewed about a dozen people so far, he said. he declined to say why the ``persons of interest'' might have wanted to harm the schools or churches
firefighters on monday extinguished the latest fire, which destroyed the $1.5 million omak presbyterian church. the church and the free methodist church had served as temporary classrooms after the fire at the elementary school, which served students in kindergarten though second grade
last week, the methodist church sustained about $200,000 in damage. a fire set there saturday and at the parsonage next door on sunday caused an additional $30,000 in damage, said mike cramer, assistant chief of the eight-person omak police force
it's got everybody on the edge,'' said pastor elbert g. harlow, who lives across the street from his presbyterian church. ``they're nervous ... waiting to see what's going to happen next.''
church officials met sunday night and made sure all doors and windows were locked, harlow said. a security guard woke him monday with news of the fire
the blzae apparently was set by someone who broke into the basement through a window hidden by two evergreen trees beside the three-story, red-brick church, omak fire chief cal bowling said
but bowling said he'd rather not discuss the investigation with reporters
whoever set these fires is going to read your report, and i'd just hate to let him know what this has done to the community,'' bowling said
the latest fire was too hot monday for the fire marshal to determine what caused it, cramer said
we have a strong feeling but we can't draw any conclusions yet,'' he said. authorities hope to determine the cause by tuesday
but there was no doubt that an arsonist had set the earlier fires, cramer said
the fires are beginning to take a psychological toll on residents and on the 1,800 students, including 450 from north omak elementary, cramer said
it's having a bad effect on everybody. when the first fire hit the school it devastated the kids. it was tough for them to move. now they're going to have to again,'' he said
electricians and plumbers helped set up temporary buildings as classrooms, said cramer, who added that nighttime patrols have been expanded with the help of the okanogan sheriff's department
it only seems to happen while omak sleeps,'' cramer said. ``in a way that's good, because the buildings are empty and, so far, no one has been hurt.''
the rev. norman lund, pastor of foursquare gospel church, which also housed north elementary students, said he doesn't ``want to guess what the arsonist is thinking
i think everyone's concerned about saying anything,'' he said. ``you don't want to motivate the person.''
gary hart, who was catapulted to national prominence in new hampshire in 1984, finished way behind his five democratic rivals tuesday but vowed to stay the course, saying: ``today's defeat can become tomorrow's victory.''
we're going to take this fight all the way across this nation _ into the south, into the industrial midwest and then we're going to head west, where i live,'' hart told a roomful of supporters
in nearly complete returns, the former colorado senator had 4 percent in the new hampshire primary. he put the best face on it. his showing, he said, was ``500 percent better than iowa,'' where he won barely 1 percent of the vote in last week's caucuses
four years ago, hart stunned the political establishment by upsetting front-runner walter mondale in the new hampshire primary, gaining status as a credible candidate. he said he never expected to do that well again this year
we have just begun. we are committed,'' said hart, who has labeled himself a maverick, offering fresh thinking
earlier, hart said his faltering campaign had enough money to last until delegate-rich super tuesday on march 8
i've always mentally prepared for a long-term gain, not a break-through early on,'' hart said
campaign manager sue casey said the candidate had $400,000 in his campaign treasury _ enough, she said for three weeks of campaigning prior to the 20 super tuesday states
i don't have to do what other candidates have to do,'' hart said during a campaign stop earlier in the day in portland, maine. ``other candidates have to make a certain showing to get money and get support. we have support in 50 states,'' and money in the bank
hart dropped out of the race last may after questions surfaced about his relationship with model donna rice. he returned to new hampshire to re-enter the race in december, soared for a time in the polls, then slumped to the back of the pack
politicians, journalists and schoolchildren commemorated on tuesday journalist jean-paul kauffmann's 1,000th day as a hostage in lebanon. but both french and iranian officials suggested there was no end in sight to the drama
it is important that the captors know that all of france is united,'' kauffmann's wife joelle said at a gathering of public figures and sympathizers outside a barge on the seine, where the association of friends of jean-paul kauffmann is headquartered
twenty-seven runners, ending a 1,000-kilometer trek from brittany in northwest france, arrived tuesday morning at the barge carrying a large chain to symbolize kauffmann's captivity
the newspaper guild of america, the prague-based international organization of journalists and the journalists' committee for the liberation of french hostages in lebanon all issued statements appealing for the freedom of kauffmann and other captives
we would like even more to be close to them, to tell them to hold on, that nothing will be neglected and nothing is,'' president francois mitterrand said on television
kauffmann, 43, a reporter for the newsweekly evenement du jeudi, and michel seurat, 39, were taken hostage as they drove from the beirut airport following kauffmann's arrival
 on march 5, 1986, the islamic jihad group claimed seurat had been killed
two other french hostages, diplomats marcel carton, 64, and marcel fontaine, 45, kidnapped march 22, 1985, have passed their 1,000th days as captives
terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest held of the 24 foreign hostages in lebanon. he was captured march 16, 1985
in a related development in paris, unesco director general federico mayor on tuesday told representatives of western journalists that he will take an active role on behalf of three reporters held hostage in lebanon, one of those present at the meeting said
the press group representatives met with the u.n. official to seek his intervention on behalf of kauffmann, anderson and british television cameraman john mccarthy
mia doornaert, president of the brussels-based international federation of journalists, said mayor promised to hold meetings with the governments concerned _ those whose citizens are hostages and those with influence in the area
the names of specific countries were not mentioned, according to participants, but it was common knowledge that iran exercises some influence over the shiite moslem groups holding foreign hostages. iran is a member of the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization
journalists have received widespread persecution and harassment, executives of three leading international organizations defending press freedom told the u.n. human rights commission on tuesday
the reports marked the first concerted move to have examination of such abuses placed before the 43-nation panel
peter galliner, director of the international press institute, cited a survey listing 25 journalists killed in 1987, 10 kidnapped or disappeared, and 675 arrested, expelled or otherwise harassed. he said last year alone the institute sent 63 protests to 31 countries
the president of the inter-american press association, ignacio e. lozano, jr. said freedom of the press was a basic human right and that the commission's support in defending it is essential
it is our hope that you would keep defense of freedom of expression on your permanent agenda,'' lozano said
galliner said the situation in countries such as chile and paraguay in latin america, and south africa and some other african countries continued to be of special concern
also represented was the paris-based international federation of newspaper publishers
a victorious george bush, flushed with a new hampshire primary win, vowed tuesday night to ``rise again'' when the presidential campaign moves south
frequently interrupted by chants of ``we want george,'' and ``we're number one,'' bush spoke of polls that had him slightly behind senate minority leader bob dole in the republican presidential race
tonight, i feel i have a lot in common with mark twain,'' he said. ``reports of my death were greatly exaggerated.''
with 94 percent of the precincts reporting, bush had 38 percent to 29 percent for dole. others trailed far behind
and now i'm going home to change the laundry and on to the south, where we're going to rise again,'' bush told cheering supporters
bush thanked the voters of new hampshire and in a personal note said, ``i'll never forget you.''
you haven't chosen a man,'' he said, his wife, barbara, by his side. ``you've chosen a course, to expand our prosperity, to see that it touches every hamlet, every home.... you've chosen to back a strong america, an america strong enough to bring peace to the entire world.''
bush planned to spend wednesday in washington and then campaign on thursday in missouri and texas, two super tuesday states
once the commanding front-runner in polls in the first primary state, bush saw himself fall into a virtual dead-heat with dole after dole's victory in the feb. 8 iowa caucuses. beaten 2-1 by dole in iowa, bush also trailed former television evangelist pat robertson in the caucuses
the post-iowa bush sought more contact with voters, making improptu stops at shopping malls, sitting at the wheel of a big truck and a forklift, and declaring that he had strong feelings even if he doesn't always show them
bush's national campaign manager, lee atwater, said the new hampshire win would wipe out the iowa loss
new hampshire is the big enchilada in american politics,'' atwater said. he attributed bush's win to the vice president ``talking about issues'' while dole ``was talking about all this momentum jazz.''
as he prepared to retire for the night, bush told supporters, ``i leave you with four little words that will be on my mind when i take the oath 11 months from now: thank you, new hampshire.''
unesco director general federico mayor on tuesday told representatives of western journalists that he will take an active role on behalf of three reporters held hostage in lebanon, a press representative said
the group met with mayor to seek his intervention on behalf of terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, british television cameraman john mccarthy and french magazine writer jean-paul kauffmann, who marked his 1,000th day in captivity tuesday
anderson, missing since march 16, 1985, is the longest held of the 22 foreign hostages in beirut, and mccarthy has been missing since april 17, 1986
the group met with mayor for a 40-minute closed-door session. the journalists were led by mia doornaert, diplomatic correspondent of the dutch newspaper de standaard and president of the brussels-based international federation of journalists
it included harry conroy, general secretary of britain's national union of journalists and gerard gatinot, a frenchman representing the the prague-based international organization of journalists
ms. doornaert said mayor promised to hold meetings with the governments concerned _ those whose citizens are hostages and those with influence in the area
the names of specific countries were not mentioned, according to participants, but it was common knowledge that iran exercises some influence over the shiite moslem groups holding foreign hostages
iran is a member of the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization
unesco has a special human rights group that takes up imprisonment cases with member governments. it also has sponsored meetings in the past involving the two journalists' federations on professional issues
two officials of the newspaper guild of america, charles dale, the president, and charles perlik, immediate past president, were unable to attend because of visa problems
in prepared remarks for the meeting, dale said:
the newspaper guild ... takes this occasion to reaffirm its commitment to the freedom of terry anderson and the other journalists held hostage in the middle-east as well as the release of arab journalists currently imprisoned in israeli occupied territories
we are approaching the third anniversary of anderson's imprisonement. he and the other journalists who share his fate are prisoners without guilt, sometimes to terms that now exceed those meted out to many violent criminals
the conscience of the world cannot permit this to continue. it cries out for the immediate freeing of terry anderson, john mccarthy and jean-paul kauffmann, not as part of any quid pro quo arrangement between governments but out of elementary consideration of human justice and decency. in the same spirit, we urge the release of all arab journalists held in israeli prisons,'' he said
the official celebration of the u.s. constitution's 200th birthday was largely ceremonial, but historians say the true tribute actually came during the congressional hearings into the iran-contra affair and the supreme court nomination of robert bork
the commission on the bicentennial of the u.s. constitution, the official sponsor of the tribute to the 200-year-old document, got some credit from historians for reaching out to the people with such things as its pocket-size copies of the constitution. but others faulted it for paying too little attention to serious scholarship
most of the historians interviewed in recent weeks about the bicentennial celebration agreed that americans learned more about the constitution and its workings through watching the iran-contra hearings on television and reading about the debate on the bork nomination than through any planned activity
my sense is that the commission's work was not particularly substantive,'' said laurence tribe, a constitutional law professor at harvard university, who testified to the senate judiciary committee against the bork nomination. ``nonetheless, what the country experienced proved to be extraordinarily profound because of the iran-contra hearings and the bork hearings
you can't help observing how much the public became involved in discussions on the meaning of the constitution, the role the courts should play, the fundamental relationships between the executive and legislative branches,'' tribe said. ``those topics usually are discussed just by lawyers.''
g. edward white, professor of law and history at the university of virginia, agreed that the bicentennial commission's efforts ``were largely ceremonial.''
the ones that have come to my attention basically are on a kind of superficial, ceremonial level,'' he said
in comparison, he said, ``the bork hearings were one of the major contributors _ unconsciously so _ to the constitutional debate.''
j. woodford howard jr., a political science professor at johns hopkins university, recalled that when he went to parties last summer and fall, all that people wanted to talk about were the bork or iran-contra hearings
this was the constitution in action,'' howard said. ``both hearings really drove home the fact that the constitution is not just a document, or a fossil, but something that is enduring.''
former chief justice warren burger, who gave up his place on the court to devote full time to heading the bicentennial commission, said he believes its work did have an impact on americans' understanding of the document that guarantees their freedoms
my guess will be there's a higher awareness, a higher consciousness, not necessarily of the details,'' he said in a recent interview in his office. ``if a free people don't look from time to time at their liberties and how they got them, they take the risk of losing them
although we succeeded in creating greater awareness, that doesn't mean detailed knowledge necessarily,'' burger added
a coffee table in burger's office in the supreme court building was covered with recently published books and pamphlets on the constitution. on it, too, was a cereal box with a short historical message, copies of placemats from fast-food restaurants with short constitutional quizzes and a bicentennial calendar
louis harlan, a history professor at the university of maryland and president-elect of the american historical association, was one of the historians critical of the commission's work
the parades and fireworks have faded into history,'' he said, ``but the commission has failed to give us something that will endure and be of use to future generations.''
burger countered that the commission's work will lead to a wider audience for scholarly works and noted that other government agencies have financed studies on the constitution
the commission stated at the start of its work that it wanted to teach americans more about the constitution. it cited a survey that found that about half of the public could not identify the purpose of the constitution or explain what the bill of rights is
burger said no survey of americans' knowledge of the document has been taken in the wake of last year's tribute, which reached a zenith last sept. 16 with a party on the capitol steps in washington and with a ceremony in philadelphia the next day
henry steele commager, a historian at amherst college, said he did not believe it was possible to measure the success of the bicentennial activities
what is the criterion for success for a party?'' he asked. ``if you want to know if people learned anything, who knows? obviously, the lessons of watergate didn't teach mr. reagan anything about the constitution.''
howard said the mood of the country for the constitution's bicentennial was one of introspection. ``we were worrying about whether we have dropped the torch, and i think the iran-contra hearings and bork hearings really brought that feeling home
this time, we had the constitution in action,'' howard added. ``those hearings brought the constitution to life.''
the house resumes its struggle toward a national aids policy this week with two sharply contrasting californians at the extremes of disputes over issues ranging from discrimination to testing
on one side is democratic rep. henry waxman, the liberal and influential chairman of the house health subcommittee, whose los angeles district is ethnically diverse and big-city tolerant
across the ideological gulf but geographically next door is rep. william dannemeyer, r-calif., a conservative from straight-laced and suburban orange county
their differences will be aired friday at what waxman is calling a ``refresher hearing'' on his bill to provide money for voluntary aids tests, guarantee confidentiality for those tested, and protect aids victims and carriers from discrimination
the hearing follows a series of canceled work sessions last year that dannemeyer claims were scratched because waxman didn't have enough votes to win approval of his bill
if he can't achieve his objective ... of anti-discrimination status for those with the virus, he will not move a bill in the 100th congress,'' dannemeyer said
we had other things pressing on us,'' waxman responded when asked why the sessions were canceled. he said he expects to finish work on the aids bill within two months
though he maintained he is ``always open to discussion,'' waxman indicated he would not compromise on the measure's confidentiality or civil rights provisions and said he detected little support for dannemeyer's positions
the whole public health world has concluded we need to protect against discrimination,'' waxman said. ``the only people likely to come in for tests if there is no protection are people at low risk'' of having aids
dannemeyer calls it ``inappropriate and absurd'' to legislate anti-discrimination safeguards because of what he contends is the ``unstable status'' of information about aids transmission
while waxman quotes the prevailing view of virtually all public health authorities that aids cannot be transmitted by casual contact, dannemeyer asserts that those authorities are rethinking ``their dogmatic pronouncements that the aids virus is not a threat in the workplace.''
dannemeyer says employers should be free to decide whether to fire an aids victim or carrier
the civil rights of the uninfected are entitled to just as much protection as the infected,'' dannemeyer said. he also asserted that protecting aids victims from discrimination conflicts with ``the heterosexual ethic.''
going against the grain of prevailing psychiatric thought, he contended that homosexuals voluntarily choose their sexual preference and said schoolchildren should be taught that ``homosexuality is a perverse lifestyle, it's an unhealthy lifestyle. that's a fact. we should tell that to kids.''
dannemeyer has introduced a bill requiring aids testing of marriage license applicants, hospital patients, people being treated for venereal disease and people convicted of drug or sex crimes. he has also sponsored a bill that requires reporting by name of every individual who has aids or tests positive for antibodies to the aids virus
waxman said dannemeyer and others who promote such reporting requirements ``seem to want these names for some other purpose'' and that suspicion would discourage high-risk individuals from being tested
we have a clear danger of hysterical over-reaction where many people might find themselves persecuted for being infected,'' waxman said. ``we can't get sidetracked into an anti-gay crusade when our real job is to stop the spread of this terrible disease.''
waxman said the biggest concern at this point is not the transmission of aids among homosexuals but its spread among intravenous drug users ``and their sexual contacts in the underclass.''
dannemeyer contended that strong homosexual lobbies are hobbling congress and some state legislatures in their handling of the disease. he said aids victims have received kid-glove treatment that flies in the face of traditional ways to halt epidemics
if 73 percent of the (aids) cases were presented by people with gray eyes, a highly disorganized group in america, three years ago we would have witnessed large-scale quarantine of anyone who had the virus,'' he said
dannemeyer also condemned an educational film created by the gay men's health crisis in new york city. he distributed videotaped copies to reporters and said the film uses tax dollars to promote homosexuality
the tape features blunt language, a demonstration of condom use on a cucumber and a scene of two men kissing in a shower
waxman said he had not seen the tape but added, ``i wouldn't know how to design a message to the gay community. i don't think mr. dannemeyer would know how to design it. ... but we'd better start getting the message across and not pull our punches because we're fearful of talking about sex.''
the odds are increasing rapidly that americans traveling abroad can find a fast-food place that bears a familiar name
mcdonald's in munich, pizza hut in fiji and taco bell in sydney are just three examples of the trend toward expanding foreign markets for u.s. restaurant fanchises,'' says an agriculture department report
in 1985, there were 6,122 international franchise units, up 36 percent from 3,943 in 1980. figures by the commerce department show that canada and japan account for almost half, with australia and new zealand ranking next
the report was written for the department's national food review magazine by two economists, charlene price and hal linstrom of usda's economic research service
as you might expect, the popularity of the different restaurants varied around the world,'' the report said. ``for example, canada was the largest market for hamburger units, and japan accounted for the greatest share of the chicken market. austalians and new zealanders enjoyed pizza.''
mcdonalds, kentucky fried chicken, burger king and wendy's _ the four largest u.s. restaurant chains _ accounted for 31 percent of the world total, franchising 4,626 restaurants internationally by 1986, up from 272 in 1974, the report said
as the largest food service organization in the world with about 9,400 establishments, mcdonald's led the international scene with about 2,138 outlets, compared with 370 five years earlier, the report said
kentucky fried chicken, a division of pepsico inc., operated more than 6,500 units, including 1,854 in 54 foreign countries
burger king, part of pillsbury foodservice, operated 4,744 outlets in 1986, including 403 in 24 foreign countries and puerto rico
wendy's, which grew to the world's fourth-largest restaurant chain in 17 years, operated almost 4,000 outlets, including 231 in 17 foreign countries
of the four largest franchisers, only kentucky fried chicken operated outlets in africa in 1986, and also held sole position in the middle eastern countries, the report said
franchise growth overseas will continue in existing markets,'' the report said. ``at the same time, some chains are entering previously untapped areas. kentucky fried chicken and pizza hut, for instance, recently negotiated with the chinese and russian governments to bring fast food to those countries.''
most franchise restaurant companies probably will keep expanding their menus and services abroad as well as in the united states, particularly to meet a growing interest in diet and ``light'' foods
strong growth in mexican and oriental foods may also mean introduction of new menu items,'' the report said. ``following the u.s. trend, breakfast offerings are also likely to increase in overseas restaurants.''
a shot or two of carbon dioxide _ the stuff used in some fire extinguishers _ may be just the thing to help sensitive plants such as raspberries and blueberries survive the stress of heat therapy, says an agriculture department plant pathologist
the result one day could be a new assortment of plants for nurseries and home gardeners
heat is used in special chambers to rid fruit and vegetable plants of viruses. at 100 degrees fahrenheit, the heat forces the plants to grow faster than the viruses lurking in them, said richard h. converse, who works for the department's agricultural research service, corvallis, ore
but that's too hot for blueberries and many raspberries, he said in a recent report by the agency. if carbon dioxide is raised to 1,100 parts per million in the chamber from the 350 parts normally present in the air, the plants are able to withstand the heat
converse said the process of raising carbon dioxide levels had been used previously by australian scientists to heat-treat grape plants. he is hopeful that the procedure can be used to eliminate viruses from apples, oranges, potatoes, onions and bulb crops such as iris and lilies
poultry processors soon will be allowed more options in repackaging and relabeling federally inspected fowl and poultry products for final distribution to consumer outlets, says the agriculture department
as it is right now, poultry products can only be repacked and relabeled at federally inspected plants
warehouses and distribution centers are often more conveniently located than federally inspected plants,'' said lester m. crawford, administrator of the department's food safety and inspection service. ``so, allowing certain facilities to repackage and relabel poultry products with inspectors present means savings in time and money and a safe product. we believe the savings in transportation costs could ultimately mean lower prices for consumers.''
the optional operations will also have to be done under the supervision of federal inspectors, he said. the new rule will take effect on march 11
the processors will pay usda for the inspection at the repackaging operations. crawford said the optional service has been available to the meat industry but has not been allowed under poultry inspection regulations
repacking and relabeling allow bulk shipments of federally inspected products to be divided into consumer packages and to have brand names placed on the products. challenger</head>
rep. barney frank, who acknowledged last year that he is a homosexual, is busy raising money for his re-election campaign while the republican party is still looking for someone to oppose him
at this point, the only republican publicly talking of running against the liberal massachusetts democrat is a conservative gadfly who withdrew from the 1986 massachusetts gubernatorial race after admitting he had lied about his military record
i don't know what the republicans plan to do about it, but the reading we have (from polling) is that voters care about performance in office'' and not personal issues like sexual preference, frank said. ``and that's certainly consistent with the reading i've gotten from people.''
massachusetts democrats say the homosexual disclosure will have little impact on voters who have sent frank to congress with increasingly convincing victory margins _ 52 percent, 60 percent, 74 percent and 89 percent
and they note that the disclosure was not news to many constituents
republicans, however, are talking about how frank could be defeated in the state's 4th district, which includes democratic strongholds on the outskirts of boston, upper-class republican enclaves like wellesley, and mill towns like fall river near the rhode island border
joe malone, executive director of the state gop, said the homosexual issue could be exploited by a republican challenger, not by attacking frank's sexual preference but by telling voters he is focusing too heavily on ``gay issues'' at the expense of other congressional work
i've always thought it's a case of how the congressman votes, and if his sexuality slants his voting in such a way that he no longer represents his district,'' malone said
in many cases he has chosen to pursue issues that have an effect on the gay community to the detriment of issues that affect the typical constituent in his district,'' he added
however, malone could not immediately provide any examples. and frank's supporters point to his work on several major bills in 1987 to counter that argument
they credit him with playing major roles in passage of a measure requiring that any low-income federal housing demolished under urban renewal be replaced; a bill requiring a special prosecutor be appointed to investigate alleged wrongdoing by administration figures; and legislation prohibiting the government from denying visas based on politics
while republicans talk about frank's vulnerability, there is no declared candidate with the election nine months away. the only politician publicly considering a challenge to frank is royall switzler, who would carry considerable political baggage into any race
switzler made a name for himself by taking on leaders of the democratic-controlled massachusetts house _ often alone _ during his years in the state legislature
the massachusetts gop enlisted switzler in 1986 to run against popular democratic gov. michael dukakis, but he was forced to bow out after admitting he was a sergeant in peacetime korea, not a green beret captain in vietnam
frank, 47, is taking nothing for granted
campaign reports filed with the federal election commission show that his spending and fund-raising in 1987 were more than double his campaign receipts and expenditures during 1985, the last non-election year
the fourth-term congressman raised $144,300 during 1987, compared to $71,400 in 1985. he spent $106,400 last year compared to $49,800 in 1985
frank also paid $7,000 for an october poll to measure voter reaction to the disclosure of his homosexuality
the general finding is that overwhelmingly people in the district will judge me on how i do my job as a member of congress and not anything else,'' frank said
planners of the ronald reagan presidential library, forced to abandon a site at stanford university after widespread protests, are running into skepticism from some city officials about their proposal to build the library near this southern california city
the 100-acre site, donated by the real estate development firm of blakeley-swartz, impinges on a greenbelt area that is protected from large-scale development by a decade-old, non-binding agreement among simi valley, moorpark and thousand oaks
we do not want the library project used as means for further land-use concessions on any property within the greenbelt,'' moorpark officials wrote on jan. 7 to the ventura county board of supervisors, which must approve the project. moorpark mayor john galloway said similar letters were sent by officials of thousand oaks and simi valley
donald e. swartz, a partner in the developing firm, said in a telephone interview from los angeles, ``we have seen the letter and i think we can live within the scope of that.''
but moorpark city councilman clint harper, a mathematics teacher at moorpark college, said, ``we are concerned as a council that the reagan library may be used as a lever to get additional land development.''
however, he added that he thinks the $60 million library could be ``consistent with the greenbelt if that is the only anticipated use.''
galloway expressed surprise at a report in the los angeles times on sunday that blakeley-swartz plans to build a 300-room hotel and conference center on 540 acres adjacent to the library site. ``we are going to have real concerns about that,'' the moorpark mayor said
swartz said only about 40 acres of the blakeley-swartz property lie within the greenbelt. nevertheless, previous efforts to develop the property have been rebuffed by local officials who argued such development would affect the integrity of the greenbelt agreement
the strongest concerns have been expressed by moorpark, which officials say would be most affected by development of the property because of its location
i think in general people are very supportive of the library,''said simi valley mayor greg stratton. ``one of the reasons the reagans liked the area was that it was so unspoiled, so development would be contradictory to the president's wishes. to a certain extent, that will help maintain it as a greenbelt.''
the greenbelt, covering about 1,200 acres, embraces an area of rolling hills covered with brush, beavertail cactus and wildflowers. the heights command a sweeping view of surrounding valleys, and on a clear day california's offshore channel islands can be seen in the distance
although surrounded by more development, the site is in itself much like the country around the reagans' ranch, about 80 miles northwest of simi valley, where the president and first lady nancy reagan are taking a brief vacation
selection of the site climaxed a search which began after the ronald reagan presidential foundation abandoned the stanford location in the face of opposition from students, faculty and homeowners. reasons for the opposition ranged from politics to traffic
mrs. reagan was driven to the new site during a california vacation in august and approved it. the president gave his approval after flying over, planners said
the foundation has not yet filed a plan with ventura county officials for development of the site, but has said it hopes to start construction in july. local officials say they will be concerned if roads and other facilities for the library would support additional development
this is the first time that we have had the prospect of quite such a prestigious proposal,'' said simi valley city council member ann rock. ``this isn't something that comes along every day. so i'm assuming that the reagan foundation indeed is serious
now what i don't know, if they have a fairly intense land-use plan, is whether or not they are going to get the go-ahead from ventura county. that may be discouraging.''
pat robertson had just finished a strident anti-communist sermon to the chamber of commerce when kent evans stood up and told the republican candidate what was on his mind
i'm shaking,'' he said. ``i'm sitting here really afraid when you start talk about going to war.''
it was a dramatic moment on the eve of the crucial new hampshire primary, where robertson hoped for another surprising finish in the wake of his upstart second-place showing in iowa
after several minutes of back-and-forth, robertson told evans: ``i don't know what else to say except that peace will come through strength. ... maybe would you prefer to live under communism? i don't know. i'd rather be free.''
the confrontation with the portsmouth merchant highlighted the strong reaction some have to robertson's foreign policy positions
it also came as the gop hopeful was embroiled in a controversy about soviet missiles and cuba. robertson said during a sunday night debate that soviet medium-range missiles are still based on the island, although he backed off the assertion monday, saying he had no such first-hand knowledge
robertson drew criticism from his opponents for the comment, in tones that echoed evans' fears
this is a very serious allegation,'' bush said in an interview on a manchester, n.h., radio station. ``you keep hearing these outrageous charges ... which are designed to scare the american people.''
rep. jack kemp of new york called it ``a rather rash and unsupportable charge.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said ss-4 and ss-5 missile sites established in cuba in 1962 ``were confirmed as having been destroyed in that year.''
at the chamber of commerce candidate forum, robertson gave his standard speech, with a strong defense of america and strong denunciations of communism as the greatest evil the nation faces
after hearing what robertson had to say, this was evans' reaction: ``he advocates using weapons and war as a solution to all the problems in the world. ... that's isn't a solution _ that's annihilation.''
robertson talked of the berlin wall, calling it an abomination that the united state should have stopped
had i been president when that was done, there would have been u.s. tanks on the move to knock that thing down,'' robertson said
and that was too much for evans, who runs an office furniture store
i'm sitting here really afraid when you start talk about going to war the way you just talked about it, the result of taking tanks to the berlin wall,'' said evans. ``with all that talk of war, not understanding the threat we face today from nuclear weapons... we can no longer do it.''
part of the audience of 250 applauded evans. robertson asked who he supports and evans said senate gop leader bob dole
robertson nodded and went on to compare the current situation to the challenge posed by adolf hitler's germany in the 1930s
had we been resolute in the face of dictatorship that would never have happened. i am for peace with all of my heart,'' robertson said
evans broke in: ``there were not nuclear weapons when hitler was there. you need to address the root cause before it comes up to a hitler, not afterward with weapons.''
the former television evangelist was clearly irritated by evans' questions but pressed on
you have somebody who is every bit as bad as hitler in charge of many nations of the world,'' robertson said. ``communism is just as bad as the nazis. ... if we want to have peace in our world, it is absolutely essential that we stand up resolutely to communism.''
several times later during the appearance, robertson returned to evans to address his concerns
at one point, he said: ``this gentleman had all the concerns. sir, i want to eliminate nuclear weapons from the face of the earth.'' really knows</head>
pat robertson says he has no first-hand evidence that there are soviet missiles in cuba, as he had claimed in a debate over the weekend with his republican presidential rivals
robertson came under fire monday for the assertion, made sunday, which fellow gop candidates termed ``rash'' and ``outrageous.''
the white house emphatically denied the claim and the man identified by the robertson campaign as the candidate's source said the existence of such weapons in cuba has not been confirmed
the former television evangelist initially said monday that he would not ``back off'' his claim. but later in the day, he began revising it until he was saying that he had been asking a question, not making an assertion, when he alleged that cuba has nuclear weapons pointed at the united states
i was asking in the debate is this true,'' he said. ``i have no sources other than what i've said, so there was no categorial statement per se.''
in the debate, robertson was attacking the intermediate-range missile treaty signed last december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev when he made the claim
somehow in all this brilliant negotiations which these gentlemen are so proud of they left that out of the treaty,'' he said. ``and it seems to me nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.''
pressed by reporters here, robertson said he had no first-hand evidence that there are such weapons in cuba
my contention is there might be missiles in the caves; they may have brought in missiles on some other transport vessel or possibly a submarine. i don't know the exact sizing of it, but nobody can say for certain that those missiles aren't there,'' he said
later, interviewed on cable news network's ``larry king live,'' robertson said it is possible there are soviet missiles in cuba
i don't think, frankly, there's anybody in the united states right now that i'm aware of who can say categorically that there are or they're not there,'' he said
earlier monday, robertson had told a gop candidate's forum here that ``the least we can do in this is get those nuclear weapons out of cuba,'' a reiteration of the statements he had made during sunday's debate in goffstown, n.h
i'm not going to back off from that. i'd be happy to have somebody prove me wrong,'' he told an interviewer
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said ss-4 and ss-5 missile sites established in cuba in 1962 ``were confirmed as having been destroyed in that year. we also are confident that the missiles were removed from cuba at that time
we have had extensive intelligence collection directed at cuba since 1962 and have no evidence that ss-4, ss-5 or other strategic missiles have been deployed there,'' fitzwater said
asked whether he was denying any offensive nuclear weapons are deployed in cuba, fitzwater said, ``exactly.''
vice president george bush said in an interview monday that ``i'm confident this (robertson assertion) is not true,'' and added: ``you keep hearing these outrageous charges ... which are designed to scare the american people.''
another gop presidential candidate, rep. jack kemp of new york, called it ``a rather rash and unsupportable charge.''
officials with robertson's campaign said his contention was based on information supplied by david s. sullivan, a staff member of the republican minority on the democratic-controlled senate foreign relations committee
but sullivan said monday in an interview with the associated press that ``we do not know whether nuclear weapons are in cuba or not.'' wins</head>
supporters of george bush are claiming an overwhelming victory in a republican straw poll, but bob dole's backers boycotted the vote and say they'll win when it counts _ on primary election day
bush garnered 731 votes while dole got 32 in the presidential straw poll, which bush supporters denounced as illegal
this proves that puerto rico is george bush country,'' said josito dapena, bush's campaign director for puerto rico
dole supporters minimized the importance of the poll _ which is not binding _ saying the real test is march 20, when puerto rico holds its primary
we don't participate in straw polls,'' said donald devine, a pro-dole observer at the assembly
there was a bitter dispute when gop national committeeman edison misla aldarondo, a dole backer, tried to address the gathering to question whether there was a quorum. he was told he had not registered as a delegate and could not speak
luis a. ferre, the local gop chairman, said the presence of 750 of the 1,500 delegates in the general assembly would constitute a quorum. dole supporters said there were only 682 delegates registered but the bush forces said more than 900 attended
the dole campaign in washington issued a statement saying bush backers had ``failed ... in an attempt to convene and illegally poll puerto rico republicans.''
monday's assembly was originally scheduled to chose the 14 delegates to the republican convention instead of waiting for march 20. however, the local democratic party went to court to prevent the primary from being advanced
bush's national campaign manager, lee atwater, said the puerto rico results would give the vice president a lift going into the new hampshire primary and also ``send a positive signal to other hispanic voters throughout the united states.''
last week the political spotlight was on a farm state whose economy has fared poorly during the reagan years. now it turns to a new england state that has been booming
political analysts say economic circumstances may have a bigger impact on the new hampshire primary than any momentum from the feb. 8 caucuses in iowa, where democrat richard gephardt and republican bob dole came in first, with vice president george bush falling back to third place behind pat robertson on the gop side
iowa was a state that voted for change,'' says william schneider, a fellow at the american enterprise institute. ``the status quo candidates were bush and dukakis and they both did fairly or very poorly
the reagan legacy and the massachusetts miracle didn't sell in iowa,'' schneider said. but new hampshire is ``at the other extreme, with the lowest unemployment rate in the country and a boom economy. the status quo is much more popular.''
schneider said exit polling in iowa by the los angeles times showed, ``the more dissatisfied you were with the way things were going, the more you voted for dole or robertson on the republican side _ if you were realy unhappy, you voted for robertson _ and for gephardt on the democratic side.''
kevin phillips, a republican analyst, agreed that iowa was ``a considerable portrait of discontent.''
bush's screaming one-fifth of the vote was the only vote that you could really read as support of the president. that's pretty low for an incumbent vice president,'' said phillips
on the democratic side, it's pretty clear that gephardt and simon and jackson did better than early expectations. the guy who ran a little bit behind early expectations was mr. new england good news, the man with the purring economy whose message is for the yuppies, dukakis,'' said phillips
in new hampshire, ``what dukakis has to worry about is falling short of expectations,'' like muskie in 1972, he added
stu eizenstat, a top policy adviser in the carter administration, predicted that the combined iowa and new hampshire results may only show the strength of regional candidates _ midwesterners gephardt and simon in the midwest, new englander dukakis in new england
if al gore and jesse jackson, the two democrats with the strongest southern ties, emerge as the big winners on super tuesday, then the democrats may be ``left with no one candidate showing a national base and strength.''
we'll have sorted out regional candidates with no base anywhere,'' eizenstat said
the associated press will carry results tuesday of the new hampshire presidential primary. the results will be provided to the ap by news election service, a consortium of television networks and news services
here is how the ap will report the results:
the results of the primary will directly govern the allocation of new hampshire's delegates to the republican and democratic national conventions. the gop presidential candidates are competing for 23 delegates from new hampshire, while the democratic candidates are vying for the state's 18 delegates in that party
the ap will summarize the results this way:
republican state raw vote summary:
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses in new hampshire
0 of 298 precincts reporting - 0 percent
du pont, 0,000 - 0 percent
haig, 0,000 - 0 percent
kemp, 0,000 - 0 percent
dole, 0,000 - 0 percent
robertson, 0,000 - 0 percent
bush, 0,000 - 0 percent
democratic state raw vote summary:
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses in new hampshire
0 of 298 precincts reporting - 0 percent
hart, 0,000 - 0 percent
dukakis, 0,000 - 0 percent
gore, 0,000 - 0 percent
jackson, 0,000 - 0 percent
gephardt, 0,000 - 0 percent
babbitt, 0,000 - 0 percent
simon, 0,000 - 1 percent
the ap will report the number of national convention delegates for each candidate this way:
democratic delegates:
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential caucuses in new hampshire on wednesday
  0 percent of precincts reporting
simon                0 dukakis              0 gephardt             0 jackson              0 gore                 0 babbitt              0 hart                 0 total               00
republican delegates:
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential caucuses in new hampshire on wednesday
  0 percent of precincts reporting. bush                 0 dole                 0 du pont              0 kemp                 0 robertson            0 haig                 0 total               00
finally, when the delegate numbers from new hampshire are firm, they will be included in the ap's national delegate count. that is summarized in the following table:
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days babbitt          4           0          0            0 dukakis         35.50        0          0           13 gephardt        33           0          0           20 gore            10.55        0          0            0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson          9.80        0          0            0 simon           30           0          0           17 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    274.40        0          0            2
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 397.25
yet to be chosen: 3,764.75
total                                changes 
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           47           0          0           47 dole           34           0          0           34 du pont         0           0          0            0 haig            0           0          0            0 kemp           32           0          0           32 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted     8           0          0            8  
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 129
yet to be chosen: 2,148
the new hampshire primary presidential elections take place today. here is a tentative listing of stories we plan for wednesday pms

pm-nh primary roundup, by donald rothberg. our main story will wrap together results from both primaries
pm-nh primary-analysis. by walter r. mears
pm-nh primary-delegates. who won how many; where the delegate races stand now. by rick vernaci
pm-nh primary-republicans; reaction and impact. by evans witt
pm-nh primary-democrats; ditto, by william welch
pm-nh primary polls, by ap writer gary langer
pm-nh primary-also rans, results for the men whose candidacies may have been at stake in nh. (babbitt, hart, du pont, haig
pm-onto the south. a look at the calendar ahead
in addition, we will transmit candidate separates, but the pm-nh primary republicans and pm-nh primary democrats are intended for use by editors who want a wrap up on reaction and a look-ahead on impact
pm-nh quotebox

fyi, an advisory on table formats __ bc-new hampshire-tables __ on tabular material moved previously and is being repeated this cycle

the ap say</head>
the roof of the washington public power supply system no. 2 nuclear reactor building cracked because of a malfunctioning fan, but the mishap posed no danger, officials said monday night
during a safety check of a circuit breaker sunday night, an air supply fan came on inadvertently and within a few minutes had built enough pressure to pop about 200 bolts that fasten an interlocking grid of steel panels in the roof of the building, said lee oxsen, operations director. the bolts are about a quarter-inch in diameter and an inch long, he said
no loud noise accompanied the fracture, and it was discovered only as a reactor operator noticed the bolts on the floor while making a routine hourly inspection less than an hour later, oxsen said
the pressure pushed the roof upward a few inches, and when it fell back into place there were two seams in a rough t-shape, one seam about 40 feet long and the other about 25 feet long, said barbara mathews of wppss
the nuclear regulatory commission was notified immediately, but there was no danger to workers or the public, ms. mathews said. the plant was shut down at the time
oxsen said repairs could cost more than $1 million, ``a couple of hundred thousand dollars a day (for) up to a week.''
these (roof) panels, i should add, are designed to do exactly what they did,'' he said. ``these bolts are designed to pop'' when internal pressure reaches a specified level
he explained that the pressure system and roof design are intended to protect the reactor from inward collapse in the event of a tornado or other severe storm
he said an initial inspection indicated the only repairs needed would be to bolt the panels back into place and restore the foam, tar and gravel on top of the roof, which is about 120 feet off the ground
the whole building is pressurized,'' he said
oxsen said similar accidents had occurred at other reactors, including the oyster creek plant in new jersey about 19 or 20 years ago. he said he did not know the cost of repairs in that or other instances
the plant at the nearby hanford nuclear reservation was shut down saturday to fix leaks in two condenser tubes in the cooling system, so ``it was an opportune time to do some other maintenance,'' oxsen said
the nrc had directed wppss to check for potential problems in some westinghouse circuit breakers, including the one linked to the errant supply fan, he said. both exhaust fans and the other supply fan were turned off at the time, he said
oxsen said the control panel initially failed to show the supply fan had come on, and an automatic cutoff system apparently failed as well
riot police battled arabs in violent clashes in jerusalem, and leaflets distributed in the occupied territories called on residents to step up protests and attack jewish settlements in a ``day of wrath.''
the leaflets, which appeared monday, also asked arabs to hold commercial strikes and stay home from their jobs today, israeli media said
in another development, the army on monday questioned an arab youth who said he and three other residents of the west bank village kfar salem were buried alive by israeli soldiers using a bulldozer after a riot feb. 5
i am afraid. i thought i was going to die,'' said the youth, abdel latif mahmoud ishtiah, 19. ``i dream about it all the time.''
relatives charge that 20 soldiers grabbed the four palestinians after the riot, beat them, forced them to lie on the ground and then poured sand over them with a bulldozer. the four were unconcious when relatives rescued them after several minutes, according to villagers quoted in israeli newspapers
two soldiers have been detained in the case, and further detentions were expected, the army said. the west bank's army commander, maj. gen. amram mitzna, who ordered the investigation, said that ``even in my worst dreams i would never imagine such a thing.''
defense minister yitzhak rabin on monday attacked left-wing legislators who said soldiers had the right to refuse to obey orders they considered illegal
there is nothing more dangerous to israel than soldiers deciding what is bad and what is good, which orders to accept and which orders to reject,'' israel radio quoted rabin as saying
in interviews with israeli media, a number of soldiers have said they were troubled by orders to use beatings instead of bullets to quell arab protests
in a related development, the hadashot newspaper on monday said three soldiers of the elite golani brigade were sentenced to jail terms of at least 21 days for using excessive force against palestinians
the army said it had no information on the case
in jerusalem, riot police fired tear gas and rubber bullets in several locations monday to disperse stone-throwing arabs
police spokesman rafi levy said police did not use live ammunition, but a border police officer told photographers that forces fired gunshots to subdue protesters in the anata neighborhood
officals at mukassad hospital said they treated a 23-year-old resident of the city's shufat refugee camp for gunshot wounds to the abdomen
the arab-run palestine press service said the man was shot during a clash at shufat. it was the first report of bloodshed in jerusalem since anti-israeli protests began dec. 8
in jerusalem's sur bahir neighborhood, border police fired tear gas to disperse palestinians who erected roadblocks of twisted metal and burning tires. residents said border police broke into homes
they showed reporters smashed windows, an overturned television set and the shattered glass panels of a china cabinet
israel radio said 21 arabs were arrested in jerusalem on monday, bringing to 437 the number of demonstrators detained in the holy city since dec. 8. during that period, 54 arabs have been killed by israelis in the west bank and gaza strip, according to u.n. figures
in jerusalem, members of the gush emunim settlement movement said they were printing flyers to be distributed in arab areas. the leaflets contain threats that if the protests continue, arabs might be ousted from the west bank, israel television said
in the political arena, foreign minister shimon peres on monday called on his political rival, prime minister yitzhak shamir, to work out a joint israeli reaction to the new u.s. middle east peace initiative
it doesn't look so good that when american envoys come here, it appears there are two governments,'' peres told israel television
with the arrival of (secretary of state george p.) shultz, despite our differences of opinion, we need to sit together,'' peres said
shultz is expected to visit the middle east later this month to seek support for the u.s. plan
the proposal calls for an international opening in april to launch direct talks on an interim solution for the occupied territories. negotiations of a final settlement would begin in december, regardless of the outcome of the interim talks
peres has accepted the u.s. plan while shamir opposes key elements as well as statements by shultz that israel must be ready to trade land for peace. ^by eva parziale</note>
midnight voters in the new hampshire mountain hamlet of dixville notch gave republican george bush and democrat richard gephardt the winning votes in the nation's 1988 leadoff presidential primary
more often than not, dixville's votes have been a bellwether for candidates seeking the presidential nomination
bush received 11 votes, gephardt 4. in the rest of the republican field, bob dole had 6, jack kemp 5, pete du pont 2, alexander haig 2, pat robertson 1
among democrats, paul simon received 3. no other democrats received votes
in the primary, dixville has a pretty good record in choosing the eventual candidates for each party,'' town clerk tom tillotson said of past elections. ``it's just when we came to november, we'd frequently be in the wrong party.''
since 1960, dixville notch voters have sided with the loser in all but three presidential elections. they picked the winners in 1972, when they favored richard nixon over george mcgovern, and in 1980 and 1984, when they sided with ronald reagan
few residents of the resort town in northern new hampshire were willing to discuss in advance how they might cast their ballots
because so many people are asking, the voters tend to not be committal, even amongst themselves,'' said tillotson, a supporter of vice president george bush
tillotson's father, neil, came up with the idea in 1960 of making dixville notch the first town in the first primary state to cast ballots
now 89 and the town moderator, the elder tillotson _ who owns the balsams resort hotel where the votes are cast and a surgical glove factory that is the town's only industry _ incorporated dixville notch that year to push the village into the national spotlight
every four years, most of the candidates or their surrogates make their way five hours north of boston to dixville notch, population 47, to woo the handful of voters living 15 miles south of the quebec border. they are followed by more reporters, photographers and tv camera crews than there are residents in town
residents take seriously their place in political history. they make sure to be in their voting booths by 11:45 p.m. so they can drop their ballots into the ballot box at the stroke of midnight
robert redford says paul newman is probably his best friend, and he'd like to do another movie with the blue-eyed actor
he's the greatest,'' redford said in an interview with esquire magazine. ``not much i wouldn't do for him.''
the actor said he's awed by his co-star in ``butch cassidy and the sundance kid'' and ``the sting.''
after a recent evening with newman, he said, he found himself thinking, ``god, here's old paul. ... he looks great, feels great, has lots of money, gives to great causes, he's in love with his wife, he races his cars when he wants to, makes a movie when he wants to, he's incredibly happy and still has that face that looks the way it did when he was 20
god, by the time we got home, i wanted to shoot myself.''
i'd love to make one more movie with him,'' redford added. ``just one more. the two of us.''
country music singer lee greenwood turned the state senate chamber into a concert hall when he sang the national anthem and his hit, ``god bless the usa,'' in a special ceremony
greenwood's performance won a standing ovation from senators during monday's ceremony celebrating presidents' day
it gives me great honor to be here on the floor and to be able to sing this humble song that i wrote in 1983, which was more or less representative of my feelings about how i feel about all of us who call ourselves americans,'' greenwood said
the senate unanimously adopted a resolution to honor greenwood and his career in country music
you keep the spirit going,'' lt. gov. john wilder said as he presented greenwood with a plaque
roxanne pulitzer's version of her ill-fated entry into high society and her headline-making divorce has hit the new york times best-seller list, but her ex-husband says he's too busy to read it
the prize pulitzer: the scandal that rocked palm beach _ the real story'' reached no. 10 on the national non-fiction best-seller list sunday
the book, which calls palm beach a ``buffet society babylon,'' is full of gossip about the rich and famous, from alfred bloomingdale to barbra streisand
asked monday about his former wife's literary success, herbert ``peter'' pulitzer said, ``i have no comment on that
i have two young boys to bring up. that's a full-time job,'' said pulitzer, contacted by telephone at his estate in okeechobee in central florida. pulitzer, who has remarried, said he hasn't read the book, then hung up
roxanne pulitzer noted with satisfaction that bookstores on upscale worth avenue quickly sold out their first shipments of the book
the book is selling tremendously well there,'' she said, laughing. ``i don't know who's buying it because everyone there says they're not going to read it.''
entertainer dick dale, dubbed the ``king of the surf guitar'' in his 1960s musical heydey, is riding a new wave of popularity that includes a first-ever grammy award nomination
fifteen miles inland from the landmark southern california beachfront mansion he lost in bankruptcy proceedings, dale, 50, recently discussed his rediscovered optimism
all i want to do is sit on my porch and make enough money to play with my toys,'' said dale, whose 1960s hits included ``the wedge'' and ``let's go trippin.'''
i don't want the fame,'' he said. ``that's a killer. i don't need that or want that anymore.''
but dale doesn't entirely dismiss his nomination for a grammy with stevie ray vaughan for a duet of the surf classic ``pipeline'' for the movie ``back to the beach.''
i never dreamed of a grammy and then somebody is calling me up to congratulate me,'' said dale, who plans to fly to new york for the march 2 award ceremonies
dale and vaughn have formidable competition in the best rock instrumental performance category: bruce springsteen, frank zappa and herbie hancock
after being honored for 50 years of selling avon products door to door, 91-year-old rosie gries said she was ready and willing to keep on pounding the pavement
i want to make it up to 100,'' ms. gries of goodrich said monday, speaking in an easily detectable german accent. ``and if i can still walk, i'd like to keep selling avon.''
avon products inc. executives, fellow salespeople and family members looked on as ms. gries received a gold watch and 50 roses
before the presentation, ms. gries recounted her start with the company, her appearance on ``the tonight show'' with johnny carson in 1986, and the new car she received from avon after that national tv debut
she said her first years with the company at the end of the great depression were tough. hand cream sold for 10 cents a tube then, but many people didn't have money for luxuries like cosmetics, ms. gries said
but she plugged away, and even though the population of goodrich and surrounding towns in her sales area is shrinking, she still was among a handful of sales representatives honored at the meeting for selling more than $8,500 worth of products in the last year
i learned never to give up the ship,'' she said. ``push, push forward.'' primary</head> results from dixville notch.</note>
vice president george bush forecast a win but sen. bob dole also expressed optimism monday as the gop presidential field sprinted for the finish line in a tight new hampshire primary race. democrat michael dukakis said his expected win might be smaller than predicted
i sense a rising tide,'' said bush. the vice president threw all the resources he could muster into his bid to arrest dole's week-long surge, campaigning side by side and in a hurriedly taped television commercial with barry goldwater, patron saint of conservatives
it feels good, like it did in iowa last monday,'' countered dole, hoping to ride to victory on the strength of the momentum spawned by last week's caucus win
one candidate after another posted hopeful predictions of a surprise when new hampshire voters render their verdict in the nation's lead-off primary on tuesday
i don't know where all those political pundits are today but they ran for cover four years ago and they're likely to run for cover tomorrow,'' said former delaware gov. pete du pont, back in the pack in the gop race
rep. jack kemp, his gop candidacy on the line, held out the hope of a second-place finish that would confound the pollsters. ``i'm going to finish in a good competitive third or higher,'' he said
democratic sen. paul simon, also facing tough times if he falters, said he was sure he'd defeat rep. richard gephardt for second place. referring to dukakis' commanding lead in the polls, he said, ``i think there is a possibility of a real surprise coming tomorrow.''
fellow democrat bruce babbitt, far off the pace in the polls, said, ``i'm anticipating a strong showing and a surprise but i can't put a number on it.''
former television evangelist pat robertson bid to deal with a tempest that arose over his claim that the soviet union has offensive nulcear missiles in cuba. the reagan administration denied the claim, but the gop hopeful said, ``the least we can do is remove those nuclear missiles.''
democrat dukakis' lead seemed secure, to judge by the polls, but he and his aides worried that they would be held to an impossible standard when the new hampshire results are analyzed. thus, he noted that his rivals have been attacking him regularly, adding, ``i assume that's going to take its toll.''
no two polls were alike. but they all showed a republican race as close as the democratic campaign was not
first results from new hampshire, as usual, came from the mountain hamlet of dixville notch, where midnight voters favored bush and gephardt, who claimed 11 and 4 votes respectively
in the rest of the republican field, dole had 6, kemp 5, du pont 2, alexander haig 2, robertson 1. the only democrat besides gephardt to get any votes was simon, who received 3
dukakis, governor in next-door massachusetts, held a commanding lead among the democrats with support of roughly 40 percent of the voters. gephardt and simon, who finished a close one-two in iowa's caucuses last week, are in a duel for second place. jesse jackson, babbitt, gary hart and sen. albert gore jr. are far afield in the polls
among the republicans, the surveys said that dole has wiped out all of bush's once-commanding lead in the eight days since the kansas senator won the iowa caucuses and the vice president slipped to third place behind pat robertson. robertson, kemp and former du pont are in a close fight for third place in the same surveys
what the polls couldn't say was whether dole's momentum would carry him past a struggling bush to first place
the vice president had his re-tooled, informal campaign style on display. he went from one restaurant to another to greet voters at breakfast time, ordering pancakes at one stop, sipping coffee at a second and eating an egg mcmuffin during a visit to a mcdonald's
bush attacked dole's call for a spending freeze as a ``copout'' that avoids making tough decisions, and forecast a victory for himself in the lead-off primary
i'm going to win tomorrow. believe me,'' he told a cheering crowd at daniel webster colleger in nashua
in the five-minute television commercial, goldwater called bush the ``best qualified candidate of my lifetime _ other than me, george.'' addressing the voters, bush said, ``who can you most trust to continue the reagan revolution?''
dole and his senior aides sounded confident. ``i think it's that close,'' said dole, who said a victory in new hampshire might carry him all the way to the gop nomination
i'm always skeptical until the polls close,'' he said, but then added that he had followed his pollster's example and ``slept well last night.''
william brock, dole's campaign manager, said that no matter what the outcome, bush was a loser in new hampshire. ``you can't have a campaign that collapses this fast and have any credibility,'' he said
while bush bid to salvage new hampshire, brock already was looking beyond
as for the bush campaign's claim to have a ``firewall of support'' in southern states which hold primaries and caucuses next month, brock said, ``it's made of straw. straw burns pretty fast.''
but bush's campaign manager maintained that dole's new hampshire surge had stalled. ``bush was a little behind but he's moving up,'' said lee atwater
among the democrats, simon urged new hampshire's voters ``to assert their independence'' from dukakis. ``there is a difference between me and michael dukakis, a difference in experience, a difference in commitment,'' he said
dukakis had a speech prepared taking aim at gephardt and simon, but he chose not to deliver it when he faced a high school audience in claremont
this campaign is not about the past, it is about creating a future in which all of you can work,'' he said
gephardt made no attack on dukakis or simon in the final full day of campaigning. ``stand with me tomorrow and we will reform america,'' he said. nh</head> here, is 6 a.m. latest closing is 8 p.m.</note>
new hampshire primary voters put their often unpredictable mark on the 1988 presidential campaign today, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis hoping for a neighborly boost from the democrats. on the republican side, bob dole hoped to make it two victories in a row while george bush banked on a comeback
in keeping with longstanding tradition, the 34 voters of dixville notch cast their ballots shortly after midnight at the balsams, a resort hotel, and gave the edge to bush and democrat richard gephardt
statewide, about 150,000 republicans and 115,000 democrats were expected to vote, according to william gardner, secretary of state
it feels good, like it did in iowa last monday,'' said dole, referring to the iowa caucus victory that catapulted him to the forefront of the race
but bush, who suffered a jolting setback in iowa, predicted he'd bounce back in new hampshire
i sense a rising tide,'' the vice president said
bush took some comfort from new hampshire's tradition of rejecting iowa winners _ including bush in 1980, and walter f. mondale in 1984
all the candidates _ seven democrats and five republicans _ sounded upbeat about their prospects. optimism was bipartisan
i hope we are going to do a good deal better than people are expecting,'' said democratic sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who was dead last in iowa after pulling his campaign out of the state last year
pat robertson, who finished ahead of bush in iowa, was in a tight battle for third place in the gop primary with rep. jack kemp and former gov. pete du pont of delaware
i don't know where all those political pundits are today but they ran for cover four years ago and they're likely to run for cover tomorrow,'' said du pont
kemp insisted he, too, would fool the pollsters. ``i'm going to finish in a good competitive third or higher,'' he said
robertson hinted he might equal his iowa showing and come in second. the former television evangelist's finish in iowa was far stronger than the polls had indicated, so no one was willing to predict how large his new hampshire following might be
robertson was trying to distance himself from statements made in a debate sunday night, when he said there were soviet nuclear missiles in cuba. that drew a quick denial from the white house and criticism from the rest of the gop field
he initially stuck by the statement on monday, but under questioning, acknowledged he had no first-hand evidence that there were nuclear missiles on the island
democratic sen. paul simon of illinois said he was sure he'd defeat gephardt, the missouri congressman, for second place. and referring to dukakis' commanding lead in the polls, he said, ``i think there is a possibility of a real surprise coming tomorrow.''
as it has since 1960, the mountain hamlet of dixville notch was the first to report results. on the republican side, bush received 11 votes, dole had six, kemp five, du pont two, alexander haig two, and pat robertson one
the town's seven democratic voters gave gephardt four votes and simon three
i don't think it makes any difference if you're the first vote or the last. it's the vote that counts _ the privilege,'' said neil tillotson, 89, town moderator and the community's patriarch, who traditionally casts the first ballot just after midnight
gephardt was the democratic winner in iowa, and simon finished second and dukakis third in the caucuses there. but statewide results in new hampshire were likely to be different
dukakis was the overwhelming favorite with simon and gephardt battling for second
opinion polls consistently gave dukakis the support of between 36 and 40 percent of democrats
polls of new hampshire republicans showed a dramatic impact of the iowa results. bush, once the choice of 52 percent of the state's republicans, entered primary day in a virtual dead heat with dole
six candidates appeared at the mall of new hampshire in manchester on monday for a ``rally finale'' and a chance to pick up support among the thousands of holiday shoppers
from a platform set up between a shoe store and a jewelery shop, republicans kemp and du pont and democrats gore, simon, former gov. bruce babbitt of arizona and jesse jackson delivered abbreviated versions of their stock stump speeches
leadership was a campaign theme sounded in both iowa and new hampshire, particularly in the struggle between bush and dole. but the foreign policy debate on the republican side featured more hawkish rhetoric in new hampshire than in dovish iowa
dole, who rarely mentioned star wars in iowa, made a strong plea in new hampshire for development and deployment of the missile defense system
candidates in both parties also emphasized their fealty to low taxes, an article of political faith in new hampshire
bush, who brought in a corps of congressmen to campaign for him on the weekend, trumpeted the endorsement of former sen. barry goldwater of arizona in a television commercial monday
goldwater, the 1964 gop presidential nominee and a hero to conservatives, called bush the ``best qualified candidate of my lifetime _ other than me ...''
congressional leaders have assured the afl-cio that its top legislative priority, a trade bill with mandatory advance notices of plant closings or mass layoffs, soon will be sent to president reagan
but the house-senate compromise that is to emerge probably will not include the strict trade imbalance-reducing quotas written into the house version by rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., says house speaker jim wright
wright, d-texas, told the afl-cio's executive council here monday he had won assurances from senate democratic leader robert byrd of west virginia and other key negotiators that the house-senate compromise version will be ``nailed down'' by march 23 and on the house floor for final action the following week
after slightly different versions won easy passage in the house and senate last year, the trade measure became a dead letter when the stock market crashed oct. 19 because of fears it would trigger more panic selling by stock and bond traders
white house chief of staff howard baker said last month that reagan would veto either version as it now stands as being too protectionist. the main targets of the administration's opposition have been the gephardt language in the house version and a milder variation of it along with the mandatory 60-day advance layoff notices in the senate measure
no question in my mind, we'll pass a trade bill ... with enough votes to override a veto, should that be necessary,'' wright said
he said he met last week with treasury secretary james a. baker iii and reagan's trade representative, clayton yeutter, expressing a willingness to compromise and promising them a vote by the end of the year on a separate u.s.-canada free trade agreement wanted by reagan
both house and senate versions of the trade bill require countries with free access to u.s. markets to provide the same level of access to american exports. if a country does not remove its tariffs or quotas on u.s. goods, the president would have to impose the same measures on their exports to the united states or justify why he would not do so
wright said some version of the mandatory advance layoff notices will be in the final package despite intense opposition from business groups. but he indicated the bill likely will drop the gephardt language, complaining there is too much of a ``fixation'' on it
gephardt's measure, a major theme of his presidential campaign, would mandate retaliatory quotas or tariffs on some countries if they do not reduce their trade imbalances with the united states by 10 percent a year over a five-year period
gephardt's campaign message of threatening koreans with stiff u.s. tariffs was credited with reviving his campaign with a victory in last week's iowa caucuses
labor leaders said the iowa results confirmed their belief that the nation's record trade deficits and their contribution to the loss of more than 1.5 million manufacturing jobs this decade is a _ if not the _ dominant political issue
the public will begin to demand more strongly that something effective be done about this decline of the american industrial base,'' afl-cio president lane kirkland said monday. ``everything is going down with it.''
wright agreed, saying wage scales in many countries with the biggest u.s. trade imbalances ``are so far below those of the united states that they are acutally depressing wage scales and the standard of living in our country.''
nonetheless, he predicted the house-senate conferees will agree on ``something in between'' gephardt's language and the senate version, which targets raising exports to countries with large trade surpluses rather than mandating specific trade imbalance reductions
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,345.66 points, up 138.19 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
authorities cut telephone lines of leading lithuanian nationalists and warned citizens of the soviet republic that protests marking lithuania's short-lived independence would not be tolerated
on monday, 2,000 people attended an officially-staged rally in central vilnius to protest alleged u.s. interference in baltic affairs
most participants kept their hands in their pockets and chatted with neighbors during the hourlong rally, then disappeared down the narrow streets of the republic's capital
uniformed and plainclothes police flooded a main street, cemetery and square where dissidents planned demonstrations today, the 70th anniversary of lithuania's declaration of independence
moscow dissidents said nationalists planned to lay wreaths today at such sites in vilnius and kaunas, the republic's second largest city and the spiritual center of the lithuanian roman catholic church
lithuanian foreign minister vladislavis mikuciauskas was asked by foreign journalists monday if people could mark the independence day
personally, yes. but it is forbidden to organize anything,'' he said
the moscow-based correspondents, barred from traveling to lithuania on their own, came to vilnius on a tour organized by the foreign ministry
in 1940, the soviets took over the three baltic states _ lithuania, estonia and latvia _ under a secret non-aggression pact that nazi germany and the soviet union signed the previous year
the states had a stormy independence between the world wars, variously occupied by the germans, poles and russians
about 80 percent of lithuania's 3.6 million people are of lithuanian descent, the highest percentage of native population of any of the baltic republics
lithuanian nationalist nijole sadunaite said communist authorities had distributed a warning in offices and factories that taking part in protests today would be considered an ``anti-soviet act.''
the crackdown marked a hardening of the kremlin's line on protests by nationalist groups. officials allowed peaceful demonstrations in the baltic states on aug. 23, the anniversary of the non-aggression pact
the united states never recognized the incorporation of the baltic states by the soviet union, and u.s. politicians still speak out in support of baltic nationalists
during monday's official rally, one elderly man said vilnius factory and office workers had been forced to attend the rally. the man refused to give his name, saying he feared arrest
they just drove them in,'' he said. ``it's that simple.''
another participant said each vilnius workplace had been told to provide 10 people for the rally held next to the city's former roman catholic cathedral, which now houses an art gallery
ms. sadunaite, 49, who served three years in a labor camp and three more in internal exile for her role in publishing underground catholic literature, said her apartment was under kgb guard and that her phone was disconnected without explanation sunday
they shut it off at 10 a.m. without giving me notice,'' she said, speaking to the associated press from her office
ms. sadunaite said the home phones of other lithuanian activists including former political prisoner povilas peceliunas also were disconnected
she said more than 100,000 lithuanians attended services sunday at vilnius' 17 functioning catholic churches and left singing traditional national songs
in kaunas, she said hundreds of people visited the grave of a national poet, and an undetermined number were beaten by police
when latvians tried to celebrate their national day on nov. 18, police and vigilantes were deployed to keep demonstrators from approaching national monuments
estonian nationalists plan to mark the anniversary of their declaration of independence on feb. 24
poor management, an inability to cooperate, and a preoccupation with short-term profits are among reasons american business is losing ground to foreign competitors, says the first report of the mit commission on industrial productivity
the u.s. economy is still the most productive in the world, but could be surpassed by other nations that are gaining on it, the commission reported monday at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
we are talking about keeping the standard of living in the united states and enhancing it,'' said michael l. dertouzos, director of the laboratory for computer science at the massachusetts institute of technology and chairman of the commission. ``in that sense, we think productivity is important.''
the commission was appointed in december 1986 by mit president paul e. gray. its 18 mit scientists, engineers, political scientists and economists _ including robert solow, last year's winner of the nobel prize in economics _ were asked to determine the causes of the weakness in u.s. productivity and to make recommendations to industry, universities and government concerning what might be done to correct it
in its interim report monday, the commission listed what it believes to be the five principal causes of the decline in american productivity
they are:
_ excessive attention to activities and investments that are profitable in the short run. america invented the transistor radio, color television and the video cassette recorder, dertouzos said. american businesses quickly lost interest in producing them, however, and lost those markets to japan
_ parochial attitudes that led american businesses to pay insufficient attention to foreign competitors. in the machine-tool industry, american firms tried to backlog orders rather than aggressively deliver products on time. japanese firms promised quicker delivery and captured much of the market, dertouzos said
_ a lack of cooperation within firms, among competing firms and between firms and their suppliers. one reason that japanese automakers can bring new cars to market faster than those in the united states is that japanese designers and production engineers work together more closely than their american counterparts, dertouzos said
that's endemic to our educational system,'' said lester thurow, a commission member and the dean of the mit sloan school of management. ``we throw you out of school if you cooperate on an exam _ it's called cheating.''
_ weaknesses in human resource management. ``the worker is viewed as a cost factor to be minimized, rather than as an evolving human resource that has to be educated, motivated,'' dertouzos said
_ failures in applying technology to make simple, reliable, high-quality products. in the case of vcrs, the americans who invented them couldn't develop production lines that would meet the close tolerances necessary and would do so at an acceptable cost, dertouzos said
thurow said the united states clings to certain practices that might have served us in the past, when our economy was far ahead of everyone else's, but are not serving us well now
the united states is the easiest country in the world to hire and fire people,'' he said. it is the only industrialized country where people can be fired at will, he said. in france, to take one other example, workers must be given one year's notice before they are dropped, thurow said
while the ability to fire workers might seem efficient in the short-term, it provides powerful incentive for workers to sabotage innovative technology that might cost them their jobs, thurow said
solow said that the comparatively high cost of borrowing money in the united states, compared with japan, makes it more difficult for american firms to profit from long-term investments
citizens of the tiny resort town of dixville notch today gave republican george bush and democrat richard gephardt the first bragging rights in new hampshire's 1988 leadoff presidential primary
in the town's traditional balloting at midnight, the vice president received 11 votes, beating his closest gop rival, robert dole, who received six. jack kemp received five votes, pete du pont and alexander haig two each, and pat robertson one
on the democratic side, gephardt received four votes and paul simon three
twenty-nine of the town's voters cast their ballots in flag-draped, individual voting booths, while five votes were cast by absentee ballot. other new hampshire residents had to wait until their polls opened beginning at 6 a.m
i don't think it makes any difference if you're the first vote or the last. it's the vote that counts _ the privilege,'' said town moderator neil tillotson, 89, who cast the first vote in keeping with tradition
and frequently, dixville notch voters have been on target
in the primary, dixville has a pretty good record in choosing the eventual candidates for each party,'' said tillotson's son tom, the town clerk. ``it's just when we came to november, we'd frequently be in the wrong party.''
in the presidential primaries since 1964, dixville's voters have picked winners eight times, a loser once and had two ties
but in the november presidential elections during the same period, dixville notch voters have sided with the loser on all but three occasions. they picked the winners in 1972, when they favored richard nixon over george mcgovern, and in 1980 and 1984, when they sided with ronald reagan
the elder tillotson came up with the idea in 1960 of making dixville notch the first town in the first primary state to cast ballots
tillotson, who owns the balsams resort hotel where the votes are cast and a surgical glove factory that is the town's only industry, incorporated dixville notch that year to push the village into the national spotlight
every four years, most of the candidates or their surrogates make their way five hours north of boston to dixville notch, population 47, to woo the handful of voters living 15 miles south of the quebec border. they are followed by more reporters, photographers and tv camera crews than there are residents in town
residents take seriously their place in political history. they make sure to be in their voting booths by 11:45 p.m. so they can drop their ballots into the ballot box precisely at midnight
i think it is an honor to be the first in the nation to vote. and i think people in dixville take it very seriously,'' said 14-year resident gail barba, a registered independent who favored republican jack kemp
we realize there is pressure on us ... and we don't just pick somebody we don't know anything about. we study the candidates more and we make a decision based on that.''
as a political science major, greg lunn knew the job description including the fine print. still, he never thought it would come to this
it is most definitely not the sort of task i had in mind when i ran for office,'' he said the other day, reflecting on what has become topic a across arizona among residents and visitors alike: the impeachment of the governor
and i'm sure,'' he said, ``that i speak for my colleagues, of both parties.''
lunn is one of the 30 arizona state senators who soon, sitting as a jury, will decide whether to restore evan mecham to office. mecham is now in political limbo, impeached by the house of representatives 46-14 and his gubernatorial duties assumed by the secretary of state
the next step is a trial in the state senate, where a conviction would require a two-thirds vote. the trial is scheduled to start feb. 22
judging the fitness of a governor to remain in office seems to be like cleaning the gutters. no matter how ardent the outcry that it be done, there is no joy in doing it
stop any senator in the capitol corridors these days and you hear phrases like ``awesome responsibility'' and ``no-win situation.''
mecham, a republican, won the office with less than 40 percent of a light turnout in a three-way election. ``it is safe to say,'' says lunn, also a republican, ``that to the vast majority of arizonans he is the worst governor this state has ever seen
he has polarized the state. instead of practicing the art of the possible, the art of compromise, of bringing people together, he has brought a narrow, ideological and personal agenda and is trying to shove it down people's throats. anyone who opposes him on any basis instantly becomes an enemy
even so,'' says lunn, ``to invalidate a constitutionally held election is the most sobering act any of us could ever contemplate.''
lunn, 35, has made politics a career. unlike nearly all other members of the legislature he has no other job. he makes no bones about planning to run for governor himself some day
he represents tucson, one of the state's two urban centers, where his constituents are about evenly divided between democrats and republicans
however i vote in the impeachment trial, yea or nay _ and i won't make up my mind until it's time _ i will not please many of my constituents. this is true of all of us to a greater or lesser degree depending on the makeup of the constituency
but that's good. it will make it easier for us to put aside any public or political pressures and make our decision solely on the facts as we see them.''
another senator, carol macdonald, feels equally free of political pressure but for exactly opposite reasons
she represents one of the most remote areas in the state. her home is safford, a town of 8,000, the largest in the three counties she represents. she is part owner of the town drug store and served as mayor without any party affiliation. when the republican senator who represented the district for 30 years retired last year her neighbors voted for her to take his place. she did, as a republican
she says her constituents are predominately mormons. she is not. mormons, who number about 200,000 in arizona, are divided on the mecham issue but nonetheless represent a great deal of his support
i came here to represent rural people who don't have a lot of representation in an urban-dominated legislature,'' she said, ``but i have absolutely no political ambitions beyond doing that duty as best i can
so i feel comfortable about casting a vote because i feel i can make a fair decision. if it happens that my constituents don't like it and don't choose to send me back, so be it.''
lunn, for his part, expects the vote to be close
mecham, he points out, faces a criminal trial for not reporting a campaign loan as well as a may 17 recall election resulting from a public petition
even if some senators feel he is guilty of an impeachable offense they could vote against it as an attack on the fairness of the process. why not use one of these other avenues?''
well, why not?
because the people have a right to expect a standard of behavior in their public officials that does not have as its bottom line simply acting lawfully
that's why the constitution provides for impeachment. it is a political process, not a judicial one. a court trial could be long and drawn out; if there is a conviction there would be appeals
there is no short-term way that these matters can be resolved, but they must be resolved so we can restore some stability to this state
that's why i'm prepared to do a duty that is extremely onerous to do.''
the mother of a 3-week-old infant who received a heart transplant says doctors have given her son a 10 percent chance of survival
he's in very critical condition. the transplant didn't go as well as we had anticipated,'' tabatha stowe, 20, said late monday
they don't quite know yet what went wrong. they don't know if it was a heart attack or stroke. it (the heart) just got tired out,'' she said
jonathan stowe underwent more than 10 hours of surgery monday at children's hospital of pittsburgh, said hospital spokeswoman sue cardillo. he is the youngest patient to undergo a heart transplant at children's, she said
because the new heart is in a weakened state, doctors have placed him on a special support system, miss cardillo said. the device takes over the pumping function of the heart, allowing it to rest
we hope (it) works,'' she said. ``if it doesn't, he could be in all kinds of trouble.''
jonathan's father, david stowe, 20, of beaver falls, said he hopes the new heart is ``just tired and will get stronger on its own.''
jonathan was born jan. 25 at the medical center of beaver county, weighing 7.9 pounds. doctors soon became worried over the failure of his tissues to receive enough oxygen
he was transferred to children's two days later, where doctors found he had hypoplastic left-heart syndrome, a lethal underdevelopment of the heart
another infant who received a new heart because of the same ailment improved to serious condition monday, 24 hours after his transplant surgery, officials of loma linda university medical center in loma linda, calif., said
the infant, called baby christoffer and identified only as the son of an air force family, had been in critical condition after the operation sunday
thousands of mardi gras revelers thronged the french quarter today for america's biggest block party, where madness is a way of life and the only sin is to be a party pooper
mardi gras, or fat tuesday, was the crescendo of two weeks of nightly pre-lenten carnival parades in the city that care forgot
as early as noon monday, the lines were a half block long outside pat o'brien's bar, a popular watering hole in the quarter, and the non-stop party was just getting started. narrow streets of the city's old section were wall to wall with revelers
as the party grew, jazz and fireworks heralded the arrival of a costumed stand-in for rex, the king of carnival, who disembarked from a coast guard cutter at the riverwalk shopping mall on the mississippi river just outside the quarter
by midnight, george moore and his friend don granda, both from st. louis, were getting into the swing of things at molly's pub, a crowded bar on the quarter's river edge. moore said it was his 15th mardi gras
this has always been my second home,'' he said. ``last year was great, and we're hoping good weather will make this one just as good. if it is, i'll need five days to sleep when i get back to st. louis.''
the first of 17 organizations scheduled to take to the streets today was jazz clarinetist pete fountain and his half fast marching club, preceding the real rex along a route winding past the stately homes of the garden district to canal street in the central business district on the edge of the quarter
in the quarter, women on wrought-iron balconies often bare their breasts, and gay bars play host to male cross-dressers barely clad in various combinations of women's underwear, hosiery, high heels, feathered headresses and beaded gowns
today's crowds could surpass the estimated 1 million people that jammed metropolitan area streets last year, said police spokesman john marie
the day officially concludes at midnight tonight with the meetings of the courts of rex and comus, signaling that mardi gras has given way to ash wednesday and 40 days of lenten sacrifice
last year, police were criticized for clearing the streets after mardi gras with a little too much vigor. assistant police chief ray holman said officers will be more gentle this year, but no less insistent
in nine days preceding the 1988 celebration, police had made 1,434 arrests, 79 fewer than last year, a police spokesman said
in mamou, 160 miles west in the heart of cajun country, mardi gras is celebrated, but in a different way
as many as 20,000 visitors were expected to turn out in the town of 3,200 for courir du mardi gras, or the running of the mardi gras, in which masked horsemen canter from house to house soliciting the makings of a giant gumbo. at dinner time, those still in the saddle gallop into town to toss their gleanings into the pot
the cajun country towns of eunice, lawtell and ville platte also celebrate courir du mardi gras, but mamou's celebration is the biggest
a union leader and people in managua complained that the government's new attempt to combat runaway inflation through currency and economic reforms has sent consumer prices soaring
on monday, the government began trading one new cordoba for 1,000 old ones and raised salaries up to seven times their december level
it also increased prices and ended government subsidies for a host of staples _ ranging from rice to beans, milk, sugar and cooking oil
last year, inflation reached at least 1,500 percent
president daniel ortega announced the reforms in a broadcast address sunday, declaring that 10 new cordobas would buy one u.s. dollar
the new measures enforced by the government has left us in an even worse state than we were before,'' said nilo salazar, general secretary of a 30,000- member federation of construction unions
nicaraguans have until wednesday to exchange up to 10 million old cordobas at 2,000 booths the government has set up across the nation. bank deposits are being adjusted automatically
under the reform package, the government-subsidized price of gasoline jumped fivefold overnight to 15 new cordobas a gallon. gasoline is rationed at 17 gallons a month for private automobiles
salazar said people in his federation say they are worse off than before
as an example, he cited an assistant bricklayer whose monthly salary has risen from 191,808 old cordobas to 792.50 new ones
a liter of milk which yesterday cost 2,500 old cordobas now costs 6.60 new cordobas, or 6,600 old cordobas. that is to say these prices have gone up more than 60 percent,'' salazar said
the leftist sandinista government has said the new measures will benefit wage earners in the long run by reducing inflation
the revaluation is also an attempt to do away with the black market, where a dollar had until monday been worth up to 60,000 cordobas
on the official market used to import machinery, petroleum and other essential goods, a dollar had cost 70 cordobas, while it was worth 21,000 cordobas on the parallel market
a pound of beef, which used to cost 25,000 cordobas, now costs 35 cordobas. ``that means that an assistant bricklayer has to work 10.93 hours to buy one pound of meat,'' salazar said
an urban bus ride _ which the government won't subsidize anymore _ will now cost half a new cordoba, against 10 old cordobas
they (those in the government) think they can deceive people?'' felix carnonel, a 26-year-old carpenter, asked as he waited in line monday outside a bank to change his old cordobas for new ones
angel moreno, 40, a mechanic, complained that a ``housemaid will not be able to buy anything with the 500-cordobas (a month) minimum salary that she gets paid, when a pound of beef costs 35 cordobas, a dozen eggs 25 cordobas,'' and bread from 7 to 10 cordobas a pound
many of shopkeepers closed their doors monday to adjust their prices and to change old cordobas for new ones
but at managua's huge oriental market _ a center of black market dealing in foreign currency _ it was business as usual. black market dealers and stallkeepers accepted both old and new cordobas
three days were allowed for the exchange, during which only newspapers, fuel, medicine and medical services could be purchased with the old bills. in addition, the government established a temporary radio service to provide information on the currency exchange
ortega has blamed nicaragua's economic problems on the 6-year-old war with u.s.-supported contra rebels and an american trade embargo. according to the government, the two factors have cost nicaragua $3.8 billion in lost income
the dollar closed slightly lower against the japanese yen today, while stock prices continued to rise
the dollar closed at 130.50 yen, down 0.50 yen from monday's close of 131.00. it opened at 130.40 yen and ranged between 130.10 and 130.60 yen
many traders decided to sell dollars when it hit the 130-yen level,'' said an official at a tokyo commercial bank. ``there was also profit-taking, which resulted in the dollar's decline.''
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 225.53-point winner monday, added another 138.19 points, or 0.57 percent, to close at 24,345.66
the market is recovering from the october crash. we expect the stock average to hit the 25,000-point level during february and march,'' said an official at a major securities firm who spoke on condition of anonymity
distribution issues such as supermarkets and department stores were popular. foods and textiles, along with drugs and chemicals, were also higher. among the losers were electricals and machineries
volume was a heavy 680 million shares, up from 650 million shares monday
the securities firm official said improved u.s. seasonal trade figures continued to help boost share prices, reflecting hopes for a shrinking u.s. trade deficit
both the dollar and tokyo stock prices have surged following the announcement in washington of u.s. trade figures for december last friday, showing the deficit fell to $12.2 billion from $13.2 billion in november
the dollar rose 1.05 yen in tokyo monday
some investors on the tokyo stock exchange were focusing on japan's january trade performance, traders said. the ministry of finance said monday that the nation's unadjusted trade surplus for january was $3.07 billion, down from $4.31 billion a year earlier
other investors were concerned about the dollar's effect on japan's seasonally adjusted january trade surplus, which rose to $7.76 billion from $6.36 billion in december

 ^here is a listing of the political stories that have moved for this cycle:</head>

concord, n.h. _ new hampshire primary voters put their often unpredictable mark on the 1988 presidential campaign today, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis hoping for a neighborly boost from the inmocrats. on the republican side, bob dole hoped to make it two victories a row while george bush banked on a comeback
slug pm-political rdp. a0435

dover, n.h. _ pat robertson had just finished a strident anti-communist sermon to the chamber of commerce when kent evans stood up and told the republican candidate what was on his mind
slug pm-robertson-fears. a0422

dover, n.h. _ pat robertson says he has no first-hand evidence that there are soviet missiles in cuba, as he had claimed in a debate over the weekend with his republican presidential rivals
slug pm-robertson-missiles. a0423

san juan, puerto rico _ supporters of george bush are claiming an overwhelming victory in a republican straw poll, but bob dole's backers boycotted the vote and say they'll win when it counts _ on primary election day
slug pm-puerto rico gop. a0424

washington _ last week the political spotlight was on a farm state whose economy has fared poorly during the reagan years. now it turns to a new england state that has been booming
slug pm-economic vote. a0425

new boston, n.h. _ vice president george bush ended his new hampshire campaign for the republican presidential nomination in the same town hall where president ronald reagan did in 1980
slug pm-bush. a0436
pm-new hampshire-tables, advisory. a0426
pm-new hampshire primary, advisory. a0427
pm-politics-quotes. a0443
pm-political briefs. a0456
---opinions differ on baby boomers' role in presidential election
---babbitt's computer sale no sign of end of campaign, spokesman says
---humphrey to officially enter u.s. senate race tuesday
---atlanta mayor to moderate presidential debate correct aneurysm</head>
sen. joseph r. biden jr. of delaware continued to improve four days after surgery to correct an aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to his brain, a hospital spokeswoman said
the 45-year-old senator remained in intensive care at walter reed army medical center but was listed in satisfactory condition, said doris nutt
senator biden continues to improve,'' said ms. nutt, who read a prepared statement issued by the hospital. ``his condition is listed as satisfactory and his physicians are pleased with the progress he is making.''
doctors have limited biden's visitors to family members only, ms. nutt said. biden and his wife, jill, have three children
biden, who heads the senate judiciary committee, had been complaining for several weeks about neck pain he thought to be a pinched nerve
biden was admitted to the hospital early friday after being transferred from st. francis hospital in wilmington, del., where he lives. he underwent eight hours of surgery, which did not involve removal of any brain tissue
the 3-term senator withdrew from the democratic presidential race last september following disclosures that he had borrowed, without attribution, portions of campaign speeches from a british politician and that he had exaggerated his academic accomplishments
police said no explosive device was found in a car that burst into flames early today a few yards from prime minister margaret thatcher's official london residence and office, killing the driver
police bomb squad officers raced to 10 downing street around 1 a.m. local time fearing a possible terrorist attack
however, scotland yard later said in a statement: ``there was no trace of an explosive device.'' it added: ``at no time did the car make any attempt to enter downing street and therefore the prime minister was not in any danger.''
mrs. thatcher's office issued a statement confirming that the prime minister had been at 10 downing street at the time of the incident
scotland yard said police did not yet know what caused the green vauxhall viva automobile to burst into flames at the entrance to downing street from whitehall, the main thoroughfare in the area
the british domestic news agency press association said gasoline cans were believed to have been found inside the car and that one theory was that the driver deliberately started the fire in order to commit suicide. but scotland yard refused to comment on that report
scotland yard said police had not yet established the dead man's identity. it said an autopsy will be carried out on the badly burned body
we are not seeking anyone else in connection with the incident,'' it said, indicating that police do not believe the fire was the result of crime
a car pulled up in whitehall at the entrance to downing street and burst into flames. the fire was put out by london fire brigade and the body of a man was found inside the car,'' the scotland yard statement said
the incident was witnessed by a police officer on duty at the metal security barriers that separate downing street from whitehall
the car had been traveling down whitehall from the direction of parliament, scotland yard said. whitehall was sealed off for about three hours as police investigated the burned-out auto before removing it
iraq today claimed its warplanes hit a supertanker in the persian gulf after raiding iranian troops along the war front
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said iraqi warplanes attacked ``a very large maritime target,'' a common reference to a supertanker, off the iran coast overnight. it did not give the exact time of the raid
the agency quoted an unidentified military spokesman as saying: ``the iraqi air force will continue to destroy naval targets that ferry iranian crude because oil revenues are being used to finance the aggression against iraq.''
the news agency quoted a military communique as saying that iraqi jets flew 60 combat missions earlier monday along the war front, ``inflicting substantial losses in men, weaponry and equipment, then returned safely to base.''
it said iraqi helicopter gunships rocketed and strafed iranian military posts in 39 sorties, destroying ``many of the enemy's troop buildups and positions.'' it gave no details
iran did not comment on the iraqi claims. however, iran said its outnumbered air force jets attacked a petrochemical complex and military installations in southern iraq on monday
a communique issued in tehran and carried by the official islamic republic news agency said the iranian warplanes ``heavily bombarded iraqi positions and fortifications'' along the southern front east of the iraqi city of basra, and in faw peninsula farther south
iranian warplanes also attacked a petrochemical complex in basra in one of five raids carried out by early monday afternoon, irna said in a dispatch monitored in nicosia. ``all the attacking fighters returned safely to bases after inflicting heavy casualties and losses on the enemy,'' it said
reports by iran and iraq, which have been at war since 1980, cannot be independently verified because they rarely allow access to combat zones
iran's air force is outnumbered 8-to-1 by iraq's fleet of soviet- and french-made aircraft
however, in recent weeks iran has used its u.s.-made planes in several raids, suggesting tehran may have bought spare parts on the black market. iran has 60-70 operational warplanes, according to western military analysts
less than a week after deciding to permit closed meetings during the trial of impeached gov. evan mecham, the state senate is considering whether to scrap the idea
senators also decided monday to reconsider whether to begin the trial feb. 22 as scheduled or agree to mecham's request and delay it until after his criminal trial
majority leader robert usdane urged his fellow senators monday to change rules adopted thursday that would allow them to hold closed discussions at the request of only one senator
even though it was never the intent of the senate to hide from the public, or to railroad or exonerate the governor in private, the press has intimated that this type of situation would not only be possible but probable behind closed doors,'' usdane said
in a formal motion filed later monday, mecham's attorneys also asked for open discussions
absent a compelling reason, the principals of fundamental fairness dictates that every moment of these impeachment proceedings, the importance and gravity of which cannot be overstated, be witnessed by the citizens of this state and nation,'' defense attorney rick miller wrote
surreptitious meetings held in smoke-filled back rooms will cast a dark cloud of suspicion over the hearings,'' he added, calling it ``nothing but a farce, sham, and a mockery'' for the senate to meet secretly
a two-thirds vote is required to change the rules
the president of the arizona newspapers association, joe soldwedel, praised usdane's appeal. ``we would like all of the proceedings to be in public,'' he said. the associated press has filed a similar request
usdane, in a letter to senate president carl kunasek and minority leader alan stephens, urged that all deliberations be in public and that closed meetings either be banned entirely or at least require a majority vote
this will allow the public to know the senators who voted for a closed conference,'' he said
usdane also said he might boycott closed meetings if the changes are not adopted
several rank-and-file republicans said they favored a change, and stephens, a democrat, said he believed his caucus also would be willing to go along with changes
mecham is accused by a house resolution of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, lending $80,000 to his car dealership from the governor's protocol fund and obstructing justice. the republican governor has said repeatedly that he is innocent of all wrongdoing
mecham also faces a criminal indictment over the $350,000 loan and a may 17 recall election precipitated by a petition drive
president kurt waldheim dismissed a rising chorus of calls for his resignation by saying he would ``not retreat in the face of slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations.''
in a nationally televised speech on monday, waldheim said his conscience was clear about his wartime conduct, and he appealed for the trust of ``you, my dear austrians'' and for national unity
but by reiterating his refusal to quit in the 14-minute speech, the president appeared certain to deepen divisions in austria caused by a report by a panel of international historians on his wartime past
in the 202-page report issued last week, the six historians questioned waldheim's moral integrity, saying he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities during world war ii and did nothing to stop them
though the panel said it found no evidence waldheim had committed war crimes, it concluded he tried to cover up his involvement in world war ii, which was disclosed nearly two years ago during the presidential campaign
the government appointed the panel at waldheim's request after the united states put him on a list of undesirable aliens, which effectively forbids him to enter the united states
walheim, a former u.n. secretary-general, admitted in monday's speech that he might have erred in not discussing his past as a german army lieutenant in the balkans from 1942 to 1945. but he insisted he had never tried to conceal it and had ``a clear conscience.''
without giving specifics, he told austria's 7.5 million citizen that ``parts of the report do not correspond to the facts but are built on presumptions and hypotheses. for that reason, the conclusions drawn cannot be upheld.''
waldheim, 69, appealed both to world war ii compatriots and those too young to know ``the horrors of this war'' to judge for themselves whether ``your president is ... the distorted picture of this officer of the wehrmacht _ or ... a man who for decades of his life worked for justice, tolerance and peace.''
he said resigning would be against the wishes of those who elected him
waldheim said a ``convincing majority'' had elected him to a six-year term in june 1986 and added, ``a head of state must not retreat in the face of slanders, hateful demonstrations and wholesale condemnations.''
waldheim won 53.6 percent of the vote in a runoff
calls for waldheim's resignation, including street demonstrations, have increased since the report was issued
in an 80-minute interview for abc-tv's ``nightline'' program broadcast early today, waldheim said his military service in hitler's army was a common experience for austrians
if one pretends that i was lying because i did not give all the details of my military career right from the beginning, this is not something that i can accept,'' he said
serving in the german army was ``the normal fate of a young austrian of let's say 20, 22 years of age. to make him responsible for the wrongdoings of hitler or the nazi army, which i condemned, this in not fair.''
socialist politicians, who opposed waldheim's election as titular head of state, were swift to condemn the speech. but the president's conservative backers in the people's party lauded the performance
the two parties have governed in an increasingly fractious coalition since national elections in november 1986 left neither with a clear majority
socialist party secretary heinrich keller called the speech ``a great disappointment'' and indicated the country could do without waldheim as president
the socialists have stopped short of calling outright for waldheim's resignation. on sunday, however, socialist chancellor franz vranitzky said that he might resign if too much of his time is consumed by the waldheim affair
alois mock, austria's deputy chancellor and head of the people's party, said waldheim's speech was ``brutally open'' and maintained that the fuss would soon die down
but economics minister robert graf, another leading conservative, said in a radio interview that waldheim ``must take a decision which is very important for our country.''
in a radio interview several hours before the president spoke, graf said he was concerned about austria's tainted image and praised the comments vranitzky made sunday
a federal jury turned down a wrongful death suit filed by the widow of former indiana university football player denver smith against the city of bloomington and three police officers
we were disappointed. very, very disappointed,'' cynequa smith, who had sought $1.8 million in damages, said after the verdict monday
mrs. smith's lawsuit claimed police officers had violated her civil and constitutional rights, as well as those of her late husband and the couple's 4-year-old daughter, when they fatally shot smith during a struggle over a gun on sept. 12, 1983
mrs. smith's attorney, rich d. hailey, said he would decide within a week whether an appeal would be filed
mrs. smith claimed her husband was mentally impaired when he was shot. her lawsuit alleged negligence on the part of bloomington police officers steven sharp, randall keller and james ratcliff
defense attorney doug king said in closing arguments sunday that the three officers ``did only what they had to, not what they wanted to do.''
in his instructions to the jury, u.s. district court judge john d. tinder said they were to balance the plaintiff's claim that smith's rights were violated by the excessive use of force with the defendant's contention that using deadly force was reasonable because the officers had cause to believe smith posed a threat to their safety and lives
smith was from dayton, ohio
share prices opened slightly higher in london today in quiet trading
dealers attributed the quiet opening to the closure of the new york market on monday for a one-day holiday
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was up 3.1 points at 1,742.3 at 9:45 a.m. local time. when the market officially opened at 9 a.m., the index was up 2.3 at 1,741.5
major shares were narrowly mixed in early trading. banks provided one of the few features with lloyds up 7 pence at 260 pence and midland up 4 pence at 412 pence. dealers attributed the rise to continuing optimism about resolving the third world debt crisis
the early trend followed gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 138.19 to 24,345.66. the new york market was closed monday for the president's day holiday
about 15 parents and community activists seized an elementary school classroom to protest the transfer of a teacher, and three parents were arrested in a demonstration one protester called a ``great civics lesson.''
parents blocked the door to a room at brentano elementary school on monday while the third-grade teacher and about 30 students were inside. they refused to let the new teacher enter to show ``that sometimes you have to stand up against those kind of policies that hurt people,'' said the rev. bruce rickley, one of the protesters
after a six-hour impasse, the three parents were arrested and charged with criminal trespass, a misdemeanor, before they were released on their own recognizance, said police officer john lyons. the other parents dispersed
they could go to jail up to a year for it. it is one thing to protest _ it is another thing to deter the operation of a school,'' lyons said
the transferred teacher, louise degroot, had taught the children since the beginning of the school year but was not yet certified, she said. school officials considered her a substitute teacher
when a teacher at another school received certification, the two were directed to switch classrooms as of monday. but ms. degroot showed up monday in her old classroom to protest
ms. degroot, 40, said she hopes the protest will persuade the school board to put her back in her classroom, but she realizes it may jeopardize her future as a teacher in chicago's schools
ms. degroot was told she was being transferred thursday after school was over, and since friday was a school holiday, she said had no chance to say goodbye to her pupils
children become very attached with a teacher, so it is very traumatic for them. it's very traumatic for me too,'' ms. degroot said in a telephone interview monday night
the protesters met monday night and decided to start picketing in front of the school this morning, ms. degroot said
a teacher ``is not something to be ripped away from them without a chance to say goodbye,'' said rickley, whose three children attend another school
most of the students who were in the room when it was seized about 9 a.m. monday were removed and assigned to other classrooms after police arrived an hour later, said aracelis figueroa, a district superintendent for the city board of education. four students whose parents were involved in the protest remained in the room throughout the daylong demonstration, she said
we figured this kind of thing was a great civics lesson,'' rickley said
removing their teacher was something the children ``understood as very unfair,'' said rickley, who knows ms. degroot from north river community church, the baptist church where he preaches
ms. figueroa said ms. degroot ``wants to be placed back at brentano, but there is no such thing as assigning anyone permanently to a school as a substitute.''
a substitute is just a substitute,'' ms. figueroa said
hundreds of students rallied in the rain outside a university of massachusetts building to support its occupation by black students protesting campus racism
many of the estimated 200 students held lighted candles and sang during the rally monday night outside the new africa house, officials said
earlier in the evening, the dozens of students occupying the building evacuated it after a telephoned bomb threat, said protester spokesman dwayne warren. they returned about 10 minutes later when campus police found no bomb, warren said
the students said they planned to present a revised list of demands to chancellor joseph duffey this afternoon, but refused to provide details
classes scheduled for new africa house today were to be held in other buildings because the university does not plan to evict the students and because several faculty members refused to teach there during the protest, said university spokesman james langley
we see this as a short-term temporary thing. we don't want to escalate tensions,'' langley said, adding that officials hoped a resolution to the dispute could be reached following the meeting between duffey and the students
the occupiers began getting support from white students monday as students began trickling back to campus after a long holiday weekend. several returning students said they had left before the building was taken over friday, and had been unaware of the protest
between 50 and 200 students remained in the building through the weekend, said roscoe robinson, 24, of boston, a spokesman for the protesters
the number fluctuates as people come and go, but at least 60 have remained in the building at all times,'' robinson said
when asked how protesters were spending their time, he responded, ``we're studying. we're students
we've set aside the third floor of the building as a study hall and some of the graduate students with us, who are teaching assistants, are working with students,'' robinson said
the students had been scheduled to meet monday with duffey, but the session was canceled because he left campus to visit an ill brother
after becoming aware of the illness, the protesters sent duffey a sympathy card signed by more than 200 students. duffey responded by sending them a fruit basket and a card reading, ``i send affection and respect.''
the takeover was sparked by the alleged beating last weekend of two black students by six whites following a dormitory party
a group of graduate students monday were organizing an effort to have white students and faculty wear black armbands in support of the protest
it's a symbolic gesture, but the racism on campus has gone on for too long and is far too prevelant,'' said graduate student frank tripoli. ``it's time to begin putting an end to it.''
among the initial demands presented to university officials last week was that five white students allegedly involved in the weekend beating be suspended
robinson refused to discuss specifics of the revised demands until duffey had a chance to review them. robinson said the thrust of the demands remained unchanged, but that the students had revised the wording to make them more acceptable to administrators
about 9 percent of the 25,000 students at massachusetts' largest public university are minorities. there are 641 blacks enrolled and about 500 are undergraduates, langley said. total undergraduate enrollment is about 19,000 students
about 1,300 chinese students returned home last year after completing studies in the united states, leaving 27,000 chinese at american universities and colleges
the official china daily today said 8,817 scholars have returned from the united states since china began sending students abroad in 1979
china's overseas study program has become a matter of controversy because of the large number of students who are refusing to come home, opting instead for the better jobs and living conditions they find abroad. some of those who have returned have had difficulty finding suitable work and readjusting to the rigid political and social norms of their native country
the beijing government last year announced regulations tightening controls over students going abroad and requiring they be ``ideologically and morally sound.'' however, officials stress that china is still committed to sending students overseas to learn skills needed in the nation's modernization drive
police say they have interviewed about a dozen people but have made no arrests in connection with fires that have charred schools and churches and forced children in this town into makeshift classrooms
six fires have been set in the past three months, starting in early december, when one of the town's two elementary schools was torched twice within eight days, authorities said
two churches, which opened their doors as temporary classrooms for north omak elementary school students, and a church parsonage have been set afire during the last two weeks. the latest blaze destroyed omak first presbyterian church early monday
last week, the free methodist church sustained about $200,000 in damage and another fire set there saturday caused $30,000 in damage, said omak assistant police chief mike cramer. another blaze hit the methodist parsonage next door on sunday, cramer said
omak fire chief cal bowling said the latest church fire apparently was set by an intruder who broke into a basement window flanked by evergreen trees
fire, police and sheriff's investigators met behind closed doors monday to chart investigative and security plans. a $7,500 arson information reward fund was set up under the washington insurance council
police chief peter sirois said police had interviewed about a dozen people, and among them were two of three ``persons of interest.''
investigators also were seeking to talk to four or five more, sirois said. he said two of them no longer live in the area but frequently return for visits
he said investigators have ``limited phsyical evidence'' and the next step is ``just a lot of hard work,'' including stepped-up surveillance
pastor elbert g. harlow, who lives across the street from the presbyterian church, said a roving custodian-security guard woke him early monday to alert him to the fire
it's got everybody on the edge,'' he said. ``they're nervous ... waiting to see what's going to happen next.''
added mary koch, managing editor of the weekly omak chronicle: ``it's affected everyone in town. people are very, very grim.''
cramer said there was no doubt that an arsonist was behind the fires in december and january that destroyed the elementary school. arson also was the cause of the blazes at the methodist church, he said
they're a kook ... someone who is unbalanced,'' said vic power, superintendent of omak's school district
he said school officials have checked their records for any former employee or student who might have a grudge, but have turned up nothing
cramer said the city's eight-person police force is making every effort to catch the arsonist, whose work is beginning to take a psychological toll on the town's 4,000 residents and its 1,800 students, including 450 from north omak elementary
when the first fire hit the school it devastated the kids. it was tough for them to move. now they're going to have to again,'' he said
counselors and volunteers were helping children and parents cope with the fires, power said. the town has purchased trailers that will be used as temporary classrooms, he added
a 25-year-old convict helped bring television to china's remote northwest by developing a satellite receiver in his prison workshop, the official xinhua news agency said today
ren huimin, serving a five-year sentence for fraud in a penitentiary in the ningxia hui autonomous region's capital of yinchuan, also has patented two other inventions, the report said
it said the satellite receiver designed and produced by ren has made it possible for yinchuan residents to receive programs transmitted from beijing by china central television
he also invented an ultra-high frequency analogue switch which turns lights on and off when people enter or leave a room, and an infra-red automatic alarm used in the prison
the report said ren taught himself physics, chemistry, optics, electronics and electromagnetics and dropped out of school to do independent research
freezing rain, sleet and snow fell in parts of the northeast today, while rain dampened much of the eastern seaboard
clear skies were expected today over most of the southern half of the nation
a mixture of freezing rain, sleet and snow covered the western mountains and the central highlands of maine, where 3 to 5 inches of snow was expected by early today
one to 2 inches of snow were likely in new hampshire, where freezing rain slickened roads monday night
rain fell along the atlantic coast from central new england into eastern north carolina
freezing drizzle extended across portions of the lower great lakes, parts of western new york and the lakeshore counties of ohio
light freezing rain and snow developed late monday over southwestern minnesota and in northern iowa
elsewhere, scattered snow showers dusted the ohio valley, the southern appalachians and the northern rockies. scattered rain dampened western nebraska and southern south dakota
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 a.m. est included 1\ inches at cape hatteras, n.c., and nearly an inch at islip, n.y
late night temperatures were mostly in the single digits and teens from the upper half of the mississippi valley across the upper great lakes region. it was unseasonably cold across the southeast, with temperatures in the 30s over portions of the central gulf coast region
today's forecast called for snow in northern new england and northeastern new york, with rain or snow across southern new england; scattered snow showers from eastern minnesota across wisconsin and michigan, and in the northern and central rockies; clear skies will prevail over the southern half of the country
high temperatures were expected to be in the 20s and 30s from the northern plains across the northeastern quarter of the u.s.; 30s in the northern and central rockies; 60s and 70s from california across the desert southwest, much of the southern plains, louisiana and florida; 40s and 50s across much of the rest of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 3 below zero at pellston, mich., to 66 degrees at key west naval air station, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 31 cloudy; boston 40 rain; buffalo 25 snow; charleston, s.c. 43 windy; cincinnati 26 snow; cleveland 27 snow; detroit 24 partly cloudy; miami 63 fair; new york 44 rain; philadelphia 46 cloudy; pittsburgh 29 snow; portland, maine 40 rain; washington 44 drizzle
_central: bismarck 28 fair; chicago 17 fair; dallas-fort worth 44 fair; denver 42 fair; des moines 28 cloudy; indianapolis 24 cloudy; kansas city 35 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 18 cloudy; nashville 22 fair; new orleans 37 fair; st. louis 26 fair
_west: albuquerque 35 fair; anchorage 12 fair; las vegas 43 fair; los angeles 57 fair; phoenix 56 fair; salt lake city 35 partly cloudy; san diego 55 foggy; san francisco 50 fair; seattle 38 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 34 cloudy; toronto 18 fair
i don't think it makes any difference if you're the first vote or the last. it's the vote that counts _ the privilege.'' _ neil tillotson, of dixville notch, n.h., who cast the first ballot in the state's presidential primary, the first of the 1988 campaign
i am afraid. i thought i was going to die. i dream about it all the time.'' _ abdel latif mahmoud ishtiah, 19, an arab who said he and three other residents of the west bank village kfar salem were buried alive by israeli soldiers using a bulldozer after a riot
you have somebody who is every bit as bad as hitler in charge of many nations of the world. communism is just as bad as the nazis.'' _ republican presidential candidate pat robertson, responding to an audience member's criticism that he is too militant in his stand against communism
pakistan today called on the soviet union to rejoin efforts at finding a formula for a future afghan government, rather than pulling troops out of that country unconditionally
the pakistan foreign ministry gave a statement to reporters saying that only by linking its proposed withdrawal to an agreement on an interim kabul government could moscow assure an end to afghanistan's nine-year civil war
the withdrawal of its forces must be accompanied with arrangements to ensure peace and stability inside afghanistan. otherwise, the tragedy of afghanistan ... will continue,'' the statement said
a ministry spokesman, who cannot be named under news conference rules, said moscow has changed its position on a so-called twin-track approach to reaching a u.n.-sponsored accord on ending the soviet's eight-year role in the war
kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev issued a statement feb. 8 setting a pullout date of may 15 provided that indirect talks between the islamabad and kabul governments produce an accord at least 60 days before that
however, gorbachev also stated for the first time that a pullout would not be contingent on a separate agreement on the makeup of a transitional afghan regime which would oversee such a pullout
this, according to pakistani officials, means that fighting between afghanistan's governing communists and the afghan guerrillas could continue, preventing the return of 3.5 million afghan refugees who reside in pakistan
the spokesman also claimed that the absence of a political accord would make it impossible for pakistan to abide by a key element of a peace agreement already accepted by islamabad, kabul, washington and moscow: an end to foreign military aid to afghan guerrillas
if the refugees continue to camp just miles from this very porous border (with afghanistan), it will be impossible for pakistan to guarantee (foreign) non-interference,'' he said
the islamabad and kabul governments, who have negotiated indirectly at geneva through u.n. mediator diego cordovez, have agreed on the principles of non-interference, afghanistan's future status as a non-aligned country and the voluntary return of nearly 5 million refugees from pakistan and iran
at the next round of talks, scheduled for march 2, they are to concentrate on the details of a withdrawal of soviet troops
moscow and washington would serve as guarantors of an accord, as the united states gives substantial military aid to the afghan guerrillas
an agreement at the next geneva round, predicted by cordovez and the pakistanis alike, would ostensibly mark the end of the soviet army's involvement in the conflict
the moslem insurgency in afghanistan began in 1978, before the soviet intervention in december 1979, ostensibly at the request of the moscow-backed afghan communist regime and under the auspices of a friendship treaty
western analysts estimate 115,000 soviet troops are now fighting moslem guerrillas trying to overthrow the marxist government
u.s. rep. dan mica said he would kick off his bid for the democratic u.s. senate nomination despite polls that show he is far behind his democratic rival
i think florida's ready for a new face. i think florida is just going to explode on the national scene in political prominence and power. we need somebody who can go to washington and hit the ground running,'' mica said
the 44-year-old former schoolteacher planned to announce his candidacy here today at palm beach junior college, then head to tampa to start a city-hopping swing across the state this week
mica said monday he has made 14 campaign-style stops in florida cities in recent weeks, and plans to build his race through face-to-face campaigning across the state
i'm going to go anywhere where people want to talk to me,'' he said. ``i don't want to be just a media candidate _ packaged. i want to discuss issues.''
after 10 years, he is yielding his seat representing the 14th congressional district in south florida, one of the nation's fastest-growing. he won his 1986 election with 74 percent of the district's votes
mica has had a high profile in congress in foreign policy. as chairman of the subcommittee on foreign operations, he traveled to moscow last year to probe concerns about security at the u.s. embassy. he also has had major roles in such important florida-interest areas as veterans' and long-term health care
however, initial statewide polls have indicated he runs 6-to-1 behind democratic opponent reubin askew, a former two-term governor. mica says he can catch up by mid-summer
u.s. rep. connie mack iii, a well-funded conservative from cape coral, is the only declared republican candidate
a car bomb exploded today in a residential neighborhood of tehran, wounding 10 people, damaging shops and shattering apartment building windows, the official islamic republic news agency reported
the car was parked on a street in northern tehran, said the agency, which was monitored in nicosia. it said those wounded in the blast were taken to a hospital, where three were admitted and seven discharged after treatment
irna said the ``bomb was planted by agents of the world arrogance,'' but gave no other details
the explosion came five days after ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's islamic revolution celebrated the ninth anniversary of its rise to power
last month, the official media said four people were hanged in public for setting off car bombs in tehran and bakhtaran, in western iran. it did not elaborate on the bombings, but said the four had been involved in smuggling cars from iraq, iran's war foe, and rigging them with explosives
in august 1986, two major car bombings in tehran and qom, seat of iran's religious hierarchy and 100 miles south of the capital, killed 33 people and wounded more than 200
the bombings were blamed on iran's largest opposition group, mujahedeen khalq, or people's warriors. the group, now based in iraq, denied the charges
inspectors for the occupational safety and health administration could shut down unsafe plants and construction sites under a major overhaul of the nation's primary job safety law advocated by the afl-cio
although no such legislation is under consideration now, the executive council of the 14.3-million member labor federation said monday it wants congress to change the 17-year-old osha law once a new president is elected
the act's penalty structure and criminal provisions must be strengthened,'' the 36-member council of union leaders said in a statement. ``those provisions are badly out of date and fall far short of those provided in more recent safety and health laws, such as the mine safety and health act.''
inspectors for osha's sister agency, the mine safety and health administration, now have the authority to shut down any unsafe mine on the spot. osha inspectors lack that power except in rare circumstances, and even then they must first obtain a court order
the afl-cio measure also would expand coverage under the osha law to include workers in the nuclear and transportation industries and some 14 million employees of state and local governments. all of them are exempt now
in addition, it would mandate safety and health committees with union or other worker representation at each job site
the committees would have the right to conduct their own inspections, review an employer's hazard control measures and direct a shutdown of a dangerous job site on their own, said margaret seminario, the federation's deputy director for safety and health
the initial reaction by labor department officials attending the afl-cio's annual winter meeting here was positive
but assistant labor secretary david demarest said any consideration of amending the law would first require a major policy review within the department. that kind of action is not even in the planning during the last year of president reagan's administration, he said
business groups also want the law changed, but in a different way. the u.s. chamber of commerce has called for legislation that would mandate cost-benefit analyses now being practiced as policy under by adminstration before osha can issue new or toughen existing health and safety regulations
the chamber also wants to prohibit osha from ``interference'' in issues that it says more appropriately belong under the jurisdiction of the national labor relations board, such as responding to every worker complaint with a plant inspection, as now required by the law
in the past year, unions have helped workers file complaints of unsafe conditions with osha that have resulted in fines ranging up to more than $2.5 million against companies such as ibp corp., the nation's largest meatpacker, and international paper co
the government said it will grant political asylum to a taiwanese dissident arrested last week with a false passport if a u.n. agency attests to his refugee status
miriam defensor-santiago, commissioner of immigration and deportation, made the announcement monday, four days after hsu hsing-liang was arrested at manila airport trying to board a flight for taiwan
hsu, who has been banned from taiwan since 1979, was living in los angeles
mrs. defensor-santiago made the offer conditional on hsu obtaining a certificate from the u.n. high commissioner for refugees attesting to his political refugee status
hsu was carrying a false philippine passport when he was detained thursday. customs agents became suspicious because he could not speak tagalog, the main philippine language. hsu told reporters he had flown in from california in an attempt to slip back into taiwan. ``today'' for ``tuesday''</note>
the nation's baby boomers are poised for the first time to swing a presidential election, according to a university of minnesota research fellow
there's a good chance the baby boom vote could play a key role this year,'' said harry boyte, a research fellow at the humphrey institute of public affairs
boyte said a candidate who shows concern about the economy, job security, home ownership and the future of children can win baby boomer votes
he said, however, that would require tapping an ``underlying social concern'' among older baby boomers who fought for civil righs and women's issues and awakening a political interest in younger baby boomers who have generally shunned activism
but bill morris, a private pollster in the twin cities, says ``there's a coalition out there waiting to be mobilized'' but that none of the presidential candidates is doing it
but some political analysts say it can't be done because the baby boomers are too varied to fit under one political banner
the campaign of democratic presidential hopeful bruce babbitt is selling some computers but a spokesman says that doesn't mean the former arizona governor's campaign is closing up shop
the phoenix gazette reported monday that notices were posted on bulletin boards in babbitt for president campaign offices in phoenix, washington, des moines, iowa and concord, n.h., offering nine computers to staff members for $1,000 apiece
the gazette's story referred to the notices as ``what may be the most telling indicator of babbitt's fortunes in tuesday's new hampshire primary.''
campaign spokesman scott phelps denied that the computer sale indicated the campaign was closing and said the campaign has more computers than it needs now that last week's iowa caucuses, where babbitt finished fifth, are completed
after months of testing the political waters, attorney general hubert h. humphrey iii today is to officially declare his candidacy for the u.s. senate
humphrey scheduled the announcement for 10 a.m. in the rotunda of the capitol
on wednesday and thursday, he is to hold a series of news conferences throughout the state on his challenge to republican u.s. sen. david durenberger in the november election
humphrey is seeking to reclaim for the democratic-farmer-labor party the senate seat once held by his father, the late vice president, and briefly by his mother, muriel humphrey brown
according to remarks prepared for his announcement, humphrey, 45, is expected to anticipate renewed criticism from republicans that he is running on his name
humphrey said in the prepared text, ``i will not trade on what i have not earned. i will build on what i have been given. i am running on my own record of public service, my own experience, my own beliefs.''
atlanta mayor andrew young will be part of a panel of moderators questioning presidential hopefuls for both major parties this week in nationally televised debates leading up to the ``super tuesday'' primaries on march 8
the presidential debates will be held at southern methodist university in dallas with the democratic debate set for thursday night and the republican debate the following night
joining young on the panel are martin anderson, former adviser to president reagan on domestic and economic affairs, and television journalist roger mudd
young said he intends to focus first on international and national economics, his primary areas of interest, but frame his questions broadly. young said viewers should expect no twisting questions from him
i think it's a mistake to try to trick the candidates, to undercut them, to put them on the spot,'' young said. ``ever since gerald ford made a mistake, or nixon didn't look good, people have perceived debates as a pressure cooker which will eliminate somebody. i don't know that that's necessarily good.'' years</head>
when harbor pilot wright skinner jr. fell into winyah bay, he became the fifth person to disappear in the bay on feb. 13 in the past 11 years
i don't think i'll go fishing on feb. 13 next year,'' said dean jordan, whose father and cousin drowned in the bay on feb. 13, 1982. ``it is a little unusual because the day my father disappeared out there the winds were coming from the northwest and it was cold. these were the same conditions when mr. skinner went out.''
i've heard people call that area in winyah bay the devil's triangle,'' said bobby goude, who helped search for jordan's father and cousin as a volunteer with the winyah rescue squad
skinner, a second generation harbor boat pilot, had piloted the freighter tropical sky out of winyah bay and was returning to the trailing pilot boat when he apparently fell from a ladder leading down to the awaiting boat. he landed in the mid-40-degree water at 3:30 a.m. saturday
skinner has not been found. volunteers searched the area for four hours monday until foul weather forced them to stop
we will continue to search until the family says they want us to stop,'' said glenn wilson, chief of the winyah rescue squad
the coast guard has discontinued its search until further developments, a spokesman said
on feb. 13, 1977, david browder and john stanley gore went to search for a friend in their 10-foot outboard. their boat was found overturned the following day, while their friend was found safe in his stalled boat. the bodies of browder and gore were found later in charleston, about 60 miles south of georgetown
on feb. 13, 1982, hubert jordan sr. and his nephew david jordan left port in their 18-foot boat to go shad fishing. when they didn't return after dark, a relative, tom swinnie jr., went in search of them. swinnie found the bow of the jordan boat sticking out of the water
david jordan's body was found 32 days later and hubert jordan sr. was found 50 days later, both near charleston, goude said
there are other stories about the mysteries of the bay
two guys told me they were out on the bay one time and they saw three men on a 40-foot shrimp boat out there, and they turned their backs to the boat for a minute and when they turned around, the boat and the men were gone and they never found it or the men,'' goude said. ``my son-in-law got stuck out on the bay about two weeks ago and he said he was never going back because it was very dark and eerie.''
thai and laotian army chiefs today discussed how to end a bloody border conflict, and a thai spokesman said there was a good chance the talks would lead to full-scale talks between the countries
the nearly six hours negotiations were the first between top officials since the fighting flared in november
gen. sisavat keobounphan, chief of general staff of the lao people's army, and gen. chaovalit yongchaiyuth, commander-in-chief of the royal thai army, each led four-man military teams in the talks in bangkok
the thai spokesman, air vice marshal sommot sundaravej, said they discussed a cease-fire and how far troops of both sides should withdraw from the disputed hills where they have fought, incurring hundreds of casualties
the border confrontation is the bloodiest since pro-west thailand and communist laos clashed over three villages in 1984
talks are to resume wednesday, and both sides agreed not to divulge details of the discussions until then
the dollar rose against all major currencies except the japanese yen in quiet european trading this morning. gold prices fell slightly in thin trading
foreign exchange dealers said they expected little activity in europe until u.s. markets opened following monday's one-day holiday for presidents' day
in west germany, many traders stayed home because of carnival festivities. turnover was extremely low and most banks and businesses in frankfurt were preparing to close early today
we are waiting for the americans to come in, but by that time, we are already out,'' said one dealer at a frankfurt bank
a trader in milan said the dollar might pick up in new york later today in reaction to monday's report of a narrowing in japan's trade surplus to $3.072 billion in january from $8.601 billion in december
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar fell 0.50 yen to a closing 130.50 yen. later, in london, it was quoted slightly lower at 130.40 yen
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late monday's rates:
_ 1.7145 west german marks, up from 1.7085
_ 1.4060 swiss francs, up from 1.4040
_ 5.7880 french francs, up from 5.7705
_ 1.9265 dutch guilders, up from 1.9180
_ 1,261.50 italian lire, up from 1,257.50
_ 1.27275 canadian dollars, up from 1.2658
in london, the dollar rose against the british pound. it cost $1.7385 to buy one pound, cheaper than $1.7455 late monday
bullion dealers said gold was drifting aimlessly, largely because so many markets throughout the world are shut, depriving london of any direction
in addition to new york being shut on monday, many european centers are closed or half-staffed for carnival and hong kong is closed for the chinese new year
gold opened in london at a bid price of $444.25 a troy ounce and at mid-morning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed the same recommended price. it was down from monday's late bid of $445.10
in zurich, the bid price was $444.75, down from $445.50 late monday
silver was quoted in london at a bid price of $6.35 a troy ounce, unchanged from monday's late bid
three birth control organizations serving colorado and utah have won a temporary reprieve from new federal rules barring federally funded family planning clinics from advising pregnant women on abortion
u.s. district judge zita l. weinshienk granted a preliminary injunction monday against the new rules, scheduled to go into effect march 3, sought by rocky mountain planned parenthood of denver, planned parenthood of utah and the boulder (colo.) women's health clinic
she said the order applies only to the three plaintiffs' clinics
the order just says the government cannot put these regulations into effect until we have a chance to hear it in a final hearing,'' weinshienk said in an interview
the judge said she expected new hearing dates to be set within a week. she said two similar cases will be heard in federal courts in boston and new york this week
the denver suit claims the new regulations violate the title x statute and the intent of congress, censure free speech rights at family planning clinics and violate the right of privacy of clinics and their patients
the department of health and human services ruled that family planning programs receiving federal funds may not provide pregnant women with information on abortion or refer them to other sources, even if they ask
reagan administration officials have said the rule is intended to make sure federal funds are not used to promote abortion, even indirectly
weinshienk accused the reagan administration of trying to use the regulations to circumvent congress and amend legislation that set up title x of the public health service act in 1970 to provide family planning clinics
legislative history includes a groundswell of support in congress for women's rights to abortion even three years before the supreme court decision'' legalizing abortion in 1974, she said
she said the new regulations represented a ``180-degree switch'' from past interpretations of the statute by previous administrations
weinshienk said she based her decision on many u.s. supreme court rulings that barred rules that ``dictated to doctors what they say to patients, which is what the regulations attempted to do.'' 1986 as sent.</note>
the plo today threatened to attack israeli targets around the world to avenge the killing of three guerrilla commanders and the bombing of a ferry being readied for a protest voyage by palestinian deportees
the palestine liberation organization has blamed israel for the slayings on sunday and the explosion aboard the sol phryne ferry on monday
israel knows that the plo is not handcuffed ... the blood of our martyrs will not go unavenged,'' said a statement issued in nicosia
the plo officers _ col. marwan kayyali, lt. col. mohammed sultan and lt. col. mohammed buheis _ were killed in a car bombing in limassol, on cyprus' southern coast, apparently after arranging the sale of the cypriot ship to a plo-affiliated firm for the so-called ``ship of return'' voyage to israel
we had adhered to the cairo declaration to halt military operations against enemy targets outside the borders of our country (israel),'' the statement said. ``it is not logical or possible for the halt to continue unilaterally. this is a double-edged weapon,'' it added
plo chief yasser arafat declared during a visit to the egyptian capital of cairo in 1985 that his guerrillas would restrict their attacks in the arab-israeli conflict to targets inside israel and halt terrorist attacks on israelis abroad _ a policy the plo had pursued since arafat took over its leadership in 1969
an official at the plo office in nicosia said today: ``there are alternatives. we are not desperate,'' when asked what the plo planned to do after the explosion that crippled the sol phryne
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, would not say whether the plo has found another boat to charter for the 130 deportees and hundreds of sympathizers and reporters who planned to go on the voyage to protest the deportation of palestinians from the occupied west bank and gaza strip
the plo had tried to launch the voyage from greece, but it was repeatedly delayed, reportedly under israeli pressure
the deportees, sympathizers and reporters were taken in buses to athens airport monday and were told they would be flown to cyprus to board the boat. after news of the blast reached athens, most returned to their hotels
another plo official in nicosia had disclosed that the 40-year-old ferry, which was sold saturday only a few days before it was to be auctioned, had a hole blown in it by ``an underwater blast caused by a mine that was stuck, probably by frogmen, onto the vessel. it was attached to a time fuse.''
the boat was supposed to sail to the israeli port of haifa, but israeli officials have said they will refuse to let the vessel enter their waters
the planned voyage resembles in some ways the 1947 trip of the exodus, in which jewish refugees from nazi death camps were turned back by british forces as they tried to emigrate to palestine
in athens, bassam abu sharif, the plo's chief spokesman who has been overseeing preparations for the voyage, said on monday: ``we are continuing our plans and we will sail, in spite of israeli terrorists who are using bombs against ideas, noble ideas.''
fouad al-bittar, the plo diplomatic representative in athens, said: ``the damage (to the ferry) is not very severe.''
but the ship's captain, cleanthis vlahopoulos, said it would take ``several months'' to make the sol phryne seaworthy again
a man claiming to speak for the jewish defense league on monday said the u.s.-based extremist group was responsible for the device that planted the 6,151-ton sol phryne
the jdl is responsible for the bombing at limassol,'' he said. ``this is only a warning. next time we will bomb it with all the people on it.''
the man made the claim in a telephone call to the associated press, but there was no way to authenticate it or verify the caller's identity
he said ``no comment'' when asked if the jdl also was behind the car bombing that killed the plo officials snday
the jdl advocates use of violence in the arab-israeli conflict. it was founded in the early 1960s by new york-born meir kahane, now a member of israel's parliament and head of extremist, anti-arab kach party
the head of the jewish defense league, irv rubin, told the ap in a telephone interview on monday from los angeles that jdl was not involved
daniel day-lewis orders most of the women he meets in his new film, ``the unbearable lightness of being,'' to ``take off your clothes.''
but in real life, he says, he's nothing like that
i didn't go around bedding chambermaids,'' he said in an interview in the feb. 22 issue of people magazine
and despite the sex-symbol status the 30-year-old englishman is now enjoying, he says he's mortified about ``the idea of all those people seeing me nude!''
day-lewis, son of the late english poet-laureate, c. day-lewis, plays in his latest movie a lecherous czech surgeon who chooses the ``heaviness'' of commitment over the ``lightness'' of freedom. the movie is based on milan kundera's acclaimed 1984 novel of the same name
day-lewis, who won raves for his role as a gay street punk in ``my beautiful laundrette'' and as a victorian gentleman in ``a room with a view'' in 1986, says he's not worried about being typecast as a sex symbol
if anything, he says, ``i'm in danger of being typecast as a chameleon.''
a teacher, a scientist and a linguist are adrift at sea with only enough food and water for one to survive before their raft reaches an island inhabited by a primitive civilization
who should be allowed to survive to enlighten the natives?
the question of which field of learning is most important may be as sticky as the one involving the chicken and the egg, but three professors took it on during a ``raft debate'' at the university of tennessee at chattanooga
thomas g. waddell, a chemistry professor, opened the debate last thursday by noting that he knew how to make aspirin, antibiotics and synthetic fabrics
if i'm saved, we can wear something besides animal skins,'' he said. ``faulkner should not be read nor classes taught while dressed in animal skins.''
but eugene bartoo, the school's head of curriculum and instruction, countered the notion of better living through chemistry
i'm sure the island is looking forward to polyester leisure suits, one of the special contributions of chemistry to our lives,'' he said, before arguing that his ability to train others to teach made his specialty the most valuable
reed sanderlin, an english professor and language specialist, argued that without a means to translate thoughts into written words, the island's residents would have difficulty teaching others or assimilating technology
mr. waddell can work magic, but what happens when he dies?'' sanderlin asked. ``mr. bartoo can lead these children along the beach and show them the possibilities of curriculum reform. but what happens after that?''
all of these things are important, sanderlin said. ``the trouble is that at some points in history you can't have them all at the same time and you must make choices.''
kim patterson took her fiance at his word when he said he'd marry her anywhere. so on the big day, she took stephen sweeney to the place where their romance began: a grocery store
streamers and balloons bedecked the meat aisle at the mountlake terrace food merchant for the valentine's day wedding
store employees hurriedly rearranged sacks of onions and potatoes, while surprised shoppers paused
sweeney, 30, took his place in front of the meat cooler as the 23-year-old ms. patterson, escorted by her father, emerged through the vinyl door of the meat locker
sweeney had vowed to marry his sweetheart ``anytime, anywhere,'' so she opted for the place they first met: aisle 15
shanghai health officials say a monthlong epidemic of hepatitis is now under control, a report said today
the official news agency xinhua quoted public health bureau officials in china's largest city as saying some patients are now being discharged from hospitals and no new cases have been reported in the past few days
shanghai health officials said last week that 16,000 people in the city of 12 million had contracted hepatitis, 90 percent from eating clams contaminated in polluted coastal waters. western doctors in shanghai estimated that the number of sick could be as high as 40,000
reports from the city said medical departments were adding more than 25,000 hospital beds to the existing 2,820 in infectious disease wards. emergency wards were set up in some factories and schools
the latest report appeared to allay earlier concerns that the disease would hit a second peak this week as people became infected from those already down with hepatitis
the report said hepatitis, a virus disease inflaming the liver and causing vomiting, diarrhea and fever, is common to shanghai, an overcrowded city with serious sanitation problems
it said ordinarily there are 30 to 40 hepatitis cases a day over the winter months, but in mid-january this year 130 people a day were being hospitalized
publisher and former ambassador walter h. annenberg has again remembered his old prep school, this time with a $10 million donation
the founder of tv guide has now given $30 million to the peddie school, from which he was graduated in 1927. annenberg was not expected to attend today's formal announcement of the gift, but gov. thomas h. kean was
the gift begins a fund-raising campaign marking the 125th anniversary of the school, which has 500 students
annenberg's first major gift came in 1983, when he pledged to give $12 million in installments of $1 million a year. other gifts have totaled $8 million
in a statement, the former ambassador to great britain said, ``the private sector must take over to a greater extent and become more involved
those who are able to must shoulder more of the responsibility, whether it be in support of independent or public education.''
about 2,500 tugboat workers and other marine employees went on strike today against nine marine transport companies after efforts to reach a new contract failed
pickets said they hoped to shut down new york harbor. ``we're going to try,'' said gordon macdonald, who was on a picket line this morning. ``it's our livelihood.''
about 200 pickets went up about 12:01 a.m., said police officer susan henry, adding, ``it's been real quiet.''
police said monday they were moving to head off possible confrontations between strikers and replacement workers. lt. donald boyle said 100 officers would be assigned to watch towing companies on staten island
albert cornette, president of local 333 of the international longshoremen's association, said his 2,500 members on monday unanimously rejected companies' demands to eliminate 750 jobs and for wage and benefit concessions from 40 percent to 62 percent
we offered them a contract to keep them competitive,'' cornette said, ``but ... all they want to do is break us.''
he said he proposed the current contract with no improvements for the next three years. ``but they want to eliminate our pension plan; they want to take away vacations and eliminate overtime pay,'' cornette said
officials of the marine-towing companies refused to comment
salaries for local 333 members range from $385 a day for captains to $175 a day for deckhands, based on a 12-hour day with overtime, cornette said. he said members earn an average of $35,000 a year
it was too early to tell how the strike would affect the movement of cargo through new york harbor, according to shipping officials
we'd like to make sure the cargo keeps flowing,'' said gregory storey of the new york shipping association, an umbrella group for shipping companies
chief petty officer kirk wood of the coast guard's governors island station said safety zones were being established in new york-new jersey waters. this means any ship of 1,600 gross tons or more must check in with the coast guard's vessel traffic service before moving in or out of the area
wood also said it appeared that large ships were avoiding new york so they would not get stuck here without towing service
the last tug strike in the new york area ended in june 1979 after 88 days. of britain and that thatcher would have to submit it to parliament. picks up 4th graf pvs, `the home ...</note>
the government plans to enact into permanent law an anti-terrorism measure it introduced to counter the ira, allowing police to hold people without charge for a week, news reports said today
the reports come at a time of worsening of anglo-irish relations. recently, dublin suspended the processing of extradition warrants from britain
the british broadcasting corp., the times of london and other newspapers said prime minister margaret thatcher's government plans to enact the prevention of terrorism act instead of having parliament renew it annually
the act would apply to all of britain. to make it permanent, mrs. thatcher must submit it to parliament for approval
the home office refused to confirm the reports, but said in a statement that home secretary douglas hurd is ``likely to be making an announcement'' on the matter. the times said the announcement would come today
dublin has criticized the act, so its permanent enactment is thought likely to worsen anglo-irish relations, which deteriorated sharply last month over britain's refusal to prosecute police who allegedly killed six unarmed roman catholics in northern ireland in 1982
the act, intended as a temporary measure when first introduced in 1974 as a means to help combat the irish republican army, is now also used against international terrorism in general
it allows police to hold people without charge for up to seven days without having to inform anyone or bring them before a court
the irish government of prime minister charles haughey alleges that british police have used the act to harass irish people and gather information on the irish community in general
in some cases, irish government ministers have been held at british airports under the act, leading to diplomatic complaints
critics say more than 1 million people have been detained under the act at one time or another, but that less than 200 were subsequently convicted of any offense. british government figures show that of 225 people held under the act last year only 27 were subsequently charged with an offense
but mrs. thatcher's government says the act has played a major role in fighting terrorism. the government said the act allowed police in june 1985 to prevent an ira bombing campaign in mainland british resorts
the mainly catholic ira is fighting to drive the british from northern ireland. it wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
haughey said after meeting mrs. thatcher at the european economic community summit in brussels on friday that relations between the two governments were at an impasse
it was the first meeting between the leaders since the london government on jan. 25 acknowledged there was evidence of a conspiracy to obstruct justice following the killing of six unarmed catholics by police in three separate incidents in northern ireland in 1982. irish anger was sparked by britain's announcement that it would not prosecute the officers allegedly involved
dublin, meanwhile, has suspended processing british extradition warrants for suspects wanted in northern ireland and the british mainland, the irish times reported monday. it said the dublin government had accused british authorities of failing to comply with terms of a new extradition law the irish parliament passed dec. 10
the terms include a requirement that supporting evidence should accompany requests for extradition, and attorney general sir patrick mayhew of britain has refused to do so
irish press reports said that, as a result, irish law officers have since taken no action on at least five british extradition warrants, none of which concerned terrorist cases
a power sinhalese politician and popular actor who was expected to run for president was assassinated at his home today, a day after his political alliance condemned recent killings by radical sinhalese nationalists
senior police officials blamed the death of vijaya kumaranatunga on the outlawed people's liberation front, an ultra-nationalist sinhalese group
kumaranatunga, 43, led the sri lankan mahajana (people's) party and was expected to run as a candidate for president with the backing of his party and two other small leftist groups
the popular film star was killed with a submachine gun while talking to several people in the yard of his home in polhengoda, four miles east of colombo, police said. another man was injured by the gunfire
kamaranatunga's body was sprawled under a mango tree, with a bullet hole through an appointment book he was carrying, witnesses said. relatives said he was about to leave for a luncheon at the american embassy
besides condemining radical sinhalese terrorists, kumaranatunga was a supporter of the indian-sri lankan peace accord that aims to end the insurgency by separatists from the tamil minority
the people's liberation front has vowed to kill anyone who supports the accord, and president junius r. jayewardene has blamed the front for the deaths of more than 150 government officials and members of his united national party
hundreds of people gathered at kamaranatunga's home and colombo general hospital, where the politician's body was taken. a scuffle broke out near the hospital morgue, where teen-agers and elderly women wailed over the death
kumaranatunga's wife chandrika, the daughter of former prime minister sirimavo bandaranaike, was at the hospital
kumaranatunga was standing in his yard talking to four other people when two men rode up on a motorcycle at about noon, said ignatius canagaratnam, chief of the police crime detection bureau
the cycle passenger got off, opened fire with a submachine gun, then escaped with the motorcycle driver, canagaratnam said
on monday, kumaratunga's mahajana (people's) party and the two other leftist parties issued a strongly worded statement condemning killings of politicians by the people's liberation front
kumaratunga was also one of the earliest and most vocal supporters of the july 29 peace accord, which was sponsored by india and designed to end a 4-year-old tamil separatist guerrilla war that has left about 8,000 people dead
his mother-in-law, mrs. bandaranaike, whose sri lanka freedom party opposes the accord, was prime minister from 1960 to 1965 and from 1970 to 1977. her husband, s.w.f.d. bandaranaike, was prime minister from 1956 until his assassination in 1959
kumaratunga's family is sinhalese, the ethnic group comprising 75 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people
tamils, who account for 18 percent, claim they are discriminated against by the sinhalese, who control the government and military
india sent troops to its island neighbor last july to enforce the peace pact. after tamil rebels rejected the accord and went on a killing spree against sinhalese civilians, india launched an oct. 10 offensive to disarm the largest rebel group, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam
india says between 45,000 and 48,000 of its soldiers are now deployed in sri lanka to disarm the rebels
rio's raucous carnival greeted the dawn today with a spectacular but socially conscious samba parade, capping off a night of revelry that spread from night clubs to the slums
the last of rio's top 16 samba schools paraded through the 80,000-seat open-air sambadrome this morning, ending a 12-hour parade and capping a glittering display of costumes, music and dancing
samba schools actually are neighborhood clubs located mostly in rio's poor hillside slums. each one composes a samba based on a historical, folk or political theme and then outfits 4,000 to 5,000 members who sing and enact that theme along the parade route
most of the schools stuck to traditional samba themes. however, as 1988 marks the 100th anniversary of the emancipation of brazil's slaves, this year's parade saw added emphasis on the role of black people
blacks and mulattoes make up a majority of the samba schools but in general do not hold positions of wealth or authority in this mixed-race nation of 141 mi of driver, additional details. picks up 10th graf pvs, `the incident ...</note>
a car burst into flames early today about 40 yards from prime minister margaret thatcher's official london residence and office, killing the driver, and police said no explosives were found
police bomb squad officers raced to 10 downing st. shortly after midnight fearing a possible terrorist attack
however, scotland yard later said in a statement: ``there was no trace of an explosive device.'' it added: ``at no time did the car make any attempt to enter downing street and therefore the prime minister was not in any danger.''
independent radio news said the victim had been out of work for over a year and had killed himself to protest unemployment. the unemployment rate in december was 9.7 percent
the british domestic news agency press association said gasoline cans were believed to have been found inside the car and that one theory was that the driver deliberately started the fire in order to commit suicide
scotland yard refused to comment on the reports or to identify the badly burned driver pending an autopsy
the london evening standard identified the driver as derek bainbridge from worksop in central england and said he gave up his job as a street sweeper 14 months ago
mrs. thatcher's office in a statement confirmed that the prime minister had been at 10 downing street at the time of the incident
the scotland yard spokesman, speaking anonymously, said police did not yet know what caused the green vauxhall viva auto to burst into flames at the entrance to downing street from whitehall, the main thoroughfare in the area
a car pulled up in whitehall at the entrance to downing street and burst into flames. the fire was put out by london fire brigade and the body of a man was found inside the car,'' the scotland yard statement said
the incident was witnessed by a police officer on duty at the metal security barriers that separate downing street from whitehall
the car had been traveling down whitehall from the direction of parliament, scotland yard said. whitehall was sealed off for about three hours as police investigated the burned-out auto before removing it
police estimated that the car was about 40 yards from mrs. thatcher's residence. downing street is a very short, dead-end street with no. 10 located toward the far end from whitehall
four unemployed tanzanian teenagers pleaded guilty today to the weekend hijacking of an air tanzania boeing 737 with 76 people aboard, including home affairs minister muhidin kimario
the plane never left tanzania
the youths _ muhsin waziri haji, 17, juma hussein juma, 17, iddi muhamed hamisi, 17, and jani ameir ramadhani, 18 _ said they were trying to find a better life in another country
they will be sentenced wednesday on charges of hijacking and conspiracy to cause violence on an aircraft
in court before magistrate joseph masanche, the four said they started planning the hijacking last march because they wanted to escape from family and financial problems. all are from zanzibar, the semi-autonomous indian ocean island that with the mainland forms the republic of tanzania
the teen-agers, carrying two toy guns, a knife and a fake grenade, hijacked an internal flight saturday night between dar es salaam and kilimanjaro and ordered the pilot to fly them to london
capt. dominic ngandile told the hijackers the plane needed to refuel and suggested they land in kenya. instead, he flew the aircraft back to dar es salaam, where the hijackers were overpowered and arrested, 10 hours after the hijacking began
the flight carried six crewmen and 70 passengers. no passenger 
arsonists tossed firebombs through the windows of a bank training center's cafeteria early tuesday, and two people were treated for smoke inhalation, police said
witnesses in the dormitory area of this suburban frankfurt campus complex reported hearing windows smashed and saw four or five hooded figures scurry into a wooded area near the deutsche bank training center at 6 a.m
one policeman and a doorman employed by the training center suffered from smoke inhalation, police said
none of the 80 bank employees staying at the training center was hurt in the attack. the damage was limited to the cafeteria and classroom area of the center, and was estimated at about $588,000, police said
no one has been arrested and police said there were no known motives or claims of responsibility for the attack
deutsche bank ag is west germany's largest commercial bank
a ship carrying 17 stowaways from romania and bulgaria steamed out of port tuesday for malta, although the group had requested political asylum in greece, a port authority spokesman said
the maltese-flagged cargo ship captain yiannis set sail seven hours after docking in piraeus harbor, said the spokesman, who requested anonymity
the stowaways asked for asylum as soon as the ship docked and we started the paperwork but the ship had to leave and they went with it,'' the spokesman said
he said the stowaways, identified only as 16 romanians and one bulgarian, had boarded the vessel in istanbul, turkey
it was the third ship carrying refugees to dock in piraeus in the past four days
on thursday, six romanians stowaways on two cargo ships from istanbul asked for asylum. they were allowed to remain in greece while their requests were being processed
a few puddles were all that remained of the water at the trevi fountain on tuesday as surveyors began measuring the landmark for a facelift, but that didn't stop visitors from throwing coins into its empty basin
the water was turned off so that workers could carry out a photographic survey in preparation for the first restoration of the 17th century fountain in more than 30 years
the restoration is aimed at removing discoloration caused by smog. the project will last a year but will proceed in stages and the water will run in the parts of the fountain where the work is not being done
officials said the work will cost about $830,000
the fountain, built of travertine and marble, was designed by the sculptor bernini in 1640 and executed by nicola salvi 90 years later
legend has it that a visitor who tosses a coin in the fountain will return to rome some day
french publishing giant hachette announced tuesday the start of a chinese edition of the women's magazine elle in a joint venture with the government-owned shanghai publishing house
hachette, the biggest publishing company in france and the second-largest in europe, said the new elle will be the first western magazine edited and printed in china
the first issue is scheduled to appear on 4,000 newstands in july, with a second edition planned for october. four editions will be published in 1989
the publisher said the new elle will bring foreign fashion to chinese women, and will include international luxury product and cosmetic advertising, including some ads for items unknown to chinese consumers
hachette already publishes versions of elle in the united states, england, spain, italy, japan, saudi arabia and the united arab emirates. plans are to expand the magazine this year into sweden, brazil, greece and west germany. in 1989, hachette hopes to begin publishing elle in the soviet union
a symbolic ``memorial route'' is being built through the former warsaw ghetto, ending at the square where nearly 300,000 jews were loaded onto railway cars bound for the treblinka nazi death camp
the route is to be ready in time for ceremonies april 19 marking the 45th anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising, the official polish news agency pap reported tuesday. several thousand people from israel, the united states and other countries are expected to attend
the route is to be marked with 16 shiny black stones, beginning at the monument to the heroes of the uprising in which poorly armed jewish fighters died resisting the final nazi drive to liquidate the ghetto's 60,000 remaining jews
one stone marker will be placed near the mound at 18 mila street built on the ruins of the bunker headquarters of mordechai anielewicz, the leader of the uprising
it will end at the so-called ``umschlagplatz'' or ``loading square'' on stawki street, near the former railroad ramps. between july 1942 and april 1943, the nazis loaded nearly 300,000 jews onto boarded-up cattle cars bound for the gas chambers of treblinka, about 60 miles northeast of warsaw
the umschlagplatz currently is marked by a modest bronze plaque near a busy gas station, but a newly constructed monument will be unveiled in april
pap said warsaw municipal authorities had allocated about $132,000 for the project. international jewish organizations raised about $30,000, with some of the money covering the cost of importing special stone-cutting machines
abc broke cbs news' 20-week winning streak last week, according to the a.c. nielsen co
for the week ending feb. 12, abc's ``world news tonight'' had an average rating of 11.8 and a 20 share. the ``cbs evening news'' had an 11.1 and 19. ``nbc nightly news'' had a 10.9 and 19
the rating is a percentage of the 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use that are tuned to that program
cbs dropped to third for several weeks last summer, but rebounded in september when nielsen introduced the new ``people meter'' rating system. all three newscasts have long been engaged in a tight race
network analysts had no immediate explanation for abc's showing. however, last week's ratings could have been affected by coverage of the iowa caucuses, the first results from the 1988 presidential race
we tend to do well with major stories, be it challenger or coverage of chernobyl, and with live programming like the iran hearings,'' said abc news spokeswoman elise adde
abc's prime-time special on iowa ranked a respectable 44 out of 68. it followed the conclusion of abc's miniseries ``elvis and me,'' the season's highest-rated miniseries to date. nbc's iowa coverage ranked 63rd. cbs delayed its coverage of iowa until 11:30 p.m. est, after prime time
the last time abc was first in news ratings was the week of aug. 10, 1987. subs 4th graf, `the agreement...' with 1 to update with sentencing date. inserts 2 grafs after 5th, `gates was...' to update with gates' comment. subs 7th graf, `there was...' with 1 graf to correct that statement did mention marijuana. subs 12th graf, `former conrail...' to conform.</note>
an engineer accused of running a stop signal and driving three freight locomotives into the path of a speeding passenger train pleaded guilty today to one count of manslaughter in amtrak's deadliest crash ever
the state agreed to drop 15 other manslaughter counts against former conrail engineer rick l. gates in the jan. 4, 1987, crash, baltimore county state's attorney sandra o'connor told circuit court judge joseph f. murphy
the crash killed 16 people and injured more than 170 others. the names of the other 15 victims will be added to the single count of manslaughter by locomotive
the agreement was announced as jury selection for gates' trial was to begin. mrs. o`connor said the state has reserved the right to ask for the maximum sentence of five years imprisonment and a $1,000 fine. sentencing was set for march 29
gates was operating three conrail locomotives that prosecutors say ran the stop signal in chase, and wound up in front of an amtrak train traveling about 120 mph
after the hearing, gates told reporters outside the courthouse, ``i am ultimately responsible for the crash and for my negligence
i can't begin to imagine the pain and grief of the families. i am sorry,'' he said
according to the statement of facts read in court today, the signals told gates to slow the locomotives to 30 mph and then to stop before reaching the switch
the statement said that former conrail brakeman edward cromwell would have testified that he smoked a marijuana cigarette with gates in the train cab. however, experts could not agree whether the marijuana would have impaired gates' performance, said the statement agreed to by both sides
the summary also said gates failed to correct five safety violations before he took the locomotives out of the conrail yard for the trip to harrisburg, pa., including a failure to have a working whistle and speed warning light, and adequate train radio
susan horn, whose daughter, ceres millicent horn, was killed in the crash, cried and shook her head as the 48-page statement was read
federal investigators have said gates, 33, of essex, failed to notice the stop signals because of marijuana and possibly alcohol use. gates has denied smoking marijuana while operating the train
testimony had been expected to focus on drug use, warning whistles and lights in the locomotive cab, and a series of approach signals to the switch where four tracks converge to two at the gunpowder river railroad bridge
cromwell has been granted immunity and had been expected to testify that he and gates fabricated a story to cover up their marijuana smoking on the train
chief public defender donna shearer said that defense attorneys will try to discredit cromwell by pointing out that he ran from the scene while gates stayed to ``help save lives.''
gates' attorneys said they will present evidence that the track signals often malfunction, contrary to official statements
the county grand jury's indictment announced may 4 accused gates of gross negligence
gates, who worked for conrail for 14 years, has said signals indicated he should slow down and proceed through the switch
but the national transportation safety board concluded that gates failed to notice track signals or emergency warnings in the cab because he was impaired by marijuana and possibly alcohol. blood tests taken immediately after the accident showed gates and cromwell had traces of marijuana in their bodies, but a recent court ruling in a different case could have hampered use of this evidence by prosecutors
the men were tested under a federal railroad administration rule requiring urine or blood samples of any worker involved in a serious accident, but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals in san francisco ruled last week that such tests are unconstitutional
the railroad administration has said it will appeal and the ruling's effect on the trial remains uncertain. it stands as official precedent only in the circuit court's area, which does not include maryland, but may affect judicial thinking elsewhere
even if the evidence had been allowed, prosecutors would have had to prove gates was impaired by the drugs, not just that he was using them
the trial could have implications for government control over train operators and for more than $294 million in civil suits arising from the crash. the railroad administration has said the crash already has helped it in its battle for federal control over licensing and training of engineers
the federal government had no authority to punish gates or cromwell, both of whom resigned from conrail
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from new hampshire to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: primary
date: tuesday, feb. 16
candidates filed: bruce babbitt, michael dukakis, richard gephardt, albert gore jr., gary hart, jesse jackson, paul simon
pledged delegates: 18
super delegates: 4
total: 22
delegates allocated: tuesday, feb. 16
selection of delegates: saturday, jan. 23 and sunday, april 24
all of new hampshire's 18 pledged delegates to the democratic national convention will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary on feb. 16
method: primary
date: tuesday, feb. 16
candidates filed: george bush, bob dole, jack kemp, pat robertson, pete du pont, alexander haig
delegates: 23
delegates allocated: tuesday, feb. 16
selection of delegates: friday, feb. 26
new hampshire republicans choose their national convention delegates through the state's first-in-the-nation primary on feb. 16
delegates will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary. a candidate must receive at least 10 percent of the vote to qualify for delegates
the secretary of state will notify the candidates of the allocation, and the campaigns have 10 days to respond with a list of which people from their previously filed slates will be delegates. austrians</head> that panel found no evidence of war crimes, sted of found that he had committed none, give additional detail; picks up 6th graf, `in his interview...'</note>
austrian president kurt waldheim says his service in hitler's army reflects the ``normal fate of a young austrian'' during world war ii and says he wants the united states to release secret documents about his past
in an interview on abc-tv's ``nightline'' broadcast early today, waldheim reiterated that he had a clear conscience and would not step down as president despite growing opposition within austria
i have not hidden anything of my military career,'' he said. ``i think this whole accusation is unfounded.''
he gave the 80-minute interview to the network monday, immediately following a short televised speech to the austrian nation. in the speech he said that he rejects the conclusions of a panel of experts commissioned by the austrian government to review his war record
in a 202-page report issued last week, the six historians questioned waldheim's moral integrity, saying he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities during world war ii and did nothing to stop them
though the panel said it found no evidence waldheim, 69, had committed war crimes, it concluded he tried to cover up his involvement in world war ii, which was disclosed nearly two years ago during the presidential campaign
in his interview with abc, waldheim maintained that he could still function in the ceremonial post of austrian president despite the controversy about his past. he was elected in june 1986 with 53.6 percent of the vote
the 69-year-old former united nations secretary-general said the united states, in putting him on a list of undesirable aliens last year, had committed ``a serious violation of international law.''
no state has a right to put a foreign head of state under its own jurisdiction,'' he said
waldheim said he wanted to appeal the ruling and have the secret documents it was based on made public. but, he said, the state department said the only way to appeal the ruling was to apply for a visa, which he said was unacceptable to a head of state
waldheim lashed out at those who said he is lying about what he knew and those who cite as evidence that in his writing about his past he left out the details of his military career. he said his military service in hitler's army was a common experience for austrians
if one pretends that i was lying because i did not give all the details of my military career right from the beginning, this is not something that i can accept,'' he said. serving in the german army was ``the normal fate of a young austrian of let's say 20, 22 years of age. to make him responsible for the wrongdoings of hitler or the nazi army, which i condemned, this is not fair.''
at the end of the interview, waldheim appealed for understanding from the american people
if i have misled my friends in the united states because i didn't say anything as far as my military career is concerned, i am sorry. ... it was not done purposely. believe me. and i hope this will be understood because i have so many friends in the united states. and i hope they will believe me that i haven't done anything wrong.''
two u.s. navy warships have left the black sea after an incident last week in which they were deliberately bumped by soviet ships off the coast of crimea, the pentagon said tuesday
the cruiser yorktown and the destroyer caron steamed uneventfully through the turkish straits and back into the mediterranean sea on monday, the pentagon said
spokesman dan howard declined to say where the two ships were now bound
the yorktown and caron entered the black sea on feb. 10 under orders to assert international navigation rights. as a result, last friday the two ships moved inside the 12-mile limit claimed by the soviet union while steaming past the crimea peninsula
in response, two soviet warships deliberately bump the sides of the yorktown and caron, causing minor damage and prompting the united states to file a protest with moscow
unlike the soviet union, the united states claims a three-mile territorial limit. the united states accepts other nations' claims of a 12-mile limit, but it insists that foreign nations honor what is known as the right of ``innocent passage'' for ships passing through waters between three and 12 miles offshore
a 34-year-old minnesota woman's chocolate cake won the $40,000 top prize in the annual pillsbury bake-off, it was announced today
julie konecne, a college music teacher from bemidji, minn., also won a $10,000 kitchen makeover for her chocolate praline layer cake, which combines devil's food cake mix with brown sugar and chopped pecans
ms. konecne's recipe also calls for a topping of whipped cream and powdered sugar
other top winners in the 33rd annual cooking and baking contest sponsored by pillsbury and sears, roebuck and co. who received $10,000 each were: sandra lamberton, solvang, calif., flour category winner; carol hird, madison, wis., pie crust category; marilyn erickson, san jose, calif., canned vegetable category winner; beverley ann crummey, brooksville, fla., frozen vegetable category, and barbara rhea, beavercreek, ohio, refrigerated biscuit and crescent category
three winners in each category also won $2,000. they were:
cake mix category: thomas albrecht, plymouth, minn.; rose cordas, lyndhurst, ohio; margaret milburn, frederick, md
flour category: grayce berggren, state college, fla.; miranda desantis, east windsor, n.j., dottie due, edgewood, ky
pie crust category: laurie keane, escondido, calif.; gloria pleasants, williamsburg, va.; sharon richardson, dallas
biscuit and crescent category: rosemarie berger, jamestown, n.c.; june grayson, enid, okla.; jeanne holt, mendota heights, minn
canned vegetable category: carol fassbender, phoenix, ariz., frances kovar, new york city; susan van note, indianapolis
frozen vegetable category: nancy hindenach, dearborn heights, mich., edith shulman, grapevine, texas; karen stephens, hamden, conn
a long shot in florida and a familiar name in minnesota announced their candidacies for u.s. senate seats today, while pennsylvania republican sen. john heinz iii began his campaign for a third term at a pittsburgh subway stop
in lake worth, fla., u.s. rep. dan mica said he would run for the democratic senate nomination despite polls showing he is far behind former gov. reubin askew
it's going to be a long 10 months,'' mica, a 44-year-old former teacher, told nearly 200 supporters and students at palm beach junior college. ``we're going to walk the state; we're going to run the state; we're going to crawl the state if we have to. we're going to win.''
in st. paul, minn., attorney general hubert h. humphrey iii declared his senate candidacy after months of testing the political water
heinz, 49, on monday began a two-day series of campaign stops to announce his candidacy by telling a pittsburgh crowd that economic aid and help for the elderly are two of his priorities
heinz, one of the wealthiest senators, said he was impatient with congressional inaction on job-training assistance, trade legislation, catastrophic health insurance and prescription drug insurance for the elderly
also monday, former philadelphia city controller joseph vignola filed petitions to enter the april 26 primary for the democratic nomination to oppose heinz, great-grandson of the founder of the food maker h.j. heinz co
humphrey is seeking to reclaim for the democratic-farmer-labor party the senate seat once held by his father, the late vice president, and briefly by his mother, muriel humphrey brown
humphrey, 45, is expected to anticipate criticism from republicans and say he is running on his record, not his name. he is challenging the gop incumbent, sen. david durenberger
i will not trade on what i have not earned,'' humphrey said today at the state capitol. ``i will build on what i have been given.''
mica said monday he plans to build his race through face-to-face campaigning across the state. initial statewide polls have indicated mica runs 6-1 behind askew
i think florida's ready for a new face,'' said mica, who says he expects to catch up by mid-summer, in time to win the september primary
u.s. rep. connie mack iii, a well-funded conservative from cape coral, is the only declared republican candidate
the new hampshire of white steepled churches and tree-lined lakes still exists. but when presidential candidates want to find lots of voters, they go to malls that could just as easily be in new jersey as in new hampshire
gone are the small southern new hampshire farms whose owners set up stands to sell eggs and sweet corn to weekend drivers from massachusetts. they've been replaced by high-tech companies and suburban sprawl
also ebbing is the personal touch that has been a hallmark of many new hampshire campaigns
there was a time when new hampshire voters really did meet presidential candidates, shake hands and question them eye to eye _ met most of them and often met them more than once
but most people who voted in the state primary on tuesday, especially those who live south of concord, the state capital, got no closer to a candidate than their television sets
maybe that doesn't matter
dayton duncan, who was deputy press spokesman for walter f. mondale's 1984 presidential campaign, is working on a book about the new hampshire primary. in four bitterly contested primaries, he points out, the winner never set foot in the state
when dwight d. eisenhower beat robert a. taft in 1952 and henry cabot lodge upset barry goldwater in 1964, the winner not only shook no voter's hand, he wasn't even in the country
lyndon b. johnson beat eugene mccarthy in 1968 and jimmy carter defeated edward m. kennedy in 1980. in both cases the winners were incumbent presidents under severe challenge. they won without ever campaigning personally in the state
although he lost, mccarthy did well enough to startle observers and send the first clear message that johnson was in political trouble
in 1976, president gerald r. ford campaigned three days in new hampshire and still beat challenger ronald reagan
the north country most closely resembles the new hampshire of post cards and calendars. nestled in the valleys of the white mountains are scores of towns and pristine lakes, stands of pine and white birch
but look closely. also part of that landscape now are massive condominium developments, second homes to thousands of people in the northeast corridor
in fact, candidates run the risk in new hampshire that the hand they shake may mark a ballot in some other state
george bush greeted voters at pheasant lane mall, the state's newest and biggest enclosed paradise for shoppers. it sits on new hampshire's southern border and the odds are that the vice president met more people from massachusetts than from new hampshire
six candidates spoke at a ``rally finale'' at the mall of new hampshire. their platform was set up between the florsheim shoe store and zales jewelers
huge television screens projected the candidates' images throughout the covered mall and that was how most people saw them. shoppers who tried to crowd in close enough to actually view a candidate in the flesh were frustrated by a platform set up for television cameras
we can't see, we can't see,'' they chanted
it was new hampshire in 1988. at least that's what the sign on the platform said
the dragon swallowed the rabbit at midnight tuesday, beginning a three-day party and a new year named for the symbol of china _ lucky for business, marriage and the ``dragon babies'' born before it ends
nearly everyone in hong kong _ wealthy businessmen, factory workers, maids, restaurant waiters _ left their jobs to welcome the lunar new year with feasts, gambling and visits to relatives with gifts of candy and ``lai see'' (lucky money) for all the children they know and many they don't
posters in the gleaming subway system urged celebrants not to carry such traditional objects as lighted joss sticks and roasted pigs onto the trains
markets in china were crammed with festival foods, railroad stations were full of holiday travelers and signs emblazoned with dragons heralded the start of the year 4686, named for the most auspicious of the 12 animals in chinese astrology
thousands of people from taiwan, to which the chiang kai-shek's nationalists fled after the communist victory of 1949, were expected to visit the mainland. last year, taiwan's government lifted a ban on visits to allow family reunions
at new year, normally thrifty chinese throw financial caution to the winds and blow several months' pay on good cheer, gifts and games of chance
government statistics indicate about 400,000 of hong kong's 5.7 million people had left by tuesday for holidays abroad, and many more were expected to go
the pro-beijing china travel service estimated 1.8 million people from hong kong would spend the holiday in china, primarily in the neighboring province of guangdong, where many have their ancestral roots
a company official said about 6,000 people from taiwan were expected to visit the mainland
hong kong businesses began closing during the day tuesday, in anticipation of the holiday, which officially ends friday but will run through the weekend for many. extra service was added to the city transport system to deal with the mobile feast
a fireworks display that cost more than $230,000 is expected to attract hundreds of thousands of people to the shores of victoria harbor on thursday night
in china, the holiday has been renamed spring festival for the 1949 communist victory and traditionally is the most important of each year
state-owned newspapers say the luck believed to accompany the dragon has led to a dramatic increase in the number of couples registering for marriage in hopes of having a ``dragon baby.'' the papers describe the attitude as ``feudal'' and lecture against it
over the past decade, the communist authorities have taken a more relaxed attitude toward other new year customs formerly classified as fedual
folk fairs at temples and former temple sites have been revived, giving the holiday some of the traditional flavor
a temple fair at dragon's pool park in beijing, one of the year's special dragon-related activities, attracted more than 50,000 people monday
the fair is the largest in the capital, with more than 10 troupes providing folk entertainment and several hundred stalls lining the half-mile-long rim of the pool, selling 100 varieties of snack foods, folk art, toys and clothing
officials have restricted the supply of fireworks because of casualties and damage caused in the past. the new year customarily was greeted with a deafening roar of firecrackers, which continued virtually non-stop for several days
about $2.7 million worth of fireworks were sold in beijing last year and some families spent as much as 200 yuan ($54), the equivalent of two months' pay
this year, the government reduced the supply by 30 percent. fireworks were blamed last year for 3,040 fires that killed 17 people and caused nearly $1 million in damage
bob dole dueled george bush for republican advantage tuesday in new hampshire's kickoff presidential primary, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis bid for a decisive victory in the democratic struggle for supremacy and survival
the first returns, as always, came from tiny dixville notch, which gave 11 votes of hope to vice president bush and 6 to dole. seven notchers went democrat, split 4-to-3 between second-place contenders rep. richard gephardt and sen. paul simon
pre-election polls said the gop race was a tossup, with kansas sen. dole propelled by victory in last week's iowa caucuses and bush struggling to rebound from a disappointing third-place finish there
rep. jack kemp and former delaware gov. pete du pont, their candidacies at stake, bid for third place against pat robertson in the first test for the former television evangelist in a primary election
to a man they said new hampshire voters would deliver a surprise
it's going to be an interesting contest,'' robertson said during a chance election-morning encounter with simon. ``i met three of 'em that voted for me early so i hope that holds.''
dukakis' rivals conceded him a victory in advance. they vied for second place and hoped to deny the massachusetts governor a huge victory that would give him a boost for the delegate-rich contests ahead
sen. albert gore jr., jesse jackson, one-time front-runner gary hart and bruce babbitt were back in the pack in the new hampshire surveys, with babbitt and hart hoping to avoid a drubbing that would doom their campaigns
gephardt and simon, who finished one-two in iowa and just ahead of dukakis, engaged one another in an angry fight over some simon tv ads critical of gephardt's voting record
we're gonna run very well,'' simon said tuesday morning as he aimed to upend the missouri congressman and further scramble the wide-open democratic race
dukakis cautioned, ``anything can happen. new hampshire voters are very independent,'' but he was confident enough to talk about his plans for march 8 when 20 states, including 14 southern or border states, will hold super tuesday primaries or caucuses
we're going to contest every one of those states,'' dukakis said. ``i think we're going to surprise some people in the south.''
in terms of delegates, new hampshire was small stakes indeed. democrats were allotting 18 of their 22 delegates to the national convention next summer, with 23 spots at stake on the republican side
but it wasn't delegates that drew the candidates and their television advertising dollars to a sparsely settled state with a reputation for upsetting front-runners and elevating upstarts. it was the prospect of momentum and the ability to attract campaign funds needed next month
then again, as new hampshire boosters never tire of pointing out, no one has ever won the white house without a victory in the first-in-the-nation primary since the granite state started going first in 1952
there was every reason to believe that for some, the first primary would also be the last
babbitt conceded that new hampshire voters had power of life and death over his quest. others were less direct, though kemp and du pont were locked in a struggle with each other and robertson to emerge as a conservative alternative to the front-runners
dukakis, the favorite son, had a different concern. his aides pointed out that the largest margin in history for a contest of this sort was 11 percentage points
and they worried aloud about winners in past democratic primaries in new hampshire being viewed as losers because they did worse that expected _ lyndon johnson in 1968 and edmund muskie four years later
the traditional new hampshire marathon became a sprint this year in the eight days following last monday night's iowa caucuses. iowa jumbled the field somewhat, setting up dole's confrontation with bush here and giving impetus to robertson's hope to outlast kemp and du pont among conservatives
within days of his iowa victory, dole gobbled up bush's once once-commanding lead in the new hampshire polls and said a follow-up win here might all but assure him the nomination
the vice president retooled his style and his campaign message in a bid to regain his footing. scrapping the trappings of his office, he largely abandoned formal speeches in favor of campaigning in a ski parka and driving a forklift around a lumberyard
he pleaded guilty to the faults of poor oratory and lack of passion on the stump, but said that shouldn't be mistaken for lack of concern. ``here i stand, warts and all,'' he said, recalling abraham lincoln's words. if he wasn't embracing president lincoln, it was president reagan, and bush ended his new hampshire effort in the same new boston, n.h., town hall where reagan ended his in 1980
if reagan were not coattail enough, bush campaigned monday with new england baseball hero ted williams and conservative hero barry goldwater
dole, riding the crest of his iowa wave, tried not to offend. ``i want to be nice to everybody this week,'' he said. even so, he couldn't resist a few jabs at bush as he vied with the vice president for the support of reagan's admirers
he did what i did in 1980,'' bush said early tuesday of dole. ``he won in iowa and came in and talked about momentum. i did what president reagan did. he (reagan) came in and started talking the issues as i've been doing ... and i think it's working.''
kemp branded bush and dole as certain tax raisers, and du pont thrust a ``no-tax pledge'' in front of dole during a debate and demanded that he sign it. (he didn't
kemp, unable to afford a fourth-place finish behind robertson, attacked the former minister for ``deliberate distortions'' on his television advertising and in printed flyers
robertson, whose second-place finish was the surprise of iowa, said new hampshire might be startling, too. but he found himself embroiled in an eleventh-hour controversy when the white house denied his startling claim that there are soviet nuclear missiles in cuba. and he was peppered with questions about statements he made over the years from his tv ministry
dukakis benefited from his decade's service as governor of neighboring massachusetts and his long-standing opposition to the unfinished seabrook nuclear power plant. his aides watched anxiously to see whether gephardt would develop a tidal wave of momentum following his iowa win, but it never materialized in the polls
gephardt delivered the same anti-establishment message that carried him to his iowa victory, but he found himself trying to fend off attacks that he had flip-flopped on numerous issues over the years, and fell into a nasty battle with simon
when you say in a tv ad, `who do you trust,' you're really bring into play motives, motivation and whether or not somebody is reliable and i think that goes over the line,'' said gephardt, whose campaign demanded that simon withdraw his commercials
simon refused and said gephardt was campaigning as a supporter of reaganomics in new hampshire after posing as an opponent in iowa
gore, a no show in iowa, spent time and money in new hampshire and hoped to develop a non-southern base. but he diverted some of his television money off into southern and border states, a fresh indication that his eggs are in one basket _ the southern states that begin to vote next month
babbitt pleaded with the voters to accept his national sales tax proposal to reduce the deficit, and he asked voters to prove the pundits wrong in counting him out of the democratic race
hart campaigned extensively in the state that catapulted him to prominence in 1984, and said his comeback would continue no matter what
jackson, like gore looking for substantial support in the south, chastised the others in a debate and urged his rivals to address the issues. he did better than expected in iowa and hoped to finish in double-digits in new hampshire
the pentagon, faced with an adverse court ruling, has rescinded a virtual ban on security clearances for naturalized citizens from countries deemed hostile to u.s. interests
a federal judge who barred the pentagon from enforcing the regulation against two naturalized citizens from vietnam was informed by the defense department that the april 8, 1987 regulations had been rescinded and the lawsuit against them was moot
united states citizens born in countries designated as hostile or who have resided in those coutries for significant periods of their lives will be considered for security clearances on an equal basis with natural-born citizens,'' government attorneys told u.s. district judge thomas f. hogan in a memo filed last friday
on feb. 3, hogan enjoined the pentagon from enforcing the regulations against phong t. huynh, an electrical engineer at the naval surface warfare center and his sister, vien u. huynh, a computer scientists at the same facility in dahlgren, va
the two had fled their homeland in 1978 by boat with other refugees and emigrated to the united states where they both obtained their formal education and american citizenship. the huynhs filed suit to challenge the regulations after being told they would likely lose their security clearances and their jobs
when he granted an injunction in the huynh case, hogan urged the pentagon to rescind the regulations to avoid a lengthy court battle. the judge said the regulations appeared to be unreasonable and unconstitutional
the regulations generally barred security clearances for u.s. citizens who had immigrated from 29 nations deemed hostile to the united states. besides vietnam, the list of countries included soviet bloc nations, cambodia, ethiopia, iran, iraq, laos, nicaragua, syria and libya
an individual who was born in one of the 29 countries would be eligible to obtain a security clearance only if the person had been an american citizen for at least five years or has resided in this country for at least a decade
police on tuesday detained about 150 costumed people who tried to stage a carnival parade in the southwestern city of wroclaw mocking the government's economic reform policies, an opposition activist said
the demonstration was staged by a group called orange alternative, whose satirical street theater events are broken up regularly by police, said jozef pinior, a wroclaw opposition activist
about 2,000 people gathered during the afternoon rush hour to watch the carnival parade in the city's old town, which had been announced in leaflets scattered around the city, pinior said
but about 30 police vans and dozens of plainclothes and uniformed policemen were also on the scene to break up the demonstration, pinior said
second stage of reform: carnival. third stage of reform: fast,'' said a banner carried by several of the costumed demonstrators, some of whom were dressed in penitents' garb, pinior said
the event took place on the eve of ash wednesday, the first day of lent, which is widely observed in this predominantly roman catholic country
demonstrators also played discordant music on various instruments
pinior said police spent more than an hour rounding up about 150 costumed demonstrators who gathered in groups and mingled with the crowd in the streets
in some cases, police sprayed gas from hand-held canisters to detain individual demonstrators, pinior said. police also conducted frequent identity checks
a duty officer at wroclaw police headquarters refused to comment on the reported detentions
in previous cases, police have broken up orange alternative events and released the participants after holding them for several hours. editing to conform, tighten.</note>
marsha streiff won the liberal leg of the shrove tuesday trans-atlantic pancake race for a second consecutive year today, but for the sixth straight time the title went to england
mrs. streiff, carrying a frying pan with a pancake in it, completed the 415-yard course in 67.7 seconds. that was better than her winning time of 70.1 seconds last year, but not enough to better that of leslie byrne, a physical education teacher from olney, england
running six hours earlier in olney, mrs. byrne turned in a winning time of 62.9 seconds
the british victory tied the series at 19 each. mrs. streiff, a 30-year-old mother of three, also won in 1985 and as a three-time winner will not be able to compete again
i didn't think of the pancake, i just ran,'' said mrs. byrne. ``i haven't done any training, though sometimes when i take the dog out for a walk, i have a little trot.''
mrs. byrne outpaced 19 other women by about 10 yards at the end of the 415-yard annual run from olney's market square to its 14th-century church
the competitors all wore the traditional skirt, apron and head scarf. about 700 spectators lined the twisting route in cool, sunny weather in the buckinghamshire market town of 3,300 inhabitants about 40 miles northwest of london
previously, competitors had continuously to flip a pancake in a pan as they ran, but nowadays only a toss at the start and finish is required
according to legend, the race has been run in olney since 1445, when a forgetful housewife left for church on shrove tuesday with her frying pan still in her hand
shrove tuesday is the day english women traditionally make pancakes to use up cooking fat before the start of 40 days of fasting for lent
after a lapse during world war ii, olney revived the race in 1948. people in the southwest kansas town joined the race in 1950 to make the contest an international event after seeing reports of the english competition
mrs. byrne received her prize of 100 pounds ($175), various gifts from town merchants, an inscribed silver tray from the town of liberal, and a kiss from clive coverley, a ceremonial official known as the town verger
jackie childs, a housewife who finished second, received 10 pounds ($17.50) and vouchers from local shops
a lemon juice company claimed a survey it conducted had found that at least 63 million pancakes would be served in britain today and be sprinkled with 166,000 gallons of lemon juice made from more than 2 million lemons
a host of british celebrities tossed pancakes in a 12-hour marathon today at london's waterloo train station to raise money for charity
iran's revolutionary patriarch, ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, pardoned 989 prisoners to mark the anniversary of the islamic revolution's rise to power, tehran's official islamic republic news agency reported tuesday
the agency said 194 prisoners already have been freed and the sentences on the others commuted
all 989 prisoners were detained in the provinces of yazd and isfahan in central iran, said the agency, monitored in nicosia. it did not say whether they had been jailed for criminal or political offences
khomeini had declared in a speech earlier this month that special parole boards should review the cases of individual prisoners, releasing those who had repented
there are no official figures for the number of people in iranian prisons. tens of thousands have been detained and thousands executed for opposing the fundamentalist islamic regime ruling the country since the overthrow of shah mohammed reza pahlevi in 1979. the islamic revolution seized power on feb.11, 1979
the president of west germany's federal archives said tuesday he repeatedly warned american officials at a u.s.-run nazi records center that documents were apparently being stolen from the center
hans booms said he warned the center's american director, daniel simon, of indications someone was pilfering nazi records from the center and selling them for profit through antique dealers since at least 1982
he gave similar warnings to officials at the interior ministry in bonn, booms said in a telephone interview from his office in koblenz
simon, the director since 1974, said he received tips from officials at the federal archives and eventually passed them to west berlin justice authorities
they notified me of a possible problem in 1982, and i cooperated with them,'' he said. ``they gave us some tips and we followed through.''
simon said u.s. officials asked west berlin authorities to investigate, but he declined to comment further ``because there is an investigation under way.''
this week, spokesman volker kaehne of the west berlin justice department said investigators suspect the deputy director of the nazi archives center was allegedly involved in the theft of tens of thousands of nazi-era documents from the center
he identified him only as a west german
kaehne said prosecutors believe the missing documents were sold to dealers around the world for considerable sums
the berlin document center houses up to 30 million files and documents captured from the germans at the end of world war ii
champion market animals will be tested for drugs for the first time this week at the san antonio livestock exposition, but no animal stands to lose a ribbon because of doping, officials said
this is the first stock show where anything like this is being done in the nation,'' dr. larry ehrlund, a san antonio veterinarian who is coordinating the tests, told the san antonio express-news
show officials said monday that testing of champion market steers, lambs and barrows is part of a survey by the texas veterinary medical association
this is strictly for our information and the texas veterinary medicine association's information as to whether they do have (drug) residues,'' said richard traylor of the sale executive committee
we have no idea whether we have a problem or we don't have a problem,'' traylor said. ``this is more of a survey for information.''
tests are designed to detect 25 different compounds representing ``just about every potentially abused drug imaginable,'' ehrlund said
veterinarians are concerned that some show animals might be given drugs such as diuretics, tranquilizers or anabolic steroids which give the owner an unfair advantage, he said
a similar program will be conducted at the stock show in san angelo next month, and at other shows in texas
no decision has been made about releasing the results, or about what policy to set for next year concerning the tests, traylor said
ukrainian communist party leader vladimir v. shcherbitsky has been awarded the soviet union's highest civilian honor, the order of lenin, in honor of his 70th birthday, the tass news agency said tuesday
announcement of the award appeared to solidify the position of shcherbitsky, long rumored to be in trouble with mikhail s. gorbachev's reform-minded leadership, one day before a plenary meeting of the communist party central committee
the policy-making central committee is the only group empowered to make changes in the ruling politburo. shcherbitsky has been a full member of the ruling body since 1971
shcherbitsky and his ukrainian party organization have come in for sharp criticism for failing to meet targets for industrial and farm production. in a jan. 26 report, the communist party newspaper pravda said a meeting of top ukrainian party officials criticized shcherbitsky and other top officials by name
it said local officials receive too many directives from the top, even though central authorities are inefficient and seem to not have worked out a general development plan for the republic
shcherbitsky has survived other criticism and predictions that he was about to be ousted, perhaps indicating that gorbachev does not have the strength to replace him or does not want to risk alienating ukrainians
the president of mississippi bar foundation inc. says he will file complaints against a judge who interrupted a speech by the head of the american bar association
(hinds county chancery) judge (paul) alexander's conduct was totally unacceptable from either a citizen of mississippi, a member of the state bar, or its judiciary,'' sherman muths jr. of gulfport said. ``in my opinion, he should be both disciplined and punished.''
muths said he was filing complaints with the commission on judicial review and the complaints committee of the mississippi state bar
muths and larry houchins, executive director of the state bar, said alexander interrupted aba president robert maccrate at the foundation's 25th anniversary banquet friday in jackson
alexander refused to comment on the incident
brant brantley, director of the state commission on judicial performance, often called the judicial review commission, said the commission may take action against a judge for activities on or off the bench
houchins and muths said maccrate was discussing progress mississippi had made in the legal sphere and cited examples of mississippians who've made a mark on the nation's judicial system
alexander reportedly stood up and commented that he was tired of the speech, then sat down. maccrate responded by saying he was sorry alexander felt that way, bar members said
the discovery of two species of the daddy-longlegs insect family in edgewood county park may block a proposed 18-hole golf course
both species are called the edgewood park harvestman, of sitalcina minor. they live only in serpentine rock formations in the park's hills, and several conservationists want the habitate to be preserved
constructing a golf course would wipe out the whole harvestmen populations,'' said thomas f. briggs, a science teacher at san francisco lowell high school
these are about the smallest daddy longlegs in the world,'' he added
briggs discovered one of the species in 1983 and the other in 1985. both have eight legs, and bright orange-red bodies that measure about 1 millimeter. unlike spiders, daddy-longlegs do not spin webs
along with darrell ubick, an entomologist, briggs has submitted a proposal to the u.s. fish and wildlife service asking that the species discovered in 1983 be declared a federally protected creature, which could halt any development of their only known habitat
san mateo county purchased the 468-acre site in 1980 from the state and has been attempting to build a golf course there for several years
this little spider is just another ploy to keep from having a golf course,'' said barbara kootz of nearby san carlos, a golfer and leader of pro-development interests in the area
cupid set a record over the three-day valentine's day weekend when 1,923 couples purchased wedding licenses here
the figure surpassed last year's mark of 1,872 licenses
valentine's weekend is always the biggest weekend of the year for the county's marriage license bureau
over the years, liberal marriage laws and the city's festive atmosphere have made las vegas a marriage capital. each valentine's day, the city's two dozen wedding chapels are open for business 24 hours a day
the marriage license bureau quit counting couples at 5 p.m. sunday, even though the marriages continued through monday
the university of michigan has established a center for national statistics to gather information on truck safety and truck travel on u.s. highways, the university said tuesday
the center, which will be financed with public and private money, will conduct surveys of truck accidents and travel, publish statistics and conduct research on risk factors in accidents involving large trucks, according to linda wilson, the university's vice president for research
the center will use survey methods that allow accurate compilation of fatal truck accidents and truck travel. the methods were developed under an 8-year-old research program supported by the motor vehicle manufacturers association and other federal and trucking groups
a minor earthquake shook cupboards tuesday near the three-state corner of tennessee, kentucky and virginia, but no injuries were reported, earthquake officials said
the quake, which occurred northwest of bristol at 10:26 a.m., measured 3.2 on the richter scale, said jill hart, with the center for earthquake research and information at memphis state university. a quake of 3.5 magnitude can cause slight damage
the tri-state area is seismically active, although it's not noted for having major earthquakes, ms. hart said. the exact center of the quake was not yet located, she said
a west german who was critically injured when a boulder hit a tour bus needs rehabilitation treatment, but the state may not pay for it and his family can't afford it
markus lang is ready to leave denver general hospital, where he has been for the past six months, but no rehabilitation center in colorado or west germany will accept him without assurances that someone can pay the bills
lang was the most severely hurt of the 15 people who were injured when the 7{-ton boulder hit the gray line tour bus on u.s. 40 last aug. 10. eight people were killed in the accident
after seven brain operations and seven operations on his crushed limbs, lang's right leg and left arm remain in casts. vision in his remaining eye is impaired
the boulder was accidentally dislodged by a colorado highway department crew. last month, the state attorney general's office sought a court order upholding the state's $400,000 total liability limit for the accident as well as the state's immunity to lawsuits. the request is pending
despite gov. roy romer's vow that colorado would take responsibility, there are no assurances the state will pay for lang's extended rehabilitation
lang's parents are in their 60s and cannot afford to pay for the treatment, said his mother, rita, who flew to denver from her home in benninger, west germany. she spends every day reading and talking to lang
lang, 24, speaks in simple english to the nurses, but answers his mother's questions in german. he has begun feeding himself and can sit up
denver general hospital has no long-term rehabilitation program and plans to discharge lang within a few weeks
the hospital also has filed a collection notice against the state for more than $350,000 in unpaid hospital bills for lang's treatment
the opening of a six-bed hospice for dying aids patients has drawn protests from neighbors who say they aren't afraid of catching the deadly disease but do fear the facility will lower property values
the shawn hughes hospice, named after the man hospice officials say was the first employee of the nearby city of west hollywood to die of aids, opened monday in a leased, bungalow-style three-bedroom home
unhappy neighbors say they fear the hospice will bring ambulances, hospital supply trucks, and, eventually, cars from the county coroner's office to their quiet residential street
it's like living next to a hospital,'' said tom meleck, whose home is directly behind the hospice
but city councilman michael woo said the hospice is not a hospital, but ``a place where aids patients can die with respect and dignity.''
some residents had attempted to keep the facility from opening, saying it needed a zoning variance to operate in the neighborhood. but the city attorney's office said that hospices could operate in residential zones as long as they were kept to a maximum of six beds, woo said
alex hensel, who leased the home to hospice los angeles@long beach, said he was shocked by his neighbors' reaction
what i found out is that except for the two closest neighbors ... the rest were only concerned about property values _ `after so many years here, i'm going to lose...,''' hensel said
this isn't a hospital,'' he added. ``it's just a chance for people in their last few days to have some warm feelings in their hearts,''
hospice los angeles@long beach operates two other hospice facilities in long beach. the newest hospice costs $7,000 a month to run, and operators are hoping for a $200,000 county grant to pay bills for the rest of the year
without it, we may have to close this place down,'' said executive director ron wolff
more than 1,200 people in the hollywood-wilshire area were diagnosed between 1981 and 1987 as having aids, said peter kerndt, medical director of the los angeles county aids epidemiology department. sixty-two percent of them have died
until now, there has been no facility in the city that gives the victims, who are our neighbors, a decent place to die in peace,'' woo said. ``this is long overdue.''
a young polar bear believed to have drifted from greenland to iceland on an ice floe was shot and killed by a farmer, conservationists said
the polar bear, weighing about 150 pounds and estimated to be one year old, was seen on sunday swimming along the coast near the town of haganesvik in northern iceland
residents feared that the animal would be a danger to people and livestock, and a farmer, sigurbjoern thorliefsson, killed it with one shot from a distance of 20-30 yards several hours after it was seen
sverrir scheving thorsteinsson of the icelandic hunting society said monday that efforts should have been made to capture the animal alive with a sedative gun so that it could have been returned to its natural habitat
it is illegal to kill polar bears in greenland and norway, thorsteinsson told the daily newspaper morgunbladid
experts believe the polar bear drifted about 250 miles to iceland on pack ice from greenland
attorney roy grutman is seeking nearly $500,000 from the ptl ministry for his services while the rev. jerry falwell was in charge
grutman, of new york, was one of the most prominent lawyers in the ministry's affairs since founder jim bakker resigned last march
u.s. bankruptcy court has issued a notice of a hearing on march 2 to determine payment for legal fees and expenses
the notice shows grutman has applied for fees of $442,753.50 and expenses of $30,741.08. the application would cover grutman's services through dec. 31
it lists an alternative fee of $435,402.50 to cover grutman's services through oct. 27
bakker and his lawyer, ryan hovis of rock hill, have said grutman misrepresented himself as bakker's personal attorney in the march meeting in palm springs, calif., that precipitated bakker's downfall
grutman insisted he told bakker he was representing ptl, not the bakkers
on oct. 27, grutman left the ptl case, alleging that ptl bankruptcy examiner william e.s. robinson of columbia was in league with those who wanted to bring bakker back to ptl
robinson denied that charge
other fee and expense applications to be considered in bankruptcy court march 2 include:
_about $180,000 for bruce magers, counsel for national city bank of minneapolis. the application covers june 12, 1987, through jan. 31, 1988
_about $150,000 for robert n. robinson, attorney for the unsecured creditors' committee
_about $150,000 for robinson, ptl examiner and consultant
_about $110,000 for allman, spry, humphreys, leggett &amp; howington, attorneys for ptl trustee david clark. the application covers the period from dec. 1 to dec. 31
_about $100,000 for nelson, mullins, riley &amp; scarborough, counsel for ptl builder roe messner. the request covers aug. 10 through dec. 22, 1987
iraq said tuesday its warplanes made the 25th air raid of the year on an iranian tanker in the campaign to destroy iran's oil exports and end the 7-year-old war
only a few of the raids have been confirmed by shipping agents, salvage executives or other independent sources
iran said its aircraft made a damaging raid on a petrochemical plant near basra, iraq's southern provincial capital. the report by the official islamic republic news agency gave no details and iraq did not comment
another u.s.-escorted convoy of reflagged kuwaiti tankers made its way down the persian gulf and a new navy command ship, the coronado, arrived in the gulf with four other american warships
a dispatch from the official iraq news agency news agency said warplanes attacked ``a very large maritime target,'' the standard phrase for a supertanker, off the iranian coast overnight
it did not give an exact time for the raid and there was no independent verification
the news agency quoted a military spokesman, not identified, as saying iraq ``will continue to destroy naval targets that ferry iranian crude because oil revenues are being used to finance the aggression against iraq.''
iran uses its own and chartered tankers to move crude oil from the kharg island export terminal in the northern gulf, which is a frequent target of iraqi bombers, to makeshift terminals in safer waters about 450 miles down the gulf
included in the u.s.-escorted convoy, which left kuwait on sunday, were the 294,739-ton townsend, an oil products carrier, and the 46,723-ton liquefied gas tanker gas princess, escorted by the missile frigate reuben james
it was the 12th this year and 36th since convoys began last july. the united states has given u.s. registration and american flags to 11 kuwaiti tankers so the navy can protect them
the 17,000-ton coronado will become flagship of the u.s. middle east force in the gulf and the la salle, command ship in the region for many years, will undergo a major overhaul at yokosuka, japan. the coronado did similar duty in 1981-82
in other changes, the 18,000-ton helicopter carrier okinawa is leaving and command will be transferred in late february to rear adm. anthony less from rear adm. harold j. bernsen
other navy arrivals, the missile cruiser wainwright and frigates samuel b. roberts, simpson and jack williams, replace departing ships but the okinawa will not be replaced when it sails for california this week with the last four mine-sweeping helicopters
u.s. officials say withdrawal of the okinawa, which will cut the gulf force from 17 ships to 16, is part of a plan to reduce the cost of the escort operation, now running at an estimated $25 million a month
both iran and iraq reported raids on military and other installations at the southern end of the 730-mile border war front. the activity appeared connected to iranian preparations for a long-anticipated winter offensive
diplomatic sources in kuwait say iran has marshaled about 300,000 men in the southern area near basra, where it has mounted several major offensives since the war began in september 1980
medicare budget-trimming has squeezed hospital profits to the point where health care for the elderly could be threatened, according to testimony tuesday before the house aging committee
the ``hospital operating profit margins are just one indicator that the federal government may have cut into the heart of an already-shredded safety net protecting the elderly,'' said rep. edward r. roybal, d-calif., the committee chairman
hospital average profit margins under medicare's payment system were above 14 percent in 1984 and 1985, then dropped to 9.6 percent in 1986, according to federal statistics. projections show that hospitals, on the average, will lose money on medicare patients by next year
we are approaching a critical juncture where further reductions and a lack of predictability could begin to have an effect on the provision of care to this nation's elderly and poor,'' said a statement submitted by the american hospital association
congress, at white house urging, has enacted in the past few years a cost control system for medicare, and president reagan is expected to propose further belt-tightening in the fiscal 1989 budget he submits on thursday
the medicare program doubled in cost between 1980 to 1987, to $80 billion, and is expected to exceed $100 billion next year
dr. donald young, executive director of the prospective payment assessment commission, which reports on the medicare payment system, said the downward trend in hospital profits appeared to be continuing and ``the access of medicare beneficiaries to quality care could be threatened.''
however, he said the most important reason for the profits decline was not a reduction in medicare payments but the continuing increases in hospital costs. there have been ``few signs recently that hospitals are changing their behavior'' to increase efficiency or productivity, he said
eric shulman, legislative director for the national council of senior citizens, said the figures ``may have grave consequences for all older americans,'' in part because of industry priorities
i find it unconscionable that the hospital industry would first react to news of declining profits by threatening to subject patients to lower-quality care and to deny them all the care they may require,'' he said. front-runners</head> pvs, gore the ... than jackson's</note>
new hampshire's survivors turn south on wednesday for the next major battleground of the presidential campaign, with tennessean albert gore jr. hoping to waylay the front-runners on his home ground but northerner michael dukakis saying he is conceding nothing
among the republicans, george bush is counting on superior organization in the south to hold off bob dole, and pat robertson is hoping a strong showing in south carolina can give him a boost heading into the super tuesday primaries
democrat dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said tuesday in new hampshire, ``we're going to contest every one of those states. i think we're going to surprise some people in the south.''
jesse jackson, a southerner like gore, was welcoming the change of scenery to a region where he has been at or near the top in polls of democratic voters. his support is particularly strong among southern blacks
after new hampshire, several candidates were heading to south dakota and wyoming where lower-stake contests are scheduled between now and march 8
but it is on that date, known as super tuesday, that more than one-third of the states will vote, including most of the south, in the closest thing ever to a national presidential primary. and most of the candidates are responding by turning their attention, time and money southward for what gore called ``the main event'' of the campaign
what they will find is a massive territory where a thorough television campaign means buying airtime in 20 or more separate tv markets. that's an enormous expense and obstacle, particularly for those such as richard gephardt and paul simon who are saddled with debt
gore, the tennessee senator who claimed a pass to super tuesday regardless of new hampshire's verdict, said in washington on tuesday that jackson would be his principal competitor in the south
he criticized jackson's defense-cut proposals, said his own experience was more ``directly relevant'' and said, ``democrats in all parts of the country are really hungry for a victory in 1988 and interested in finding a nominee who can offer the best chance of beating the republicans in the fall.''
jackson, in recent speeches, has argued against what he says is a common though often-unspoken view that he cannot win in 1988 because he is black, no matter how well he does in the south and elsewhere
on the republican side, robertson was pointing to south carolina's gop contest on the saturday before super tuesday. the expected low turnout of that primary, combined with robertson's constituency of fundamentalist christian voters, made that bible-belt state a likely spot for another strong showing by the former television preacher
while dole engaged bush in the new hampshire primary, the vice president was said to have a far superior organization throughout the south. it was a strong southern organization _ in a much more limited regional primary _ that rescued former vice president walter mondale's nomination hopes after he fell short in new hampshire in 1984
still, bill brock, dole's campaign manager, said of the bush campaign's claim to have a ``firewall of support'' in southern states: ``it's made of straw. straw burns pretty fast.''
gephardt, the democratic winner in iowa's caucuses last week, seemed a likely candidate to oppose gore for the moderate-to-conservative southern democratic and independent vote that gore has been trying to appeal to since laying out relatively conservative stands on defense and foreign policy issues last fall
dukakis has a strong southern organization and was seen as particularly strong in florida
i think gephardt is the one with the most potential to do well among southern white voters, besides gore,'' said merle black, a university of north carolina political scientist
he can take votes away from gore,'' said claibourne darden, an atlanta-based polltaker and analyst
facing that possibility, gore had begun stressing an appeal to blue-collar voters _ in contrast to his earlier strategy of concentrating on endorsements from the southern political establishment
he toured a mill in north carolina last week and stood in a virginia train yard with johnny cash where he shouted, ``this party and our country has to stand up for the average working men and women.''
the southern campaign will include at least three republican debates and four among the democrats
dukakis has been the most successful fund-raiser among the democratic candidates and thus at an advantage in the southern tv wars. but gore's campaign has been hoarding its money, and he said he will spend at least $2 million in the region
gore campaign manager fred martin said, ``we must do well on super tuesday _ there's no ifs, ands or buts about it. we have a three-week campaign.''
the united states will discuss the resumption of aid to fiji and send an ambassador to the pacific archipelago in an attempt to encourage the country's return to democratic rule, the state department said tuesday
in view of recent developments in fiji that have set that nation on a course leading to the restoration of constitutional government, ambassador-designate leonard rochwarger will be proceeding to fiji in the near future to assume his duties in suva,'' said spokeswoman phyllis oakley
the previous u.s. ambassador ended his tour of duty in fiji prior to the may 14, 1987 coup which overturned the island's parliamentary democracy and brought to power col. sitiveni rabuka. the ambassador was not immediately replaced, partly as a sign of u.s. displeasure with the military takeover
the united states continues to deplore the circumstances that undermine democratic institutions in fiji,'' said mrs. oakley. ``at the same time, the return of executive authority to civilian hands, and the public commitment of the interim civilian government ... to a process aimed at restoring constitutional government, is a positive step that we wish to encourage,'' she added
fiji returned to civilian rule in december, when rabuka appointed former governor-general sir penaiai ganilau as president and ganilau returned sir kamisese mara to his former post of prime minister. rabuka retains control of security matters
mrs. oakley said the state department was also starting consultations with congress on resuming the 1.3 million dollars in economic aid which was suspended following the may coup. congress is expected to unfreeze the funds
defense secretary fidel ramos said tuesday that harsher laws are needed to combat the 19-year-old communist insurrection and recalled that he asked earlier for the death penalty to be restored
but he said said the rebellion was not at the stage where a state of national emergency was needed, while president corazon aquino was quoted as saying suggestions she would impose martial law were ridiculous
ramos noted at a news conference that 18 months ago, he recommended that the government enact tougher laws to help the military fight the new people's army. these included lengthening the time suspected rebels could be held without charge and restoring the death penalty for ``heinous crimes'' such as treason and rebellion
after a thorough assessment of the insurgency situation and the efficacy of the various government countermeasures and programs, the position of the (defense department and military) is that the present situation is not _ i repeat not _ of such gravity as to make compelling a declaration of a state of emergency,''the defense chief said
there is no need for the public, especially the international audience, to be put in a state of alarm and apprehension over this issue.''
ramos was apparently trying to spike widespread speculation that the military was pressuring the government to declare martial law
sen. ernesto maceda, chairman of the senate defense committee, told reporters he discussed the issue tuesday with the president and she assured him she would not declare a state of emergency and ``never really seriously considered'' it
cory even described the idea of resorting to martial rule as ridiculous,'' he said
the senator said congress had moved to improve the military's effectiveness, but that calls for a state of emergency were ``counterproductive'' here. the philippines has bitter memories of eight years of martial law imposed by president ferdinand marcos from 1972-81
about 100 communist rebels attacked a militia post on mindanao island, killing a militiaman, the military reported tuesday
it said rebels attacked the outpost at pangatalan village before dawn monday near sindangan, about 470 miles southeast of manila in zamboanga del norte province
other rebels ambushed a detachment of soldiers sent to the village, and a civilian was killed by a stray bullet, the report said. the rebels then fled
west virginia's financial troubles have eaten up the funds set aside for celebrating the 125th anniversary of statehood this summer
norman fagan, state department of culture and history commissioner, said his agency had saved $100,000 for the party. but before the any plans could be completed, the money was taken to help pay the state's massive backlog of bills
we'll have something, but it will be small and modest. but that might be more appropriate,'' fagan said tuesday
the money would have been used to educate people about the anniversary, provide grants for local governments to throw their own celebrations, and print a special edition of a journal of west virginia history
in addition, fagan had hoped to have a shindig on the state capitol grounds this summer, as well as a celebration at independence hall in wheeling
instead, fagan lamented, ``we're down to a tiny ceremony.''
west virginia was granted statehood on june 20, 1863, after delegates from the northwestern counties of what was then virginia met in wheeling and voted to join the north during the civil war
the $100,000 fell victim to the state's bills, which amount to more than $200 million and are piling higher each day
the legislature is working on a measure that would allow gov. arch moore to borrow $50 million to pay some of the bills. as part of that legislation, moore identified some areas where cuts in state spending could be made, and that included the department of culture and history
nevertheless, fagan said the state's anniversary won't go unnoticed. every year there is a celebration at independence hall, and fagan said this year will be no different
it's too important in our history to let it go by,'' he said
lawyers for american telephone &amp; telegraph co. argued tuesday that the company should be awarded government telecommunications contracts worth millions of dollars because a general services administration employee leaked secret at&amp;t bid information to competitors
at&amp;t attorney c. stanley dees told the gsa board of contract appeals that the federal agency had received information on at least three occasions suggesting that at&amp;t's price had been disclosed, but gsa let the bidding proceed anyway
gsa attorney edward gregorowicz defended the contracts to upgrade the federal telephone system, known as fts, saying there was no basis for at&amp;t's charges
the real issue is that at&amp;t has been the queen mother of the fts network for 25 years ... it got fat, fell asleep and lost its throne,'' gregorowicz said
the contracts, worth $55 million for 12 large electronic switches, are being investigated by the gsa's inspector general's office, the justice department and the senate governmental affairs committee
the procurement has been watched closely because gsa is also handling the bidding on contracts for an all-new federal phone system worth as much as $25 billion over 10 years
at&amp;t, the only company to bid for all 12 switches, protested after it won contracts for only five switches. it had been the sole bidder for four of the five
regional bell phone companies won contracts for the other seven _ bell atlantic, bellsouth and us west each got contracts for two switches in their areas and pacific telesis got one
at&amp;t says it should get the contracts for all 12 switches because of the alleged gsa improprieties
after the contracts were awarded last october, at&amp;t charged that gsa had misled the company during bidding and evaluated at&amp;t's bid differently than the regional companies' proposals in an effort to give the contracts to companies other than at&amp;t
later, at&amp;t added another charge _ that gsa engineer sureshar l. soni provided confidential at&amp;t price information to bell atlantic, bellsouth and us west
bellsouth has offered to withdraw from its contract because its own internal investigation found that its bid may have been compromised by information passed to the company
soni has refused to answer questions about his role in the procurement, invoking his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination in a deposition earlier this month. he also refused to answer questions about his daughter, neelam, who was hired by bellsouth as a manager-trainee last april when bids were being formulated
bell atlantic and us west deny they received proprietary information and used it to develop their bids. bell atlantic has said the information soni offered was of no value because he appeared to be restating at&amp;t's current rates, which are publicly available
gsa alleges that at&amp;t also may have received confidential information and used it to develop its bids. at&amp;t says that when soni told an at&amp;t official the company's initial bid for the washington, d.c., switch was ``not good enough to win,'' he was stating the obvious since at&amp;t knew its initial bid did not reflect gsa's required 10 percent discount of current prices
gregorowicz said at&amp;t could have raised alleged improprieties with the board of contract appeals during the bidding, but did not
this conduct cannot be rewarded by the board,'' he said
a woman whose soldier husband was killed in the tet offensive 20 years ago this month said she has learned the army misplaced his body for two weeks at a time when she was told he was missing in action
brenda reed sutton, who has been researching a book looking at the vietnam war from a widow's viewpoint, expressed outrage and disbelief this week at her latest information from a chaplain in her husband's unit
if they'd told me the truth, my family and i would have been able to put this to bed a long time ago,'' she said
she said she wasn't told her husband had been killed until two weeks after the army told her he was missing in action. she continued to write him letters, sometimes as often as three times a day, during that period
it was a month before his body was returned home; she was never allowed to see the body, she said
the latest information came from paul hinsky, the chaplain with capt. james ``eddie'' reed's company in the mekong delta. after reading a feb. 1 associated press story about sutton's efforts to finally learn the hazy circumstances behind her husband's death, hinsky and several of reed's soldiers got in touch with her
hinsky, who now lives in plainville, mass., said he was the first person to reach her husband after the attack atop an old french stronghold called ``fort courage'' 20 miles south of the former capital of south vietnam
the chaplain assured her that ``he (reed) never knew what hit him'' and confirmed what she had heard last summer from several enlisted men: a young american soldier who believed his short mortar round killed reed and three other officers went berserk that night and had to be shipped out
hearing from the chaplain, sutton says, was ``quite a touching moment. i'd always wondered who was the first person there. then 20 years to the day later i hear from this warm and caring chaplain who tells me eddie was a tremendous person and says `your husband never suffered.'''
he also told sutton, she said, that ``the army screwed up. they lost his body.''
i can't imagine how they could have misplaced his body,'' and then delayed telling her he was dead, she said
she continues to be stymied, she said, in her efforts to secure a copy of a reported full investigation into the fatal events of 20 years ago
although sutton said she's still angry over the army's handling of the case, she said she's happy at having achieved so much in her attempt to reconcile herself to the death of her husband, her high school sweetheart in kingsport, tenn
one soldier, she said, told her this month that eddie was ``the best officer in vietnam.''
it warms my heart to know how much the men cared about him,'' she said. ``now i know that they felt pain at losing him, too.''
her two children, including a 23-year-old son who joined her on an emotional trip back to vietnam last fall, are ``thrilled'' with the news that their father was mourned by his soldiers, she said
several publishers, sutton said, have expressed interest in her manuscript, tentatively titled ``silent partner: a vietnam widow's story.''
the state department expressed hope tuesday that paraguayan president alfredo stroessner will use his re-election victory to expand democratic participation in his government
spokeswoman phyllis oakley said the department was ``not surprised'' by the outcome of sunday's election, which stroesser won by a lopsided margin
stroessner, an army general, has ruled paraguay since 1954 and is the longest serving head of government in the western hemisphere
the united states regards paraguay as a military dictatorship, one of the few countries in the hemisphere that does not practice democracy
the military govermment closed one university campus tuesday after hundreds of stone-throwing students broke through police barricades in a protest of the arrest of nine student leaders
the registrar of the university of nigeria's nsukka campus, u. umeh, said he had closed the university on the advice of the government. he said it was hoped this would avert further damage
the government radio and lagos newspapers had reported that university students in nsukka, an eastern city, and nearby enugu marched in both cities on monday
the reports also said that students in enugu threw stones at police
the arrested student leaders will be arraigned next week before a special tribunal on arson charges stemming from student demonstrations in june 1986
students said police killed 19 students during that unrest, over the expulsion of several male students for allegedly visiting female dormitories
authorities said four students were killed. a government commission later said police mishandled the demonstrations and a top police official was dismissed
president reagan says that he and his wife of 35 years cope with crisis together because, ``she has made it so natural for us to be as one that we never face anything alone.''
reagan, in an article in the march issue of mccall's magazine on his relationship with his second wife, was asked how she is helping him cope with the iran-contra affair
it's always our problem _ to be dealt with as something affecting the two of us,'' he said, ``nancy sees this problem as something that happened to us together.''
mrs. reagan said she shared that sense of devotion: ``i knew i was in love when i became more concerned about ronnie than about myself.''
the pair were married in march 1952, after 11 months of courtship that began with ``kind of a blind date,'' said reagan, then an actor. ``in case things didn't click, i told her on the phone that i had an early call on the set the next morning, so that evening's date would have to be short.''
the couple ended up staying out late listening to sophie tucker at a nightclub. ``since that date, 37 years ago, nancy has been the leading lady of my heart,'' reagan said
anything he'd like to change about his leading lady?
well, nancy worries when she thinks something might upset me or might go wrong,'' reagan said. ``if she would only realize that nothing important can go wrong as long as i have her.''
three major opposition politicians were arrested tuesday in an apparent attempt to quiet anti-government forces before the march 3 parliamentary elections
the arrests came one day after opposition parties criticized president hussain muhammad ershad's plan to use army troops to provide security for the elections, which are being boycotted by a coalition of 21 anti-government groups
ershad said he would deploy troops at voting places after more than 100 people were killed last week during village council elections. most of the deaths were blamed on clashes between supporters of rival candidates
sajeda chowdhury, secretary of the awami league, and retired cols. akbar hossain and oli ahmed, leaders in the bangladesh nationalist party, were arrested at their homes in the early hours tuesday, representatives of both parties said
awami league official najma rahman said mrs. chowdhury had just returned from an awami league meeting when she was taken to dhaka's central jail
ashraf hussein, a nationalist party official, said government agents also carried out raids early tuesday on the residences of other party leaders but did not find them home
the government made no announcement of the arrests, following the pattern set when the opposition's main leaders, sheik hasina of the awami league and khaleda zia of the nationalist party, were arrested before previous elections
mrs. zia and sheik hasina were put under house arrest for a month after their parties led a campaign beginning in november to demand ershad's ouster
under emergency laws declared just after the anti-ershad campaign began, police can arrest and detain people without charge or trial for an indefinite period. more than 30 people have been killed in violence connected to the opposition campaign
the awami league and nationalist party blamed ershad for failing to control last week's election violence. but on monday they also condemned his plan to employ the army for security
the army is a sacred institution meant for safeguarding the country's independence and sovereignty,'' mrs. zia said in a newspaper interview published tuesday. ``they should not be dragged into politics.''
the awami league issued a statement saying: ``the government is playing with fire. the decision must be withdrawn.''
a source in the ruling jatiya party said monday that ershad's decision followed an appeal from leaders of parties participating in the polls. he spoke on condition of anonymity
ershad, a 58-year-old former army general, seized power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and was elected president in 1986. the opposition condemned that election as rigged and said no fair vote can be taken with ershad in power
the president dissolved parliament on dec. 6 and called for elections to try to placate the opposition, but the major parties agreed on a boycott. ershad's jatiya party, an alliance of 73 minor parties, and dozens of independents are running. forests</head>
state and local governments, businesses and private groups are being asked to help finance and develop more recreational services in federally owned national forests, the agriculture department announced tuesday
f. dale robertson, chief of the department's forest service, said the move is in response to increasing demands for more recreational areas and service, and to help relieve pressures on federal spending
the squeezed budget is a factor,'' robertson told a news conference. ``we just can't simply do the job, financing it all out of the federal budget.''
robertson said the ``challenge cost-share program'' was authorized by congress on a pilot basis at a level of $500,000 for the fiscal year that began last oct. 1. of that, $100,000 was earmarked for the tonto national forest near phoenix, ariz., with the remainder available to other regions to supplement money put up by local people, companies, state agencies, municipalities or other groups
some 31 recreation projects have been approved and will be underway this spring and summer he said. restoration and improvement of existing facilities, areas and trails are typical goals
the $500,000 of forest service seed money was met with $908,000 from various partners involved in the 31 pilot projects
one of the objectives of the program will be to provide more facilities on national forest land located near cities
we really need to look at these urban americans and how they can use the national forests to meet their recreational needs,'' robertson said
what will the project mean to americans who visit national forests?
it will mean more camp sites, more picnic areas, more trails, more opportunities for people to visit the national forests,'' he said
private investors will be encouraged to develop new campgrounds, marinas, ski areas. no increase in user fees is being proposed at this time, but that is comething that eventually will have to be faced, he said
asked if the plan means opening the door for major private development on national forest land, robertson replied:
yes, we are opening that door, but we also need to work with those private sector proposals to see if they fit into the overall scheme'' for recreation development
robertson said the recreation project is patterned after a similar challenge grant program that congress initiated in 1986 to improve fish and wildlife on national forest lands
the forest service administers 191 million acres, or about 8{ percent of the u.s. total land area. although most is in the west, the land is scattered among 156 national forests in 42 states and puerto rico. robertson said that if all of it could be put into one place, it would be an area 10 percent larger than texas
robertson said the proposed budget that president reagan is scheduled to send congress on thursday for the 1989 fiscal year that will begin on oct. 1 will include $3 million for the recreation cost-share program, up from the $500,000 in pilot funds this year. the one for fish and wildlife will be requested at $5 million, compared with $1.5 million in fiscal 1988
here are the 30 national forest projects, by region, that have qualified for cooperative financing by the forest service and private groups. the list also includes city locations of agency's regional offices

region 1, northern, missoula, mont
gallatin national forest, montana; hyalite accessible recreation facilities rehabilitation; forest service funding, $47,200; partner funding, $65,000

region 2, rocky mountain, lakewood, colo
routt national forest, colorado; fish creek bridge; forest service, $17,500; partners, $17,500
regional office, lakewood, colo.; avalanche safety video; forest service, $25,000; partners, $49,000
white river national forest, colorado; summit county trail system; forest service, $35,500; partners, $84,500
arapaho-roosevelt national forest, colorado; point park day use area; forest service, $27,000; partners, $27,000
san juan national forest, colorado; animas overlook; forest service, $15,000; partners, $15,000
black hills national forest, south dakota; veteran's point parking, trailhead; forest service, $10,000; partners, $10,000

region 3, southwestern, albuquerque, n.m
tonto national forest, arizona; boulder creek picnic site rehabilitation; forest service, $100,000; partners, $276,000
cibola national forest, new mexico; north sandia community enhancement; forest service, $3,000; partners, $3,000

region 4, intermountain, ogden, utah
challis national forest, idaho; custer museum and historic townsite; forest service, $7,500; partners, $7,500; also, yankee fork gold dredge; forest service, $5,000; partners, $5,000
dixie national forest, utah; podunk guard station visitors center; forest service, $3,000; partners, $4,000
caribou national forest, idaho; big springs campground; forest service, $4,600; partners, $4,600
sawtooth national forest, idaho; valley creek ranger station museum; forest service, $6,000; partners, $7,000; also, hell roaring trail, forest service, $2,300; partners $9,000
targhee national forest, idaho; birch creek charcoal kilns stabilization; forest service, $4,500; partners, $4,500

region 5, pacific southwest, san francisco, calif
inyo national forest, california; mammoth mine site; forest service, $17,000; partners, $87,200
modoc national forest, california, stough reservoir dam repair; forest service, $20,000; partners, $20,000

region 6, pacific northwest, portland, ore
mount baker-snoqalmie, washington; skagit eagle visitors area; forest service, $6,000; partners, $6,000; also, stevens pass historic district visitors area; forest service, $8,700; partners, $12,000
mount hood national forest, oregon; bagby hot springs visitors area; forest service, $10,000; partners, $20,000

region 8, southern, atlanta, ga
chattahoochee national forest, georgia; warwoman dell recreation area; forest service, $4,000; partners, $4,000
daniel boone national forest, kentucky; gladie historic post office restoration; forest service, $12,000; partners, $18,000
national forests of florida, tallahassee; boat ramp construction; forest service, $10,000; partners, $10,000
jefferson national forest, virginia; beartree recreation area handicapped trail; forest service, $25,000; partners, $25,000
ozark national forest, arkansas; white rock cabins, lodge restoration; forest service, $30,000; partners, $50,000

region 9, eastern, milwaukee, wis
green mountain national forest, vermont; appalachian trail shelter rehabilitation; forest service, $20,000; partners, $20,000
hiawatha national forest, michigan; point iroquois lighthouse area; forest service, $1,700; partners, $1,700
mark twain national forest, missouri; shell knob recreation area rehabilitation; forest service, $6,500; partners, $24,500
white mountain national forest, new hampshire; ethan pond trail, pinkham notch ski trail maintenance; forest service, $6,000; partners, $6,000

region 10, alaska, juneau
tongass national forest; hyder wildlife viewing walkway; forest service, $10,000; partners, $15,000
country music star dolly parton decorated a slab of wet coment along star walk on tuesday with her footprints, handprints and a small rhinestone butterfly
several people asked me if i was going to leave the prints of something else,'' the buxom blonde told about 200 people gathered for the noon ceremonies
i said, `heavens no!' i'm afraid some little kid might fall in it and get killed,'' she said with a giggle
star walk, a year-old attraction at a new outdoor shopping complex, honors country artists who have won grammy awards
miss parton and the crew from her variety television show are in nashville this week to tape the season finale of ``dolly.'' princeton, but not part of university.</note>
nobel prize-winning physicist richard feynman, who worked on the development of the atomic bomb during world war ii and helped investigate the 1986 challenger space shuttle disaster, died at age 69
a professor of theoretical physics at the california institute of technology since 1950, feynman died monday night at ucla medical center from complications due to recurrent abdominal cancer, said hospital spokesman rich elbaum
in 1965, feynman shared the nobel prize in physics with julian s. schwinger and shinichero tomonaga for developing an improved theory of quantum electrodynamics. the three men worked independently in the 1940s and arrived at the same theory, which allows scientists to predict the effects of electrically charged particles on each other in a radiation field
in the death of richard feynman, the world has lost one of its greatest intellects,'' said lee a. dubridge, president emeritus of caltech
marvin l. goldberger, director of the institute for advanced study in princeton, n.j., and a former caltech president, recalled feynman as ``a towering figure in 20th-century physics'' who was ``always curious, always modest, always ebullient, always willing to share his deep insights with students and colleagues.''
feynman was a member of the atomic bomb project staff at princeton in 1942 and 1943 and at los alamos scientific laboratory in new mexico from 1943 to 1945
during a committee investigation after the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the space shuttle challenger, which killed the seven crew members, he emerged as one of the leading critics of the national aeronautics and space administration
feynman accused nasa of erratic attention to safety matters that he likened ``to playing russian roulette.''
born in new york on may 11, 1918, feynman graduated from the massachusetts institute of technology with a bachelor of science degree in 1939. he received a ph.d. from princeton in 1942
feynman's scientific interests developed early with the aid of his father, a clothing salesman, who taught him elementary mathematics and read his toddler son scientific studies
i grew up with him and i knew him through many stages, and he is just a terrific guy,'' feynman's cousin frances lewine said early today
the young scholar joined the cornell university faculty in 1945 as an associate professor of theoretical physics and remained there until moving to caltech in 1950
it was at cornell that feynman did the work that led to his nobel prize
he was also a dynamic writer. his 1985 autobiography, ``surely you're joking, mr. feynman,'' on the new york times best-seller list for 14 weeks, demonstrated his canny humor and strong like for formality
he also wrote, ``qed: the strange theory of light and matter,'' an explanation of quantum electrodynamics published in 1986, and was co-author of the 1963 textbook, ``the feynman lectures on physics.''
he was especially popular with caltech students, who honored him for teaching excellence in 1982
despite his stature as a professor, he continued to teach freshman physics classes over the years and to ham it up in school plays, once taking on the role of a bongo player in the musical ``guys and dolls.''
caltech officials reported that when feynman became ill a few years ago, students and teachers overwhelmed local medical facilities with offers to donate blood
his many honors and awards included princeton's albert einstein award, the atomic energy commission's e.o. lawrence award, the oersted medal for teaching, the niels bohr international gold medal and the albert einstein college of medicine's einstein award
he is survived by his wife, gweneth; son, carl; daughter, michelle; and sister, joan
the soviet union has begun dismantling intermediate range nuclear rockets stationed in east germany, the state-run news agency adn reported tuesday night
according to the report, rockets stationed near neubrandenburg, north of berlin, have been dismantled, crated and are ready for transport back to the soviet union
under a treaty signed in washington in december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, the superpowers agreed to eliminate the medium-range missiles
the u.s. senate has yet to ratify the treaty
adn said soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets'' to the soviet union
the rockets are shorter-range weapons included in the intermediate range missile pact, which banned weapons with a range from 300 to 3,000 miles
the news agency quoted a soviet officer as saying that the ``troops are very proud that nuclear disarmament is beginning in our unit.''
adn said a group of east german journalists toured the missile base and were allowed to interview soviet soldiers there
east german leader erich honecker in january indicated that soviet intermediate range rockets stationed in east germany could be removed ahead of schedule, but gave no specific timetable for their withdrawal
the adn report did not say how many rockets were ready for transport back to the soviet union. it also did not say if other missiles stationed in east germany had been dismantled or how many troops were scheduled to leave
the report, written by an adn correspondent, described preparations under way to ready the rockets for transport
cranes were used to load the dismantled rockets into transport containers, the report said
we were convinced that the last rockets were ready for transport to the location where they will be destroyed,'' the adn correspondent said
the rockets are to be sent back to the soviet union by rail, the report said
according to figures released after the superpower agreement was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the site _ which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany
in all, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany, the figures said
a defense attorney in the nazi war crimes trial of john demjanjuk said in closing arguments tuesday his client's alibi was sound and that contradictions in his testimony were due to memory lapses and pressure from investigators
demjanjuk is ``confused about all of his movements,'' not only about details of what he did during world war ii, defense attorney yoram sheftel said tuesday, the first anniversary of the trial
demjanjuk, 67, a retired ohio autoworker, is accused of being ``ivan the terrible,'' a sadistic guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland in 1942 and 1943
the ukrainian-born demjanjuk claims that he's a victim of mistaken identity. he has said he served in the soviet army, was captured by the germans in 1941 and remained in prisoner-of-war camps until 1943
sheftel rejected prosecution charges that demjanjuk invented an alibi. if demjanjuk's testimony was contradictory in parts, it should be attributed to memory lapses, sheftel said, noting that his client could also not remember simple facts about his family
the accused forgot,'' sheftel said. ``if he made up an alibi, he would not forget it. if someone concocts an alibi, you work it out, think it out, maybe write it out. it's very easy to do. ''
sheftel also claimed his client could not be expected to remember all events coherently because investigators pressured and intimidated him. he said police told demjanjuk before the trial they would ``put a rope around his head.''
sheftel also said israeli police deployed a ukrainian-speaking guard to befriend demjanjuk and elicit incriminating information, but the effort backfired because demjanjuk stuck to his version of the events
sheftel said the few details demjanjuk has provided about his whereabouts in world war ii mesh with testimony of historians called by the prosecution. he also said demjanjuk couldn't have known the facts unless he had personally experienced them
in one instance, demjanjuk told the court he was laying railroad tracks after becoming a german prisoner of war, sheftel said
the attorney cited testimony by a prosecution witness who said the german high command at the time gave high priority to repairing railway tracks damaged in the crimea battle
sheftel acknowledged that demjanjuk lied in filling out a 1948 application for immigration to the united states by stating he was a polish farmer
sheftel said demjanjuk lied because he didn't want to be returned to the soviet union for fear he would be executed after serving in an anti-communist unit at the end of the war
the defense is to complete closing arguments this week. the three-judge panel is expected to render a verdict in april. if convicted, demjanjuk faces a death sentence
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said tuesday the economy seems ``in equilibrium,'' but that he couldn't make the same claim for presidential campaign rhetoric
there is a gross distortion of reality'' on trade issues in the political debate, he suggested
greenspan's comments on the economy appeared to signal that the fed was unlikely to move, at least soon, on u.s. interest rates, preferring to take a wait-and-see approach
there had been some speculation that the central bank was on the verge of lowering its discount rate, the rate it charges for direct loans to banks and other financial institutions, in an effort to stimulate the economy
the discount rate has been at 6 percent since last september
the relationships at the moment among all the major financial variables seem to be in relative balance,'' greenspan said in a speech to the bretton woods committee, a private organization that follows issues of international finance
greenspan's comments on politics, made during a question-and-answer session, appeared to be a dig at the ``get-tough'' trade policies advocated by democratic presidential candidate rep. richard gephardt of missouri
the fed chairman was asked by a member of the audience _ former sen. charles percy, r-ill. _ what he thought of gephardt's advocacy of strong trade legislation during his presidential campaign
it played well in iowa,'' where gephardt finished first in last week's democratic caucuses, ``and it ought to play well with this committee,'' percy said
greenspan, a republican who was chairman of the council of economic advisers under president ford, replied: ``the problem i have with what's going on in iowa is that there is a gross distortion of reality.''
were greenspan's remarks a direct rebuke to gephardt, or more a comment on presidential campaign statements in general?
i don't know what he meant,'' said joseph coyne, greenspan's spokesman
percy later told a reporter his question to greenspan ``was facetious. i don't want to see protectionism playing well in politics.''
gephardt is the sponsor of house-passed legislation calling for mandatory trade retaliation against japan and other nations that maintain large surpluses with the united states through unfair trade practices
the reagan administration has vowed a veto if the legislation _ now before a house-senate conference committee _ is enacted with such a provision, which it considers overly protectionist
a ``get-tough'' policy toward trading partners has been a central part of gephardt's campaign
asked about interest rates, greenspan said ``evidence of the most recent past'' was in the direction of ``emerging stability'' in the economy of the united states and other industrial nations
economic variables ``seem to be in equilibrium. and i suspect they will stay there,'' greenspan said
he said the economy appears to be weathering last october's stock market plunge, and that he is encouraged by recent data showing a narrowing of the u.s. trade deficit
however, greenspan said prospects for buoyant economic growth throughout the industrial world this year ``are patently not great.''
he voiced support, meantime, for a proposal for a $75 billion increase in world bank funds sought by bank president barber conable, saying it was needed to help developing nations pursue sound economic policies
conable told the conference the increase was desperately needed so the 151-nation world lending organization could fight what he called ``an abundance of absolute poverty.''
without this adjustment, there is no future for many of these countries,'' he said
and treasury secretary james a. baker iii told the gathering that winning support from congress for the u.s. share of the increase _ which will cost the nation about $80 million a year _ would not be easy this year
we're going to be pushing it hard,'' he said
baker also said his 3-year-old strategy for easing third world debt by encouraging new loans from commercial banks and tying them to economic reforms in the debtor nations remains the best appraoch
proposals that would wipe out a portion of the existing debt of latin american and other developing countries is ``a path that would lead both debtors and creditors off the cliff,'' baker contended
if you have an urge to send somebody a message in a bottle, edna hulbert can give you some hints. she started throwing bottles in bodies of water 66 years ago, when she was 17
she's received replies from people in france, england and spain, and even played matchmaker to a french couple getting married in june
it doesn't cost any money and i'm hearing from people i never knew. there was no end to the fun i've had,'' said mrs. hulbert, 83
although she doesn't drink, mrs. hulbert prefers liquor bottles because they float best. she used to pour her late husband's scotch into empty mustard and ketchup jars so she could have the empties
she tossed her first message into the mississippi near st. louis and has since lobbed bottles into the hudson river, the thames in england, the caribbean and mediterranean seas, a montana lake and the canals of amsterdam
she doesn't recommend lakes: ``they don't go very far. they go in a circle.''
over the years about 30 people have responded, many of them young men looking for a girlfriend. a french man and woman who lived in towns about 100 miles apart each found one of her bottles; mrs. hulbert told the girl about it
she wrote to him and he wrote to her and now they're going to get married. i was thrilled to hear that,'' says mrs. hulbert, who has been invited to the wedding
bottle messaging, like life, is not all fun and games. a bottle that went into the fox river near oshkosh, wis., brought a citation for littering from the local police
i ignored it,'' she says
the long and winding road to fame began and ended here for rex, the wandering raccoon hound
three weeks ago he was just an ordinary stray roaming route 30. this week, he's sharing the cover of people magazine with comedian robin williams
rex disappeared from arthur and emilie thomas' yard in april 1985. he was missing for 2{ years until he was picked up last month by animal control officer cathy barrows
rex made the ``dog of the week'' column in a local weekly and the thomases reclaimed him. that story made the brattleboro reformer, then spread across the nation
since his return the thomases have been swamped with calls and letters, and some of rex's lost years are being filled in
a man in bennington, 40 miles west of brattleboro, said he found rex after he saw a van with new jersey plates dump the hound on the road
the man already had three dogs and could not take another in, so rex was given to friends. where rex went next is not known, and the trail to fame fades until it reappears in brattleboro. abandoned</head>
the jailed mother of an abandoned girl whose lower legs were amputated because of severe frostbite should be allowed to visit her hospitalized daughter, according to a hospital counselor
darlwin britt, who is 24 and unemployed, faces charges of felony child neglect and is being held in the lake county jail on $50,000 bond her lawyers have said she can't pay
a hospital staff member says, however, that ms. britt's daughter needs to see her mother and that a supervised visit may help the girl recover
the child, darlwin carlisle, 9, has talked with her mother once by telephone, but has not seen her mother since the girl was found last month locked in an unheated and abandoned gary apartment
her legs were amputated below the knee after gangrene threatened to develop into a possibly life-threatening infection
it needs to be done in a planned way,'' said mary martone, the coordinator of the child abuse program at chicago's la rabida children's hospital and research center, where the girl is learning to walk on artifical legs
i basically think it would be appropriate for the parent and child to have contact,'' she said in a recent interview
the child's father, edward j. carlisle of fort wayne, and other relatives have visited the child, hospital officials say
others who believe ms. britt should be allowed to visit her daughter include gary city councilman roy pratt; constance mack-ward, the director of the gary commission for women, and jean thurman, director of project justice and equality
they contend the lack of support that mothers such as ms. britt receive from the system is at least partly responsible for cases of child neglect and abuse
we release condemned murderers to go to funerals,'' said pratt. ``we release hardened criminals on bail. i understand wanting to punish the mother. i was angry, too, until i looked at the side of the mother.''
former highway patrolman craig peyer's penchant for long talks with young women drivers ended in murder on the night he met cara knott, a prosecutor said in final arguments tuesday
deputy district attorney joe van orshoven told a jury that peyer's practice of pulling women over on the mercy road exit of interstate 15, then talking to them for an hour or more, led to the woman's death
knott was strangled with a rope, the prosecution contended
we know that craig allen peyer had a custom, a habit, a practice,'' van orshoven said of the traffic stops
on dec. 27, 1986, when knott died, ``something went wrong. she wasn't like these other youngsters,'' orshoven said
she became anxious and scratched her assailant's face, orshoven said
the prosecutor showed the jury a family photo of the vivacious knott, and then three coroner's photos of the dead woman, with strangulation marks on her neck and bruises on her face
the prosecution's witnesses included 22 women who said they had been pulled over by peyer at the mercy road exit, and that he had kept them talking for an hour or more about highway safety and other innocuous topics. none claimed that peyer made advances or attempted to harm her
in his final arguments, defense attorney robert grimes contended that some of those witnesses had lied
peyer, 37, has already been fired by the california highway patrol, which concluded that he killed knott without justification. he is appealing his dismissal
knott's body was found the day after her murder below a bridge on a frontage road on interstate 15, the highway peyer was assigned to patrol the night of the killing. peyer, a 13-year chp veteran, was arrested 18 days later
testimony in the trial ended feb. 9, but closing arguments were postponed last week after a prosecutor broke a tooth at breakfast and was unable to deliver his summation
the prosecution's case rest largely rests on blood samples, microscopic fibers and testimony of witnesses about peyer's behavior during prior traffic stops and his comments to colleagues
fiber experts testified that microscopic fibers found on peyer and knott matched threads found in each other's clothing. a rope found in peyer's patrol car also was said to match marks on the victim's neck
there was testimony that blood found on the victim matched peyer's type, but the jury was instructed to disregard that
witnesses testified that peyer had three scratches on his face the night of the murder. he told other officers he fell while pumping gas and hurt himself on a chain-link fence
a chp officer testified that peyer once pointed out the mercy road offramp and noted that it would be a good place to dump a body
peyer did not take the stand, but defense witnesses have attacked the credibility of prosecution witnesses and praised the veteran officer's professional performance. game in town</head>
winning an academy award is considered the most prestigious honor bestowed by hollywood, but oscar isn't the only game in town. recognition is also given by peers, critics and the public
if the industry grand-daddy given by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences eludes, moviemakers and stars still have dozens of chances at lesser trophies
there are the golden globes, viewed as a barometer of oscar sentiment, and awards given by l.a. film critics, n.y. film critics, the people's choice awards, writer's guild awards, director's guild awards, national board of review awards, orson welles awards, cable tv ace awards, cinematographer's awards, stuntmen association awards, cannes film festival awards, naacp image awards and hispanic film awards
notable animal performances are also recognized with the annual patsy awards, and for those with a jaundiced view, there are the golden raspberry awards given for the worst in film
tonight show'' host johnny carson has recovered from a weeklong bout with the flu and returned to preside over tuesday night's show, a nbc-tv spokesman said
mr. carson is back as host,'' charles barrett said. appearing with carson tuesday night was comedian tim conway
carson came in for rehearsal last tuesday but left before doing the show. a ``best of carson'' rerun was shown that night and comic jay leno rushed back from florida to take over as host wednesday, thursday and friday, barrett said
carson spent the week recovering at his malibu bluff home, he said
a glittering samba parade tuesday highlighted rio's famous carnival, while in country towns, ordinary brazilians donned humble costumes and danced in the streets
police used clubs and tear gas to break up a rock fight among spectators leaving the ``samba school'' parade. three people were arrested and two hospitalized with injuries, a police spokesman said
a celebrant who may have been offended by the sexual tone of a television network's coverage of gala balls punched an anchorman during a live broadcast. among others, the network had shown a woman, from the waist up, who wore only a silver tiara and said she was dressed as the statue of liberty
the last of rio's top 16 ``samba schools'' paraded through the 80,000-seat, open-air ``sambadrome'' at 9 a.m., ending a two-day spectacular featuring 75,000 brilliantly costumed participants who sang, danced and pulled elaborate floats
in the towns and villages, the dances were much less elaborate, but in many places local governments provided free street bands
carnival began saturday and, at noon wednesday, this nation of 141 million people will begin the slow process of reopening businesses, newspapers, banks and government offices
daytime temperatures of more than 90 degrees aided the festive atmosphere. some costumed revelers ran short of energy and could be seen stretched out asleep on beaches, sidewalks and parked cars
samba schools are neighborhood clubs, most in the poor hillside slums, that compete each year for a coveted local prize by composing sambas based on historical and folk themes. each school puts 4,000-5,000 people in the parade, who relate the chosen theme through lyrics, dances, costumes and allegorical floats
many of the raucous club balls, which attract tens of thousands of people, were held tuesday
at the scala nightclub, a man punched nei costa of tv bandeirantes, a commercial network that was broadcasting three of the parties simultaneously
costa cried: ``i've been attacked! i can't understand it!'' and private security guards hustled the assailant off. his name and complaint were not revealed
bandeirantes cut back and forth to reporters assigned to all three clubs, providing closeups of bare and nearly bare breasts, gyrating pelvises other scenes appropriate to leering commentary
the ``statue of liberty'' appeared in the bandeirantes broadcast from the kittens ball at the monte libano club. comments on biden amendment</note>
nato needs to decide what new short-range nuclear weapons to build in view of the treaty eliminating medium-range atomic missiles from europe, senate democratic leaders said tuesday
i don't think there is a clear consensus in the alliance about just exactly where we go from here,'' said sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the armed services committee
i do think there is a consensus for the modernization of short-range nuclear weapons,'' but there is no agreement yet on specifically which weapons to build, he said
nunn and majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., were among a group of key senators who visited u.s. allies in europe last week as part of the senate's consideration of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty negotiated two months ago by president regan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
the treaty would eliminate medium-range missiles on both sides, but would allow both the north atlantic treaty organization and the warsaw pact to build nuclear weapons with a range of less than 300 miles
byrd told reporters that european leaders told the senators ``that the inf treaty should be approved without amendments and that following that, nato should procede with modernizing those ground-based nuclear weapons that are eligible under the treaty.''
the general consensus was that the allies should not go for the third zero option,'' said byrd, referring to calls from some european politicians for the total elimination of nuclear weapons
they should plan to improve the range of those short-range theater weapons that would be allowed, and not emphasize the modernization of short-range artillery-type weapons.'' said byrd
but nunn, at the reopening of hearings by his committee on the treaty, said nato needs to decide specifically what type of short-range weapons to build
the options include nuclear-tipped artillery shells, which have a range of 15 or 20 miles, and longer-range weapons, such as the lance missile
in 1983, nato ministers agreed to build a new generation of short-range weapons, but that decision has not been implemented
the reagan administration has urged nato to improve its non-nuclear weapons to offset soviet numerical advantages in conventional weapons. the alliance has long relied on the possibility of using nuclear weapons to deter a soviet attack
edward l. rowny, one of reagan's top arms control advisers, told nunn's committee tuesday that ``soviet officials have frankly admitted to me that the cutting edge of their political and military power lies in their conventional forces.''
they may be attempting to mesmerize the west with nuclear reductions while protecting the utility of their conventional superiority,'' rowny said
another witness, ronald lehman, who helped negotiate the inf pact, noted that ``a substantial number of u.s. nuclear weapons will remain in europe'' after the inf treaty
but nato has never had a ``politically easy'' time when it built new nuclear weapons, lehman said
undoubtedly, the soviet union hopes that a new arms control agreement will have a soporific effect on western security concerns which will weapon nato's defenses,'' he said
retired army gen. bernard rogers, former supreme alllied commander, told the foreign relations committee that nato should build a number of new short-range atomic weapons
they include an air-to-ground missile, new artillery shells, and an updated version of the lance, rogers said
he also urged approval of what he said are ``low-cost'' steps nato could take, including a comprehensive arms control strategy
zbigniew brzezinski, national security adviser under president carter, told the armed services committee ``it would be a mistake'' to go along with efforts to negotiate for the elimination of all nuclear weapons
meantime, sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said the democratic leadership will go ahead and offer an amendment proposed by sen. joseph biden, d-del., that would require the administration to adhere to the view of the treaty outlined by administration witnesses
biden recently underwent surgery and is not expected to return to work before the treaty comes up for a vote, cranston said
the proposal stems from an ongoing dispute between the administration and congressional democrats over how to interepret the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. democrats want a ``narrow,'' or restrictive, interpretation, while the administration has said it has the right to move to a ``broad'' interpretation that would allow tests of reagan's star wars anti-missile program
secretary of state george shultz recently wrote nunn and byrd that administration witnesses are speaking authoritatively, meaning that some future administration won't be able to change its view of the what the treaty means. found. pickup 2nd graf pvs ``police bomb...''; inserts 3 grafs after 9th graf pvs ``the london...'' to update with interview with driver's sister. pickup 10th graf pvs ``a scotland...''; adds byline</note>
a car exploded in flames about 120 feet from prime minister margaret thatcher's official residence early tuesday, and news reports said the driver committed suicide to protest unemployment
press association, the british domestic news agency, said the driver _ a 41-year-old man _ left a suicide note saying: ``too young to retire, too old to live.''
scotland yard declined to comment on the unattributed report
police bomb squad officers raced to 10 downing st. around 1 a.m. fearing a possible terrorist attack, but authorities said no explosives were found
the car stopped at the entrance into downing street but did not try to enter the dead-end street, which is fenced off with metal security barriers, police said. the interior of the car then was engulfed in flames, they said
mrs. thatcher's residence and office is situated about 40 yards down the street ``and therefore the prime minister was not in any danger,'' scotland yard said in a statement
mrs. thatcher's office confirmed that the prime minister had been at 10 downing st. at the time but was not involved in any way
a london radio station, independent radio news, said the driver had been out of work for over a year and had killed himself to protest unemployment. scotland yard refused to comment on the report or to identify the badly burned man pending an autopsy wednesday
the london evening standard identified the driver as derek bainbridge from worksop in central england and said he gave up his job as a $131-a-week road sweeper 14 months ago
press association quoted bainbridge's sister, mary jackson, as saying he had been depressed over being unable to find work
he wanted to work and became quite depressed lately,'' she said. ``he didn't talk much and didn't go out a lot
he used to sit in his room for hours looking out of the window, and lately he left his home only to visit the social security center,'' she said. ``in my heart, i can respect what he's done and why, but i still wish he hadn't done it.''
a scotland yard spokesman, speaking anonymously, said the car had been registered by someone in worksop, but declined to give further details
the number of jobless has doubled from 1.3 million in 1979, when mrs. thatcher won the first of her three terms in office, to 2.6 million in december, for an unemployment rate of 9.4 percent, the government says
unemployment topped 3 million between june 1983 and april 1987, becoming one of the country's worst problems
news reports said gasoline cans were believed to have been found inside the car. but scotland yard said police did not yet know what caused the green vauxhall viva auto to burst into flames at the entrance to downing street from whitehall, the main thoroughfare in the area
a car pulled up in whitehall at the entrance to downing street and burst into flames. the fire was put out by london fire brigade and the body of a man was found inside the car,'' it said in a statement
the incident was witnessed by a police officer on duty at the barriers that close off downing street
john f. lehman jr., who was secretary of the navy in the first six years of the reagan administration, has been tapped for promotion to captain in the naval reserve
lehman, a naval flight officer, was selected along with more than 450 other commanders to receive a fourth stripe in fiscal 1989. the promotion list was approved by navy secretary james h. webb for submission to congress on feb. 11, the service said tuesday
in an interview with the navy times newspaper, lehman discounted suggestions that his former high position played a role in the promotion
the fact that i have drilled faithfully for 23 years and always done my best'' likely led to the promotion, he said
lehman left the government last april to write and pursue a career in investment banking.   graf bgng ``oscar will''</note>
broadcast news'' and its stars _ william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks _ headed the favorites to be on the list wednesday when nominations for the 60th annual academy awards are announced
broadcast news,'' directed by james l. brooks, and bernardo bertolucci's ``the last emperor'' loomed largest in speculation leading up to the announcement at dawn
the two films have attracted the majority of critics' praise and prizes, and each bears its maker's stamp. brooks wrote, produced and directed ``broadcast news,'' a caustic incisive view of how networks report the news. bertolucci co-wrote and directed ``the last emperor,'' the tragic life of china's boy ruler, henry pu yi
moonstruck,'' ``empire of the sun'' and the year's most talked-about film, ``fatal attraction,'' also figured to be well represented among the nominees
in the performing categories, miss hunter was widely expected to be nominated as best actress for her ``broadcast news' role as a producer torn between a brilliant reporter, played by brooks, and an empty-headed but telegenic anchorman, played by hurt
also prominently mentioned for best actress were cher, as the widow who rediscovers passion in ``moonstruck,'' and glenn close as the vengeful single woman in ``fatal attraction.''
academy president robert wise and oscar winner shirley maclaine will announce the nominations at the academy's wilshire boulevard headquarters shortly after 5:30 wednesday morning. the reason for the early hour: the announcement will be carried live by nbc's ``today,'' ``cbs morning show,'' abc's ``good morning, america'' and cable news network
ratings for the oscar awards show have been slipping in recent years, so the awards can use all the publicity they can manage
wise and maclaine will recite nominees in 23 categories, ranging from best picture to best cartoon. one category will be missing: best original song score. the requirements are five original songs by one writer or team of writers for a single film, and not one film qualified
oscar will have a new but familiar home for the 60th ceremonies on monday, april 11. the ceremonies are going back to the cavernous shrine auditorium near the los angeles coliseum, because the music center could not provide enough capacity or rehearsal time
the shrine, where the music industry grammy awards were held in past years, housed the oscars twice in the late 1940s. the television emmys will also be presented there this year and the american music awards are held there. the grammys are emanating from radio city music hall in new york this year
samuel goldwyn jr. is repeating as the oscarcast producer. so far he has scheduled these stars as hosts and presenters: chevy chase, audrey hepburn, michael douglas, john lone and joan chen (``the last emperor''), anjelica huston, john candy, paul newman and marlee matlin
the national symphony orchestra will be guest orchestra at the casals festival in san juan, puerto rico, next june and will make its seventh foreign tour under music director mstislav rostropovich later in the summer, officials announced tuesday
the foreign tour will begin in august in athens, greece, with possible performances later in italy, southern france and spain
rostropovich, who fled the soviet union in 1974 because of artistic restrictions, was non-committal when asked whether he hoped to take the national symphony on a tour of his homeland. if soviet authorities extend an invitation, he told reporters, ``then we will respond.''
rostropovich said he exchanged ``polite words'' with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev at a white house state dinner during the december summit talks between gorbachev and president reagan, but that nothing serious was discussed
president francois mitterrand announced tuesday he will attend the nato summit meeting next month, making him the first french chief of state to do so since france left the alliance's military wing in 1966
the summit, to be held march 2-3 in brussels, is ``very important'' because it will ``define the politics of disarmament'' for members of the north atlantic treaty allaince, mitterrand said on french television
i must be there and, there again, i must represent france, and france must speak with one voice,'' he said
mitterrand, a socialist, and conservative premier jacques chirac have attended summit meetings together since chirac's conservative coalition came to power in march 1986
in a television interview tuesday night within hours of mitterrand's announcement, chirac said he ``naturally'' would attend also, but added, ``i don't believe this summit is very important.''
no french president has assisted at a nato summit since 1966, when france, under president charles de gaulle, withdrew from the alliance's military wing to assure the independence of its own nuclear force
mitterrand also confirmed he will not reveal whether he will be a candidate in presidential elections in april until sometime after the nato summit. politicians who have met with him have said he would make his decision known in early march
mitterrand, who holds a steady lead in the polls, has been widely criticized for leaving the electorate in doubt
someone, mitterrand said, must ``guard the state'' since chirac is campaigning for the presidency
referring to the recent european economic community summit and the upcoming nato summit, mitterrand said he risked losing his authority if he were not running and risked becoming too involved in political debate if he were
all internal political debate must come after these two events,'' he said
minnesota attorney general hubert h. humphrey iii, son of the late vice president, announced thursday he will seek the democratic nomination for the u.s. senate seat now held by republican david durenberger
former vice president walter mondale, who served with humphrey's father in the senate, looked on in the capitol rotunda as the 45-year-old attorney general launched his campaign with an attack on durenberger's priorities
meanwhile, in florida, u.s. rep. dan mica said he will challenge popular former gov. reubin askew in seeking the democratic nomination to replace three-term sen. lawton chiles, who is retiring
humphrey, who has led minnesota's top law office for six years and served in the state senate for 10 years before that, said he is campaigning on his own record, not that of his father, who died in 1978 and was briefly succeeded by his widow, muriel
my father's accomplishments, with my mother's help, are unparalleled in this century,'' humphrey said
humphrey said he could never take his father's place
but i know i can take mr. durenberger's,'' he said
he charged durenberger, elected in 1982, had failed his constituents
his priorities have been star wars, contra aid, judge (robert) bork, cutting social security, slashing medicare and turning his back on the deficit,'' said humphrey
leon oistad, durenberger's campaign manager, said humphrey's announcement speech was ``riddled with distortions'' about durenberger's record
humphrey faces an uphill battle in his bid to unseat durenberger, lagging behind the incumbent in both fund-raising and the polls. the latest poll, conducted last month by the st. paul pioneer press dispatch, wcco-tv and wcco radio, showed durenberger leading humphrey by 51 percent to 38 percent
oistad said durenberger has not decided when he will officially enter the race
the only other announced candidate is polly mann, 67, a co-founder of women against military madness, running as an independent
mica, a 44-year-old former school teacher and fifth-term congressman, dismissed sentiment among some democrats that there should be no challenge to askew in the race for the florida senate seat
if you've read the papers, it looks like a handful of political kingmakers are trying to say, `we'll select the candidate; only one person should run,' he said
i've got news for them. there are 12 million people in this state who will have a voice.''
mica has had a high profile in congress in foreign policy and as chairman of the subcommittee on foreign operations, which last year took him to moscow to look into concerns about security at the u.s. embassy
he has been a supporter of president reagan's central america policy, but this month voted against the contra aid package, saying the peace process should be given some time
initial statewide polls have indicated he runs 6-to-1 behind askew. mica says he can catch up by mid-summer
on the republican side, u.s. rep. connie mack iii is the only declared candidate
on monday, pennsylvania republican sen. john heinz iii announced he will seek a third term
heinz, 49, kicked off his campaign with a two-day series of stops. former philadelphia city controller joseph vignola filed petitions to enter the april 26 primary for the democratic nomination to oppose heinz, great-grandson of the founder of the food maker h.j. heinz co
three historians have criticized a new play that equates soviet founder vladimir i. lenin with his successor, dictator josef v. stalin, and provides a negative picture of 70 years of soviet history
the criticism of the mikhail shatrov's play ``onward ... onward ... onward'' was contained in a half-page article published tuesday in the communist party newspaper pravda
the play was published in december and is to be performed this spring in moscow. shatrov, a leading writer, has used the greater artistic freedom of mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms to produce plays on historical subjects that previously could not be touched by soviet artists
a play published last spring reviewed lenin's decision to pull revolutionary russia out of world war i against the advice of many of his supporters
the new work takes the form of a debate among bolsheviks and their opponents looking back over 70 years of soviet history at the 1917 revolution that brought communists to power
the historians, g. gerasimenko, o. obichkin and b. popov, accused shatrov of using lenin as a conduit for his own ideas and treats the bolshevik revolution as an accident instead of the historical certainty that soviet theorists claim it was
they said shatrov's play equates stalin and lenin, echoing those who claim ``that the methods of stalin are identical to those of lenin, that stalin starts his roots from lenin's epoch. thus the author unequivocally gives a negative description not of stalin alone but the whole period of the socialist construction of this country,'' they said
pravda has criticized the play briefly before, but the lengthy article monday was the most detailed and serious rejoinder
in shatrov's play, stalin is made to answer for the purges in which millions died by his former comrades who also became his victims. but in one scene, lenin says that he is to blame for not making sure before his death in 1924 that stalin never would be able to take supreme power
the plan ends with only stalin and lenin on stage. shatrov expresses the wish that stalin would leave the stage, but he remains
a somber nation marked the 1,000th day of captivity tuesday of journalist jean-paul kauffmann, but neither french nor iranian officials offered much hope that the hostage would leave lebanon soon
marathon runners carried a large chain to symbolize kauffmann's captivity during a 1,000-kilometer trek from brittany in northwest france to a barge on the seine, where politicians and loved ones called for kauffmann's release
it is important that the captors know that all of france is united,'' his wife, joelle
i came here to express my solidarity,'' said human rights minister claude malhuret
the newspaper guild of america, the prague-based international organization of journalists and the journalists' committee for the liberation of french hostages in lebanon all issued statements appealing for the freeing of kauffmann and other captives
the education ministry asked that the statement by the french group be read in classrooms
but the name of another hostage, middle east researcher michel seurat, abducted with kauffmann on may 22, 1985, was barely uttered.the shitte moslem group islamic jihad, which claimed the abductions, announced march 5, 1986, that seurat had been executed
seurat's wife, mary, asked that his name no longer be mentioned in nightly newscasts that count off the hostages' days of captivity
we would like even more to be close to them, to tell them to hold on, that nothing will be neglected and nothing is,'' president francois mitterrand said on television
but it is so hard, so difficult in the face of this pitiless act to arrange that jean-paul kauffmann and our other frenchmen held hostage be freed one day.''
kauffmann, 43, a reporter for the newsweekly evenement du jeudi, and seurat were taken hostage as they drove from the beirut airport following kauffmann's arrival
two other french hostages, diplomats marcel carton, 64, and marcel fontaine, 45, kidnapped march 22, 1985, have passed their 1,000th days as captives
terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is the longest held of the 22 foreign hostages in lebanon. he was captured march 16, 1985
six french hostages, most of them held by the organization of revolutionary justice, have been freed since conservative premier jacques chirac came to power in march 1986
in each case, france thanked iran, which has influence over the groups holding westerners captive
iranian vice minister ali reza moayeri, in a french television interview tuesday, said that iran was not to be counted on for the freeing of more hostages
iran ``benefits from a very important influence (in lebanon) that can be used to free western hostages, including french, but at a time when we have satisfying relations with france,'' moayeri said
for the moment, diplomatic relations being broken between our two countries, no move in favor of the hostages can be undertaken.''
france severed relations with iran on july 17 after a dispute over an embassy employee who refused to submit to questioning about a series of bombings in paris
never would we have imagined seeing the 1,000 days,'' said kauffmann's mother, odette. ``i never thought myself capable of facing such a test.''
a conrail engineer who ran a stop signal and caused an amtrak crash that killed 16 people pleaded guilty to one count of manslaughter tuesday in a bargain that will bring him no worse than five years in jail and a $1,000 fine
rick l. gates, 33, who was scheduled to begin a trial on 16 counts of manslaughter by locomotive, was operating the three linked conrail engines jan. 4, 1987, when they skidded in front of an amtrak passenger train carrying 660 people. the worst accident in amtrak's history left 16 dead and more than 170 injured
gates was granted the guilty verdict after attorneys agreed to include in the single misdemeanor count the names of all 16 fatalities. prosecutors reserved the right to ask for the maximum sentence of five years and $1,000
baltimore county circuit judge joseph f. murphy set sentencing for march 29. gates remained free on $11,500 bail
despite the admission by gates and brakeman edward cromwell that they smoked marijuana in the cab, prosecutors said expert witnesses were ``unable to render an opinion regarding impairment.'' blood and urine samples showed that both men tested positive for marijuana
this is the first-ever manslaughter by locomotive verdict,'' said sandra o'connor, baltimore county state's attorney and the chief prosecutor. ``this will send a message that (operators) cannot work under the kind of negligence that mr. gates did.''
but prosecutors, she said, were not certain the judge would have sentenced gates, if convicted, to 16 consecutive five-year terms. mrs. o'connor said one reason she decided to accept the plea agreement was the recent federal appeals court ruling against automatic post-accident drug testing for all railroad workers
families of victims, survivors and friends filled the small courtroom, some crying and others shaking their heads while a prosecutor read a 42-page statement of facts detailing the crash and actions by gates and cromwell
after the hearing, gates told reporters outside the courthouse, ``i am ultimately responsible for the crash and for my negligence. i can't begin to imagine the pain and grief of the families. i am sorry.''
the sentence is woefully inadequate,'' said arthur johnson, a founder of safe travel america, whose daughter christy was killed in the crash
i am grossly disappointed that he can cause tens of millions of dollars in damage and kill 16 people and still face only five years on a misdemeanor charge,'' said dr. roger horn, whose 16-year-old daughter ceres was killed
cromwell, who was not charged, was granted immunity from prosecution and was scheduled to testify against gates
the statement, agreed to by both sides, blamed gates for missing two track signals and allowing the locomotives to skid through a switch where four tracks converge to two about 600 yards before the gunpowder river bridge crossing
the statement revealed that gates lied to the national transportation safety board about the track signals and about his and cromwell's drug use on the train
according to the statement, the first signal 1.7 miles from the switch indicated that the conrail engines should slow down and stop before crossing onto the amtrak track. gates had insisted the signal told him to proceed
the statement blamed gates for failing to replace a cab warning light bulb and fix a whistle that was taped over. either warning device would have alerted gates to the stop signals, the statement said
the statement also reported that cromwell said he and gates had smoked part of a marijuana cigarette in the cab shortly after leaving baltimore
following the crash, cromwell ran back to the conrail engines to get his marijuana pipe, which he then discarded in the yard of a nearby home, the statement said. he left the scene while gates stayed to help the rescue effort, the statement said
gates and cromwell met at cromwell's home on jan. 6, the night before they met with ntsb investigators and agreed to a version of the events that would not incriminate either of them. nuclear missiles</head>
defense secretary george younger said tuesday that a refusal by west germany to continue deploying short-range nuclear missiles would leave a ``gaping hole'' in nato's ability to back up conventional forces with a nuclear threat
younger also said he hoped nato will make decisions as early as this spring on modernizing nuclear forces following the superpower agreement to withdraw their land-based medium-range missiles from europe
i think they (west germany) will talk about it a lot, raise it a lot, but not actually press it because ... it would leave a gaping hole in flexible response,'' younger said, speaking at a lunch for american reporters
nato flexible response strategy calls for the use of nuclear weapons, starting with the shortest range, if conventional forces are being overrun
the superpower agreement has provoked a furious argument in west germany about whether to modernize, or even maintain, missiles with ranges up to 300 miles after the superpower agreement
west germany, the east bloc's closest neighbor, sees itself as being left uniquely vulnerable to nuclear attack both as the main depository of short-range missiles and the only western ally within range of similar soviet missiles
by far, greater danger faced by us and by germany is the huge conventional imbalance _ those thousands of (soviet) tanks which are ready to roll across the north german plains,'' said younger
on modernizing remaining nuclear forces, younger said he hoped decisions could be made at nato's military planning group meeting in april, but this might not be possible until the autumn
we shall be in a position to decide as soon as we see the proposals,'' said younger
he said that if nato ``lowers its guard now,'' the soviets will never agree to the proposed halving of superpower long-range missiles, or do deals on chemical and conventional weapons
his remarks reflected the british view that the united states should not negotiate with moscow on eliminating short-range missiles unless there is agreement to ban chemical weapons and cut soviet superiority in conventional armaments
asked about a recent suggestion by u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci that the united states might withdraw troops from europe if west germany rejected nuclear missiles, younger said any american troop withdrawal would ``send the wrong signal.''
it was vital, he said, to nato cohesion that nobody doubted america's commitment to the belief that ``the defense of the western free world starts in europe.''
the cabinet on tuesday approved an ordinance that will give government employees a taste of the five-day workweek
beginning in april, about 1.1 million public sector workers will alternate between the new system and the old one of six-day workweeks, said katsunari miyoshi of the management and coordination agency
the new system will give workers two five-day weeks and two six-day weeks each month
the cabinet move came more than six years after the five-day system was started on a trial basis in november 1981, miyoshi said
japan's trading partners, including the united states, have called for shorter working hours for japanese workers. increased leisure time translates into greater spending, which helps boost japan's domestic consumption and correct its trade imbalances
in the private sector, 50.9 percent of japanese companies with a workforce of 30 or more currently operate on a five-day workweek, according to a labor ministry survey
eleven companies conspired in a bid-rigging scheme that inflated the price of lunchroom milk by at least $10 million over a decade, an antitrust lawsuit charged tuesday
the ultimate effect of the conspiracy was to take coins from the pockets of florida's school children. we find that to be shameful,'' said florida attorney general robert butterworth, holding up empty half-pint milk cartons similar to those sold in schools
the federal civil suit, filed in miami by the attorney general's office, represents the largest antitrust action ever taken against the milk industry and may be as far-reaching as the highway bid-rigging scandals that rocked some states in the late 1970s, butterworth said
the investigation, butterworth said, could result in criminal charges in florida and may spread to other states as well
the suit was filed against seven major milk producers and four florida distributors, alleging that high-level officials of the companies established production levels, divided the florida market among themselves and fixed an inflated price on half-pint cartons of milk over the past 10 years
company spokesmen had little to say about the allegations on tuesday
the attorney general said the overcharges exceeded at least $10 million because, his office estimated, the price of each carton was inflated by more than 1 penny. more than 1 billion cartons were sold during the 10-year period
butterworth said the state is seeking more than $30 million from the companies, or three times the amount of the alleged overcharges. if the state is awarded damages, the money will be distributed to the public school boards in 32 florida counties that bought the milk and resold it to students, he said
dairy processors named in the suit were southland corp. (velda farms) of dallas; borden inc. of columbus, ohio; flavorich inc. of louisville, ky.; dean foods products co. of chicago; pet inc. of st. louis, mo.; kraft (sealtest) of chicago; and hart's dairy (dean foods) of fort myers, fla
distributors named in the suit were marshall simmons enterprise of mango; pierson distributors inc. of opa locka; h&amp;t distributors inc. of homestead; and butler foods of naples. all four are in florida
we understand that the florida attorney general has filed a lawsuit ... we have not been served with a copy of the suit,'' said william fischer, financial vice president of dean foods
we are aware the investigation has been going on in florida and that a number of our employees have been subpoenaed over the past few months. other than that, we really don't have anything else to add,'' fischer said
scott horne, a media relations assistant for kraft, was not immediately available for comment, his secretary said
borden spokesman chris tilton said the company had not seen a copy of the lawsuit and had no comment
there was no immediate comment from other milk producers contacted. the four florida distributors referred telephone calls to the companies whose products they distribute
these companies went to extraordinary lengths to conceal their conspiracy from government officials,'' butterworth said. ``the scope and design of the conspiracy made it almost impossible for an individual school district to detect it.''
butterworth said the attorney general's office has been feeding data from florida school boards into a computer for analysis for the past two years. he declined to say what prompted the investigation
the lawsuit alleged the conspiracy involved florida counties south of ocala and mostly affected the dade, broward and hillsborough school districts. the 32 counties buy about 171.8 million cartons of milk a year at an annual cost of $25.7 million
accusing management of union-busting tactics, 2,500 tugboat workers and other marine employees went on strike against nine companies tuesday. the walkout had little effect on the flow of goods through new york harbor, officials said
my understanding from this morning is that boats were being loaded,'' said stephen berger, executive director of the port authority of new york and new jersey
no problems,'' said gregory storey of the new york shipping association, an umbrella group for deep sea shipping companies
albert cornette, president of local 333 of the international longshoremen's association, said his 2,500 members unanimously rejected the companies' demands for the elimination of 750 jobs and for wage and benefit givebacks
they have been telling our people, `we'll bust you.' what does that mean?'' asked cornette. ``they said they would take a strike rather than renew or negotiate our contracts.''
negotiations were suspended monday and no further meetings were scheduled, cornette said
police established a temporary base on staten island near seven of the companies, which have hired temporary replacements for the strikers
five firms have locked the workers out and four have not come to terms, cornette said. he said the union has signed with nine other companies, and 10 others have unexpired contracts
officials of the marine-towing companies refused to comment
salaries for local 333 members range from $385 a day for captains to $175 a day for deckhands, based on a 12-hour day with overtime, cornette said. he said members' wages average about $35,000 a year
an experimental drug for treatment of one of the main life-threatening infections associated with aids was approved for wider use tuesday
health and human services secretary otis r. bowen said trimetrexate has been moved into the ``treatment investigational new drug'' category for treatment of certain pneumocystis carinii pneumonia patients
however, because the drug has potentially lethal side-effects it must be used in conjunction with another drug called leucovorin that mitigates those effects
under food and drug administrations conditions accompanying approval for wider use of trimetrexate, it is to be distributed to patients who have shown a severe adverse reaction to the two drugs already on the market for treating pneumocystis carinii
elaine baldwin, a spokeswoman for the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, said that means trimetrexate is likely to be available to about 300 patients nationwide
she said it will be made available free to patients who qualify, with niaid _ a branch of the national institutes of health _ and the manufacturer, warner-lambert co. of morris plains, n.j., handling distribution and bearing the cost
despite the existence of two powerful drugs to treat the rare form of pneumonia, scientists involved in clinical trials have been interested in the possibility that trimetrexate may prove less toxic for some patients when it is used in conjunction with leucovorin
this treatment ind will allow us to offer an important treatment alternative to severely ill patients who cannot tolerate the standard therapy,'' said niaid director anthony s. fauci
under the so-called treatment ind category, drug developers and researchers can make promising experimental drugs available to patients with immediately life-threatening diseases before the drugs have passed full safety and efficacy review by the fda
that makes it more widely available to certain patients, but under more carefully controlled conditions than when a drug wins approval for general marketing
bowen made the announcement at the start of a two-day seminar sponsored jointly by the fda and american medical association to familiarize health professions with the new treatment ind rules that went into effect late last year
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections. the virus most often is spread through close contact with blood, blood products or semen from infected persons
the incurable condition is believed caused by an unusual virus, now called human immunodeficiency virus or hiv
its chief victims have been homosexual men and intravenous drug users, although a small percentage of cases are attributed to transfusions of contaminated blood, heterosexual contact and spread from infected pregnant women to their offspring
a distraught, naked man set fire to his home and jumped through a window into the flames and died, police said tuesday
brian e. morgan, 28, was despondent over a breakup with his girlfriend, whose parents own the hollywood hills house in which he had been living, police lt. roger fox said
morgan's body was recovered in the living room late monday night, fox said
neighbors reported morgan set fires inside the house before running outside and trying to ignite a gas meter, police detective john clark said
when that failed he lighted a towel he was carrying and told onlookers, ``i have to die,'' clark said
when firefighters arrived shortly after 11 p.m. they saw the naked man standing on the porch of the flaming house, city fire department spokesman jim wells said. ``then he dove through the window,'' wells said
therapists were called in to counsel firefighters traumatized by witnessing the suicide, wells said
damage was limited mainly to the living room and was estimated at $15,000
authorities declinded to identify the homeowners or their daughter
another field trial has been approved for testing genetically altered tomato plants that can survive spraying of a chemical herbicide to kill surrounding weeds, the agriculture department said tuesday
james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said a permit for the field test was issued to e. i. du pont de nemours &amp; co., wilmington, del. the company expects to begin testing this spring near brandenton, fla
the genetically engineered plants were designed to tolerate sulfonylurea, described as a new class of low-risk chemical weed killers. glosser said his agency ``completed a thorough review of the methodology and scientific data and determined that the tests would not have a significant impact on the environment.''
by using plants that can withstand herbicides, farmers could kill weeds without having to worry about hurting their crops
the du pont field trial is the third test approved by the usda agency. previously, permits were issued to calgene inc., davis, calif., for tobacco and tomato plants that tolerate the herbicides bromoxynil and glyphosate
glosser said the field tests are all similar. two groups of plants _ one genetically engineered and the other conventionally grown _ are sprayed with the same herbicide
angolan army troops killed four south african soldiers in a clash in southern angola, south african army commander gen. jamie geldenhuys said tuesday
geldenhuys said the soldiers were killed during the weekend when angolan troops fired a soviet-made anti-aircraft gun at a vehicle in which the soldiers were riding, but gave no further details about the time or place
his statement tuesday was the first confirmation from south africa of repeated reports from the marxist angolan government that south african forces were still fighting in support of the angolan rebel movement, unita
since the weekend, unita has achieved resounding success and fapla (the angolan government army) is now retreating in disarray and trying to organize a desperate last stand,'' he said
the angolan defense ministry said south african forces launched a new attack east of the southern city of cuito cuanavale sunday, leaving ``considerable casualties on both sides,'' angola's state-run angop news agency reported tuesday
the angop report, in a dispatch monitored in lisbon, portugal, apparently referred to the same battle
the south africans announced fighting a major battle in november against cuban- and soviet-led angolan forces at cuito cuanavale, and later reported the deaths of more than 40 south african and south-west african soldiers in angola, without specifying where or how they died
since announcing in december that its forces were withdrawing from angola, the south african defense force has refused to comment on angolan government estimates of south african troop strength
angop quoted the angolan defense ministry as estimating tuesday that 7,000 south african troops remained in angola's southern cuando-cubango province after recent reinforcements
angop reported heavy fighting was still under way late monday 12 miles east of cuito cuanavale
unita leader jonas savimbi claimed his troops forced the government soldiers out of cuito cuanavale several weeks ago. he said unita now surrounds the deserted town, which had been the annual starting point for the government's dry-season offensives against rebel strongholds in the southeast
the rebels also receive military aid from the united states, while the government receives soviet military aid and has a reported cuban support force of 40,000 regulars in the mineral-rich nation
in lisbon tuesday, unita released a statement saying it has allowed the international committee of the red cross to resume its activities in the war-wracked southern african nation
the note, signed by unita leader jonas savimbi, said the rebels ``authorized resumption of (red cross) activities to the (angolan) people.''
unita has been fighting a wide-ranging bush war since 1976, the year after angola secured its independence from portugal, to force the government to share power
the afl-cio on tuesday condemned israel's ``use of excessive force'' against palestinian civilians on the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip, its first-ever rebuke of israel
the condemnation was issued by the 14.3-million-member labor federation's executive council an hour after meeting with secretary of state george shultz. shultz is scheduled to make a week-long visit to the middle east feb. 24 to promote new negotiations between israel and jordan on palestinian self-rule
the afl-cio blamed islamic fundamentalists for ``fueling the flames of violence in the occupied territories,'' but said the palestinian demonstrations did not warrant unnecessary force used by israeli defense forces
no doubt such incidents can be attributed to the inexperience of the israeli army in riot control and other police functions, and to the frustrations of israeli soldiers as they confront young palestinians hurling stones and petrol bombs,'' the federation said. ``these factors may explain, but they cannot excuse, and the afl-cio cannot condone, the use of excessive force against civilians.''
the federation, however, rejected what it called a ``notion that israel must now redeem itself by turning the west bank and gaza strip over to the palestine liberation organization.'' more than 50 palestinians have been killed and thousands of others have been injured or arrested by israeli forces in the occupied territories since early december
rex hardesty, a spokesman for the labor federation, said it is the first time the afl-cio has made any criticism of an israeli action. ``they haven't crushed children's hands before,'' he said
the annual winter meeting of the labor leaders here was shultz's last stop of an extended weekend in southern florida to gain support from traditional friends of israel for his effort to soften israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir's opposition to entering new peace negotiations
shultz addressed a meeting of the b'nai b'rith anti-defamation league in palm beach on friday, seeking help from the u.s. jewish community in pressing shamir to show more flexibility
there's been so much emphasis on the process ... direct negotiations on the one hand, an international conference or some kind of international vehicle on the other ... that the discussion has become a little sterile,'' he said tuesday. ``if we are going to get going, we need to talk a little bit more about the substance of what might happen.'' home</head>
comedian red skelton will read a tribute to his longtime friend frederick loewe during a public memorial service wednesday in the composer's desert home
loewe, who collaborated with lyricist alan jay lerner on classic songs for ``my fair lady,'' ``brigadoon,'' ``camelot,'' ``gigi'' and other musicals, died sunday. he was 86
the memorial service will be held in loewe's palm springs home at 11 a.m. wednesday, with skelton delivering the eulogy, diana wiefel of wiefel &amp; son funeral home said tuesday
his music will be immortal. the world will always hear him speak, feel his emotions, for he has only put on a shroud that makes him invisible,'' skelton, a friend for 45 years, said monday
loewe will be buried wednesday during a private ceremony at nearby desert memorial park in cathedral city, ms. wiefel said. the time wasn't disclosed to assure privacy
loewe was the co-creator of songs like ``on the street where you live,'' ``if ever i would leave you,'' and ``they call the wind maria.''
among the lerner-loewe musicals were ``brigadoon'' in 1947, ``paint your wagon'' in 1951, ``my fair lady'' in 1956 and ``camelot'' in 1960. the duo produced ``gigi'' in 1958 as a movie and in 1973 for the stage
loewe won tony awards for his work on ``my fair lady'' and ``gigi.''
some of the songs the team produced were ``almost like being in love,'' ``i could have danced all night,'' ``get me to the church on time'' and ``thank heaven for little girls.''
loewe married the former ernestine zerline in 1931 and was divorced 26 years later. the couple had no children
lerner died in 1986
cattle being fed for the slaughter market as of feb. 1 in the seven major beef states totaled 7.86 million head, up 8 percent from a year ago and 3 percent from two years ago, the agriculture department said tuesday
marketings of ``fed'' cattle in january totaled 1.76 million head, down 2 percent from a year ago but 1 percent above two years ago
the placement of new cattle and calves in fattening pens last month was reported at 1.66 million head, up 4 percent from a year ago and 5 percent more than in january 1986. the report said those were the largest january feedlot placements since 1974
as of feb. 1, feedlot inventories were larger than a year earlier in six states and down in iowa. the states account for about three-fourths of the nation's beef production
state feedlot cattle inventories are listed here for the seven tates. the first number is the number of cattle, in thousands, as of feb. 1, and the second number is the percentage of a year earlier
arizona          341  104 california       400  111 colorado         865  107 iowa             655   98 kansas         1,390  107 nebraska       2,000  106 texas          2,205  113
mayor andrew young apologized tuesday to local ministers for remarks last week about presidential candidates pat robertson and jesse jackson which were interpreted as being critical of preachers
young, speaking last week to a group of student journalists, said, ``i don't think you can go directly from the pulpit to the presidency.'' though young was specifically critical of robertson, a former television evangelist, in his speech, he also extended his remarks to include black preachers, of which jackson is one
young, himself an ordained congregationalist minister, told black clergymen tuesday his remarks were intended to be tongue-in-cheek
i consider myself a preacher,'' young said. ``i in no way intended or suggested that there was anything involved in the ministry of the gospel that should be taken lightly. i think i was guilty of making a tongue-in-cheek statement that i think the audience understood (and) implied no disrespect.''
suggesting that robertson and jackson lack the experience to be president, young told the students: ``if you're a preacher, you talk for a living, so even if you don't make sense, you learn to make nonsense eloquently
not that black preachers are different from white preachers, but black preachers start out not intending to make sense,'' he said
democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson is scheduled to attend a rally this weekend for striking mobil employees, a union official says
texas attorney general jim mattox and texas afl-cio president harry hubbard also plan to attend the saturday afternoon rally, said jimmy herrington, secretary and treasurer for the local oil, chemical and atomic workers international union
about 1,350 mobil employees went on strike feb. 4 over the staffing of a new centralized control center at the refinery. mobil wants to use supervisory employees, while the union insists that its members work the jobs
members of the international brotherhood of electrical workers local also struck mobil because the company wants to relax some rules regarding which employees can perform electrical work
key supporters of tennessee sen. albert gore were invited to view the democratic presidential contender via satellite at ``countdown to super tuesday'' breakfasts in the immediate wake of the new hampshire primary
gore's campaign said tuesday the candidate would speak from houston to countdown breakfasts in more than 50 locations in the 20 states that select convention delegates on march 8, super tuesday
gore's remarks for the wednesday morning telecast were characterized by his campaign manager, fred martin, as ``a national message'' broadcast to ``the people who will carry his message to the voters on super tuesday.''
gore wrote off the iowa caucuses and spent little time in new hampshire, preferring to direct his resources on his native south and its rich lode of delegates
police hunted tuesday for four men who burst into a recording studio wielding machine guns and ordered about 40 partygoers to strip before robbing them
witnesses said the bandits were looking for twin cities vocalist alexander o'neal, who recently topped the black music charts with ``fake.'' but o'neal was not at the party, which followed a concert by him in minneapolis, when the men burst into the small studio in the basement of a st. paul beauty salon
joseph karriem, a victim and the son of the salon owner, said the robbers appeared to be under the mistaken impression that members of o'neal's band had brought with them a significant amount of money earned from the concert
they came ready to rob fort knox,'' karriem said
they were looking for the money from the orpheum,'' said karriem's mother, tommie. ``they came in here looking for alexander o'neal.''
police had no suspects, lt. robert anderson, head of the st. paul police robbery unit, said tuesday
however, anderson said investigators believe none of the money stolen was concert proceeds. the total value of goods and cash stolen has yet to be compiled, he added
according to ms. karriem, the men who broke up the party at 4 a.m. monday forced some guests to strip to their underwear and others to strip completely
we were all deathly afraid,'' said ms. karriem. ``these were terrorists. they made us lay on top of each other naked in the corner and pointed the machine guns at our heads. they told us what they were, thompsons and uzis.''
anytime anyone would look up from the floor, the robbers would threaten to shoot,'' police sgt. michael schwab said monday. ``they took everything _ jewelry, wallets, keys, coats.''
o'neal's bass player, rocky garrity, walked in during the middle of the robbery and was beaten with a gun until he went into convulsions, said ms. karriem. garrity was treated at st. paul-ramsey medical center and released, authorities said
joseph karriem said the bandits ``had plenty of time to leave, but they wanted to torment us. ... they were even talking about wasting the police
i've never seen anything like this in st. paul or minneapolis.''
karriem said he believes the party-goers were set up by someone who knew about the celebration
witnesses said the gunmen left a message for o'neal, 34, who went to houston after the concert monday
they told us to tell alex that their children didn't have nothing for christmas, but they had something now,'' karriem said
two men drove a car through the front doors of a supermarket, jumped out brandishing a machine gun, held up the store, then backed the car out of the debris and fled, witnesses told police
the men did not speak, and frightened employees ran down aisles and hid, police said. the manager ran into her office, closed the door and called police
the men had fled with an estimated $2,500 to $3,000 from store's safe, which was open at the time of the late monday night robbery, police said
the getaway car was found, but no arrests were reported
the reagan administration said tuesday it has begun an investigation into allegations that the government of south korea has unfairly restricted u.s. cigarette sales in its markets
the korean cigarette market is approximately $2.1 billion (a year) and is totally controlled by government monopoly,'' u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said in a statement announcing the investigation
the inquiry could lead to retaliatory tariffs against south korean products if the government finds that the korean restrictions constitute an unfair trading practice
the government action came on a petition filed last month by the u.s. cigarette export association, which contends that korean barriers are causing u.s. firms to lose $500 million annually in potential exports
in his statement, yeutter said the industry petition ``raises questions about whether policies of the korean government restrict u.s. companies from open and non-discriminatory access to the korean cigarette market.''
during the investigation, the united states will make additional efforts to resolve this issue with the korean government,'' yeutter said, noting that the petition had been accepted ``following extensive consultations between the two governments over the past two years aimed at achieving open and non-discriminatory market access.''
earlier this month, the u.s. government stripped duty-free import treatment from products from south korea and three other asian exporters _ hong kong, taiwan and singapore
the united states last year ran a $7.1 billion trade deficit with south korea
in a related move, the american meat institute on tuesday filed a petition protesting a south korean ban on the import of high-quality beef, claiming the ban is costing it $5 million a year. the government has 45 days to act on the petition. shot</head>
assailants tossed two hand grenades into a crowded hindu temple during a religious festival tuesday, killing at least five people and injuring 10 others, police and eyewitnesses said
police said the grenades were flung at the kathiresan temple in the heart of colombo on the main galle road. more than 60 people were inside the temple at the time of the explosions, temple officials said
the temple's clock, which was shattered in the blasts, showed the time of the attack as 7:51 p.m. coconuts, bananas and beetle leaves brought by devotees as sacred offerings were scattered throughout the temple's blood-splattered inner chambers
the victims of the blast were believed to be tamils. police, army officials and a temple priest refused to speculate on who might be responsible for the attack
the explosions at the temple occurred just hours after a major politician and popular film star, vijaya kumaranatunga, was gunned down by suspected sinhalese extremists at his home. another person injured in the gunfire later died in the hospital
police said they did not know if the two attacks were related
sri lanka has been torn by tamil separatist violence in the north and east. the tamils, who are mainly hindu and form 18 percent of the country's 16 million people, say they are discriminated against by the buddhist sinhalese majority
s. pathmanabha, a priest at the kathiresan temple, told the associated press he was about to begin the main ceremony of the shivaratri religious festival when the blasts occurred
more than 100 army troops and policemen cordoned off the area and launched a massive search for the assailants. the police also searched for other hidden explosives in the vicinity
an officer from the army's bomb disposal squad said the grenades were m-14s believed to be manufactured in singapore
police blamed kumaranatunga's death, meanwhile, on the outlawed people's liberation front, an extremist sinhalese organization that opposes the india-sri lanka peace accord signed july 29 to end the tamil ethnic war
kumaranatunga, 43, had supported the accord, which grants some autonomy to tamil-dominated areas in exchange for a surrender of arms. the largest tamil rebel group has rejected the accord
more than 45,000 indian troops are in sri lanka to disarm the tamil rebels and enforce the peace accord. india is involved because of the sympathies of its own 60 million tamils and its role as a regional power
kumaranatunga, a leader of the sri lanka mahajana (people's) party and son-in-law of former prime minister sirimavo bandaranaike, was expected to run as a presidential candidate of a three-party alliance in 1989. the alliance issued a statement monday, condemning the killings of politicians by sinhalese militants
kumaranatunga was gunned down when two men rode up to him on a motorcycle at about noon and opened fire with an ak-47 or a t-56 submachine gun, according to ignatius canagaratnam, chief of the police crime detection bureau
the gunmen escaped after the crime, canagaratnam said. the other victim of the attack was identified as upali sarath, an artist, he said
the plo said tuesday it will attack israeli targets to avenge the killing of three guerrillas and the bombing of a ship intended to carry palestinians on a protest voyage to israel
abu nidal's dissident plo group, known for terrorist attacks, also vowed revenge
two of the bodies, of mohammed sultan and mohammed buheis, were flown to amman, jordan, for burial
the palestine liberation organization has blamed israeli secret service, mossad, for the killings sunday and the explosion monday on the ferry sol phryne, both in limassol. the ferry was holed below the waterline
cyprus condemned both attacks but made no accusations, and said an investigation was being conducted to determine whether the events were related
a plo statement issued in nicosia said: ``israel knows that the plo is not handcuffed. ... the blood of our martyrs will not go unavenged.''
sultan, buheis and the third guerrilla, marwan kayyali, were killed in a car bombing in limassol, on the southern coast
they apparently were attacked after arranging the sale of the sol phryne to a plo-affiliated company for the ``ship of return'' voyage to israel with 130 palestinians who have been expelled from israeli-occupied arab territories. the trip originally was to have begun at piraeus, greece
in athens, plo spokesman bassam abu sharif said the three men were not linked to the voyage
we deny completely any relationship between the three who were assassinated by the israelis two days ago in limassol and the journey of return,'' he told reporters. ``we deny any relationship between the three martyrs and chartering the boat. ... we deny also ... that the ship was bought by the three men.''
he said they were ``on a different mission.''
we are continuing our plans and we will sail, in spite of israeli terrorists who are using bombs against ideas, noble ideas,'' abu sharif said
cleanthis vlahopoulos, captain of the ferry, said ``several months'' would be needed to make the sol phryne seaworthy again
in lebanon, a statement by the abu nidal group pledged to avenge the guerrillas' deaths with ``double, swift retaliation.''
abu nidal, whose real name is sabry al-banna, has been blamed for terrorist attacks around the world since splitting from yasser arafat's mainstream fatah guerrillas in the early 1970s. he is wanted in europe and the united states
a senior plo official in nicosia said the slain guerrillas were not members of abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council, but ``they were popular, active and well-respected officers with whom abu nidal had worked before he split from fatah.''
also in lebanon, a group calling itself islamic jihad squads in palestine said it would kill prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel agriculture minister ariel sharon ``as a price for this crime.'' the threat was contained in a statement delivered to a western news agency in beirut
a man claiming to speak for the u.s.-based jewish defense league said monday it was responsible for the attack on the 6,151-ton sol phryne
the jdl is responsible for the bombing at limassol,'' he told the associated press in nicosia by telephone. ``this is only a warning. next time we will bomb it with all the people on it.''
the head of the jewish defense league, irv rubin, told the associated press in a telephone interview monday from los angeles that the bombing was a ``righteous action'' but his organization was not involved
shamir has said the voyage would be considered ``a declaration of war'' and israel would stop it ``in the ways it sees suitable.''
israel's transport minister, chaim corfu, appeared to suggest on tuesday that his government was behind the bombing
if the plo obtains another vessel, ``its fate will be the same,'' he said on israel radio. ``we knew we wouldn't allow the boat to reach israel. if we could prevent its departure, that was obviously the right thing to do.''
a new disease-resistant iceberg lettuce, autumn gold, may be on the market within a year, the agriculture department said tuesday
according to developer edward j. ryder, a usda scientist at salinas, calif., autumn gold resists mosaic virus, which causes lettuce plants to have small, distorted heads and unhealthy-looking dark and light green patterns
the virus is spread through lettuce fields by green peach aphids, which use needle-like mouth parts to pierce a leaf and suck its juices
growers will find the variety ideal for november and december harvest in the san joaquin, palo verde and imperial valleys of california and the desert farmlands of arizona,'' ryder said in a statement issued in washington
most of the nation's winter lettuce comes from those areas
paul t. orsetti, president of brinker orsetti seed co., inc., watsonville, calif., said results from trials of autumn gold in california and arizona ``seem to be very promising, so we are optimistic about the variety.''
the superconducting super collider, a $4.4 billion project sought by seven states, was warmly supported by people attending public hearings in texas and michigan on tuesday
contrary to some other areas in the united states who are reluctant to participate in this razor edge of technology and engage in what i call frontier spirit, we in texas believe in this project and this community is 100 percent behind it,'' gov. bill clements said at a hearing in waxahachie
only a few people among about 600 who attended a hearing at in stockbridge, mich., expressed reservations. a union official described the mood at that session as a ``pep rally,'' with young women handing out buttons extolling the ssc and banners and road signs declaring, `michigan is the place to be.''
arizona, colorado, illinois, north carolina and tennessee also are semi-finalists in the selection process. new york dropped out because of strong local opposition at its proposed site
scientists say the super collider, a huge atom-smasher 53 miles in circumference, will provide new depth in high energy physics research
when completed in 1996, the facility is expected to provide 2,500 jobs and an annual payroll of $270 million
clements spoke near the beginning of a public hearing on the environmental impact of the project on ellis county, south of dallas
officials said 112 people had signed up to make comments during the 4{-hour hearing tuesday afternoon. a second hearing was scheduled for the evening
local and state officials asserted the project has overwhelming support in the area southeast of lansing, mich
people have questions, but once those questions are answered, people are overwhelmingly supportive,'' said state rep. debbie stabenow, a democrat whose district would include part of the accelerator
tuesday's meeting was advertised by the u.s. department of energy as an ``environmental scoping'' session to explain the project and allow citizens a chance to comment about issues which should be considered in preparing an environmental impact statement
this is not a public referendum, but it is important we understand how people feel,'' said brian quirke, a spokesman for the doe
michigan needs it for (economic) diversification,'' said dick howlett, a member of the stockbridge village council, which unanimously supports the project
he said some property owners who would be displaced are worried about compenstation, but he said three-quarters of the people who attended a recent council meeting supported the project
however, one man questioned whether the project had a military application
i personally feel it will be a tool used for military uses,'' said steve grose of onondaga. ``there is no doubt it would be used for military means.''
the senate gave voice vote approval tuesday to the nomination of ronald f. lehman to be the pentagon's new assistant secretary of defense for international security
lehman replaces richard n. perle, who resigned in december to return to private life
lehman moves to the pentagon from the white house, where he helped negotiate the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty which is now pending in the senate
the nation's armed forces are running short of a critical spare part _ uniforms
the situation has gotten so bad, according to a new survey, that the marine corps is issuing ious for coats to enlisted men and women
moreover, the navy is reducing its supplies of peacoats and blue jumpers at military exchanges to clothe recruits graduating from boot camp; the air force has reduced from two to one the number of blue service coats issued to many recruits, and the army is running out of coats, short-sleeve shirts, field caps and trousers
as the newspaper navy times stated tuesday: ``the naked truth is that the military is running out of uniforms.''
the independent newspaper said it had surveyed the four services and found agreement that the shortage could be traced to the defense personnel support center in philadelphia. that center has been wracked over the past year by a kickback scandal involving a handful of clothing companies and some defense department employees
recovering from the indictments (is) our major problem,'' said paul zebrowski, the deputy director of the center's clothing and textile directorate
it became impossible to do business with those companies. and even before, our production base was very small.''
the marine corps appears to be the hardest hit, the newspaper said, with dwindling stocks of all three types of its uniform coats
a recent directive instructed marine boot camps to issue one complete green uniform to recruits along with ``an appropriate `due member' certificate (iou) for the coats not issued.''
clothing stores also have been told to stop selling dress blue marine coats ``except to those individuals in receipt of orders where the blue uniform is required for the performance of duty,'' the directive added
in the navy, men and women already in the fleet are finding reduced selections of uniforms at exchanges when they need to replace worn clothes because the service is giving boot camps first priority
we feel very strongly that a recruit will have a full seabag when he leaves (boot camp),'' said becky atkins, a navy uniform official
the army is giving its recruits one field cap now instead of two, and last august started running low on certain sizes of coats after clothing contractors were debarred for misconduct
the air force, meanwhile, has been forced to cut back its issue of blue service coats to many recruits from two to one. those with coat sizes in short supply are being given cash allowances to buy their second coat after graduation, said capt. beth unklesbay
zebrowski declined to predict when the shortages might be alleviated, saying: ``we're fighting this on an item-by-item basis.''
a group of american scientists on tuesday disputed reagan administration statements that it was not practical to verify the dismantlement of nuclear warheads under an arms control agreement
members of the federation of american scientists outlined at a news conference a dismantlement plan worked out earlier this month in conjunction with the committee of soviet scientists against the nuclear threat, headed by roald sagdayev, head of the soviet civilian space agency
jeremy j. stone, president of the u.s. group, and members frank von hippel and theodore b. taylor, said they were concerned that defense secretary frank carlucci may have raised ``misconceptions'' in defending the intermediate-range nuclear forces pact. the pact calls for the elimination of all medium-range u.s. and soviet missiles
carlucci and other administration officials, defending the treaty against conservative sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., said it did not require the destruction of warheads from the banned missiles because verifying that step could expose secrets on how the devices are built
the administration further argued that destroying the warheads would free up weapons-grade plutonium which could be used by terrorists. and officials said the soviets could simply produce more weapons material to replace any destroyed
although stone, taylor and von hippel support the inf pact, they took issue with carlucci, and proposed a system under which warheads could be dismantled and the material either used in reactors or buried underground
under the plan, the soviet union and united states would each designate a dismantlement site, which would be closely monitored to prevent the clandestine entry or exit of nuclear material, said taylor, who worked in the national laboratory at los alamos in 1949-56 designing nuclear weapons
nuclear warheads entering the site would be ``tagged'' for identification and ``fingerprinted'' by neutron probes, x-rays or gamma rays which the scientists said would verify that the devices contained nuclear materials but would not disclose their inner workings
the warheads would then be dismantled behind closed doors at the nation which owned them, and inspectors from the other nation would verify that nuclear material had left the site
in the case of american warheads, soviet ``inspectors'' would only have to verify that a batch of nuclear warheads had entered a u.s. dismantlement facility and that, after all the warheads had been dismantled and their components destroyed beyond recognition, no intact nuclear warheads remained inside, the scientists said in a statement
taylor and von hippel recommended that weapons-grade plutonium from the warheads be mixed with radioactive wastes and buried
they recommended that highly enriched uranium also used in nuclear weapons be used to fuel reactors for electric power plants. the estimated cost of dismantling the warheads, about $6 billion, would be dwarfed by the value of the fuel, about $50 billion, they said
taylor said in a paper that ``the approximately 1,000 tons of u-235 (enriched uranium) and 200 tons of plutonium in the world's more than 50,000 nuclear warheads could be consumed as fuel in all u.s. and soviet nuclear power plants in seven years, or in all the world's nuclear power plants in about three years.''
von hippel acknowledged that the scientists had not devised a fool-proof plan to enable each side to be assured that the correct type and number of warheads were being dismantled under an arms control agreement involving multiple systems
the gannett foundation announced 21 grants tuesday totaling $1.35 million in its literacy challenge, a program aimed at spurring the growth of adult literacy services
the aim of the literacy challenge is to stimulate state-level activity among adult-literacy groups and agencies. the foundation says it is the largest non-government source of funds for such cooperative efforts
the rochester, n.y., foundation, with assets of more than $600 million, has committed a total of more than $5 million to adult literacy projects since 1985. it has spent $2.5 million on the literacy challenge alone
nine awards went to new proposals and 12 were renewals in the program's second and final year
gannett foundation president eugene c. dorsey said, ``from the quality of the new proposals and the success so far of the renewal projects, we believe these states have taken major steps toward providing adult non-readers with coordinated, effective opportunities to learn to read.''
literacy experts say at least 25 million adults cannot read, and millions more struggle with the printed word
the new projects are:
alabama, $75,000 for the alabama public library service to start an alabama literacy coalition; alaska, $77,000 to nine star enterprises to support three projects of the alaska literacy challenge coalition;california, $100,000 to the state department of education on behalf of the california alliance for literacy to help train caseworkers; delaware, $52,000 to the state department of public instruction on behalf of the delaware coalition for literacy to recruit more volunteer tutors and other activities
also, kentucky, $100,000 to the kentucky foundation for literacy to develop tutor-training kits and model programs; mississippi, $100,000 to the state department of education to reduce the dropout rate from adult literacy instruction; new mexico, $100,000 for the new mexico coalition for literacy to launch projects involving two indian pueblos, a hispanic job-training organization and two community agencies; new york, $100,000 for the literacy volunteers of america in new york state on behalf of the state literacy council and department of education, to hold regional caucuses of teachers, tutors and adult learners
the dozen projects that won grant renewals were: illinois, the state board of education, $49,500; indiana, the governor's voluntary action program, $45,500; maine, department of educational and cultural services, $49,500; massachusetts, literacy volunteers of massachusetts, $50,000; minnesota, minnesota adult literacy campaign, $50,000; nevada, state library and archives, $48,000; oregon, oregon state university foundation, $45,500; pennsylvania, penn state university, $50,000; puerto rico, department of education, $48,000; rhode island, rhode island department of elementary and secondary education, $27,000; tennessee, tennessee literacy coalition, $50,000; washington state, washington literacy inc., $44,000
a permit that would have allowed japanese salmon fishermen to accidentally catch seals, killer whales and other mammals violated an animal-protection law, a federal appeals court ruled tuesday
the u.s. circuit court of appeals here upheld a preliminary injunction issued by a federal district judge last june that halted gillnet fishing for salmon by japanese fleets in the bering sea off alaska
in a 2-1 decision, a three-judge panel rejected an appeal by the federation of japan fisheries cooperative association to overturn the preliminary injunction issued by u.s. district judge norma holloway johnson
the injunction was obtained by an environmental group and a native alaskan fisherman's organization to stop the accidental taking of sea lions, fur seals, white porpoises and killer whales that could be ensnared in the nine-mile-long gillnets
as issued by the secretary of commerce, the three-year permit would have allowed the japanese fleet to accidentally catch 5,250 dall's porpoises in the northern pacific ocean _ including 789 in the bering sea
the court ruled that the permit, which allowed the japanese fishing fleet to pay fines for the fur seals it accidentally took, violated the marine mammal protection act
the interest in maintaining healthy populations of marine mammals comes first and the secretary cannot ignore the fur seals. he can include the northern fur seals in the permit only if he makes the requisite findings,'' the court said in an opinion by judge gerhard gesell
lacking such findings the permit cannot issue. moreover, he may not allow the federation merely to pay the price for taking protected marine mammals; and he must face up the taking of other marime mammals the record shows will inevitably occur if gillnet fishing is permitted,'' gesell said in the opinion joined by judge ruth b. ginsburg
judge kenneth starr filed a dissent, saying the majority decision ``is unsupported by the text, structure, or legislative history of the statute.''
the injunction was obtained by the center for environmental education and the kokechik fishermen's association. `maj. gen.' and inserts 2 after 22nd graf `the general' with detail</note>
israel's deputy chief of staff said tuesday some soldiers had committed ``totally unacceptable'' acts against palestinians, and hospital officials reported eight arabs wounded by troops in the west bank
maj. gen. ehud barak also said more than 200 israelis had been injured, most of them lightly, since arab riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. he said 53 palestinians had been killed, but the united nations puts the number at 54
barak and defense minister yitzhak rabin confirmed that some soldiers used a bulldozer to bury four palestinians alive near nablus in the west bank. the general declared: ``this pattern of behavior ... is totally unacceptable under the standards of the israeli defense forces and any civilized norms. whoever is found responsible for this event will be punished.''
neighbors rescued the four arabs shortly after they were buried
young palestinians set fire to a bus tuesday, burned tires and built road blocks in the occupied territories and arab east jerusalem, where a general strike virtually closed down arab communities and neighborhoods
riot police stopped a bus carrying israeli arab high school students from school in haifa to their homes in umm al fahm and beat several of them, the daily newspaper al hamishmar reported
an official at umm al fahm confirmed the report to the associated press. police declined comment
transport minister chaim corfu appeared to suggest israel bombed a ferry that was to carry arab deportees from a cyprus port to israel. if the palestine liberation organization obtained another vessel, he said, ``its fate will be the same.''
we knew we wouldn't allow the boat to reach israel,'' he said on israel radio. ``if we could prevent its departure, that was obviously the right thing to do.''
in the west bank, a soldier punched and shoved an israeli cameraman working for nbc news
the soldier said he asked the cameraman, ofir moradov, to stop filming a protest, but nbc correspondent martin fletcher said moradov did not hear the request. the army said the soldier was convicted of ``unbecoming conduct,'' but would not reveal his name or the sentence
barak said soldiers had not choice but to use beatings in an attempt to curb the riots
whatever amount of force is needed ... is something that in my judgment is forced upon us by the situation,'' he told a news conference of foreign reporters
we can't easily put the realities of life into a simple set of orders. the situation created during the control of a violent riot is much more complicated than it might seem.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir said on a visit to italy: ``we want to put an end to the riots and restore normal life. on the other hand, we don't want to kill people. ... i hope in the near weeks we will find the most right methods.''
we have to handle it in the most human limitations,'' he said, addressing a news conference in english. ``we have to defend ourselves and at the same time continue our efforts for finding peace.''
rabin, questioned about the beating policy during debate in parliament, said the orders to use force were necessary and ``to the best of my knowledge and judgment, are legal.''
he said the burial of the arabs at nablus ``will be treated with the full heaviness of the law. it's not imaginable that such an incident would happen in the israeli army.''
barak said the army is succeeding in ``gradually (improving) the caliber of behavior of our forces,'' but added: ``we are confronting a new type of threat. we cannot afford to yield to it, and we are not going to.''
he said protesters are ``led by a nucleus of activists who enjoy the support and cooperation of the masses.''
the organization is on the local, sometimes regional, level,'' he said, and the core consists of ``two or three thousand relatively young people.''
the general, who directed military intelligence in 1983-86, said he sees no quick end to the disturbances. he attributed the riots to ``decades of frustration on the personal, economic and political levels,'' not outside incitement
five people were wounded by gunfire and 12 injured by rubber bullets or beatings at the fawwar refugee camp, where about 4,000 palestinians live near hebron in the west bank, said officials at hebron's alia hospital. one described the wounds as ``moderate to light.''
israel radio said a riot started tuesday evening and residents stoned israeli soldiers, who fired several shots and wounded one protester. the military command said it was checking the reports
in kabatiyeh, a west bank village 35 miles north of jerusalem, soldiers opened fire to disperse protesters and wounded two young arabs in the legs, the arab-run palestine press service reported. it said another palestinian was wounded during a protest in nearby jenin
doctors at jenin hospital confirmed treating three men for gunshot wounds
army officials reported a protester wounded at kabatiyeh after he tried to wrest a gun from a soldier, but said they had no information about other shootings. up 10th `mock, one...'</note>
chancellor franz vranitzky said tuesday his coalition will survive a split over president kurt waldheim's conduct in world war ii, but the issue is isolating austria from the rest of the world
the socialist chancellor, in coalition with a conservative party that supported waldheim for the presidency, also repeated his threat to resign if the waldheim affair is not resolved
waldheim said he will sue der spiegel, a west german magazine that printed a copy of a document purportedly linking him to deportation of civilians in the balkans, where he was a lieutenant in the german army. the magazine has retracted the story and said the document probably was a fake
in london, prime minister margaret thatcher said britain will reopen the files on six commandos taken prisoner in 1944 on the german-occupied greek island of alimnia
we have taken the allegations concerning dr. waldheim very seriously, particularly those concerning british servicemen,'' she told the house of commons in a written reply to a question
an international commission of historians that investigated waldheim's past said in its report that it could not prove a connection between him and the commandos, but found the initial ``w'' on transcripts of interviews with the six men. the report suggested that waldheim knew the gestapo shot captured commandos
after meeting with deputy chancellor alois mock, head of the conservative people's party, vranitzky told reporters: ``we have clearly affirmed the intention to have this government continue.''
his statement seemed designed to quell speculation that divisions over waldheim might dissolve the coalition
the chancellor runs the government and the presidency is largely ceremonial. the socialists are the senior partner in the coalition with the people's party, which backed the former u.n. secretary-general for president in 1986
vranitzky criticized waldheim for what he called failure to take a clear stand on key points of the report by the commission of historians. the 202-page document said waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities, must have known about them and did nothing to stop them
in a televised speech monday, the president said he would not resign and asked austrians to unite behind him
mock, one of waldheim's staunchest backers, said tuesday the president's speech ``offered dialogue and said clearly he is conscious of his integral role.''
but vranitzky repeated his threat to resign, saying he can only lead ``in good conscience ... if the working conditions are such to allow me to assume these obligations in a responsible way.''
vranitzky also voiced concern about the impact of the affair on austria's tourism, economy and its relations with other western countries
major u.s. travel operators are flying americans to budapest rather than vienna, he said, adding: ``our business people cannot be easy about that.''
referring to austrian efforts to establish closer trade links with the european community, vranitzky noted, ``we can't be indifferent to the fact that in the whole year 1987 only two government leaders visited us.''
the soviet and liechtenstein premiers were in austria last year
what i really think is necessary for everybody in this country _ and therefore also for the president _ is to try to emerge from this isolation, out of this self-chosen inner emigration,'' vranitzky said
waldheim spokesman gerold christian said it was unclear exactly on what charges waldheim planned to sue der spiegel. under austrian law, the president must instruct state prosecutors to begin any legal proceedings on his behalf
der spiegel published in its feb. 1 edition a copy of a telegram allegedly linking waldheim to the deportation of more than 4,000 civilians from the kozara region in yugoslavia in 1942
a copy of the document was sold to der spiegel by a yugoslav journalist. the original could not be found. der spiegel in its current issue apologized for publishing what was ``most probably a fake.''
in may, waldheim instructed state prosecutors to sue world jewish congress president edgar bronfman for asserting that waldheim was ``part and parcel of the nazi killing machine.''
late last year, waldheim ordered prosecutors to sue the austrian magazine wiener, which published a supplement on the waldheim affair
a poll conducted for the conservative vienna daily die presse reflected rising public pressure for waldheim to resign. the telephone poll was based on interviews with 440 austrians
forty-six percent of those who responded were against resignation and 37 were in favor. two weeks ago, a similar poll said 72 percent of those surveyed opposed waldheim's resignation
forty-five percent of those polled said they wouldn't vote for waldheim if an election were held on sunday, while 34 percent said they would
a federal judge tuesday reset the start of teamsters president jackie presser's trial on labor racketeering and embezzlement charges to july 12, the second time the case has been delayed
presser, 60, is accused of creating a $700,000 scheme in which people were paid for doing no work at teamsters local 507, where he is secretary-treasurer. he was charged in 1986 with two counts of labor racketeering, one of embezzlement and two of filing false reports with the government
two co-defendants, harold friedman and anthony hughes, also are to stand trial then. friedman is a teamsters vice president and local 507 president, and hughes is the local's recording secretary
at an informal session with lawyers in the case, u.s. district judge george w. white said he was rescheduling the trial date ``not knowing what mr. presser's condition may be.'' friedman and hughes ``should be ready to go to trial,'' whether or not presser is ready, he said
pending legal matters caused the original trial date, aug. 10 of last year, to be delayed. the trial was reset to monday, but was delayed because of presser's health problems and a matter pending before the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals pertaining to defense discovery of evidence
white said he expects the trial to start on the assigned date this time ``unless the court of appeals tells me differently.''
three of presser's predecessors _ roy williams, jimmy hoffa and dave beck _ were convicted of federal crimes after becoming president of the union and resigned their posts. another predecessor, frank fitzsimmons, never had a police record and died while in office
presser assumed leadership of the 1.6 million-member union april 21, 1983, when a teamsters executive board allowed him to complete the five-year term of williams. he was re-elected in may 1986, a few days after he was indicted
last year, presser underwent surgery for removal of a lung tumor, but his doctors have since declared him free of cancer. chemotherapy and radiation treatments, however, have caused him health problems, and he is recuperating in phoenix, said john r. climaco, presser's lead defense lawyer
at tuesday's hearing, climaco said presser would agree to undergo a physical examination next week at georgetown university medical school with an endocrinologist the justice department has selected. with tass report on matlock refusing to meet with representatives of lithuanian republic. pickup 7th graf pvs ``activists called...''</note>
police and civilian auxiliary officers patrolled near churches, a historic cemetery and in the center of this baltic capital tuesday, preventing demonstrations to mark lithuania's brief independence
jadvyga beliauskiene, a roman catholic activist, told reporters shortly before midnight monday that four lithuanian nationalists were under house arrest to stop them from leading protests
a high profile by police, showing a harder line by soviet authorities against expressions of baltic nationalism, seemed to deter any large-scale showing of national feeling
western reporters brought to vilnius by the soviet foreign ministry for a government-approved visit were followed constantly in cars and on foot as they visited lithuanian activists and traveled through winding medieval streets to visit sites where protests had been scheduled
ms. beliauskiene, a former member of an anti-communist partisan movement in the 1940s who spent 12 years in prison, was one of about 200 people who signed a petition to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev in january asking that authorities not ``terrorize'' people who wanted to celebrate lithuanian independence
tuesday marked the 70th anniversary of lithuania's declaration of independence from soviet russia months after the bolshevik revolution brought the communists to power. lithuania was independent until it was absorbed by the soviet union in 1940
in moscow, the officials soviet news agency tass said u.s. ambassador jack matlock on tuesday declined to receive official representatives of the lithuanian soviet socialist republic who came to protest ``u.s. interference in the republic's internal affairs.''
thirty-two u.s. senators have written to gorbachev asking him not to interfere with this week's demonstrations and religious services in the soviet republics of lithuania and estonia
the state-controlled soviet news media has criticized similar congressional statements in the past for inciting public demonstrations in the baltic republics

activists called on citizens to pray at two vilnius churches and lay flowers at a monument to polish-lithuanian writer adam mickiewicz and the grave of jonas basanavicius, a doctor and champion of the lithuanian language who died 61 years ago, on feb. 16, 1927
the monument to mickiewicz was the scene of a demonstration on aug. 23 marking the anniversary of the 1939 german-soviet non-aggression pact that consigned most of lithuania to soviet control
we want to raise the consciousness of people so they remember they have the right to be free,'' said ms. beliauskiene, 59, who works as a file clerk in a government aids laboratory
witnesses said one woman was led away by police after she laid flowers at the monument to mickiewicz on tuesday evening. but they said she apparently was not arrested
nijole sadunaite, a roman catholic activist who spent six years in prison and exile for her role in distributing religious literature, met reporters monday night in the stairwell of an apartment house guarded by uniformed and plainclothes police
a uniformed officer told reporters that if they entered the apartment, they would be responsible for anything that happened to ms. sadunaite, 49
ms. sadunaite said kgb agents had attacked her, ripping the buttons from her coat and punching her in the stomach. she said her only goal was to ``honor the memory of the dear lithuanian people who died for our independence.''
we don't use tanks, we don't use machine guns, we don't even use profanity,'' she said nervously. ``even if they strike us, we do not strike back.''
kaunas, lithuania's second-largest city, also appeared quiet
mayor petras staskunas told western reporters who visited the city that dissident reports that nationalists had been injured in a scuffle with police on sunday were not true
there were no incidents in kaunas on sunday. we know these emigre organizations want things to happen here but nothing has happened,'' he said. ``we know there are extremists in this city. we won't hide it. but they have no influence or support.''
at the rasu cemetery, in the snow-covered hills near the center of vilnius, at least 18 policemen in gray coats and fur hats and auxiliary policemen wearing red armbands stood near the black granite pillar that marks the grave of basanavicius
bouquets of tulips and a lily had been placed on the grave and a solitary candle flickered in the chilly morning breeze, but there were no protesters
one of the two auxiliary policemen guarding the graveyard's white-washed stone gate said, ``we're here to keep up order.''
asked why so many police were deployed on the streets and at the historic sites, a member of the vilnius soviets, or local government, said, ``we have a saying in lithuanian: one drop of tar will spoil the whole jar of honey.''
police patrols of up to five members each strolled along lenin prospekt, the major shopping thoroughfare in this city of 600,000 people
about 20 worshipers, mostly elderly women wearing kerchiefs against the cold, attended 7:30 a.m. mass at st. anne's, one of the churches where activists had called for lithuanians to pray
beside the red brick gothic church, which dates from the late 14th century, 15 policemen and auxiliary officers stood guard at the monument to mickiewicz. graf: `quinn was ...' to show quinn's accomplices sted tibble's</note>
an american who was the first member of the irish republican army to be extradited from the united states was convicted tuesday of gunning down a london policeman in a ``cold-blooded killing untinged by any remorse.''
william quinn, a san francisco native, was sentenced to life in prison by judge christopher rose after a jury returned the guilty verdict at the old bailey criminal court
quinn, who pleaded innocent to killing off-duty officer stephen tibble, 21, in february 1975, refused to say anything during his five-day trial and showed no emotion as the verdict was read
he lost a widely publicized, five-year battle against extradition that went all the way to the u.s. supreme court
rose told quinn the shooting was an ``appalling, cold-blooded killing untinged by any remorse on your part, and motivated no doubt by the terrorist activities on which at that time you were engaged
you shot repeatedly and at point-blank range a man who was in fact a police officer, though you could not have known he was other than an ordinary member of the public,'' the judge said
carlene rohan, quinn's u.s. lawyer who testified for the defense, said quinn would not have been convicted in the united states
the evidence of identification would not have been permitted there,'' she said
his mother, juanita, attended the trial but had no comment on its outcome
the judge accepted a defense plea not to set a mandatory minimum sentence, which could free quinn in 10 or 15 years
quinn, who is of irish ancestry, was living in san francisco when he became an ira supporter and made trips to ireland in 1971 and 1974, court testimony indicated. prosecutors alleged that he and four other men were sent to mainland britain to carry out a string of bomb attacks
a man identified as quinn was leaving a house in west london on feb. 26, 1975, when two police officers on a burglary patrol became suspicous and stopped him for questioning
quinn fled but was confronted by tibble, who was off duty and driving by on motorcycle when he stopped to assist the other officers. prosecutors charged that quinn fired two shots into tibble's chest with a handgun
quinn was arrested in ireland on suspicion of belonging to the outlawed ira. police, meanwhile, arrested quinn's's accomplices, located the murder weapon and found a bomb-making operation in a house near where the slaying occurred. quinn's fingerprints were found on a road map and other items
quinn fled to san francisco but was arrested in 1981 by the fbi on a british warrant, setting in motion a protracted legal battle that culminated in early 1986, when a u.s. appeals court ruled 2-1 in favor of his extradition
he was extradited in october 1986 after the u.s. supreme court refused to hear his argument that the police shooting was a political offense, and therefore not covered by the u.s.-british extradition treaty. prize</head> bethe, sted betat; picks up 17th graf, `marvin goldberger ...'</note>
richard p. feynman, the brilliant, mischievous physicist who called his nobel prize ``a pain in the neck'' and helped shatter nasa's claim that cold weather didn't doom the shuttle challenger, has died of cancer at the age of 69
the theoretical physicist, who also helped develop the atomic bomb during the manhattan project of world war ii, died monday night at ucla medical center after an eight-year battle with abdominal cancer, said hospital spokesman rich elbaum said
the california institute of technology professor was noted for ``his almost compulsive need to solve puzzles, his provocative mischievousness, his indignant impatience with pretension and hypocrisy, and his talent for one-upping anybody who tries to one-up him,'' al hibbs, a former student and nasa scientist, said in the introduction to the best-selling 1985 autobiography ``surely you're joking, mr. feynman!''
it was certainly in character for feynman to conduct an impromptu experiment as a member of the presidential commission that investigated the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the shuttle challenger in which all seven crew members died
officials of the national aeronautics and space administration initially played down any possibility that cold weather impaired the resiliency of o-ring seals on the shuttle's booster rockets, thus allowing burning fuel to erode through the rings to cause the fatal blast
but at a recess during the comission's hearings in february 1986, feynman showed o-ring resiliency was sharply reduced by cold. he compressed a piece of rubber-like o-ring material with a simple clamp, dropped it into a glass of ice water, pulled it out and released the o-ring piece, demonstrating that it lacked any resiliency for a few seconds
i believe this has some significance for our problem,'' he said
the commission agreed in its final report, concluding florida's pre-launch freeze contributed to an o-ring failure that caused the accident
feynman also wrote an appendix to the commission's final report, accusing nasa of playing russian roulette with the shuttle fleet and astronauts' lives and of exaggerating the rockets' safety ``to the point of fantasy.''
born in new york city on may 11, 1918, feynman started learning mathematics while still in his high chair. he earned a degree from the massachusetts institute of technology in 1939, then earned a doctorate at princeton university in 1942. after working on the manhattan project, he moved in 1945 to cornell university, where he did his nobel-winning studies, then moved to caltech in pasadena in 1950
in 1965, feynman shared the nobel prize in physics with julian s. schwinger and shinichero tomonaga for developing an improved theory of quantum electrodynamics. the theory allowed scientists to predict the effects of electrically charged particles on each other in a radiation field
the truth was, i didn't really want this prize,'' feynman said in his autobiography, explaining how the recognition disrupted his privacy and his life
it's nice that i got some money _ i was able to buy a beach house _ but altogether, i think it would have been much nicer not to have had the prize because you never, any longer, can be taken straightforwardly in any public situation,'' he wrote. ``in a way, the nobel prize has been something of a pain in the neck.''
feynman often refused to explain his prize-winning work, once declaring: ``hell, if i could explain it to the average person, it wouldn't have been worth the nobel prize.''
cornell university professor hans bethe, a former colleague there and on the manhattan project, called feynman the greatest theoretical physicist in the united states after world war ii
feynman was not an ordinary genius. he was a magician,'' said bethe, who himself received the nobel prize for physics in 1967. ``nobody could have done what he did.''
marvin goldberger, director of the institute for advanced study in princeton, n.j., and a former caltech president, called feynman ``a towering figure in 20th century physics'' who was ``always curious, always modest, always ebullient, always willing to share his deep insights with students and colleagues.''
yet feynman took pleasure in promoting his image as a fun-loving man who enjoyed outings to las vegas, where show girls ``were all beautiful, and i just love beautiful girls.''
in his book, feynman also told how he demonstrated inadequate security at los alamos national laboratory by learning to pick locks on file cabinets containing the nation's a-bomb secrets, which didn't amuse his superiors on the top-secret manhattan project
feynman was especially popular with caltech students, who honored him for teaching excellence in 1982. he continued to teach freshman physics classes and to ham it up in school plays, once taking on the role of a bongo player and appearing in the musical ``guys and dolls.''
caltech officials reported that when feynman became ill a few years ago, students and teachers overwhelmed local medical facilities with offers to donate blood
feynman is survived by his second wife, gweneth, and two children
private funeral services for feynman will be held later this week and will not be announced. a public memorial service remains to be scheduled, a caltech spokesman said. adult fare</head>
burbank, calif. _ the disney studios' decision to tap into the adult film market and shed its role as the maker of squeaky-clean movies is paying off big this week, as three disney movies rank among the top five at the box office
good morning, vietnam'' was the biggest pull at the box office over the weekend for a fifth consecutive week, while the disney film ``shoot to kill'' debuted at no. 2 and the studio's hit ``three men and a baby'' held on for fourth
it was disney's best showing ever
it isn't a record, however. thirteen months ago, paramount was the reigning champ with three films at the top of the weekly box office list _ ``golden child,'' ``star trek iv'' and ```crocodile' dundee.''
the three current disney films have kept turnstiles spinning with a total take so far of $200 million, studio spokesman dick cook said tuesday, adding, ``it's really a matter of having good pictures. we've been very lucky.''
cook is quick to point out that periods of glory in show business are often brief
this business runs in cycles. we're all just very pleased,'' cook, senior vice president of the disney-touchstone distribution arm buena vista pictures. ``we feel good about what's happening and will try to keep it going.''
john krier of exhibiter relations co., which charts the weekly movie box office performance, said the studio shouldn't be so modest
when they take three out of the top four that's pretty darn good,'' krier said
the studio cinderella story got its start in 1984, when the disney movie division was floundering and it started touchstone films. shortly afterward, michael eisner, a paramount executive when that studio enjoyed such hits as ``raiders of the lost ark,'' became as chairman and chief executive officer of disney
touchstone's first release was the mermaid comedy ``splash.'' a steady stream of hits followed, including ``down and out in beverly hills,'' ``ruthless people,'' ``color of money'' and ``outrageous fortune.''
disney also has a penchant for releasing old, reliable animated features. this winter's reissue of ``cinderella'' added $33.5 million to studio coffers and it gave disney its best winter season ever
we've been very fortunate since thanksgiving by having four movies perform extremely well,'' cook said. ``and we have very high expectations for our films in spring and summer.''
disney-touchstone will soon release the thriller ``d.o.a'' with dennis quaid and meg ryan, then the animated feature ``the fox and the hound'' and ``return to snowy river'' before heading into its summer lineup
we're certainly at a record-breaking pace already. there are some very good pictures coming this summer, which should put us over for another record year,'' cook said. last year's $4.2 billion box office take industrywide was a record
big business'' with bette midler and lily tomlin, the steven spielberg film ``who framed roger rabbit?'' and ``cocktail'' with tom cruise are set for summer release by disney-touchstone. a reissue of ``bambi'' is also in the works
a cold front swept across the central plains and upper mississippi valley on tuesday, dropping up to 4 inches of snow and drenching roads with freezing rain. weather elsewhere was mostly mild
snow was scattered from southeastern minnesota and northeastern iowa into central and eastern wisconsin. snow also fell across the lower great lakes and upper ohio valley into northern new york state and northern new england
in wisconsin, 3 inches of snow fell at neenah, fond du lac and sheboygan. up to 4 inches were reported at decorah and cresco in northeastern iowa, and a few inches fell across southeast minnesota
scores of morning rush-hour traffic accidents were blamed on freezing rain in northeastern ohio
elsewhere, snow showers developed across northern colorado, but only about 2 inches were expected
in southern california, winds of 25 to 35 mph whipped the owens valley and gusts of up to 40 to 50 mph were possible wednesday
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 0.30 inch at newport news, va
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 12 degrees at sault ste. marie, mich., to 76 degrees at mcallen, texas, and palm springs, calif. the early-morning low for the nation was 14 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
wednesday's forecast called for scattered rain showers from arkansas and the lower tennessee valley into the lower mississippi valley and eastern texas, and across western and northern washington. scattered snow showers were forecast in northwestern montana, upper michigan and from northeastern ohio through northern new york state into northern vermont
highs in the 20s were forecast from the upper mississippi valley across the northern great lakes and northern new england; in the 50s and 60s from oregon across the western great basin, southern rockies, southern plains, lower mississippi and tennessee valleys into the southern atlantic coast region; in the 70s across southern texas, southern florida and central and southern california into the desert southwest; and in in the 30s or 40s across most of the rest of the nation
five newspaper unions dropped their opposition tuesday to the proposed partial merger of two detroit newspapers, saying joint operation is the ``only way to assure the survival'' of the detroit free press
in briefs filed with the justice department, the unions urged attorney general edwin meese iii to approve the agreement
the detroit news and the detroit free press have requested permission to merge their advertising, circulation and production departments and to enter into a profit-sharing agreement under a law designed to protect newspaper competition when one of the publications is in danger of going out of business. the newspapers would retain separate news and editorial departments
justice department spokesman mark sheehan said he expected meese to ``act as promptly as he can'' on the proposed agreement
a justice department administrative law judge, morton needelman, in december upheld a recommendation by the department's antitrust division that the proposed joint operating agreement be disapproved
directors of knight-ridder inc., owner of the free press, countered by stating their intent to close the 156-year-old newspaper if meese fails to approve the joa
attorneys for knight-ridder and for gannett co. inc., owner of the news, argued in january that the board's decision introduced a new element into the case that made it imperative that meese approve the agreement
the antitrust division, in a brief filed tuesday, argued that evidence in the case showed that knight-ridder, at the time the newspapers announced their application of the joint operating agreement in 1986, was willing to continue subsidizing the free press
whether a newspaper is failing within the meaning of the (newspaper preservation act) should properly be determined as of the time it enters into a joa agreement, not on the basis of decisions made in the face of subsequent failure to win approval under the statute,'' the division said
the division also asserted that needelman was correct in arguing that the news had not attained a clearly dominant position in detroit market and therefore the free press was not a failing newspaper
the unions dropping their opposition to the merger were detroit typographical union no. 18; newspaper drivers and handlers, local 372; graphic communication international union, local 289m; detroit mailer's local no. 2040; and detroit newspaper printing and graphic communications union, local 13n. they represent employees at both newspapers
the unions said the decision by knight-ridder directors and evidence in the case ``led us to conclude, after very careful consideration, that the free press is in `probable danger of financial failure' within the meaning of the newspaper preservation act.''
we have further concluded that the joa is the only way to assure the survival of the free press and the preservation of two independent editorial voices in detroit,'' the unions said
one union remained opposed to the partial merger. the newspaper guild, local 22 representing editorial employees, vote 349-84 monday night to continue opposition to the joa
guild officials bargained and then voted without knowing that the other unions had reversed their opposition to the joa, said donald kummer, administrative officer of the guild's local 22
unless we can resolve the problems that have existed since this thing was announced, i don't see any change in my position,'' he said
the newspapers asserted that union opposition had been based on the premise that a joa would mean a loss of 600 to 1,000 jobs at the newspapers
the unions ``now clearly understand that the status quo will not be maintained if the joa is denied, but rather the free press will close and all 2,200 jobs at the free press will be lost,'' the newspapers said
the news and the free press have long been locked in a battle for newspaper dominance in detroit. the news, which is the larger newspaper, has lost $75 million since 1979, and the free press has lost $100 million, according to knight-ridder
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev criticized britain and other western european countries tuesday for what he called a lack of enthusiasm for the superpower agreement to eliminate intermediate-range missiles
gorbachev met with foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe of britain, who defended britain's nuclear policy at a news conference in the soviet capital
while generally approving the inf treaty, the leaders of nato countries have been acting as though the situation in europe since its signing had only worsened,'' gorbachev said, according to a report by the official tass news agency
otherwise, it was impossible to explain the latest wave of praise for the `nuclear deterence' strategy, plans for so-called `compensation,' all manner of projects for the joint manufacture of newest weapons, the franco-west german military rapprochment, and so forth,'' gorbachev said
the soviet leader also said britain had grown less enthusiastic about a chemical weapons ban, and that the west was dragging its feet at a conference in vienna to work out a format for new talks on conventional forces in europe
gorbachev, soviet defense minister dmitri t. yazov and other soviet officials regularly have criticized european leaders after the dec. 8 superpower summit for urging the modernization of their weapons systems to make up for the loss of u.s. pershing 2 and cruise missiles in europe
in east germany, the official news agency adn reported tuesday that the soviets had begun dismantling intermediate nuclear missiles
howe, at a news conference after his meeting with gorbachev, defended britain's policy of keeping and modernizing its nuclear force
peace has indeed been upheld in the past 40 years by the nuclear deterrent,'' howe said. ``the deterent resoures available need to be kept up to date, to be modernized.''
modernization is not a euphemism for circumventing the inf treaty,'' he added
gorbachev and president reagan signed an agreement in december to eliminate their medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles from europe as well as the rest of the globe. the two sides now are trying to negotiate a 50 percent cut in their arsenals of long-range weapons
the u.s.-soviet agreement is awaiting u.s. senate approval. in the soviet union, the treaty has been approved by the ruling communist party and must be passed by the supreme soviet, which is expected to give its endorsement. lawyer says date not scheduled.</note>
a man who apparently traveled to florida to shoot his former wife and her boyfriend was in jail tuesday, charged in a mistaken identity shooting spree that left an elderly woman dead at the wrong address, police said
john edward boggs, 55, of vermilion was arrested monday and transferrerd tuesday from erie county to lorain county, where he was jailed awaiting a court appearance in county common pleas court. boggs' attorney, charles f. adams, said no date for the court appearance had been set
a 70-year-old woman was killed and two others were wounded in the shooting last thursday in zephyrhills, a town in central florida. boggs faces one count of first-degree murder and two counts of attempted murder, according to pasco county, fla., sheriff jim gillum
boggs was a crane operator at usx corp.'s lorain works until he retired in 1985, according to usx spokesman thomas ferrall in pittsburgh. he and his wife, geraldine, were granted a divorce on jan. 11
authorities said boggs' intended victims apparently were his ex-wife and gerald rush, who live in the same town but in a different mobile home park six miles from the shooting scene
pasco county sheriff jim gillum said boggs visited the colony hills mobile home park in zephyrhills looking for a resident with the last name of rush. a park secretary showed him where harold rush lived
boggs broke into harold rush's mobile home with a shotgun and handgun and started shooting, gillum said. a single blast killed nigel maeras, 70, and injured her daughter betsy ritchie, 50, and harold rush, 69
apparently, he believed he was shooting mr. (gerald) rush and his (former) wife. on his return to ohio, it's very possible he thought he killed'' them, gillum said
vermilion police chief roland fleming said boggs was arrested monday after florida authorities issued a warrant for his arrest. fleming said boggs was stopped in his car and did not resist
it was a one in a million case of mistaken identity,'' gillum said
harold rush and ms. ritchie were in stable condition tuesday at east pasco medical center. the two rushes are not related
at first, police were stumped by the shooting. but then, a detective recalled geraldine boggs calling days earlier and saying her former spouse was en route to florida to kill her and her boyfriend, gillum said
detective linda johnson then questioned a secretary at the colony park and learned a man had been looking for the rush residence. background. inserts 2 grafs after 9th graf ``west german...'' to update with gorbachev criticism of western european governments.</note>
the soviet union has begun dismantling part of its intermediate range nuclear arsenal in east germany, the state-run news agency adn reported tuesday
the step makes ``an important contribution toward disarmament even before'' a u.s.-soviet treaty to eliminate the medium-range missiles is ratified, adn said
according to the report, rockets stationed near neubrandenburg, north of berlin, have been dismantled, crated and are ready for transport back to the soviet union
adn did not say how many had been dismantled or when the rockets will be transported back to the soviet union. east german television late tuesday showed soldiers loading missile crates onto transport vehicles
the disarmament treaty was signed in washington in december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, but the u.s. senate has yet to ratify it. the supreme soviet is expected to approve it
under the agreement, the soviets' shorter-range missiles in east germany and in czechoslovakia are to be destroyed within 18 months, and longer-range u.s. and soviet missiles within three years
in washington there was no immediate reaction at the state department, but a u.s. official said the soviets were free to dismantle the missiles before the treaty took effect
the official, who demanded anonymity, said u.s. inspectors will go to east germany and all other soviet missile sites to verify the soviets were complying with the treaty
west german government officials tuesday night declined comment on the report
there was no immediate comment in moscow, but gorbachev on tuesday criticized western european countries for what he called a lack of enthusiasm for the superpower agreement to eliminate intermediate-range missiles
in a report by the official tass news agency, gorbachev criticized western european governments for ``the latest wave of praise for the `nuclear deterrence' strategy ... all manner of projects for the joint manufacture of newest weapons, the franco-west german military rapprochment, and so forth.''
adn said soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets'' to the soviet union
the rockets are shorter-range weapons included in the intermediate range missile pact, which banned weapons with a range from 300 to 3,000 miles
the news agency quoted a soviet officer as saying that the ``troops are very proud that nuclear disarmament is beginning in our unit.''
adn said a group of east german journalists toured the missile base and were allowed to interview soviet soldiers there
the adn report described preparations under way to ready the rockets for transport. cranes were used to load the dismantled rockets into transpot containers, it said
we were convinced that the last rockets were ready for transport to the location where they will be destroyed,'' adn said
the rockets are to be sent back to the soviet union by rail, the report said
east german leader erich honecker in january indicated that soviet intermediate range rockets stationed in east germany could be removed ahead of schedule, but gave no specific timetable for their withdrawal
the adn report did not say if other missiles stationed in east germany had been dismantled or how many troops were scheduled to leave
according to figures released after the superpower agreement was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the site _ which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany
there are three other ss-12 rocket sites in east germany
in all, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany, the figures said
caspar weinberger, the former defense secretary, questioned tuesday whether fundamental policy changes are taking place in the soviet union and whether mikhail gorbachev can keep his post as top leader
i think we have to be very careful if we assume there are major policy changes,'' weinberger said. ``i don't know ... how firmly seated is the present regime. i don't think any of us really know that.''
i'm not sure anybody would be allowed to be general secretary of the communist party of the soviet union who is very different,'' from the past, weinberger told the washington foreign correspondents association
soviet forces in afghanistan suggest that ``things are not all that changed in the soviet union,'' weinberger said. ``i don't see any change in world domination as their goal.''
it ``should take two weeks, or four at the outside'' for the soviets to withdraw troops from afghanistan, he said, despite their current talk of a 10-month timetable
the sincerity of gorbachev's offer ``can only be judged when withdrawal is complete ... (when) they've left and the afghan people can have the kind of government they want,'' he said
weinberger, who was succeeded by defense secetary frank carlucci late last year, described as ``surface changes,'' the new look at the kremlin. ``gorbachev smiles from time to time, he wears much better clothes, and he's younger and apparently in better health'' than past leaders, he said
the principal change i see in the soviet union is that they are now actively courting world public opinion, campaigning for a favorable world press and this is so new and so novel that they are getting it,'' he said. gemayel assassination attempt, adds 4 grafs with details</note>
a united nations official appealed to christian and moslem leaders tuesday to help win the release of two scandinavian relief workers who were kidnapped in southern lebanon 11 days ago
also tuesday, the united states condemned an assassination attempt against lebanese president amin gemayel
u.n. undersecretary-general marrack goulding flew to beirut from tunisia and went straight to a meeting with lebanese foreign ministry undersecretary fuad turk in christian east beirut
i asked ambassador turk to work for (the scandinavians') release as soon as possible,'' goulding told reporters after the meeting
the two captives, jan stening, 44, of sweden, and william jorgensen, 58, of norway, served with the united nations relief and works agency, which cares for palestinian refugees. they were grabbed on feb. 5 near the southern lebanese port city of sidon
the agency has blamed the abductions on palestinians acting individually and without political motivation or links to any organization
after meeting with turk, goulding crossed beirut's dividing green line to the moslem sector, where he held an hour-long meeting with sunni moslem acting prime minister salim hoss at his home
goulding told reporters afterward the two had discussed the lebanese situation in general as well as ``this very serious problem of the two (kidnapped) unrwa officials.''
asked if there had been any progress in efforts to free the captives, goulding said: ``no. it remains a puzzling, difficult and worrying case.''
i'm indeed hopeful,'' goulding said. ``i can't say that the release will be tomorrow, but i think it's very important for the arab cause, the palestinian cause and for the lebanese cause that they should be released as soon as possible.''
goulding said that during a visit to tunis last weekend he urged palestine liberation organization chief yasser arafat to work toward the release of the scandinavian captives
arafat had earlier ordered his plo commanders in southern lebanon to spare no effort in winning their release
goulding also met with shiite moslem parliament speaker hussein husseini
in washington, a state department statement called the attempted assasination of gemayel on friday ``a reprehensible act'' and condemned those responsible
the government of lebanon continues to have our full support,'' the u.s. statement said
three beirut airport employees were jailed after police found a bombed beneath the pilot's seat on a jetliner that was to take gemayel, 44, from the lebanese capital to cyprus
assassinations, car bombings and kidnappings have plagued lebanon since a civil war broke out in 1975. an estimated 130,000 people have died in the violence
lobbyists for special-interest political action committees believe many members of congress give them scant attention unless they make campaign contributions, a group that advocates campaign finance reform said tuesday
a survey of 50 pac directors and lobbyists found the pacs see themselves as victims in a campaign system that forces them to trade contributions for access to lawmakers who decide issues of importance to the unions, businesses and other interest groups the pacs represent
one pac director told of seeing a ``little black book'' in which a congressman kept the names of contributors and referred to it when a lobbyist sought a hearing with him
the individual said members of congress have told him, ``well, i like your organization, but you haven't given me a contribution.''
the interviews with the pac officials were conducted by the center for responsive politics, a political research organization that is critical of pac influence in politics
the group said the pac officials agreed to talk on condition their names would not be used in the report. among the pacs represented were some of the largest, such as the $5 million-per-election american medical association pac, and the smaller pacs that give less than $50,000 in total contributions to candidates
the group's report said the pac officials freely admitted they contributed to congress members to ensure access. some expect not only a meeting but a sympathetic ear
one was quoted as saying that, ``a lot of people think a pac gives you access. well, you can get access without a pac. what i am saying is sympathetic access.''
the pac officials also acknowledged the frequent practice of giving overwhelmingly to incumbents during a campaign, and then if the incumbent loses, helping the winner to retire a debt in order to establish influence with the new legislator
pacs said they felt they were manipulated by members of congress, who constantly apply pressure for money. the pacs we talked to said they felt unrelenting pressure to attend fundraisers, that they were unfairly being held responsible for skyrocketing campaign costs and that the public held them in low repute,'' the center's report said
when a member who has received a pac's donation votes against that pac's interest, it doesn't sit well, the report said
in one case we gave to a member thinking that we would get something and it didn't work. we'll never give to that member again,'' one pac director was quoted as saying
some 4,000 pacs are registered with the federal election commission. they represent a spectrum of special interests from environmental and foreign policy concerns to farm, corporate, labor and gun-control interests
election law limits each pac to a maximum $5,000 contribution to any one candidate, in contrast to the limit for individual contributions of $1,000
congress has yet to approve any of the legislative options it has had under consideration for some time to restrict the role of pacs in elections by putting a ceiling on how much in total pac money any one candidate could accept, or eliminate the need for pacs by instituting public financing for congressional campaigns
the foreign ministers of five central american governments on tuesday prepared for a meeting to evaluate compliance with a peace plan
ricardo acevedo peralta, the salvadoran foreign minister, told local reporters tuesday the diplomats were to take up verification measures for the peace plan during their meeting scheduled wednesday
the peace plan, signed last august by the presidents of the five nations, calls for cease-fire and reconciliation talks between the governments and rebels forces of el salvador, nicaragua and guatemala
it provides for general amnesties and free elections in each country and a ban on all outside military assistance to regional insurgencies
acevedo peralta said the foreign ministers also will discuss their upcoming session with representatives from the european economic community in hamburg, west germany in march
the region's presidents agreed during their january summit meeting in san jose, costa rica to immediately implement the peace accord, but they did not specify a timetable for reaching individual objectives
nicaraguan president daniel ortega announced immediately after the summit the sandinista government was suspending its nearly six-year-old state of emergency, which curbed civil liberties
ortega also agreed to direct cease-fire talks with the u.s.-supported contra rebels for the first time. negotiators for the two sides met in san jose jan. 28 and are scheduled to resume the talks in guatemala on thursday
cease-fire talks in el salvador and guatemala have stalled
the foreign ministers to meet wednesday are: alfonso cabrera of guatemala, carlos lopez contreras of honduras, miguel d'escoto of nicaragua and rodrigo madrigal nieto of costa rica, in addition to acevedo peralta
the five have taken over the functions of the peace plan's original verification commission, which was composed of representatives from the organization of american states, the united nations, the contadora group nations of mexico, colombia, venezuela and panama, and contadora's support group of four other latin american governments
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis powered to victory tuesday in next-door new hampshire's first-in-the-nation democratic presidential primary. richard gephardt and paul simon were locked in the battle for second place
vice president george bush swept to victory tuesday night in new hampshire's lead-off gop presidential primary, rebounding dramatically from a third-place finish in last week's iowa caucuses. homosexuality</head> quotes. pickup 7th graf pvs ``critics charge...''</note>
opponents in parliament lost a final bid tuesday night to water down a conservative government bill restricting the promotion of homosexuality
the amendment sought to limit to teaching in schools a blanket stipulation that local government authorities must not ``intentionally promote homosexuality.''
the house of lords, the non-elected upper chamber of parliament, defeated the amendment 90-48, meaning the bill is virtually certain to become law by june 1
a labor party member, lord longford, charged that the bill, which has already passed its key legislative stages in the elected house of commons with large majorities, smacked of a ``general queer-bashing campaign.''
government home office minister lord caithness retorted that ``gay pride'' programs and the promotion of gay rights in youth clubs run by some local authorities sought to glamorize homosexuality
young people are susceptible to these intolerable influences,'' said lord caithness
activities such as a lesbian gay strength and pride week are, in the government's view, at least as likely to glamorize homosexuality in the minds of impressionable young people as anything a teacher might do,'' he said
the house of lords can delay and suggest changes to legislation but cannot overturn bills approved by the house of commons
critics charge the bill will heighten hostility toward homosexuals and reflects prejudices of prime minister margaret thatcher. she complained last fall that children were being taught ``they have an inalienable right to be gay.''
critics say the word ``promote'' is so vague it could mean local authorities censoring the works of famed homosexual writers such as oscar wilde
local authorities run public libraries, some theaters and most state schools
the government has denied prejudice, but accused some left-wing local authorities of using state funds to promote homosexuality as an acceptable way of life
under the proposed law, complainants could bring a civil suit against local authorities and auditors could also penalize them for misusing funds
in wording gay rights groups said was particularly offensive, the measure stipulated that local authorities must not ``promote the teaching in any maintained (state) school of the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship.''
homosexuality between consenting adults has been legal in britain since 1967
left-wing councils, including those running inner city london, boroughs and the northern cities of manchester and sheffield, are derided by conservative newspapers for grants to gay and lesbian community groups. background. no pickup.</note>
the aging n reactor, shut down amid safety concerns prompted by the soviet nuclear accident at chernobyl, will be placed in indefinite ``cold standby,'' the energy department said tuesday
the decision means that the reactor, which for 25 years has produced plutonium for the nation's nuclear arsenal, will be mothballed next year after the completion and testing of $100 million in safety improvements
lawmakers said congress is expected to go along with the decision, which is included in president reagan's proposed spending plan for the next fiscal year. the budget is to be presented to congress on thursday
about 2,600 workers will eventually lose their jobs at the reactor, located at the hanford nuclear reservation in central washington state
sen. dan evans, r-wash., said that the ripple effect from those layoffs could eventually result in a total of up to 7,000 people loosing their jobs in the tri-cities, spokane, yakima and the seattle area
energy secretary john herrington said the decision to close the reactor was a result of a review of the nation's future need for plutonium conducted by the department of defense
under ``cold standby'' status, fuel will be removed from the reactor and inspection and maintenance programs continued, the doe said
the reactor could be cranked up if the demand for plutonium increases, but a restart could take up to three years to complete
the n reactor has been a key part of our national security complex for more than 20 years and those who have been associated with it can be proud of its contribution to the security of the united states,'' herrington said in a statement
herrington said doe was ``committed to a sensitive, orderly transition. it is the goal of the department to do everything possible to assist those people who will now need to find new jobs.''
the n reactor is one of four doe-run reactors that produce plutonium and tritium for nuclear weapons. the other three, located at the savannah river complex near aiken, s.c., are running at 50 percent power because of safety concerns
the n reactor was shut down in january 1987 for safety improvements prompted by the nuclear accident at chernobyl in the soviet union. the n reactor is similar in design to that soviet reactor, although u.s. officials said it was considerably safer. it is operated for the energy department by westinghouse inc
the announcement ends months of speculation about the future of the n reactor. the decision was reached following meetings that involved herrington, defense secretary frank carlucci, james miller, director of the office of management and the budget, and white house chief of staff howard baker
as recently as december, doe officials had told congress that the reactor would probably be restarted this spring
but herrington said it was decided that plutonium produced by the three savannah river reactors, along with the recycling of plutonium from retired nuclear weapons could meet demand
evans and morrison, who blamed budget cuts for the decision, said they were ``disappointed.'' but, they said, at least the department would finish the safety improvements and not shut the reactor immediately. layoffs would thus come gradually
if there is any good news in this, and there isn't much, that is it,'' evans said
both evans and morrison said they would push for expanded funding for the clean-up of highly radioactive defense waste at the hanford reservation and also for the conversion of a mothballed washington public power supply system nuclear plant at the hanford reservation into a new defense production reactor
bob dole _ who came from behind only to fall back in the final week of the presidential primary campaign _ sought tuesday to put a positive face on his second-place finish
it looks like (vice president george) bush may have won ... so we've made up a lot of ground here in the last few days,'' the senate minority leader said
it's been, as i've said for some time, a two-person race. we've made a lot of progress the last few days. we didn't quite pull it off here, but we feel pretty good about it,'' dole said in an interview
earlier, dole blamed unfair attacks for the results
if it hadn't been for the distortion of my positions on tax increases and an oil import fee, i'd be 10 points ahead,'' he said
you shouldn't distort someone's record. i could do that to him, but i won't.'' he pledged, however, ``to straighten out my record. it's not going to take long.''
dole won convincingly in the first major test of the season, beating bush 2-1 in last week's iowa caucuses
polls before the caucuses showed dole trailing bush by as much as 20 percentage points in new hampshire, but dole came on strong to make the race a virtual dead-heat as the voting began
dole was upbeat early tuesday
it feels good, like it did in iowa last monday,'' he said
bush, with a home just outside new hampshire on the maine coast, had long considered new hampshire friendly territory, just as iowa was seen as home turf for dole, who is from neighboring kansas
dole also benefited from president reagan's comparatively low popularity among republicans in iowa, and suffered from reagan's strength in new hampshire, where reagan beat then-rival bush 2-1 in the 1980 gop primary
the fact the vice president moves out of new hampshire with 35 percent of the vote in a state which has 2 percent unemployment, a state in which ronald reagan is 82 percent popular ... i don't think that bodes well for what will happen (for bush) down south,'' said sen. warren rudman, dole's most prominent new hampshire backer
you sensed it was over when ted williams and barry goldwater stepped into the batters box
new hampshire, which derailed george bush's ``big mo'' in 1980, delivered for him in tuesday's republican presidential primary. the results dealt a serious setback to bob dole, but considerable damage was also done to three fellows named robertson, kemp and du pont
for as long and bush and dole continue their duel, the chances pale for one of the conservative challengers to make a serious run for the nomination. the also-rans _ pete du pont, jack kemp and pat robertson _ finished in a clump in new hampshire, meaning none could claim victory even in the sub-contest for second-tier momentum
for one of the three to challenge bush or dole, he needed a clear shot as the campaign moved into the south. now it seems certain that the spotlight will stay on the frontrunners with at least a tad interest in how robertson will do in the bible belt
pete teeley, bush's spokesman, said new hampshire republicans chose bush because of his leadership and because of his economic proposals and because he was a candidate with 20 years foreign policy experience as opposed to dole who had served only in congress
bush had a different explanation, one based on personal history
he did what i did in 1980,'' he said of dole. ``he won in iowa and came in and talked about momentum. i did what president reagan did. he (reagan) came in and started talking the issues ... and i think it's working.''
dole complained, as losers generally do, that his views had been distorted, an indication that issues _ he cited oil import fees and taxes _ rubbed the wrong way for dole in the conservative granite state
the memory may linger of du pont waving a piece of paper in dole's face and challenging him to sign ``the pledge,'' that is, the pledge not to raise taxes no matter what
that was sunday night. on monday, things got worse for dole. and better for bush
in his darkest hour, with his lead in the polls squeezed to just about nothing and many of the pundits laughing behind his back, bush brought out the best hitter in the history of new england baseball and the fellow the republicans call ``mr. conservative.''
ted williams posed for pictures with bush and goldwater, the retired senator from arizona and 1964 gop standardbearer, stumped by his side and cut a memorable televised campaign ad. he said of bush: ``he's the man to continue the conservative revolution we started 24 years ago.''
in the ad, broadcast as a hefty percentage of republican voters were making up their minds, bush said, ``i sense a rising tide ... with your help it will carry me to the white house.''
this is the sort of thing that bush needed, not only to blunt dole in his bid for a knockout punch, but also to keep robertson, kemp and du pont at bay
they, or at least those who survived, figured to make their move in the south and would have liked a clear shot at the winner of the bush-dole duel. but with goldwater putting his conservative arms around bush's shoulders, and with bush newly invigorated for his battle with dole, there is suddenly less room in the inn for kemp, du pont or robertson
dole was clearly disconsolate tuesday night
early in the evening, with the votes being counted, dole said: ``if it hadn't been for the distortion of my positions on tax increases and an oil import fee, i'd be 10 points ahead.'' the vice president portrayed dole all last week as an advocate of an oil import fee and likely to cave in to pressures for a tax increase
it's unfortunate,'' said dole, ``that the vice president of the united states, who knows better, would sink to that level. but he did it, he knows it's false on its face and he'll have an opportunity to answer to that from now on.''
editors note: jonathan wolman is assistant bureau chief for the associated press in washington
massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis celebrated a resounding victory in new hampshire's democratic primary tuesday night, declaring that ``the best america is yet to come.''
last week in iowa, our message started to shine through and we won a bronze,'' he told more than 1,000 cheering supporters gathered at a restored mill building. ``tonight here in new hampshire, our message came through loud and clear. we went for the gold and we won it.''
with just under 90 percent of the precincts counted, dukakis had about 36 percent of the vote. rep. richard gephardt and sen. paul simon, who grabbed the first two spots in the iowa caucuses, were battling it out for second
dukakis, who will take his campaign south on wednesday, sought to put to rest questions about his strategy for the region
the fact of the matter is, i don't have a southern strategy,'' he said. ``i don't have a northern strategy or a western strategy. i have an american strategy.''
he said, ``we believe in the kind of politics where you say the same thing wherever you go in this country ... the people of arkansas and kentucky are not voting for a zip code, they're voting for a president of the united states.''
as a northeastern liberal, dukakis faces his stiffest test in the southern states. but as the democrat with the biggest campaign warchest, dukakis has been able to send a plethora of staff to the region
he is working particularly hard in florida with its jewish population _ dukakis' wife kitty is jewish _ in atlanta, viewed as the capital of the south, and in texas, where he is seeking the hispanic vote
among the also-rans, gary hart and bruce babbitt failed in new hampshire to extract themselves from the bottom of the seven-man democratic heap, but pete du pont's slow-but-improved showing on the republican side tuesday gave him cause for hope
none of the last-tier candidates was counting himself out as votes from the nation's first primary rolled in. but in the days to come, new hampshire still could send a few candidates packing before super tuesday rolls around march 8
proving that in politics all things are relative, du pont, who was running fourth in the five-man republican field, said: ``this has been a terrific evening for us here in new hampshire.''
he had finished fifth in a six-man field _ before the withdrawal of alexander haig _ in iowa's caucuses a week earlier
du pont's showing was just shy of jack kemp and ahead of robertson, according to partial returns. all three trailed front-runner george bush and his main rival, bob dole
for the democrats, babbitt edged out hart. ahead of them were jesse jackson and albert gore, each of whom had solid organizations awaiting them in the south. richard gephardt and paul simon were in the strong second tier behind winner michael dukakis
hart, who won new hampshire when he ran in 1984 but whose candidacy has failed to catch fire since he re-entered the 1988 race, called his meager showing at the bottom of the democratic pack this time ``disappointing ... but not discouraging.''
the former colorado senator said he expects to be a candidate ``as far ahead in the future as i can see'' but he was pragmatic about the need to start picking up some solid support that would translate into the dollars and delegates needed to win nomination
i understand that there are standards that have to be met in terms of delegates and votes,'' he said. ``it will take at least 30 to 60 days to determine if i can put together a viable candidacy.''
babbitt, who had said prior to the new hampshire primary that its voters had the power of life and death over his candidacy, insisted he wasn't ready to start planning his funeral just yet
i'm going to move on for a couple of days to washington in a couple of days and call and talk to my supporters all over the country and ask them this question: how ... can we keep this reform movement alive?''
jackson said he met with babbitt on tuesday night and discussed getting his support
our message has tremendous overlap ... i hope that in time we will work out some common ground in terms of our politics,'' jackson said
robertson failed to repeat his dramatic second-place showing from iowa, but had never claimed he'd sweep new hampshire. he had better prospects in sight in the south and plenty of money on hand to propel him forward
one of the also-rans from the iowa caucuses never even made it as far as the new hampshire primary. haig last week bowed out and threw his support to dole. drugs</head>
the u.s. ambassador to honduras on tuesday denied american newspaper reports linking high-ranking honduran military officers to colombian cocaine traffickers
i am the principal and highest official of the united states in honduras and i totally disavow this situation that has appeared in the newspapers of my country,'' ambassador everett briggs said during a news conference in tegucigalpa
briggs called the stories ``very imaginative and inventive.''
president jose azcona hoyo on tuesday called the reports and effort to discredit his government and said he summoned briggs on monday to clarify the state department's position on the matter
the reports, azcona hoyo said, constitute a campaign ``to discredit the armed forces and my government, which has taken a series of actions to combat the narcotraffickers.''
the new york times reported feb. 11 that high honduran military officials had become involved with a powerful honduras-based narcotics trafficker, juan ramon matta, in shipping cocaine to the united states. the article cited reagan administration officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
it added the reagan administration was increasingly concerned about the honduran armed forces' connections with colombia's medellin cartel, producer of up to 80 percent of all the cocaine shipped to the united states
on sunday, the miami herald reported gen. humberto regalado hernandez, the armed forces chief, was suspected by u.s. officials of protecting colombian traffickers who used honduras as a staging base for cocaine shipments from colombia to the united states
briggs told reporters: ``the attitude of general regalado hernandez has been honest and thanks to this we now wage a war without quarter against the international drug traffickers.''
briggs announced the united states, at the invitation of honduras, will open a permanent office in tegucigalpa next month to monitor drug flows. deciders, ``nbc's poll ...''</note>
vice president george bush's ties to the reagan administraton and support among voters who chose a candidate at the last minute helped him recover from his iowa debacle and win new hampshire's republican primary, polls said tuesday
among the democrats, michael dukakis' political organization and his performance as governor of neighboring massachusetts helped bring about his strong primary victory, the exit polls said
while pre-election polls had indicated an extremely tight race between bush and senate republican leader bob dole of kansas, voters who made up their minds in the final days of the new hampshire race selected bush, pollsters said
the polls had it neck-and-neck, and bush is winning by more than that,'' said jerry strom, a polling consultant for nbc news. ``the reason is that the late deciders were going to bush.''
one possible reason was bush's organization. cbs news found there was a substantially higher proportion of bush voters who had been contacted directly by the bush campaign than dole supporters who had heard from the senator's campaign. ``i think the thing that won it for bush was his organization,'' said warren mitofsky, the cbs polling chief
bush, after leading strongly in public opinion polls in new hampshire, saw his advantage melt away after he finished third in the iowa caucuses feb. 8, beaten by dole and former television evangelist pat robertson
late polls showed bush's decline in new hampshire halt; one by cbs sunday and monday gave him a slim 4-point lead over dole. ``we said he had a small lead, and that's what it looks like,'' said mitofsky
los angeles times and the cbs news-new york times polls found that bush's government experience weighed in his favor. a third of republicans told cbs that experience was the most important factor in their vote, and 54 percent of them voted for bush, to 37 percent for dole
dole beat bush among republicans who said they were chiefly looking for a strong leader, with 48 percent to 21 percent for bush. but that group made up a smaller share of the republican vote, 19 percent, cbs reported
the los angeles times found that a sizable portion of republicans in new hampshire favored the reagan administration, more so than was the case among iowa republicans, and they predomninantly supported bush, said times polling chief i.a. lewis. ``people think of bush as someone just representing whatever reagan does, and they like that,'' lewis said
identification with with the reagan administration clearly helped bush,'' said mitofsky, of cbs. ``reagan is popular and the people who like reagan went for bush fairly strongly.''
moreover, ``bush is doing well because of his long and solid support here,'' said lewis. he said his poll indicated that almost half of bush's supporters decide last year to vote for the vice president
but many final decisions were made virtually at the last minute: of just over 1,000 republicans surveyed by cbs as they left the polls, 46 percent said they had decided on a candidate after the iowa caucuses and 32 percent said they decided in the last three days of the campaign
strom said nbc found that voters who decided in the last few days went predominantly for bush, as did those who decided more than three weeks ago. ``bush was winning early and late and dole was winning in the middle,'' immediately after his iowa victory, strom said
nbc's poll found that 14 percent of the republican voters made their final decision on primary day, and they went for bush, 36 percent to 29 percent for dole. those who decided during the weekend, 11 percent of the total by nbc's measure, also went for bush, 44 percent to 31 percent for dole
nbc also found that one potential trouble area for bush never developed: while half the republicans believed bush knew more than he was saying about the iran-contra affair, only a fifth thought it mattered, strom said
decisions also were made late among democrats; 38 percent said they chose their candidate in the last three days. support for dukakis was broad _ he won among liberals, moderates and conservatives alike, according to an abc news-washington post exit poll
the cbs exit poll found that 42 percent of dukakis supporters had been contacted by the governor's campaign workers, while the other campaigns contacted only a third of their voters
it also found that 55 percent of the democratic voters gave dukakis and excellent or above average rating as governor of neighborhing massachusetts, and 59 percent of them voted for him
the margin of sampling error for the polls was about 3 percent. news digest: concord, n.h. _ political rdp, a0435; dover, n.h. _ robertson fears, a0422; vilnius, u.s.s.r. _ lithuania, a0441; fort smith, ark. _ sedition trial, a0467; phoenix, ariz. _ ordeal of impeachment, a0446; washington _ constitution celebrations, a0417; simi valley, calif. _ reagan library, a0421; london _ britain-homosexuals, a0438</note>
the house resumes its struggle toward a national aids policy this week with two sharply contrasting californians at the extremes of disputes over issues ranging from discrimination to testing
on one side is democratic rep. henry waxman, the liberal and influential chairman of the house health subcommittee, whose los angeles district is ethnically diverse and big-city tolerant
across the ideological gulf but geographically next door is rep. william dannemeyer, r-calif., a conservative from straight-laced and suburban orange county
riot police battled arabs in violent clashes in jerusalem, and leaflets distributed in the occupied territories called on residents to step up protests and attack jewish settlements in a ``day of wrath.''
the leaflets, which appeared monday, also asked arabs to hold commercial strikes and stay home from their jobs today, israeli media said
in another development, the army on monday questioned an arab youth who said he and three other residents of the west bank village kfar salem were buried alive by israeli soldiers using a bulldozer after a riot feb. 5
austrian president kurt waldheim says his service in hitler's army reflects the ``normal fate of a young austrian'' during world war ii and says he wants the united states to release secret documents about his past
in an interview on abc-tv's ``nightline'' broadcast early today, waldheim reiterated that he had a clear conscience and would not step down as president despite growing opposition within austria
i have not hidden anything of my military career,'' he said. ``i think this whole accusation is unfounded.''
poor management, an inability to cooperate, and a preoccupation with short-term profits are among reasons american business is losing ground to foreign competitors, says the first report of the mit commission on industrial productivity
the u.s. economy is still the most productive in the world, but could be surpassed by other nations that are gaining on it, the commission reported monday at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science
we are talking about keeping the standard of living in the united states and enhancing it,'' said michael l. dertouzos, director of the laboratory for computer science at the massachusetts institute of technology and chairman of the commission. ``in that sense, we think productivity is important.''
rep. barney frank, who acknowledged last year that he is a homosexual, is busy raising money for his re-election campaign while the republican party is still looking for someone to oppose him
at this point, the only republican publicly talking of running against the liberal massachusetts democrat is a conservative gadfly who withdrew from the 1986 massachusetts gubernatorial race after admitting he had lied about his military record
i don't know what the republicans plan to do about it, but the reading we have (from polling) is that voters care about performance in office'' and not personal issues like sexual preference, frank said. ``and that's certainly consistent with the reading i've gotten from people.''
thousands of mardi gras revelers thronged the french quarter today for america's biggest block party, where madness is a way of life and the only sin is to be a party pooper
mardi gras, or fat tuesday, was the crescendo of two weeks of nightly pre-lenten carnival parades in the city that care forgot
as early as noon monday, the lines were a half block long outside pat o'brien's bar, a popular watering hole in the quarter, and the non-stop party was just getting started. narrow streets of the city's old section were wall to wall with revelers
britain's first major industrial strike in several years, the 8-day-old national walkout by more than 32,000 ford autoworkers, has not been primarily about money
instead, it is an emotional dispute over the auto maker's push to impose more japanese-style work practices on reluctant employees
such practices, including computerization, more flexibility among workers and the cutting of auto-part inventories, have angered hourly workers enough for them to reject a sweetened offer from ford by more than a 60 percent margin, even though union negotiators had recommended it
chatru singh has given up praying to the ``rain gods.'' he is tired of waiting for the misery of drought to end. he's thinking about leaving his farm and moving to a city like new delhi
his fields lie barren, his cows and buffaloes are emaciated for lack of fodder, and he has barely enough food for his family
four consecutive years of drought here in the state of rajasthan have reduced his farm and hundreds of thousands of others to expanses of dust. news digest: concord, n.h. _ nh-primary rdp; manchester, n.h. _ the new new hampshire; jerusalem _ israel; amherst, mass. _ umass takeover; new orleans _ mardi gras.</note>
new hampshire's survivors turn south on wednesday for the next major battleground of the presidential campaign, with tennessean albert gore jr. hoping to waylay the front-runners on his home ground but northerner michael dukakis saying he is conceding nothing
among the republicans, george bush is counting on superior organization in the south to hold off bob dole, and pat robertson is hoping a strong showing in south carolina can give him a boost heading into the super tuesday primaries
democrat dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said tuesday in new hampshire, ``we're going to contest every one of those states. i think we're going to surprise some people in the south.''
a top pentagon official said tuesday the united states was withdrawing some warships from escort and mine-clearing duties in the persian gulf, and expressed concern that iraqi forces were engaging in dangerous manuevers near u.s. ships
richard armitage, assistant defense secretary for international security affairs, said the united states already had protested to baghdad an incident over the weekend involving an iraqi jet that fired a missile near a u.s. destroyer
he said the administration planned to send a team of military officials to iraq later this week to discuss the matter further
in a wide-ranging briefing at the pentagon, armitage confirmed that the united states was now reducing the number of u.s. warships in the persian gulf, and said the administration had no plans to offer military protection to u.s.-owned ships flying foreign flags
the soviet union has begun dismantling part of its intermediate range nuclear arsenal in east germany, the state-run news agency adn reported tuesday
the step makes ``an important contribution toward disarmament even before'' a u.s.-soviet treaty to eliminate the medium-range missiles is ratified, adn said
according to the report, rockets stationed near neubrandenburg, north of berlin, have been dismantled, crated and are ready for transport back to the soviet union
hospitals in the occupied west bank and gaza strip are overcrowded and increasingly overwhelmed with victims of israel's policy of using beatings and blows to subdue arab protesters
in a single day at the gaza strip's largest shifa hospital, palestinian doctors set the broken limbs of 24 arabs clubbed by israeli soldiers, then swiftly discharged them to make room for more
in the west bank's nablus, troops fired rubber bullets and smashed windows with their rifle butts to break into al ittihad hospital and detain four arabs suspected of throwing stones
police and civilian auxiliary officers patrolled near churches, a historic cemetery and in the center of this baltic capital tuesday, preventing demonstrations to mark lithuania's brief independence
jadvyga beliauskiene, a roman catholic activist, told reporters shortly before midnight monday that four lithuanian nationalists were under house arrest to stop them from leading protests
a high profile by police, showing a harder line by soviet authorities against expressions of baltic nationalism, seemed to deter any large-scale showing of national feeling
a conrail engineer who ran a stop signal and caused an amtrak crash that killed 16 people pleaded guilty to one count of manslaughter tuesday in a bargain that will bring him no worse than five years in jail and a $1,000 fine
rick l. gates, 33, who was scheduled to begin a trial on 16 counts of manslaughter by locomotive, was operating the three linked conrail engines jan. 4, 1987, when they skidded in front of an amtrak passenger train carrying 660 people. the worst accident in amtrak's history left 16 dead and more than 170 injured
gates was granted the guilty verdict after attorneys agreed to include in the single misdemeanor count the names of all 16 fatalities. prosecutors reserved the right to ask for the maximum sentence of five years and $1,000
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said tuesday the economy seems ``in equilibrium,'' but that he couldn't make the same claim for presidential campaign rhetoric
there is a gross distortion of reality'' on trade issues in the political debate, he suggested
greenspan's comments on the economy appeared to signal that the fed was unlikely to move, at least soon, on u.s. interest rates, preferring to take a wait-and-see approach
sen. joesph biden's two-week struggle with a classic pain in the neck seemed over, so he shed his brace last week and left on a speaking tour. but the pain returned, along with nausea, and the 45-year-old delaware democrat suddenly faced life-or-death surgery
biden underwent a six-hour operation friday to repair an aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to his brain. on tuesday, he was removed from the intensive care service at walter reed army medical center and taken to a regular hospital room
physicians are pleased with his continued progress and his condition is listed as satisfactory,'' peter esker, a walter reed spokesman, said tuesday
the letters, phone calls and telegrams come from across the nation, but the message to police and state parole board members is almost always the same: thomas trantino must not go free
nearly 25 years after trantino and an accomplice shot sgt. peter voto and officer gary tedesco to death at point-blank range in a nightclub here, emotions still run high
from an accountant in nearby teaneck: ``the courts and the parole system should start to recognize the danger which these criminals present to society. if he killed in cold blood two police officers who were in uniform, how can those of us who are citizens in plain clothes be safe?''
broadcast news'' and its stars _ william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks _ headed the favorites to be on the list wednesday when nominations for the 60th annual academy awards are announced
broadcast news,'' directed by james l. brooks, and bernardo bertolucci's ``the last emperor'' loomed largest in speculation leading up to the announcement at dawn
the two films have attracted the majority of critics' praise and prizes, and each bears its maker's stamp. brooks wrote, produced and directed ``broadcast news,'' a caustic incisive view of how networks report the news. bertolucci co-wrote and directed ``the last emperor,'' the tragic life of china's boy ruler, henry pu yi
with any joss _ that means ``luck'' in chinese _ there'll be something to do next week rather than spend eight hours on nbc's mind-numbing miniseries, the ignoble ``noble house,'' based on james clavell's best-selling novel of the same title
the plot is preposterous, the acting spotty, the music overdone, the love scenes embarrassing, the special effects fakey. and after investing eight hours _ two hours a night, sunday through wednesday, on nbc _ everything is tied up neatly at the end, not through any clever plot twist, but because of an act of god. thanks a lot
pierce brosnan, late of ``remington steele,'' is a fine actor, but he's too pretty for ian dunross, a tough, middle-aged corporate kingpin descended from scottish pirates. then this suave, exotic fellow is given as a love interest gawky deborah raffin as gosh-darn american casey tcholok, a perky corporate raider
casey is a tip-o'-the-hat to feminism. the rest of the women in the cast are the typical array of hookers, mistresses, or, at best, secretaries
ben masters manages a believable performance as deceptively affable linc barlett, casey's boss and honcho of a huge california conglomerate. but it's the villains who get the best of the miniseries _ john rhys-davies as jealous quillan gornt, longtime noble house rival, and khigh diegh, the most fun of all as four finger wu, a wily bandit who operates from a junk in hong kong harbor, cuffing his honest son into helping toss hapless henchman overboard
the miniseries was shot in london and on location in exotic hong kong
as the miniseries opens, dunross is becoming the new tai-pan, or boss, of noble house, a huge hong kong-based trading company. he has inherited a financial mess from his predecessor (denholm elliott) and must struggle to keep the company from going under
to that end, he entertains a merger offer by a linc's company, par-con industries
enter linc, accompanied by casey, come to hong kong to cut a deal. talk about your ugly americans _ during their brief stay, banks fail, stock markets plunge, fires rage, buildings collapse, and murders are most foul. anybody with a lick of sense would skedaddle back to the states and chalk it up to poor junket planning. and a people who place so much emphasis on joss _ as the chinese must, since the word turns up several times a night _ would surely notice that these two haven't exactly brought a ray of sunshine to their happy port city
shortly after linc and casey arrive, linc secretly meets with gornt, who entices linc with a possible joint raid on the noble house. casey, in the meantime, is linking up with ian. everyone remains irritatingly pleasant in between natural disasters
also in the meantime, bandits play keep-away with a stolen, broken half-coin that figures in an inscrutable ancient tradition entitling the bearer to a lucrative ``favor'' from the noble house
though the plot is supposed to take place over a few days, it seems like years. time passage is such a problem that at one point, the characters have to explain in dialogue what has happened when and remark how it all seems so long ago
for viewers, it will all seem so long ago, too. ``noble house'' isn't good enough to be good, or even bad enough to be good. as a four-hour junk-tv snack, maybe. but for anyone willing to invest eight hours _ good joss
elsewhere in television:
karen carpenter story _ richard carpenter is executive producing a made-for-tv movie based on the life of his sister, karen carpenter. the two were major pop stars in the 1970s thanks to karen's silky voice (``rainy days and mondays''). karen died at 33, apparently of complications from anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder whose sufferers starve themselves trying to stay ultra-thin. cynthia gibb will play karen carpenter. mitchell anderson plays richard. peter michael goetz and louise fletcher play their parents. the movie follows the family from their move to california when karen was 13 to her death in 1983. ..

golden guy _ mickey rooney is making a guest appearance on nbc's ``golden girls'' in an episode scheduled for feb. 27 called ``larceny and old lace.'' he plays rocco, new boyfriend of sophia (estelle getty). turns out he's a bank robber who turns sophia into unwitting accomplice, driving a getaway car. ..

bravo bertolucci _ bravo, the pay-cable channel, offers ``the south bank show: bertolucci'' on feb. 18 and 24, chronicling the italian director's remarkable filming in the people's republic of china for his epic film ``the last emperor.'' bertolucci's past works include ``last tango in paris'' and ``the conformist.'' the program will include newsreel footage of and interviews with real characters portrayed in ``the last emperor,'' the sweeping story of pu yi, the boy emperor who ended his life as an ordinary citizen in china
to the surprise of those who believed an economic downturn would be under way by now, the number of people with jobs is at an all-time high, generating concern of an entirely different sort
the new concern, finding expression among popular economists, is that the nation's full-employment level might be approaching, and with it the possibility of rising wages
in short: inflation
as with all economic fears, this too could evaporate. but there exists some statistical evidence to suggest that a long period of wage stability could be nearing an end if the economic expansion continues
in theory, the approach of full employment means upward pressure on wages and a need to rely on less-skilled workers, which combine to lower productivity and force prices higher
more than 114 million civilians were employed in january 1988, more than 5 million above the figure for january 1986. while the labor force has risen in that time, the jobless rate has fallen to 5.8 percent from 6.7 percent
the so-called full employment level _ in which all who are willing and able to work have jobs, other than for those who are between jobs _ is difficult to forecast, since it reveals itself mainly in labor shortages and rising wages
viewing various sets of statistics, economist j. patrick bradley of pnc financial corp., a philadelphia bank-holding company, believes full employment hasn't been reached, ``given the modest gains in wages relative to inflation.''
various reasons are offered for the absence of strong wage gains, such as a decline in the level of unionism and a tendency for workers to be older and more experienced, and already at peak earnings
but, says bradley, such explanations make little difference. ``it merely means that the full-employment rate has not yet been reached and, therefore, is not yet a source of inflationary pressure.''
those who place their faith in quarterly economic surveys by the national federation of independent business are less certain that full employment is still a distance away
that survey, released this week, shows very strong hiring plans among that organization's 500,000 members. coupled with already record-high employment levels, such intentions could be interpreted as spelling trouble
dean william dunkelberg of temple university's school of business, who conducts the survey, found 23 percent of firms had job openings in the final quarter of 1987, and that 19 percent plan to raise employment in the current quarter
these are the strongest hiring plans recorded since 1978 on a seasonally adjusted basis,'' he said, noting that the intent to add workers was especially strong in manufacturing, with 28 percent of such companies planning to hire
the same survey suggested that wage pressure has begun showing up, with 23 percent of all companies reporting higher labor costs in the final quarter of 1987
simultaneously, the survey showed what dunkelberg termed a surprising 5 percentage-point jump in plans to raise compensation, bringing to almost one-quarter the number of companies with such plans
he reasons that, ``the rather large jump in plans to increase compensation may be an early indication that the long-expected problems on the wage front may have finally arrived.''
partly as a consequence, the percent of companies planning to raise prices jumped 6 points to 27 percent of all companies. that increase was the highest recorded for january in three years
they're married, but not married. they're divorced, but not divorced. that's the paradoxical plight of thousands of religiously observant jewish women in broken marriages
although civilly divorced, the man won't grant a religious bill of divorcement, called a ``get.''
only the man can do that under jewish law, as observed in conservative and orthodox judaism, and if he doesn't, that leaves her in an ambiguous state, her marriage ended civilly, but still binding her religiously
she's in a limbo, neither married, nor unmarried,'' says benita gayle-almeleh of the american jewish committee who has done special research into the problem, urging rabbinical action to remedy it
in such circumstances, she points out, the woman is ``not free to remarry, to pick up the pieces and go on with her life. her marriage has been dissovled but not dissolved.''
mrs. gayle-almeleh estimates at least 35,000 jewish women across the country are trapped in that situation, 15,000 of them in new york state alone
they're in a terrible predicament,'' she said in an interview, maintaining that the problem has reached crisis proportions. jewish law requires no religious release for men to remarry, but does for women
it has a tremendous impact on the entire family in trying to raise and socialize children. it's a continuous irritant and cause of tension. it has the built-in possibility of a continually fractured family.''
she said men withhold the religious ``get'' for various reasons, sometimes for emotional, financial or other blackmail to gain concessions about property or child custody
this happens plenty of times,'' she said. ``in essence, it's extortion.'' she said the possibility of a religious divorce ``is dangled in front of the aggrieved spouse'' to meet various demands
in other cases, she said women can't obtain religious divorces because the former husband is simply neglectful, lazy, refuses it in vindictiveness after the breakup, drops out of sight or some fluke of cirumstances
without a ``get,'' the civilly divorced woman under jewish law is termed an ``agunah,'' or ``anchored wife,'' not free to remarry since further sexual union would be considered adulterous and any offspring would be ``mamzerim'' or ``bastards,'' mrs. gayle-almeleh said
such children are forbidden to marry other jews, and to this day, they carry a terrible social stigma.''
mrs. gayle-almeleh, program specialist in ajc's interreligious affairs department and coordinator of its women of faith program, said ``this painful religious problem demands creative and immediate action.''
she commended the new york board of rabbis for a recent resolution urging sanctions against any former spouse who refuses to provide a ``get'' after a civil divorce if the woman wants one
such sanctions would involve denial of synagogue membership privileges such as the honor of being called to read the torah
mrs. gayle-almeleh called the action a ``positive step,'' but said the likelihood was that if a man had refused to supply a ``get'', he ``may well be beyond the point of caring
for anyone willing to flout community morals this way, his being called to read the torah probably doesn't make a big difference,'' she said. however, she said the system ``may be effective in some few instances.''
the board also recommended that all rabbis urge couples to sign prenuptial agreements saying that in event of civil divorce, both partners will cooperate in arranging for a ``get.''
that, however, wouldn't solve prior situations
she also cited drawbacks to a recently recently enacted new york state legislation saying a jewish husband who filed for civil divorce must also grant his wife a ``get'' if she wanted it
she said the constitutionality of the law has been questioned as on the ``slippery slope of church-state entanglement,'' and it's also questionable if jewish law should be subjected to legal systems and courts in 50 states
furthermore, she said that such legislation, ``puts the burden on women to get the state to compel relief. it would require emotional time-consuming and costly litigation,'' an ``unacceptable route'' for many women
in reform judaism, a civilly divorced woman doesn't also need a religious divorce to remarry, but it is required in conservative and orthodox branches
it's one of the few instances in which jewish law is rife with the possibility of mischief,'' mrs. gayle-almeleh said
in a recent address on the problem to a woman's conference in philadelphia, she said that through the centuries, rabbis have made various efforts to temper ``the one-sidedness of biblical law'' on the matter
she said attempts have been made to ``get around the dictum that only a man has the right to divorce (religiously),'' but nevertheless, a religious divorce is never granted ``in the absence of, or without the consent of, the husband.''
a preliminary draft of a u.s. catholic bishops' letter on women advocates that ``all ministerial roles be studied in terms of their openness to all persons in the church.''
portions of the draft, prepared by a committee and still subject to change before presentation to the full body of bishops, were read to an academic conference here by archbishop william levada of portland, ore., religious news service reports
regarding the ordination of women, firmly rejected by the vatican but increasingly favored in polls of american catholics, the draft says:
continuing reflections, dialogues and heated controversies in regard to the ordination of women demonstrate the importance of further study in order to deepen the understanding of this question...''
saying the vatican does not consider limiting to the priesthood to males a ``question of justice or equal rights,'' the draft adds:
it is acknowledged that certain reasons advanced in the past in support of the tradition arise from prejudicial attitudes toward women. such arguments _as an example that women are inferior or in a state of subjection to men or are incapable of governing _ are rejected.''
christians could develop a voting bloc that ``could be the crucial factor on election day,'' says robert p. dugan jr. in the march issue of the monthly christian herald
dugan, director of the public affairs office of the national association of evangelicals in washington, d.c., says ``what we do in the next eight months could alter the course of history.''
the american bible society reports that the number of languages in which at least one book of the bible has been published rose in 1987 to 1,884 languages, an increase of 36
however, the society says the total represents less than 40 percent of the world's some 5,000 languages
reform jews in america have raised more than $500,000 to plant 100,00 trees in a new forest in israel named for rabbi alexander m. schindler, president of the union of american congregations
the ``schindler forest'' is being established on 80 acres near safed in galilee as an expression of the reform movement's commitment to israel, says samuel i. cohen, executive vice-president of the jewish national forest fund
the roman catholic bishops of texas have issued a personal letter advising that stronger morals and education are the best prevention against aids
the letter rejects the use of condoms or other forms of ``safe sex'' to prevent the deadly disease. it also reaffirms the church's ban on extramarital sex, abortion, the use of contraceptives and masturbation
the statement deplores what the bishops call the ``dehumanizing effects of prostitution, pornography and adult entertainment centers based on sexual exploitation'' and discourages ``recreational sex.''
the letter also states that ``homosexuality is not sinful, but homosexual acts are.''
the southern baptist foreign issions board has urged the u.s. state department to allow american missionaries to return to lebanon. the department ordered them out a year ago because of strife there
what we're appealing for is the same opportunity that we've exercised in other trouble spots through the years,'' said board president r. keith parks in a letter to secretary of state george p. schultz
southern baptists pulled out 24 missionaries at the time the department ordered the exodus of u.s. citizens. parks said missionaries, who feel called by god to certain areas, should be allowed to take risks for their faith
linda kelsey, with two toddlers of her own, feels at home when she's working on the set of her new nbc comedy series, ``day by day.''
in the new series, getting a tryout on nbc, kelsey and on-screen husband doug sheehan give up their jobs to stay home and run a day-care center
she was a lawyer, and he was a stockbroker, and they feel a need to devote more time to their new baby than they did to their teen-age son. one of the show's creators is gary david goldberg (``family ties'')
gary said i was in his mind from the beginning,'' said kelsey. ``i knew him, because he produced `lou grant.' i didn't know, however, if i was the only candidate or one of many. he wondered why i was so tentative. i told him, `gary, i don't know how many people you're seeing, but i'd really love to be in it.' he said, `you are it. there's no one else
gary says it's the story of his own life. he's wanted to do this for several years. when he was a struggling writer in berkeley he and diane meehan had their first child. they ran a day care center at home. it's a situation filled with such comedy.''
goldberg was also responsible for getting a child-care center built at paramount studios, where the show is filmed. kelsey frequently brings her two children, sophia nellist, 4, and margit isabella, 8 months
nbc is going all out to launch ``day by day.'' it will be telecast this monday and thursday, then begin its regular schedule on sunday, march 6, replacing ``my two dads,'' which will temporarily become a roving ``designated hitter'' on the nbc schedule
sophie sometimes plays on the set with the kids before we start work,'' kelsey said. ``when it's time to start filming, up goes her hand and she says, `i'm not in this!' which makes me very happy. at home she can work her father's computer and is teaching herself to read.''
she and her husband, glenn strand, a computer systems analyst, live in ojai, 70 miles northwest of los angeles. she commutes by limousine. ``i take a little nap in the car and when i get home i'm refreshed,'' she said
kelsey starred for five years as reporter billie newman in ``lou grant,'' and after that was in the tv movie ``baby girl scott'' and the miniseries ``nutcracker: money, murder and madness.''
i haven't done a lot since `lou grant,' but it was by choice because i had two children,'' she said. ``then six months ago i did a play and it whetted my appetite to get back to work.''
she says it was her frequent appearance on ``the mary tyler moore show'' that led to her casting in ``lou grant.''
being a guest star, i thought, was the easiest thing in the world,'' she said. ``i could do some shopping,run errands. in a series i'm there all the time. when i was a guest star i didn't realize that mary was in almost every scene
one show was based on `all about eve,''' she said. ``i come in all innocent and take over sue ann nivens' job. i was eve harrington to her margo channing. betty white was nominated for an emmy for that show.''
she was a guest on such shows as ``doc,'' ``m-a-s-h'' and ``the rockford files,'' and most of producer quinn martin's shows, such as ``streets of san francisco'' and ``barnaby jones.''
those were great shows for the actors,'' she said. ``you could get in quinn martin's repertory company and do his shows. those were great parts. you were the murderer. i thought then i'd never do a series. all of the good parts went to the guest stars. things have changed so much now. look at `l.a. law' with its wonderful parts for the regulars.''
day by day'' has 12 children, five of whom have speaking roles
they saw 600 children,'' she said, ``and interviewed them apart from their parents. the two key questions were `do you want to do this?' and `do you want to do this many different ways?' we wanted kids who wanted to do it, not those whose parents were pushing them. we got kids who want to be here.''
kelsey relaxes by weaving, knitting, spinning and doing needlework
i don't have much time right now,'' she said. ``but it's so relaxing. it shuts out the world. i weave a lot of fabrics, but i can't bear to part with them. i think if i make them into children's clothes they'll get dirty.''
it's a still night on mcclellan street when a dozen cops, guns drawn, spill from a dark van and race up to a two-story brick house. a 280-pound narc aims an iron battering ram at the door
shouts break the silence: ``police officers! search warrant!''
running footsteps rumble inside
the door is down in 35 seconds, and police flood in. three minutes later, six people are handcuffed. the search for drugs begins, with officers lifting ceiling panels, rummaging in drawers, shaking a virgin mary statue
it's another night in detroit's war against crack, another raid against potent chunks of cocaine that have snuffed out lives, destroyed families, clogged courts and jails and created an epidemic some say may be the worst in the nation
crack is like a cancer,'' says wayne county sheriff robert ficano
the mcclellan raid, police say, netted three arrests, two ounces of crack, which fell out of one suspect's pants leg, and more than $1,000 in cash. scenes like this occur round-the-clock in detroit
since mayor coleman young announced a new assault on crack more than two months ago, police average a dozen raids a day. hundreds have been arrested. hundreds of thousands of dollars in drugs have been seized
i think it's at a war stage _ us against them,'' said city councilman david eberhard. ``if we don't clean up the drugs, they'll take over. we can't turn the city over to the criminal element
i think the community needs to know we're doing something,'' he added
the high-profile raids are aimed to show just that. the early focus has been on crack houses and small-time operators to show citizens as much as traffickers that police mean business
we attacked the visible part first ... to get public awareness,'' said commander joel gilliam, who oversees the police department's narcotics unit. he said larger traffickers will be targeted next
detroit's crack problem is staggering. according to police, state and federal officials:
_ up to 40,000-50,000 people in detroit and the surrounding area have a $50-a-day crack habit, totaling more than $900 million a year
_ on a given day, about 1,300 crack houses are operating in detroit. thousands more dealers work street corners or other locations
_ cocaine-related emergency room visits to detroit hospitals increased seven-fold from the last half of 1984 to the first half of 1987. in new york, by comparison, the increase in such visits was about 2{ times
_ the practice of trading sex for crack is believed largely responsible for detroit's huge increase in a penicillin-resistant strain of gonorrhea _ from 15 cases in 1985 to 2,344 last year
statistics, however, cannot capture the mind-boggling brutality that pervades the lives of crack dealers and addicts
horror stories are endless: a teen-age woman involved in a crack dispute is branded 20 times with a heated potato masher then shot, the gun barrel pressed against her forehead; a baby dies of drug intoxication after nursing at her cocaine-using mother's breast; crack users sell their food stamps, beds, even protective bars on their windows for another piece of the precious rock
you'll sell your mama, you'll sell your daddy,'' gilliam said. ``you'll steal, you'll break into cars, you'll prostitute. it's called the glass pimp. you won't eat. you won't sleep. that's how addicting it is.''
many cities, including new york, dallas and los angeles, have crack problems. but william coonce, special agent-in-charge of the local drug enforcement administration office, believes detroit may be the worst
he attributes the problem to an explosive combination: hard economic times, access to guns, 5,000 to 10,000 abandoned buildings, lack of opportunities for teen-agers _ and a per capita murder rate that in 1985 and '86 was the worst in the nation. in 1987, there were 645 homicides, three fewer than the year before, police said
gilliam estimates 60-65 percent of detroit's killings are drug-related
some people have become frustrated. two men recently admitted setting fires last fall at an alleged crack house in an attempt to drive dealers from their neighborhood. they've been charged with arson
one of the two said the community supported them and noted ``it was like a neighborhood project.''
other people are simply frightened
the neighbors are scared to death. they're all running for cover,'' coonce said. ``very definitely, it's out of hand.''
violence and crack feed on one other. crack, a blend of cocaine and baking soda, boiled and dried and broken into rocks, can take effect in 10 seconds. it can create a false sense of confidence, making users do crazy things
one man stabbed two relatives dozens of times, then took money from one of the victims and spent it on crack, police said
you sniff cocaine and you rise to the top of the mountain,'' gilliam said. ``you smoke crack, you shoot to the top. ... you've got to pull them off the ceilings to lock them up.''
crack is popular in the inner city because rocks cost as little as $5 or $10. and while detroit is the main marketplace, trade has expanded into the suburbs
sheriff ficano said his narcotics unit seized $2 million in cash last year, double that of 1986. authorities also estimate up to 50 percent of crack customers in detroit are suburbanites
police say one of crack's most frightening aspects is heavy teen-age involvement
we've got kids going to school with $3,000 and (business) beepers in their pockets,'' gilliam said. ``they don't want to be brain surgeons. they want to be instantly gratified. ... you have immature adolescents with no goals. give them a gun. put them on crack. they have no compunction about killing someone.''
gilliam said their philosophy is: ``you live fast, you die young, you make a beautiful corpse.'''
he said teens, including his daughter, are so jaded they read obituaries. ``she wants to know who in her age group has been shot,'' he said. ``it's a damn vietnam body count. it's a whole different society out there.''
teens also know if they get caught ``they're relatively immune, at least from long stretches of time'' because 85 percent are out of prison in 15 months, said ron schigur of the county prosecutor's office
a 15-year-old can be waived to adult court, he said, but judges are often reluctant to allow that
crack, however, spans all ages. in december, police arrested a 72-year-old woman and said they found crack in her sock
trafficking often occurs in houses where violence and sex are commonplace. police tell of finding rotting bodies in basements and 13-year-old girls offered as incentives for deals
trading sex for crack has been tied to a phenomenal increase in penicillinase-producing neisseria gonorrhea. michigan had 2,797 cases last year, up from 187 in 1986, probably the fastest rate of increase in the nation, said tim lindman of the michigan department of public health. most were in detroit
there's a good deal of sex going on in crack houses, basically anonymous sex,'' said george gaines, deputy director of detroit's health department. ``people are saying, `i don't know who it was. this was a one-time situation.'''
although the crackdown may ease some of these troubles, detroit still has problems
residential drug treatment programs are crowded. and the wayne county jail was overcrowded 83 percent of the time in 1987, ficano said, noting that triple-bunking or building a new jail are among options considered
while many support the crackdown, experts say it isn't a complete solution
this is going after the supply. ... we still have a population that wants drugs'' and will find a way to get them, said jacqueline morrison, senior project consultant at the wayne state research addiction institute
experts also say churches, parents and schools must play a role in education, and attitudes must change
people must ``recognize the fact that when folks don't have jobs, then they feel hopeless and they turn to hopeless things like drugs,'' said wayne county commissioner alberta tinsley-williams
still, she said, the raids are a beginning
there's a sense of urgency in detroit,'' she said. ``you've got to start somewhere.''
sharon cohen is the ap midwest regional reporter, based in chicago. victory</head>
at the tender age of 18, when most teen-agers are thinking about college and careers, richard wershe jr. faces life in prison
the blond, baby-faced wershe was convicted last month of possessing eight kilos of cocaine, worth about $5 million. police said that represented the largest single cocaine seizure in city history
wershe was sentenced feb. 4 to the mandatory penalty of life in prison without parole
in a city where the fight against drugs is an uphill battle, this case represented a critical government victory, said william coonce, special agent-in-charge of the local office of the drug enforcement administration
our total ability as a system to function was at stake,'' he said. ``if we couldn't convict this guy, as out-front, as brash, as arrogant as he was ... what could we do?
it was a very important sign to the community ... we can do the job as well as (deliver) the message _ if you deal in these quantities, you're going to go to jail for life.''
but, coonce added: ``it's almost insulting to our profession that any 18-year-old could get to this kind of stature without us being able to snuff him out a long time ago. ... the fact this guy is so young is symbolic of what's going on in this city.''
wershe, known on the street as ``white boy rick'' because most of his associates are black, still faces two other drug charges
his father, richard sr., who has sued the police, alleging harassment, recently told the detroit news he and his son worked for several years as federal drug informants
the fbi and dea have declined comment
the younger wershe was ``at the top echelons of trafficking'' in detroit, supplying cocaine to a major crack dealer under investigation, coonce said
even though he looks like baby face nelson,'' judge william hathaway said in a hearing last year, ``as far as this court is concerned he's worse than a mass murderer.''
wershe's conviction stemmed from a may 1987 incident in which police found the cocaine in a box underneath a porch in the back of a house; they said he had dropped it there after fleeing officers
according to testimony, wershe was riding in a car stopped for a traffic violation in front of his grandmother's house. a fight broke out when police tried to grab a bag they later retrieved containing $29,000
wershe ran from the car, but was later recaptured
more than an hour later, officers found the drugs in a box in a backyard a block from the grandmother's home. at the trial, a neighbor said wershe ditched the box in her yard and offered her $500
defense attorney edward bell said wershe has nothing to do with the drugs and didn't know how they got there
he argued wershe was the victim of police brutality _ defense witnesses said he was punched and hit with a pistol _ and the drug charges were concocted to conceal the beating
the government acknowledged police ``thumped'' wershe, but said there was no excessive force
the defense also suggested authorities planted the drugs and pinned it on wershe, but prosecutors argued it was ludicrous to believe police carry around 17.6 pounds of dope just in case
during the trial, wershe was often surrounded by people wearing furs and gold and carrying telephone pagers sometimes associated with drug dealers
he was a local folk hero for the young people (who came to court),'' coonce said
bell later said many of the ``kids hanging around the court'' were simply curious
wershe's father has been charged with threatening a police officer who testified against his son. wershe sr. has filed two multi-million dollar lawsuits against the detroit police and others, alleging harassment, invasion of privacy and other charges
though coonce said wershe's sentence may deter some, it will not stop the flow of drugs in detroit. as he said, ``there's not going to be any lack for cocaine.''
here are some statistics on cocaine use and related problems in the detroit area. the war on crack was announced nov. 30
_ from dec. 1 to feb. 5, 914 adults were arrested on drug-related felony charges; 1,900 were charged with misdemeanors, according to police and court records
officials say 240 juveniles were arrested on drug-related charges, both felonies and misdemeanors. also, 830 weapons, 93 vehicles, about $690,500 and drugs estimated to be worth $5.2 million were seized
_ in 1987, the drug enforcement administration seized 4,964 weapons nationwide. of those, 511, or slightly more than 10 percent, were seized by the detroit office, first among dea branches, said william coonce, special agent-in-charge of the agency's local office
_ two-thirds of men arrested in detroit for serious crimes tested positive for the recent use of illegal drugs, according to a study of 12 major cities released in january by the justice department. positive results ranged from 79 percent in new york city to 53 percent in phoenix, ariz
_ a 1987 state report found increases in cocaine and crack use. the report by richard calkins of the michigan department of public health found:
_ admissions to state-financed treatment programs in cases in which cocaine was the primary drug jumped 72 percent in wayne county (including detroit) from fiscal year 1985-86 to the following year
_ almost 25 percent of cocaine admissions to state-financed treatment in the detroit metro area involved crack in the 1986-87 fiscal year
_ in a nine-month period from the end of 1986 to 1987, crack as the primary drug for detroit cases referred to state-financed treatment increased from 35 percent to more than 50 percent. cocaine as the primary drug fell from 12 percent to less than 1 percent in the same period
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of feb. 19 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. now in previews, opens feb. 28. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``penn &amp; teller,'' hip vaudeville and magic tricks from two young comedians. ritz, 582-4022. teletron. available. closes march 20
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``serious money,'' caryl churchill's black comedy about high finance and dirty dealing. royale, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' robert joy and peter macnicol star in larry shue's comedy about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available. advertising ``last weeks.''
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
the u.s. trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december as exports hit new records, but the overall $171.2 billion shortfall for 1987 still measured the highest ever, the government reported
december's merchandise trade deficit was down from $13.2 billion in november and from $17.6 billion in october, and was the smallest figure since a $11.9 billion trade gap in january 1987, the commerce department said friday
the improvement was driven by a 4.2 percent rise in exports, which reached record levels for the second month in a row
business inventories jumped 0.8 percent in december, the government said, as the backlog of unsold products continued to swell in a development many economists said would retard growth in coming months
the commerce department said friday that inventories held on shelves and backlots rose by $5.45 billion to a seasonally adjusted $701.87 billion in december following even larger increases of 0.9 percent in november and 1.1 percent in october
the steepest climb in food prices in nearly 18 months, only partly offset by falling energy costs, pushed wholesale prices up at a brisk 0.4 percent in january, the government said
the increase, if it continued for 12 months, would amount to an annual wholesale inflation rate of 4.6 percent, compared with the 2.2 percent increase for all of 1987
a selection of goods priced at $10 in 1982 cost $10.62 last month, up from $10.57 in december and $10.40 in january 1987, the government said friday
federal reserve policymakers decided in december to end aggressive efforts to push interest rates lower, believing that the immediate threat from the stock market collapse had passed, according to minutes of the meeting
the action was approved at a scheduled meeting of the federal open market committee on dec. 15 and 16 and reaffirmed during an unannounced telephone conference call fed officials held on jan. 5, according to the minutes, released friday
canada's merchandise trade surplus shrank to 208 million canadian dollars in december, or about $164 million, the lowest monthly surplus since september 1981, statistics canada said
the december surplus, down from a revised 402 million canadian dollars in november, left the full year's surplus at the lowest level in seven years
the government said friday the surplus with the united states, canada's most important trading partner, declined to 17 billion canadian dollars from 18.4 billion canadian dollars in 1986
the massive tax reform act of 1986 will probably cause agricultural investment to decline at least through the early 1990s, a report by the agriculture department said
most of the investment decline can be laid to the law's repeal of the investment tax credit, which allowed up to 10 percent tax credit for qualifying capital improvements, the report said friday
most farm machinery, equipment, many farm structures and certain livestock operations qualified for the full 10 percent credit
domestic car and truck sales, boosted by aggressive buyer incentive programs, rose 2.8 percent in early february over the same period a year ago, automakers reported
car makers said monday they sold 192,001 domestically built cars and 102,754 domestically built light trucks in the nine selling days from feb. 1-10, up from 170,134 cars and 84,734 trucks in eight days in the same period a year ago
international business machines corp. unveiled a new design and new internal software for its largest computers, continuing a chain of enhancements dating back to the first system-360 in 1964
ibm said monday the improvements would allow computers to obtain access to information more rapidly and allow users to develop new programs for their own needs more easily
the world's dominant maker of mainframe computers, ibm controls about 70 percent of the market
campeau corp. said it will submit a sweetened cash bid for federated department stores inc. ``in excess of $65 a share'' on tuesday, when the retail giant's board is set to meet to review takeover offers
federated said in a statement monday that while its board may act on the bids at the meeting, ``there can be no assurance that any definitive transaction will take place.'' a $65-a-share bid would value the retail giant at about $5.75 billion
a new superconductor that operates at higher temperatures and may be easier to adapt to practical applications has been discovered by a research team in japan, scientists said
the superconductor is not merely a refinement of either of the two known high-temperature superconductors, but an entirely new compound that in some respects may exceed the performance of the others, said a panel of scientists at the annual meeting of the american association for the advancement of science on monday
belgium's largest bank announced it entered a ``banking alliance'' with one of the biggest dutch banks to form a major european financial group
the dutch amro bank and the belgian generale de banque s.a will try to set up ``an integrated multinational banking group within three years,'' generale de banque's chairman, eric de villegas de clercamp, said friday
the stock market gained ground in moderate trading, mustering a subdued response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials on friday rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, extending its gain for the week to 72.78 points
the dollar soared against most major currencies while gold prices also rose. the treasury's bellwether 30-year bond fell about $8.75 per $1,000 in face value on inflation worries
soybean futures prices rose, grain futures were mixed and energy futures retreated. talks resuming. picks up 11th graf pvs, ``our primary ... a version moving on general news wires.</note>
britain's first major industrial strike in several years, the 8-day-old national walkout by more than 32,000 ford autoworkers, has not been primarily about money
instead, it is an emotional dispute over the auto maker's push to impose more japanese-style work practices on reluctant employees
such practices, including computerization, more flexibility among workers and the cutting of auto-part inventories, have angered hourly workers enough for them to reject a sweetened offer from ford by more than a 60 percent margin, even though union negotiators had recommended it
ironically, such practices also have made ford motor co. ltd., british subsidiary of the u.s. auto maker and the largest auto maker in britain, especially vulnerable to this strike
the company's production in europe was quickly affected when the walkout began feb. 8 because the new efficiency at its european plants means they also now are more interdependent
the strike, ford's first british strike in nearly a decade, has halted production at all ford's 22 british plants
the action also has prompted the layoff of more than 9,700 workers and disrupted production at a ford plant in genk, belgium, which suffered a shortage of british-made parts
it also has threatened production at ford plants in west germany and spain, which also rely on parts made at ford's british plants
in addition, it has cost ford $40 million a day, at showroom prices, in lost british car production
talks between the transport and general workers' union, which represents two-thirds of the workers; representatives of the 11 unions that represent the rest, and company officials resumed today after an 11-day hiatus
our primary goal has been to improve efficiency and productivity,'' said a ford spokesman, who wasn't identified, in accordance with british custom
ford believes it needs to impose more efficient manufacturing methods to boost productivity and better fight off its competitors, such as nissan motor co., in a market burdened with overcapacity. nissan operates a highly productive plant in sunderland in northeast england
we are not attempting slavishly to copy the japanese. we are attempting solutions to our own problems,'' the ford spokesman said
ford wants to introduce more flexibility so that, for example, a skilled worker could work on a production line. but some skilled workers apparently balk at working alongside unskilled workers
and some workers also appear to fear being overworked
strikers have criticized japanese-style work practices. but the economist said: ``the strike has been led by men in dagenham (assembly plant), in booming east london, where workers feel they can demand big bribes in return for changing their work habits. not so in northeast england.''
indeed, not all british workers have reacted this way to the increasing use of such manufacturing methods at japanese and non-japanese plants throughout britain
many british workers in poorer areas of the country, such as the northeast, have felt downtrodden by the class system and are intimately familiar with britain's widespread unemployment. these have eagerly embraced the japanese practices of equality and job security
the new manufacturing techniques ford imposed _ some worker flexibility, computerization and the slashing of inventories of auto parts to reduce costs _ increased the auto maker's productivity and profitability sharply
each ford employee produced 9.5 cars in 1986 vs. 6.4 each in 1984 in britain. ford produced more than 383,000 cars in 1987 in britain
the british subsidiary's pre-tax profit tripled to about $569 million from $191 million in 1986, analysts estimate. ford won't report its results for a few months
union officials said opposition to ford's offer also centered on its three-year term, the first of its kind ever sought in the british auto industry. previous contracts have been for one or two years
some workers said they also object to linking their pay increases to government statistics for inflation because they claim the government underestimates the true rate of increase in consumer prices
the company's sweetened three-year contract offer included a pay rise of 7 percent in the first year followed by rises of 2.5 percent above the level of inflation in the scond and third years
the present pay of a middle-range worker is $327 a week
the last major industrial strike in britain was a yearlong walkout by more than 90,000 coal miners in 1984-1985
ford's british workers last walked out for nine weeks in 1978
stock prices drifted in a narrow range in moderate activity today, as interest rates rose in the credit markets
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down most of the morning, was up 0.16 to 1,979.77 at noon on wall street
declining issues outnumbered advancers on the new york stock exchange, with 567 up, 786 down and 468 unchanged
the volume of shares traded totaled 74.44 million as of noon est, down from 113.17 million as of noon est in last friday's session
the stock market was closed monday for the president's day holiday
analysts said stock trading today was subdued by a continued rise in interest rates in the bond market
bond prices fell about $8 for each $1,000 in face value by midday, following similar declines friday following several government economic reports pointing to stable or higher interest rates
the government said the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, but interest rates rose on speculation the trade figures reflected economic strength which could prevent the federal reserve from easing credit
furthermore, the labor department reported a 0.4 percent rise in wholesale prices in january, following a decline of about the same size in december
santa fe southern pacific rose ] to 45 in heavy trading. olympia &amp; york, the canadian developer, began a tender offer to increase its stake in the company by up to 14 million shares
federated department stores jumped 3] to 64. campeau corp. said it was prepared to offer $66 a share to acquire the company in a definitive merger agreement
among active blue chips, ibm rose } to 112}, general electric fell { to 42}, eastman kodak fell ] to 42] and coca-cola fell { to 36[
big board volume was 42.76 million shares in the first 90 minutes of activity
the new york stock exchange composite index fell 0.29 to 144.57
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 0.13 to 277.13
limited inc. reported tuesday a 28 percent drop in earnings for its 1987 fourth quarter, in part because of poor performances by two divisions and slowed consumer demand for women's apparel
earnings for all of 1987 were up slightly from the previous year, the retailer said
for the fourth quarter, limited's earnings totaled $63.3 million, or 35 cents a share, compared with $87.5 million, or 46 cents a share, in the final three months of 1986
sales for the latest quarter totaled $1.01 billion, up from $982.1 million
profits for all of 1987 increased 3 percent, to $235.2 million, or $1.25 a share, from $227.8 million, or $1.21 a share, the previous year
sales rose to $3.53 billion from $3.14 billion
during the third and fourth quarters, a major fashion cycle matured and reached saturation,'' said leslie h. wexner, limited chairman. ``consumer demand for women's apparel slowed.''
wexner said the company's lerner and lane bryant divisions performed below expectations, but noted that victoria's secret and limited express increased earnings during the year ``in spite of disappointing fall and christmas sales.''
during 1987, the company said it added 413 new stores, including two 15,000-square-foot limited super stores. the company also bought back 10.8 million shares of stock for $240 million, leaving 178.8 million shares outstanding at year's end
limited operates limited, limited express, henri bendel, victoria's secret, lerner, lane bryant and lerner woman stores
like the easy-going, down-home characters they portray in their television commercials, sausage kings jimmy dean and jerry owens don't give the impression they are fighting whole hog for the fattest share of the market
it seems mostly a gentleman's competition for leadership in the breakfast sausage market between the two dallas-based companies, whose officials praise each other's products as high quality
jimmy dean meat co. ranks first nationally, while the regionally distributed owens country sausage leads in texas, according to both companies' most recent a.c. nielsen co. market share figures that exclude link and microwave sausage
each claims to be the leader in the southwest region, although they decline to release those figures
we're tough competitors, but there's plenty of room,'' says former entertainer jimmy dean, who heads his company of the same name
they are formidable competitors. we continually go at it tooth and nail with each other,'' says jerry owens, chairman of the venerable, 60-year-old owens country sausage
both jimmy dean and jerry owens personally pitch their products on tv. the two texans speak with an easy drawl about home and family and hearty breakfasts
dean's celebrity status came almost 30 years ago when his ``big bad john'' country-western song hit the charts. he also hosted a television variety show
his answer on how he got into the sausage business is his standard one _ even in a telephone interview from his boat, the ``big bad john,'' floating somewhere south of miami where dean is wintering:
had you ever seen my act, you would realize diversification was imperative. i was in the hog business in plainview and the market fell out and we were losing out. quality sausage was something i didn't think existed,'' said dean, a remark sure to leave the owens people aghast
dean founded the company with his brother, don, in 1969. but the brothers waged a nine-year legal battle when jimmy dean made critical remarks about his brother's management of the company in the 1970s. don dean is no longer with the company
in 1986, jimmy dean was ordered by a dallas jury to pay don $500,000 in damages for violating a 1980 agreement to keep quiet about his brother. a federal appeals court overturned that last year
family relationships at owens have been smoother
owens attained his reputation selling sausage as his father, c.b. owens, did before him. but from his appearance and manner, owens could easily pass for a country-western star himself
our emphasis is on our family's involvement (with the company) on a day-to-day basis and the family heritage and a history of reliability and consistency,'' he said, sporting a western-cut corduroy jacket, plaid shirt and thin gold chain around his neck
jerry owens' son, stewart, is now president of the company
jerry owens said it never really occurred to him to do anything but take over the family business, which started back in 1938 with the idea of using ham, loin and shoulder cuts in sausage _ instead of using it to ``get rid of the trimmings.''
pork sausage was an abused product,'' owens explained
while both companies are headquartered here, both are now owned by bigger out-of-state corporations that allow them to continue to market their products under their own brand names
while dean is distributed nationally, owens is marketed from arizona to mississippi and as far north as oklahoma and arkansas
in 1984, jimmy dean meat co. was acquired by chicago-based sara lee corp., which also owns other smaller sausage companies. owens was acquired by bob evans farms inc. of columbus, ohio, in 1987
i think that's a big enough market that both are highly regarded in their respective areas. i don't sense that either one is out to murder the other,'' said elliott schlang, senior vice president of prescott, ball &amp; turben, an investment firm in cleveland
he called the bob evans-owens merger a ``very nice geographic expansion,'' though it's too early to tell if it will be successful
while their advertising harks back to home cookin' and simpler times, both sausage companies also are venturing into more modern-day markets _ with biscuits and microwave foods that are quick and easy to serve
convenience is the deal today,'' owens said. ``lifestyles are kind of changing with more working moms. breakfast in many households has become getting a bite on the run.''
his latest tv commercials show owens hawking a sausage biscuit that can be heated in the microwave oven
likewise, the jimmy dean company is pushing english muffins topped with ham and cheese or sausage. dean said the company will soon be test-marketing a small packaged hamburger, but declined to give more details
mesquite-smoked sausage is being marketed in the dallas area, while microwaveable sausage is being tested in several markets, said ed jenkins, vice president for marketing at jimmy dean
the owens family also plans to get into the restaurant business, relying on the expertise of bob evans' successful chain in the midwest to help get a new restaurant in irving, texas, off the ground in march
t. boone pickens, whose previous attempts to buy lakewood-based kn energy inc. have been rejected by the company, is now angling for a spot on kn's board of directors
pickens was nominated for the board friday by mesa limited partnership of amarillo, texas, a concern controlled by him. mesa owns 445,200 shares of kn's 9.1 million outstanding common shares, or about 4.9 percent stake
shareholders will vote on new directors march 24 at kn's annual meeting. four spots on the 11-member board are up for election
we need to get 20 percent of the vote to get boone elected,'' said mesa spokesman david batchelder. ``we think we can do that
executives at kn energy, a natural gas pipeline company, were reviewing the proxy materials sent by mesa on friday, said kn spokesman dick buxton. the proxy materials must be approved by the securities and exchange commission
we really couldn't speculate regarding mesa's intent,'' buxton said
pickens first bid for the lakewood company in september 1983, buying 337,000 shares, or 3.9 percent of the common stock, for $44.50 a share. he offered to swap 3.5 shares of mesa common for each share of kn common shares
mesa offered to buy kn twice in 1986, once for $22 a share in january and again for $24 a share a month later
pickens' most recent attempt to buy kn came in dece. 21, and thereafter
hillbilly'' goes to work each day not knowing whether he'll face armed drug dealers, snarling pit bulls or scared children cowering behind closed doors
he lives in a world of danger and split-second decisions
hillbilly, code name for a 37-year-old detroit narcotics officer, is ``shotgun man'' on a crew conducting daily drug raids. he's a foot soldier in the city's war against crack
armed with a 12-gauge shotgun, hillbilly is the first cop to enter dark crack houses and abandoned buildings. followed by a crew of six to eight others, he secures the premises, looking for guns and people carrying them. the task takes about 30 tense seconds
the job takes a lot more: steel nerves, a quick mind and plenty of guts
you never get used to it,'' he said. ``you're always scared. you'd be a fool if you weren't. ... your mind is more occupied with the entry. you always get a lump. ... fear of the unknown.''
judgment is critical. ``you have a decision to make,'' he said. ``you hope it's the right one.''
hillbilly, given the nickname by co-workers because of his kentucky roots, has been a cop for 17 years, 11 in narcotics. in that time, he's seen or heard it all: pit bulls guarding crack houses, people who've used children as shields and dealers who sat upstairs while a hooded, bound victim of an execution-style murder rotted in the basement
their world is drugs,'' he said. ``everything else is immaterial.''
hillbilly said a contract was put out on his life years ago. he had 24-hour guards
he's also had a bullet whiz through his jacket sleeve and had partners shot. once, suspects in a house started shooting through the door as the cops approached. the officer carrying a battering ram was hit. hillbilly pushed him aside. he kept moving
hillbilly and other narcotics officers wear bulletproof vests under blue jumpsuits and caps. the glow-in-the-dark word ``police'' is emblazoned on their heads, backs, chests, arms and shoulders
after hundreds of raids, hillbilly says fighting drugs is ``definitely frustrating.''
you'll drive yourself crazy if you think the judges are not putting them away,'' he said. ``we try not to dwell on that. we just tend to lock that out.''
he cited one recent case in which a woman and her son were arrested and weapons and crack were seized. weeks later, police raided the same place, he said, discovering more weapons and drugs
what's depressing and frightening to us is they pick up the guns so easily,'' he said. ``we'll probably end up (there) in another two or three weeks.''
hillbilly also has no illusions about his impact on drug trafficking
we're not naive to think we're stopping any major drug distributors in the area,'' he said. but each complaint, he said, must be pursued, no matter how small
it's nice when you get a few of the bad characters off the street,'' he said. ``whether we're helping society... well, they have to want to help themselves.''
hillbilly said the worst part of the job is when cops are killed. ``it's heartbreaking.'' you wonder, he said, ``is it all worth it? for eight rocks (of crack), he's laying in the casket?''
but, he added, ``you shake it off. you go back.''
prices on the london stock exchange finished slightly lower tuesday as continued hesitance by institutional investors overshadowed better-than-expected economic figures
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index closed 4.6 points, or 0.26 percent, lower at 1,734.6
the index traded narrowly all day. volume totaled 293.6 million shares, up from 248.3 million monday but still a low level
market makers tried to boost prices after favorable news late in the morning on britain's public sector borrowing requirement and industrial production. but the data failed to stimulate much activity, and the gains eroded slowly
among the ft-se 100 shares, declines led advances by 49 to 27, with 24 shares unchanged
stock prices were narrowly higher in moderate activity today, as interest rates rose in the credit markets
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down most of the morning, was up 4.64 points to 1,987.90 at 2 p.m. on wall street
advancing issues narrowly outnumbered decliners on the new york stock exchange, with 725 up, 722 down and 472 unchanged
the volume of shares traded totaled 94.21 million as of 2 p.m. est
the stock market was closed monday for the president's day holiday
analysts said stock trading today was subdued by a continued rise in interest rates in the bond market
bond prices fell about $6 for each $1,000 in face value by midafternoon, following similar declines friday following several government economic reports pointing to stable or higher interest rates
the government said the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, but interest rates rose on speculation the trade figures reflected economic strength which could prevent the federal reserve from easing credit
furthermore, the labor department reported a 0.4 percent rise in wholesale prices in january, following a decline of about the same size in december
santa fe southern pacific rose | to 45\ in heavy trading. olympia &amp; york, the canadian developer, began a tender offer to increase its stake in the company by up to 14 million shares
federated department stores jumped 3| to 64\. campeau corp. said it was prepared to offer $66 a share to acquire the company in a definitive merger agreement
among active blue chips, ibm rose ~ to 112~, general electric fell \ to 43, coca-cola fell ] to 36\, and american telephone &amp; telegraph was unchanged at 29[
the new york stock exchange composite index rose 0.18 to 145.04
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.01 to 278.01
a telephone company attempting to recruit workers finds 84 percent of applicants fail the entry-level test. a congressional study shows most high-school juniors cannot write a simple letter seeking a summer job
a steelworker misorders $1 million in parts because he cannot read well. an insurance clerk who doesn't understand decimals pays a claimant $2,200 instead of $22
illiteracy caused by poor education has become an economic time bomb, threatening both the quality of the american work force and the nation's ability to compete on world markets, government policymakers say
the department of education estimates more than 27 million americans older than 17 cannot read or write well enough to perform basic requirements of everyday life. another 45 million are considered barely competent in basic skills
that means more than 72 million _ one out of every three adults _ may lack the reading and writing skills they need to find work. and the number is growing annually by more than 2 million, federal officials say
these statistics coincide with a surge in demand for workers who not only can read and write, but who also can use computers, understand technological concepts and think independently in an economy that is shifting to services and information and away from manufacturing
moreover, this erosion of worker literacy comes at a time when america's competitors in asia and europe are forging ahead with educated work forces that may come to dominate the high-technology business of the 21st century
we need to determine what to do with the substantial fraction of our population that's ill-equipped to compete in a global economy,'' said indiana university professor lawrence mikulecky
a study commissioned by the department of labor titled ``workforce 2000,'' published last june, estimated that between now and the end of the century, for the first time in u.s. history, a majority of all new jobs will require postsecondary education
this prospect presents a great risk to minority workers, who historically have lacked the schooling and skills needed to exploit job opportunities, said the study conducted by the hudson institute, a private research organization
if that pattern persists, the study said, ``by the year 2000, the problems of minority unemployment, crime and dependency will be worse than they are today. without substantial adjustments, blacks and hispanics will have a smaller fraction of the jobs of the year 2000 than they have today, while their share of those seeking work will have risen.''
the problem is compounded by a declining number of people entering the labor pool, a consequence of the sharp dropoff in birth rates that followed the postwar baby boom
some personnel executives say the literacy crisis already has hurt them. new york telephone co. discovered last year that 84 percent of its new york city applicants flunked the company's entry-level exam, which included basic questions on vocabulary and numerical relationships
the business council for effective literacy, a corporate-sponsored group, has documented instances in which employees misordered millions of dollars in parts, overpaid bills and endangered work-place safety. in one case, a feedlot operator who misread a label killed a pen full of cattle by giving them poison instead of grain
foreign companies building factories in the united states also have been rudely awakened. at toyota motor corp.'s u.s. manufacturing operations, for example, personnel managers now test the educational level of all prospective employees
they're not just assuming that because someone comes in with a high-school diploma, he's going to be prepared,'' said paul jurmo, program associate at the business council for effective literacy
definitions of literacy vary greatly, but some tests have served as important guides. in 1985, for example, the department of education asked 3,400 people aged 20 and older to answer at least 20 of 26 simple questions correctly. nearly 13 percent failed
other measurements are considered equally discouraging. a study mandated by congress in 1984 found that fewer than 400 of 2,000 11th graders could adequately write a note applying for a summer job at a swimming pool
college board test scores have fallen about 8 percent over the past 20 years, while test performance abroad has risen. in an international calculus and algebra test done a few years ago, the best u.s. 12th graders came in last among students from the most developed countries. japanese finished first
estimates on the cost of work-place illiteracy also vary but are believed to be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. the institute for the study of adult literacy at penn state university has said the cost is at least $225 billion per year, just in terms of lost productivity, welfare and related crime and prison expenses
in addition, at least $25 billion is spent by companies and private groups to upgrade worker education, but most of this effort reaches only a small fraction of those who need it most, says david harman, a columbia university professor who has done extensive research in the area
a great deal of illiteracy remains obscured, partly because many older employees are sensitive about their lack of skills, fearing they could be fired or face ridicule by seeking help
some devise elaborate ways to conceal inability to read or write, including feigning nearsightnedess or taking job applications home to have spouses complete them, said eli zal, executive director of literacy volunteers of new york city inc., a nonprofit group that organizes classes for adults
there are some encouraging signs. millions of illiterate or barely literate adults are starting to take advantage of a growing range of educational programs offered not only by voluntary and government groups, but labor unions and employers themselves
the federally funded adult basic education program, the largest single literacy effort in the nation, enrolled 3.1 million people in 1986, up from 2.5 million in 1984
many large companies have started contributing money to community efforts, drafted tutors to help disadvantaged workers and organized schools of last resort to provide basic instruction
general motors corp. and international business machines corp., for example, together spend at least $700 million annually on adult education. other companies such as polaroid corp., standard oil co., ford motor co. and liberty mutual insurance group offer remedial classes in plants and offices
part of this corporate effort arises from a gradual realization among executives that it's in their long-term interest to have an adaptable and educated work force. but many in business still may not appreciate the magnitude of the crisis, according to robert w. goddard, publication director at liberty mutual insurance, who wrote on the subject in a recent issue of personnel journal magazine
the major force driving corporate america to attack illiteracy is the same one that united the colonies 200 years ago: either hang together on this issue, or hang separately,'' said goddard
two nights a week, demetrius mosley leaves his job at a toy-store warehouse for a midtown manhattan skyscraper, where volunteers help him read newspaper ads and write simple sentences in a frayed notebook. three months ago, he could barely write his name
it takes a lot for a person to say, `i need help,''' said mosley, 26, who is enrolled in a class run by literacy volunteers of new york city inc. ``a lot of people are scared to admit it.''
at 6:30 p.m., the gulf &amp; western building's 40th-floor cafeteria becomes a school where mosley and about 70 other adults, many of them poor and unable to read beyond the second-grade level, receive tutoring in the literacy demands of everyday life, ranging from paying the rent to getting a driver's license
some seek help to read dime-store novelettes. others want to study the bible or even opera librettos, literacy volunteer officials said
but for many, the training is vital to their ability to work and earn a paycheck
the students are taught by professionals including advertising executives, accountants and teachers, some from manhattan's swank private schools. all are recruited by the literacy volunteers, which holds classes in 10 sites citywide
when adults don't know how to read and write, they don't have much faith in themselves,'' said eli zal, executive director of the literacy volunteers. he said the group gets a large part of its budget from corporate donors
because of television publicity and a growing awareness of the nation's illiteracy problem, the literacy volunteers office has been inundated not only with applications from prospective students, but tutors as well. there is a 10-month waiting list for student spaces and for the first time, a waiting list for tutors, who receive a special training course before teaching a class
these people really want to learn. that's what is exciting to me,'' said ann heininger, a 30-year-old volunteer tutor who works for coopers &amp; lybrand, a large public accounting firm
she began tutoring about three years ago and it has since become a regular part of her routine, she said. during that time, she has helped students learn to scan help-wanted ads and write notes to creditors about disputed bills. she recalled helping one student read a gambling handbook
i try to get my students to help each other,'' she said. ``one of the biggest things is to get their confidence up, and that strategy helps.''
mosley, one of a half-dozen students taught by ms. heininger in her current class, said he decided to seek help partly because of his job at a toys r us warehouse, where he needed to recognize the names of games and other toys
when i first came to this class, i couldn't read. picking up a book was like a disease,'' he said. ``but now, no problem. when you come to realize you can do this, it's great.''
nizam ali, a 28-year-old student in ms. heininger's class, said he sought help after watching a tv ad about illiteracy 10 months ago. unable to read, ali only had been able to get errand jobs or other work that didn't require filling out a job application, he said. now he is reading simple romantic novels and wants a high-school diploma
since i started here, it's done a lot for me,'' he said. ``i know how to do things. write a check, read a sign. the teachers here, they help you a lot. they have a lot of patience.''
zal estimated nearly 70 percent of literacy volunteer students are employed, and most want improved skills to help them at work. although that is important, zal said, he is concerned about what he called a preoccupation with work-place literacy that also could be harmful
it's one thing to learn how to read names on a paint-chip chart for your job,'' he said. ``but where does that person go to learn to read a bedtime story to his children? if work-place literacy is where it stops, it is rather frightening.'' ^for release sunday feb 21 and thereafter</note> `dumbing down'</head>
although many employers realize they must bolster workers' skills to stay competitive, others are restructuring so employees often don't have to read, write or think _ a change some educators call ``dumbing down.''
examples already abound, from the automatic teller machines at banks to the electronic scanners at grocery checkouts, to the pictures of hamburgers instead of digits on the cash-register buttons at fast-food outlets
supporters of these computerized innovations say they raise efficiency and cut overhead and retraining costs. critics agree such strategies can be helpful but often are based on the assumption that illiteracy in the work force is intractable
there are jobs that will be dumbed down. the problem is that someone has to service the computers that do the thinking,'' said eunice n. askov, director of the institute for the study of adult literacy at penn state university
another problem, she said, is that dumbing down decreases job security and will likely raise turnover rates at jobs in which promotions are unlikely
of course, people want to be able to advance in their jobs,'' she said. ``fast-food cashiering is a dumb-down job. but employees can't advance, so they eventually drop out.''
lawrence mikulecky, an indiana university professor and literacy expert, said some companies opt for the dumbing-down approach simply because of the retraining costs, which can become prohibitive among workers who lack a high-school education
to give you an idea of the magnitude, it takes about 100 hours to move somebody up one grade level. so from sixth grade to high school, you're talking about a substantial amount of time,'' he said
you're talking about hundreds and hundreds of hours of training. nobody takes those decisions lightly,'' he said. ``it's a major investment, and companies have to take a look at who's worth investing in.''
many companies dispute the argument that replacing people with computers is a long-range danger to a skilled work force. large grocery chains, for example, have found automatic checkout systems that track inventory can alleviate time-consuming clerk jobs and free workers for more challenging tasks, such as managing delicatessen counters
at the great atlantic &amp; pacific tea co., a leading chain with more than 1,100 stores, computerized checkouts have raised accuracy, decreased customer waiting time and largely eliminated the need for clerks to stamp individual prices on items, said company spokesman michael rourke
i'm not sure i would buy the premise that the technology is put in place to make decisions for the workers,'' he said. ``i'm saying the technology we're putting into effect is to improve efficiency, and improve speed in making decisions, and hopefully overcome some of the menial labor tasks.''
on a broader scale, such a strategy is part of the long-range plans of automaking giant general motors corp., which once predicted it would go from one technical job for every 5.6 manual jobs to a 1:1 ratio by 1995. the company already is ahead of schedule
one possible result of such a trend, educators say, is a polarization of the work force into a small number of highly trained professionals and a majority of employees largely unable to advance from relatively simple tasks
when your choice is, `i can't hire somebody for under $12 an hour, and it's going to take me 500 hours of training,' then maybe you fire six of those people and have the one remaining directed by a computer,'' mikulecky said
here are examples of questions in a department of education test that has been used to estimate the extent of u.s. adult illiteracy. comprised of 26 questions, the test was given to 3,400 people aged 20 and older. nearly 13 percent failed to make the passing grade of 20 correct answers

choose a synonym for the word or phrase in quotes:

1. persons may receive benefits if they are ``eligible.''
a. qualified
b. complete
c. single
d. logical

2. we cannot see you today. ``when can you return?''
a. when was the last time you came?
b. who should you call when you come?
c. on what date can you come again?
d. are those the papers you can return?

3. the patient has the right to ask for information about his ``sickness.''
a. benefits
b. business
c. expenses
d. illness

4. ``enter'' your social security number here
a. find
b. check
c. show
d. write

5. this is to notify you that your application for assistance has been ``denied.''
a. turned down
b. reviewed
c. accepted
d. mailed out
corn and soybean futures closed lower while wheat finished mostly higher tuesday on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices were pressured by a variety of factors, including speculative profit-taking, increased farmer selling on cash markets and improved soybean growing conditions in south america
corn futures also retreated on profit-taking and farmer selling, analysts said
wheat prices for near-month delivery declined slightly while the deferred-month contracts advanced on expectations the soviet union was set to buy at least 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, said victor lespinasse, a trader for the investment firm dean witter reynolds inc
at the close, wheat was 1{ cents lower to 3 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.30} a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.98} a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1{ cents higher with march at $1.92 a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 6{ cents lower with march at $6.22{ a bushel
stock prices were higher in moderate activity today, as interest rates rose in the credit markets
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down most of the morning, was up 10.11 points to 1,993.37 at 3 p.m. on wall street
advancing issues narrowly outnumbered decliners on the new york stock exchange, with 768 up, 716 down and 477 unchanged
the volume of shares traded on the big board totaled 112.19 million as of 3 p.m. est
the stock market was closed monday for the president's day holiday
analysts said stock trading today was subdued by a continued rise in interest rates in the bond market
bond prices fell $5 for each $1,000 in face value by midafternoon, following similar declines friday following several government economic reports pointing to stable or higher interest rates
the government said the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, but interest rates rose on speculation the trade figures reflected economic strength which could prevent the federal reserve from easing credit
furthermore, the labor department reported a 0.4 percent rise in wholesale prices in january, following a decline of about the same size in december
santa fe southern pacific rose | to 45\ in heavy trading. olympia &amp; york, the canadian developer, began a tender offer to increase its stake in the company by up to 14 million shares
federated department stores jumped 3] to 64. campeau corp. said it was prepared to offer $66 a share to acquire the company in a definitive merger agreement
among active blue chips, ibm rose ~ to 112~, general electric fell [ to 43[, coca-cola fell ] to 36\, and american telephone &amp; telegraph was up [ at 29\
the new york stock exchange composite index rose 0.43 to 145.29
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.29 to 278.29
steel production fell to 1.867 million tons in the week ended feb. 13, a decrease of 0.4 percent from the previous week's 1.875 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported tuesday
the industry's production amounted to 86.9 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 87.3 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 11.696 million net tons, an increase of 38.3 percent from the 8.456 million net tons in the previous year
production so far this year used 86.7 percent of capacity, compared with 63.2 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended feb. 13: northeast coast, 253,000; pittsburgh, 197,000; youngstown, 120,000; lake erie, 149,000; detroit, 152,000; chicago, 521,000; midwest, 181,000; southern, 213,000; and western, 81,000
bear stearns cos. inc. on tuesday reported its earnings plunged 38 percent in the quarter following the october stock market collapse, while revenue fell 14 percent during the period
bear stearns, parent of the investment firm bear, stearns &amp; co., reported net income of $36.8 million, or 40 cents a share in the third fiscal quarter ended jan. 29. in the year-ago quarter, bear stearns reported net income of $59.6 million, or 70 cents a share
revenue during the period totaled $447.2 million, down from $520.2 million in the year-ago quarter
for the company's second fiscal quarter, which ended oct. 30, 1987 and included immediate results from the oct. 19 stock market crash, the company reported a net profit of $413,000
chairman and chief executive officer alan greenberg said the company was pleased with its performance ``during this difficult environment.''
greenberg noted that bear stearns has ``approximately the same number of employees we had on oct. 1, 1987, and we expect the number of increase materially in the next 30 days.''
the company said in a statement it employs about 6,000 people in 13 offices worldwide
bear stearns also noted it repurchased 150,000 shares of stock during the third fiscal quarter and ``may continue to purchase shares in the future.''
for the nine month period, the company reported net income of $85.1 million, or 91 cents a share, down 33 percent from $128.8 million, or $1.51 a share in the pervious nine-month period
revenue for the period totaled $1.37 billion, up 5 percent from $1.31 billion in the year-ago period
an afternoon rally carried stock prices higher in moderate trading today in spite of a continued rise of interest rates in the credit markets
the stock market was closed monday for the president's day holiday
analysts said stock prices were depressed in the morning by higher interest rates. but the bond market erased some of its losses later in the day and stock prices climbed in the afternoon
the price of the benchmark 30-year treasury bond, down $10 for each $1,000 in face value in the morning, was down only about $3.40 by the end of the new york stock exchange session
bond prices had begun to fall friday following several government economic reports pointing to stable or higher interest rates
the government said the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, but interest rates rose on speculation the trade figures reflected economic strength which could prevent the federal reserve from easing credit
furthermore, the labor department reported a 0.4 percent rise in wholesale prices in january, following a decline of about the same size in december
italian financier carlo de benedetti went to court tuesday to prevent three units of societe generale de belgique from raising capital and to set limits for the sale of any assets by the companies, according to two of the businesses involved
de benedetti is trying to take effective control of societe generale, belgium's biggest holding company, and is working to thwart capital increases that would dilute his stock in the firm
officials of gechem and cimenteries cbr confirmed that they and officials of tractebel appeared before the brussels commercial court tuesday in an action initiated by cerus and dumenil-leble, two french-based companies in de benedetti's camp
cerus officials confirmed this was a new initiative but they declined any further comment about it
ashton-tate corp. and compaq computer corp. have scheduled announcements for wednesday that mark the personal computer industry's steady transition to a more powerful internal ``traffic cop.''
ashton-tate corp. is to unveil a vastly improved version o its d-base software, the dominant program for managing information stored in personal computers
d-base iv is capable of running under the new ``traffic cop,'' operating system-2, the state-of-the-art software for directing traffic inside a personal computer
separately, compaq is to announce wednesday it is beginning deliveries of operating system-2 for use in compaq personal computers
the announcements mark the growing acceptance of operating system-2 since its announcement last april by microsoft corp. the software allows computers to run several jobs at the same time and to handle bigger programs than can be handled by its predecessor, ms-dos
os-2 will supersede ms-dos as the operating system of choice by the end of 1990, with 3.7 million copies shipped that year vs. 1.5 million copies of ms-dos, forrester research inc. of cambridge, mass., predicted recently
ashton-tate's d-base iv should help the torrance, calif.-based company against challengers such as borland international inc., microrim inc. and oracle corp., according to analysts who got previews of the product
this product is a major advance over d-base iii plus in almost every dimension,'' edward m. esber jr., chairman and chief executive, said in an interview tuesday
ashton-tate had more than 60 percent of sales of data-base managers for personal computers last year, the company says
houston-based compaq is highlighting the ability of its computers to run operating system-2 as part of a public-relations battle with international business machines corp., which says its new personal system-2 computers are best suited to run os-2
compaq is to have 21 independent software developers _ including ashton-tate _ at an industry forum, commenting on their plans for programs that will take advantage of os-2's features
compaq intends to demonstrate that operating system-2 runs faster on compaq computers than on ibm computers, although ibm was involved in os-2's development, michael swavely, compaq's vice president of marketing, said in an interview tuesday
the new version of ashton-tate's d-base features a redesigned look known as ``what you see is what you get'' and spares computer novices from having to do any programming to enter or retrieve information from the computer
for advanced users, a new programming language includes 245 new or improved commands and incorporates the industry-standard structured query language created by international business machines corp
in addition to running under the new operating system-2, d-base iv can also run under microsoft's older ms-dos, which is still the one used on most personal computers
d-base iv includes a compiler that allows it to run 10 times as fast as d-base iii plus, ashton-tate said. the compiler reduces the instructions in a program to a machine language that a computer can read rapidly
esber said the new version contains about 400,000 lines of programming code vs. 106,000 in d-base iii plus
the price is $795, up from $695 for d-base iii plus. current d-base users can buy upgrades to d-base iv for $175
esber said the program was being announced early because the company will be showing it in a national tour led by ibm that begins next week
some of ashton-tate's competitors have stumbled in efforts to beat the company to the market with data-base managers that work with operating system-2
borland and oracle have failed to meet their own deadlines for data-base managers that run under operating system-2. however, they may still beat ashton-tate to market, because esber said d-base iv might not be available until the end of july
here is a state-by-state listing of existing home sales in 1987 followed by the percentage change from 1986. the sales figures, based on a survey by the national association of realtors, are in thousands
state          sales change alabama         59.7  -1.8 alaska           7.7  26.2 arizona         67.3  -8.8 arkansas        48.2 -8.7  california      507.0  4.6 colorado        46.7 -1.7  connecticut     52.5  1.0  delaware        13.9  7.8  district col.   10.5 -9.5  florida         184.2  -8.7 georgia         89.0  18.5 hawaii          11.5  15.0 idaho            10.9 -3.5 illinois        175.3 -2.2 indiana         89.8  4.3 iowa            48.3  4.8 kansas          54.4  0.0  kentucky        64.1  9.4 louisiana       40.4  18.8 maine           35.2  14.3 maryland        78.5  -9.7 massachusetts   100.5  18.8 michigan        169.6 -9.1  minnesota       89.4  -7.6 mississippi     34.2 0.0  missouri        88.4 0.0  montana         11.6 -2.5  nebraska        23.3 -8.6  nevada          12.2  10.9 new hampshire   19.2  -5.4 new jersey      157.3  -1.4 new mexico      20.0  2.6 new york        223.9  3.3 n. carolina     140.6  1.0  north dakota    11.2  17.9 ohio            180.9 0.6  oklahoma        44.6  -9.7 oregon          48.5  7.8 pennsylvania    259.5  0.5 rhode island    13.4  -0.7 s. carolina     60.9  5.0  south dakota    13.0  -1.5 tennessee       111.2  -0.7 texas           224.3  12.8 utah            14.6 0.0  vermont         13.6  9.7 virginia        113.0  -13.3 washington      43.6 -13.8 west virginia   36.6  -7.8 wisconsin       73.3 -4.7  wyoming          6.0  -1.6 united states  3885.0  -0
northwest airlines' announcement that it will lay off 5,300 mechanics and baggage handlers if its flight attendants strike is a ploy to pit the two unions against each other, a union official says
northwest spokesman redmond tyler said monday that the announcement made in a letter was only a precaution required by international association of machinists labor contracts with republic airlines. northwest acquired republic in 1986
but jeff musto, a spokesman for the teamsters, said northwest's letter was ``a ploy to play the unions against each other and lower morale.'' he said the letter would backfire and draw the unions closer together
the letter was sent last weekend to 2,900 mechanics and 2,400 baggage handlers represented by the iam. in it, northwest said: ``although your company does not expect a flight attendants strike, it is impossible to predict whether the flight attendants will actually go on strike
you may be placed on temporary no-work status due to a reduction in force'' if there is a strike
northwest's 6,500 flight attendants, represented by the teamsters, can strike at 11:01 p.m. feb. 26. bargaining between the airline and the union is expected to resume next week
the iam, which represents 20,000 ground workers at northwest, and the pilots union have not said whether they will honor a strike by flight attendants
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. said tuesday it planned to spin off its worldwide tire business into a $1.5 billion joint venture to be 75 percent owned by tokyo-based bridgestone corp
firestone said the transaction, which must be approved by its shareholders, was expected to result in a $1 billion cash distribution to firestone shareholders as part of a major financial restructuring, according to a joint statement
the company also said its board of directors adopted a ``poison pill'' takeover defense
firestone stock soared $9.25 to $45 a share in new york stock exchange trading following the disclosures
the surprise announcements came amid speculation that firestone would sell its akron, ohio-based tire division to the italian tire manufacturer pirelli spa
according to the trade publication rubber &amp; plastics news, firestone was the world's fifth-largest tire company in terms of sales, with 1986 tire sales of $2.3 billion
firestone posted total profit of $103 million and revenue of $3.8 billion in the year ended oct. 31, 1987
the tentative agreement with bridgestone calls for firestone to transfer tire assets and liabilities with an equity value of about $1.5 billion to the joint venture
the venture would be financed initially with $750 million in equity from bridgestone, $250 million from firestone and $500 million in debt, the statement said
bridgestone would own about 75 percent of the company, and firestone 25 percent, the statement said
the two companies plan to operate the joint venture, which will be known as the firestone tire co., as ``a relatively autonomous business unit, subject to the direction and control of a board of directors consisting of persons representing the owners,'' the statement said
firestone spokesman robert troyer said the company would retain its 1,500 car care centers; firestone diversified products, which includes divisions that manufacture industrial and building products; firestone synthetic rubber and latex co., which manufactures synthetic rubber and operates a rubber plantation in liberia, africa; and firestone car rental inc
troyer said the tire division employs 30,000 people worldwide while the rest of firestone's businesses employ 23,500
the joint venture would be based in akron, ohio, and would be assigned the exclusive right to use firestone's name on tires throughout the world
the tentative agreement also calls for the joint venture to arrange contracts for raw materials with firestone's remaining businesses and to supply tires to its car care centers
in a related move tuesday, firestone's board adopted a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover plan to guard against unfriendly suitors
the plan would take effect if any person or group buys 20 percent or more of firestone's common stock without board approval. the company said the plan was ``intended both to ensure that firestone's shareholders will retain the benefits of a joint venture with bridgestone and to protect the full value of its shareholders' investment in the company.''
weekend news reports in rome and milan, italy, quoted pirelli officials as saying their company had the financial strength to acquire firestone and added that pirelli representatives had visited firestone's world headquarters in chicago last week
i have no comment on the pirelli deal,'' said firestone spokesman robert troyer. ``that story was based on rumor, and i have no comment on rumors.''
the announcement on the bridgestone deal came as firestone's board met in chicago for a regularly scheduled session
firestone is the third-largest tire manufacturer in the united states, behind goodyear tire &amp; rubber co. and uniroyal goodrich tire co
in previous interviews, firestone chairman john j. nevin had acknowledged the company might withdraw from the tire business
firestone structured the tire business as a freestanding unit last november when its corporate staff moved from akron to chicago. the company will seek shareholder approval next month to change its name to firestone inc. it was not immediately known if shareholders would be asked to approve the joint venture at that meeting
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 22.71 points to 2,005.97, cracking the 2,000 barrier
advancing issues outpaced declining ones by 880 to 620 on the new york stock exchange, with 487 stocks unchanged
big board volume totaled 135.38 million shares, against 144.86 million in last friday's session. the stock market was closed monday for presidents day
the nyse's composite index rose 1.10 to 145.96
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.93 to 278.93
northrop corp. said tuesday its earnings rose 275 percent in the fourth quarter and 129 percent for the year, primarily because of money saved from the cancellation of its f-20 tigershark program
the results also reflected a higher level of research and development on several classified projects for the pentagon
for the three months ended dec. 31, the company earned $34.9 million, or 74 cents per share, compared to a year earlier when it netted $9.3 million, or 20 cents per share
revenue for the most recent period rose 6.6 percent to $1.77 billion from $1.66 billion
for the full year, the company's profits jumped to $94.2 million, or $2.01 per share, compared to $41.2 million, or 89 cents per share, while revenue rose 7.8 percent to $6.05 billion from $5.61 billion
the major factor in the increased earnings, the company said, was the absence of spending on the f-20, a fighter canceled in late 1986. those costs totaled $236 million in 1986, including $105 million in the fourth quarter
northrop poured more than $1 billion in its own money into developing the f-20, which was designed primarily for foreign countries as a lower-cost alternative to the f-15 and f-16. but it was never able to find any buyers
however, 1987 results were depressed by a second-quarter $125 million writedown on a classified government project widely believed to be the stealth bomber
northrop earnings also were depressed by an unspecified amount as the company continued to pump its own funds into developing a prototype of the air force's 21st century warplane, the advanced tactical fighter
northrop and lockheed are leading competing teams of defense contractors seeking a $40 billion production contract for the atf
aerospace was northrop's only business to show improvement. it had an operating profit of $59.2 million in the fourth period comared to a loss of $4.8 million a year earlier. for the full year, it earned $220.1 million, compared to $66 million in 1986
the company's electronics unit saw operating profits drop to $23.6 million from $36.8 million for the quarter and to $70 million from $99.7 million for the year, primarily because of lower revenue and profit margins on the mx missile program
the company's aerospace services segment posted a loss of $300,000 for the quarter, compared to a profit of $4.3 million a year earlier. for all of 1987, its profit was $10.3 million, less than half its 1986 level of $21.5 million
farmers group inc. reported its earnings rose by 46.6 percent in the fourth quarter and 25.7 percent for the year, but much of the gain was accounted for by a tax adjustment
without that adjustment, the company's earnings were up 17.6 percent for the quarter and 15.5 percent for the year, in line with what the insurer predicted earlier this month
the results, released monday, come as farmers is trying to fend off an unsolicited $4.13 billion takeover bid by the american subisidiary of london-based bat industries plc
for the three months ended dec. 31, the company netted $86.9 million, or $1.26 per share, compared to $55.5 million, or 80 cents per share, a year earlier
revenue rose by 13 percent to $302.3 million from $267.4 million
for the full year, the company's net jumped to $268.3 million, or $3.88 per share, in contrast to $213.5 million, or $3.09 per share, in 1986. revenue rose 11.8 percent to $1.13 billion from $1.01 billion
results for the most recent quarter and 1987 included a gain of $21.6 million, or 31 cents per share, from the tax adjustment
the dollar fell against most major currencies in domestic trading tuesday after turning in a mixed performance overseas
gold prices were mostly lower. republic national bank of new york quoted a late bid for gold of $444.15 a troy ounce, down from friday's late bid of $445.50. u.s. currency and commodity markets were closed monday in observance of presidents day
traders said the dollar fell back after rising late last week on a government report that the u.s. trade deficit for december shrank for the second consecutive month
there was a lack of follow-through buying, particularly on behalf of the japanese,'' in reaction to the improved trade picture, said stephen flanagan, an assistant vice president at manufacturers hanover trust co
he noted traders were ``looking to the dollar's downside'' after dealers overseas failed to show greater enthusiasm for the trade figures
robert ryan, a senior trader at irving trust co., noted that while there was no major news to move the dollar, the currency also was depressed because of an ``unwinding of cross positions,'' in which dealings in other currencies affect the dollar
in european trading, the dollar was mostly firmer, although dealers could not pinpoint any definite trend. foreign exchange dealers said markets were quiet, with some west german markets closed for a holiday
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 130.50 japanese yen, down from 131.00 yen late monday. later in london, the dollar traded at 130.30 yen. in new york trading, the dollar closed at 130.385 yen, down from 130.925 yen on friday
the british pound fell to $1.7440 from $1.7455 in london dealings. in new york, it cost $1.74625 to buy one pound, more expensive than late friday's $1.74175
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with friday's late rates, included: 1.71045 west german marks, down from 1.7115; 1.4040 swiss francs, down from 1.4087; 5.7805 french francs, down from 5.7820; 1,258.00 italian lire, down from 1,260.75, and 1.2685 canadian dollars, up from 1.26445
late dollar rates in europe, compared with monday's late rates, included: 1.7120 west german marks, up from 1.7085; 1.4038 swiss francs, down from 1.4040; 5.7815 french francs, up from 5.7705; 1.9200 dutch guilders, up from 1.9180; 1,260.00 italian lire, up from 1,257.50; and 1.2687 canadian dollars, up from 1.2658
gold bullion prices varied, rising in london to a late bid price of $445.50 a troy ounce, up from $445.10, but falling in zurich to $444.50 bid, down from $445.50. hong kong markets were closed for the chinese new year
on the new york commodity exchange, gold bullion traded at $445 a troy ounce, down from $445.30 a troy ounce on friday
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.39 bid a troy ounce, up from $6.35. on the comex, silver closed at $6.355 a troy ounce, down from $6.370 on friday
irving bank corp. on tuesday rejected the current $1.08 billion buyout offer from bank of new york co., and launched another sharp verbal attack against its unwanted suitor
irving's board of directors rejected as ``significantly inadequate'' bank of new york's offer to pay $15 in cash and 1.575 shares of its own stock for each of ie. bank of new york dipped 12{ cents to $29.75 a share, giving its offer an indicated value of nearly $62 a share
bank of new york's latest offer is its second revised proposal since the bank holding company initially offered to pay $80 in cash and securities for irving last september. bank of new york revised the offer to $68 in cash and securities following october's stock market crash, and lowered the offer a second time late last month
irving bitterly has rejected all three overtures in the rare hostile bank takeover attempt, and maintained it wanted to remain independent
the new proposal is even worse for irving shareholders than earlier bny proposals,'' stated joseph a. rice, irving's chairman. ``the revised offer continues to promise a deal in which irving shareholders are grossly uncercompensated while assuming very substantial risk.''
we deeply regret that bny persists in its ill-conceived efforts,'' he said
owen brady, a bank of new york spokesman, said the company regretted irving's rejection but would continue seeking a meeting to discuss a merger. he reiterated bank of new york's stance that it reserved the right to revise its offer when warranted
irving also announced that its board increased the regular quarterly dividend on its common stock to 60{ cents per share from 56 cents per share. the dividend is payable march 31 to shareholders of record on march 1. growth</head>
borden inc. said tuesday it had agreed to buy two food companies, two chemical specialties concerns and a wallcoverings company for an undisclosed price
separately, the company's chairman, r.j. ventres, told securities analysts borden expects first-quarter profit growth of more than 15 percent
in trading on the new york stock exchange, borden rose $1 a share to $52.62{
the latest acquisitions are:
_raineri foods, a pasta maker based in sao paulo, brazil
_vicaplast industria e comercio de plastico ltda., a film producer and printer based in sao paulo
_mantecados nevada inc., puerto rico's second largest ice cream producer
_societe francaise polymeres ouvres, a manufacturer of food packaging material based in nimes, france
_bob mitchell design, a high-fashion wallcoverings company based in san gabriel, calif
earlier this year, borden acquired the borges wallcovering company of west germany and humpty dumpty foods, a snack producer based in montreal
it said the price for the seven acquisitions amounted to about $80 million and that the seven companies had combined sales of more than $141 million
the company has invested more than $1 billion in acquiring 45 companies since march 1986
in remarks to securities analysts meeting in st. petersburg, fla., ventres said the strength of the company's businesses and the ``cycle-resistant nature'' of the markets it serves would boost overall profit by ``better than 15 percent'' in the first three months of 1988 compared with a profit of $44 million in the first quarter of 1987
he said sales for the full year should exceed $7 billion for the first time in 1988. in 1987, borden reported a profit of $267 million, or $3.62 a share, on revenue of $6.51 billion. advancing and declining issues; picks up 12th graf pvs, firestone shot ....</note>
stock investors ignored bad news on interest rates, the dollar and commodity prices tuesday as the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks cracked the 2,000 barrier for the first time since early january
the dow industrials rose 22.71 points to 2,005.97, its first finish above 2,000 since suffering a 140.58-point plunge on friday, jan. 8
the dow indicator has risen 110.25 points in the last five trading sessions
for a market that's not supposed to go up, that's a pretty good performance,'' said jack baker, head of block trading for shearson lehman hutton inc
stock analysts were at a loss to explain the market's strong performance, especially in light of a recent rise in interest rates. usually higher rates hurt stock prices by threatening to slow down the economy and by providing an attractive investment alternative to stocks
interest rates, after a big rise friday, continued to climb tuesday. the yield on the treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose to 8.46 percent as its price fell about $3 for every $1,000 in face value
stocks got no help from the dollar, which weakened slightly against most major currencies
and metals prices _ an early warning sign of commodity inflation _ rose strongly
it's kind of befuddling,'' said charles jensen, technical analyst for mki securities corp. in new york
comments by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan did not appear to move the market. greenspan said in a washington speech that the economy seems to be in equilibrium and gave no indication that the fed was ready to change its monetary policy
big board volume totaled 135.38 million shares, against 144.86 million in last friday's session. the stock market was closed monday for presidents day
advancing issues outpaced declining ones by 880 to 620 on the new york stock exchange, with 487 stocks unchanged
firestone shot up 9\ to 45. the company said it planned to spin off its worldwide tire business into a $1.5 billion joint venture to be 75 percent owned by tokyo-based bridgestone corp
publishing companies were higher on takeover speculation following pearson plc's $283 million deal monday to buy addison-wesley. houghton mifflin rose 3~ to 31~ and grolier rose 1[ to 13\
santa fe southern pacific rose ~ to 45{ in heavy trading. olympia &amp; york, the canadian developer, began a tender offer to increase its stake in the company by up to 14 million shares
federated department stores jumped 3[ to 63}. campeau corp. said it was prepared to offer $66 a share to acquire the company in a definitive merger agreement
among blue-chip stocks, international business machines rose 1} to 113}, general motors rose 2[ to 69\ and general electric rose | to 43~
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 156.41 million shares
the nyse index rose 1.10 to 145.96
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 3.02 to 299.09, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index rose 2.20 to 259.83
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.93 to 278.93. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose 1.47 points to 354.74. details of report on orion and eastern comment.</note>
eastern airlines has corrected many of the safety problems that led to a $9.5 million fine two year ago, but a small airline eastern is enlisting to combat a possible strike faces safety penalties of its own, the federal aviation administration disclosed tuesday
the separate faa findings surfaced as eastern's safety record came under renewed scrutiny at a congressional hearing where eastern pilots at times laughed derisively at some of the assurances on safety made by eastern executives
eastern has been in the midst of labor problems for months, with charges by the unions that eastern's management is cutting corners on safety. the 10,000-member machinists union has been locked in talks under a federal mediator and eastern's 4,000 pilots have not said whether they would work if the machinists went on strike
thomas j. matthews sr., ake by mechanics, eastern might be forced out of business. eastern has lost $900 million since 1978, including $181.7 million last year
two years ago eastern was fined a record $9.5 million by the faa for a broad range of maintenance and record-keeping violations. in a followup report on the airline since the fine, the faa said tuesday that while many of the maintenance problems appear to have been resolved, some concerns persist
a three-month review of eastern that ended last november ``shows substantial progress has been made,'' anthony broderick, the faa's associate administrator for aviation standards, said in a statement accompanying the report
however there are areas that need attention, including maintenance procecures that identify repeated failures of the same item,'' he said
broderick also said that eastern still must reduce the number of postponed maintenance items carried over from day to day on aircraft. and the faa report noted that while eastern's management has improved manuals, operating specifiations and maintenance inspection procedures, agency inspectors could not say for certain ``if (eastern) is now complying with its (own) program and procedures.''
eastern, in a statement from its miami headquarters, noted that the faa report shows eastern has take action to deal with 52 of the 53 areas of concern cited two years. the airline said the faa's latest review reflects attempts by the carrier to correct past problems
over the past two years, eastern has concentrated on upgrading the quality of its flight and maintenance performance,'' phil bakes, eastern's president and chief executive officer, said in a statement
but a separate faa report prompted questions among some members of congress about eastern's recently announced plans in event of a strike at the miami-based airline
eastern recently said it was leasing 26 of its jetliners to orion air lift services inc., a cargo carrier based in raleigh, n.c., and that in event of a strike orion would fly some of eastern's routes using its own personnel
but a report issued by the faa on monday cast doubts on orion's safety record. the agency disclosed that it is preparing to take enforcement action, including a civil penalty, against orion for past safety infractions
government scrutiny of orion documented ``a large number of serious safety infractions'' including ``systematic difficulties'' with the use of operating and maintenance handbooks and training programs, said broderick, the faa official
the infractions found at orion ``are being corrected to prevent similar occurrences in the future'' and the corrections ``permit orion to safely operate its cargo business,'' said broderick in a statment, although not specifically addressing the question of whether orion would be permitted to operate scheduled passenger service
the faa must approve such authority
during the hearings on captitol hill, eastern was accused of using orion to break a possible strike
on the basis of the faa report, rep. cardiss collins, d-ill., chairwoman of the subcommittee, characterized orion as ``an airline in near shambles,'' including problems with pilots' and mechanics' training, maintenance records and management
james l. heffernan, an orion vice president, told the subcommittee that virtually all of the problems cited by the faa have been corrected
negotiators reached agreement tuesday to end a nine-day strike that has halted production at ford motor co.'s 22 plants in britain and cost the automaker more than $300 million, company and union officials said
the deal will be submitted to ford's 32,000 striking workers on thursday, and if approved, could allow the automaker to resume production next monday, officials said
the settlement came after ford agreed to a two-year pact with total minimum pay hikes of 14 percent, negotiators said. ford previously insisted on a three-year contract, which auto workers opposed
ford said it will guarantee full pay to union members who are temporarily laid off. the company said it would not permanently terminate any worker who does not volunteer to leave
the agreement also stipulates that work-rule changes would be decided at the plant level instead of being imposed by management, said mick murphy, chief negotiator for the 12 unions involved
the contract also provides for increased pension benefits and an improved health plan
we see it as a truly historic victory, not only for ford workers but for trade unionists up and down the country,'' murphy said after nine and a half hours of talks
the deal was called a ``potential victory for common sense'' by john hougham, chief negotiator for ford motor co. ltd., the british subsidiary of the u.s. automaker
he denied that the automaker was pressured into the agreement by its detroit-based parent or ford of europe
the walkout, which was ford's first strike in britain in nearly a decade, began feb. 8, three days after contract talks broke down
under terms of the agreement reached tuesday, weekly wages for an assembly worker making a basic 184 pounds, or $320, will increase to 197 pounds, or $343 in the first year of the new contract, negotiators said
talks to provide the same benefits for hourly and white-collar workers will be completed within two years, the company said
i do believe the company will get the changes (in work practices) it wants,'' murphy said. ``but they will get them under the circumstances when they will carry the workforce with them.''
there will be cooperation to bring about the changes we need,'' hougham said
the strike prompted the layoff of more than 9,700 workers and disrupted production at a ford plant in genk, belgium, which suffered a shortage of british-made parts
the strike has cost ford 23 million pounds, or about $40 million a day, the automaker has estimated
ford's british workers last walked out for nine weeks in 1978. nationwide average price to $84,300 sted $84,900. subs 12th graf pvs bgng: twenty-two states ... to change second reference to virginia to oklahoma.</note>
sales of existing homes held steady in 1987 at close to 4 million units despite volatile mortgage rates and the october stock market collapse, a national real estate trade group reported tuesday
the national association of realtors said that sales of existing single-family homes and condominiums totaled 3.885 million units last year, down a slight 0.3 percent from the 1986 level of 3.897 million units. sales in both years were the fastest pace of this decade
alaska and lousisiana, two states which had suffered a big slump in sales because of depressed energy industries, enjoyed a rebound last year, leading the country along with massachusetts with the largest percentage gains
meanwhile, the average price of an existing home rose to a nationwide median of $84,300 at the close of last year, an increase of 5.1 percent in 1987, slightly ahead of the rise in consumer prices, the association said
new york city and boston maintained their rankings as the most expensive places to buy homes while providence, r.i., and hartford, conn., had the biggest percentage price gains out of 53 metropolitan areas surveyed
the median price of an existing home averaged $180,800 in new york city and $178,600 in boston during the final three months of the year. at the other end of the scale, the most affordable housing was in des moines, iowa, where the median sales price was $52,000
the northeast, which has been a hot real estate market for several years, had the four top cities in terms of percentage price increases. home prices were up 32.2 percent in providence, 21.7 percent in hartford, 20 percent in washington, d.c., and 18.2 percent in albany, n.y
fourteen cities in the survey, concentrated in depressed energy and farm areas of the country, saw home prices decline during 1987. the biggest price drop was 7.2 percent in houston followed by a 5.6 percent decline in oklahoma city
in all, 22 states enjoyed sales increases in 1987, led by a 26.2 percent surge in sales in alaska and identical increases of 18.8 percent in louisiana and massachusetts. alaska and lousiana were both rebounding from big sales declines in 1986 while the massachusetts increase followed a sizable 1986 advance
also enjoying big gains were georgia, with an 18.5 percent increase and north dakota and maine, with advances of 17.9 percent and 14.3 percent respectively
the northeast continues as the strongest region but we saw considerable strength in the south and midwest, two areas which had been lagging the rest of the country,'' said john tucillo, chief economist for the realtors group
twenty-two states suffered sales declines last year, led by a 13.8 percent drop in washington state. sales fell off 13.3 percent in virginia, followed by declines of 9.7 percent in both maryland and oklahoma. sales were off 9.5 percent in the district of columbia
analysts said that one factor which pushed up 1986 sales was a last-minute rush to close sales and reap capital gains profits before the new tax law took effect on jan. 1, 1987
tuccillo predicted that price increases nationwide should be lower than the 5.1 percent rise in 1987 with sales expected to decline by around 8 percent, in part because of slower economic growth
tuccillo predicted that the northeast will continue to have the highest home prices of any region, but he said the rate of increase should slow
a leveling off is occurring after a long period of overheated activity,'' he said. ``the losses incurred by those in the new york financial community are still having a lagging effect on home buying in that area.'' stanley. picks up 13th graf, ``i think...</note>
frozen concentrated orange juice futures prices fell sharply tuesday as warmer weather moved into florida's orange-grove country and melted fears of a freeze
on other markets, livestock and meat futures were mostly higher; grains and soybeans were mixed; precious metals were lower; energy futures retreated; and stock-index futures advanced
forecasts late last week for cold weather in florida had some orange juice traders on the new york cotton exchange worried but the orange crop escaped freeze damage, said judy ganes, an analyst in new york for the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc
rich cantor of merrill lynch capital markets inc., said last weekend may have held the season's last threat of a freeze
florida escaped what may have been one of its last cold spells from a seasonal perspective,'' cantor said. ``people may have seen that and sold it off.''
ms. ganes also noted a widening of the gap between prices for near-term and deferred delivery. the march contract settled 2.40 cents lower at $1.661 a pound, more than 5 cents higher than the settlement price for may delivery
the pattern indicated concerns about tight supplies for immediate delivery, she said
livestock and meat futures ended mostly higher on the chicago mercantile exchange in position-evening in front of the agriculture department's monthly seven-state cattle-on-feed report
the report, issued after the close, showed an 8 percent increase during january in the number of a cattle being fattened for slaughter
the total of more than 7.85 million head on feed was greater than most analysts had expected, which could drive cattle futures lower on wednesday, said philip stanley, an analyst in chicago for thomson mckinnon securities inc
however, the report also showed 1.66 million head placed on feedlots during january and 1.76 million head removed from feedlots to be slaughtered
stanley said those numbers indicated supplies and demand for fed cattle were running close to even, which should limit any downward move in prices
i think the near-term bias for the markets shouldn't be too affected,'' stanley said. ``the feedlots are current and the near-term supply side of this market is doing just fine.''
live cattle settled .22 cent to .50 cent higher with february at 71.87 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .07 cent to .33 cent higher with march at 83.37 cents a pound; hogs were .02 cent to .40 cent higher with february at 47.57 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .42 cent lower to .05 cent higher with february at 55.70 cents a pound
corn and soybean futures closed lower while wheat finished mostly higher on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices were pressured by a variety of factors, including speculative profit-taking, increased farmer selling on cash markets and improved soybean growing conditions in south america
corn futures also retreated on profit-taking and farmer selling, analysts said
most wheat contracts advanced on rumors the soviet union was set to buy at least 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
after the close, the usda announced it had sold 16.1 million bushels of surplus wheat friday at its weekly auction. the usda had said it expected to sell 25 million bushels, and it set a target of 25 million bushels for this friday's auction
wheat settled 1\ cents lower to 3{ cents higher with march at $3.31 a bushel; corn was 1\ cent to 2} cents lower with march at $1.98\ a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to 12 cents higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 8{ cents lower with march at $6.20{ a bushel
gold and silver futures retreated slightly in quiet trading on the commodity exchange in new york
jack barbanel, an analyst in new york for gruntal &amp; co., said the gold market was poised at a crossroads formed by opposing ideas about the future of the u.s. economy
gold settled 40 cents to $1.10 lower with april at $447.60 a troy ounce; silver was 0.3 cent to 1.5 cents lower with march at $6.375 a troy ounce
oil futures dipped slightly on the new york mercantile exchange in light, technically-based trading, analysts said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 8 cents to 25 cents lower with march at $16.67 a barrel; heating oil was .23 cent to .32 cent lower with march at 46.37 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .14 cent lower to .01 cent higher with march at 46.29 cents a gallon
stock-index futures moved higher on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 3.30 points higher at 262.20. the underlying spot index closed up 2.19 points at 259.82. graf with downgrading of credit ratings, picks up 8th graf pvs, the merger...</note>
california first bank, which is controlled by the bank of tokyo ltd., said tuesday that it has agreed to acquire union bank in a deal valued at around $750 million
the transaction represents the largest investment ever by a japanese bank in a california financial institution, said dan williams, an analyst for sutro &amp; co. inc. in san francisco
they're getting close to being a major california bank,'' he said
the deal will more than double the size of cal first to a total of $15.2 billion in assets with 167 california offices, making it the state's fifth largest commercial bank. los angeles-based union currently is fifth, trailing bank of america, security pacific, wells fargo and first interstate
seishichi itoh, president and chief executive officer of cal first, said the bank had signed a letter of intent to acquire union from london-based standard chartered plc
bank of tokyo owns 77 percent of california first, known until several years ago as bank of tokyo of california
california first spokesman mike colwell said the merger makes ``a good match'' because union is a major business bank and cal first mainly serves individual consumers
however, standard &amp; poor's corp. was critical of the deal and placed its credit ratings of all cal first, bank of tokyo and union bancorp of california on its ``creditwatch'' list. s&amp;p noted union bank's narrowing margins and high overhead expenses and said ``these concerns are exacerbated by bank of tokyo's relatively large exposure to sovereign borrowers with payment difficulties.''
the merger is part of a growing interest among the japanese in u.s. financial firms
last year, nippon life insurance co. invested $500 million in shearson lehman bros. inc, and sumitomo bank ltd. completed a similarly sized investment in goldman sachs &amp; co. also last year, a group of japanese banks and insurance companies purchased $350 million in bankamerica corp. securities
directors of the chicago board of trade voted tuesday to reduce daily price limits for major market index futures to 20 points and institutional index futures to 12 points
the changes will become effective only if approved by the federal commodity futures trading commission
a 20-point move in the major market index or a 12-point move in the institutional index represents roughly 5 percent of the indexes' present levels
in recommending the move, cbot chairman karsten mahlmann said the new limits would be more consistent with those in effect on stock index futures traded at other exchanges
last month, the cbot set permanent daily price limits on its stock index futures in an attempt to curb trading volatility that some critics say worsened the october stock market crash
a toronto-based real estate company launched a $245 million offer tuesday for up to 14 million shares of santa fe southern pacific corp., adding another chapter to the complicated fight for control of santa fe
the offer by olympia &amp; york developments ltd., which works out to $17.50 a share, would boost olympia &amp; york's stake in santa fe to 19.9 percent
olympia &amp; york, which had control of 10.5 percent of the railroad and natural resources company, is challenging a plan by henley group inc. of la jolla, calif., to wage a proxy fight for control of santa fe
i think olympia &amp; york are trying to make sure they have a controlling position in the company,'' said isabel benham, an analyst at printon, kane in new york
henley group is santa fe's largest shareholder with 15.7 percent. it plans to wage a proxy fight in opposition to santa fe's proposed $4.7 billion restructuring plan, which was seen as an effort to stop henley's advances
olympia &amp; york supported the restructuring, and its representatives have been nominated to two seats on the santa fe board
santa fe, which has about 156.2 million shares outstanding, said it has been informed of olympia &amp; york's tender offer but had no comment, spokesman richard hall said
norm ritter, a spokesman for henley group, said company chairman michael dingman was ``pleased with the move,'' but he would not elaborate
under the restructuring plan, santa fe shareholders would receive $25 in cash and $5 in subordinated debentures per share
henley has said the debentures are another effort by santa fe to prevent a takeover, and is challenging them in court. ritter said a delaware chancery court has set feb. 26 as the date for a preliminary hearing on the issue
a debenture is a debt repayable within a specified time and bearing a fixed rate of interest which must be paid whether or not the company issuing it makes a profit
the olympia &amp; york offer, which expires at midnight march 13, hinges on payment by santa fe of a special dividend, the cash part of which the company said it paid tuesday, with the debenture payment set for march 1
meanwhile, moody's investors service inc., citing the effects of the restructuring plan, said it downgraded the securities ratings of santa fe and its subsidiaries, the atchison, topeka and santa fe railway, and southern pacific co
moody's said the downgrade was based on the ``substantial weakening in the parent's debt-protection measurements because of a recent corporate restructuring.''
about $1.4 billion of securities are affected
the dividend, which will result in an outlay of approximately $3.9 billion, will be funded primarily through proceeds from asset sales, the senior subordinated debentures and bank debt,'' moodys said
this outlay will substantially reduce the firms' equity, and the additional $4.6 billion of debt will radically increase leverage.''
the new york-based rating agency said santa fe's ability to generate cash flow to meet maturing obligations depends primarily on an aggressive real estate divestiture program
